04-07-2021||India||Murder accused Olympian Sushil Kumar asks for TV in jail||India’s only two-time individual Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, currently lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail, has written to the prison superintendent requesting for a television set inside his cell to stay updated and kill time, according to officials privy to the request. Kumar,38, is lodged alone in a cell inside jail number two because of a perceived threat to his life. Last month, Delhi police and central intelligence agencies informed prison authorities about the threat to Kumar’s life from a city gangster. Prisoners, who have a threat to their life or are a threat to others, are lodged alone in a cell, while others share space. Prisoners are also lodged in barracks.This is Kumar’s second request to jail officers since June 3, the day he was brought to the prison complex on judicial custody. Kumar has been arrested for the murder of fellow wrestler Sagar Dhankad inside Chhatrasal stadium. Last month, he wrote to the prison administration to provide him special food, exercise bands and diet supplements as he was a professional wrestler and was preparing for future events. Later, he moved a city court with the same request. This request was denied by jail officers and also the city court, which noted that the special food and supplements were “just wishes” and not essential items inside the prison.Commenting on Kumar’s latest request, a prison officer who asked not to be named said, “About 4-5 few days ago, he wrote a letter to the jail superintendent asking for a TV set. He said he wanted to keep himself updated about what was happening in the wrestling world. He said in his letter that he also wanted to watch news and monitor the developments in his case. He said that since he is lodged alone in the cell, a television set would also help him pass time inside.”The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, confirmed Kumar had made the request. “We are looking into it,” he said.To be sure, a television set is not a prohibited item inside prison. There are television sets inside cells for individual prisoners and inside barracks, where one television set is shared by many prisoners.Kumar’s counsel, advocate Pradeep Rana, said, “What is wrong with requesting a television? It is a legitimate request. Even petty criminals and big gangsters have a TV inside their cell. The courts have in the past allowed prisoners access to television. It is not a security threat and cannot be misused in any way. My client wants to know what is happening in the world and wants to keep himself updated. The jail authorities say they are considering the request but the truth is they are not.” Prisoners have in the past made demands that have surprised jail officers. In May 2019, Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the scrapped AgustaWestland helicopter deal, had complained about the quality of food he was getting in Tihar jail, blamed it for his weight loss and demanded “western food”. Michel reasoned that “western food” had less onion and spices. Delhi gangster Neeraj Bawana has in the past demanded home cooked food, an iPod and a radio.A second prison officer, who asked not to be named, said, “Sometimes prisoners come up with weird demands. A top Delhi industrialist who was arrested for fraud wrote to us last year requesting that a particular brand of spring water be allotted to him. He was not comfortable with the bottled mineral water available in the jail’s canteen, which prisoners can buy. There was a builder, jailed for fraud, who wanted perfumes for himself. He was very particular about the perfume. It was denied. He had to make do with perfume from the jail’s in-house perfume unit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murder-accused-olympian-sushil-kumar-asks-for-tv-in-jail-101625421543864.html
04-07-2021||India||Award Bharat Ratna to country’s doctors, Kejriwal urges PM||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider awarding the Bharat Ratna — India’s highest civilian award — collectively to health care professionals, including doctors, nurses and paramedics who have been on the front-line of India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“I want to request the central government to award this year’s Bharat Ratna to an “Indian doctor”. By an “Indian doctor”, I mean the entire medical community — all doctors, nurses and paramedics should be given the award, collectively,” CM Kejriwal said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.He added that this was the best way to pay homage to all the people who lost their lives while serving the nation while on Covid-19 duty.According to an estimate by the Indian Medical Association till late June, nearly 1,500 doctors in the country succumbed to the viral illness apart from a large number of other health care professionals. The Bharat Ratna award is conferred every year in recognition of exceptional service/performance without distinction of race, occupation, position, or gender in arts, literature, science, public services or any field of human endeavour.“What can be a better token of gratitude for them? If the current rules do not allow Bharat Ratna to be awarded to a community, then I urge you to tweak the rules. The entire country is grateful to doctors. If they are awarded Bharat Ratna, the whole nation will be pleased,” said Kejriwal in his letter, a copy of which HT has seen.A Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment. IMA data shows that deaths of 798 doctors — over 53% out of the total 1,492 deaths so far — were recorded during the second wave. The highest number of fatalities among doctors was reported from Delhi (128), followed by Bihar (115) and Uttar Pradesh (79).The Kejriwal government has been providing ex-gratia compensation of ₹1 crore each to the families of front-line workers and doctors who lost their lives on Covid-19 duty. A Delhi government official said on condition of anonymity that 17 such grants have been made so far.On July 1, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation to mark the National Doctors’ Day and said hundreds of thousands of lives in the country were saved during the devastating pandemic due to the efforts of doctors and health care workers. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/award-bharat-ratna-to-country-s-doctors-kejriwal-urges-pm-101625421488588.html
04-07-2021||India||Goa govt allows bars, restaurants to open with 50% capacity. Know what's allowed, what's not||The Goa government on Sunday issued fresh guidelines regarding Covid-induced restrictions in the state. The new order has relaxed restrictions on bars and restaurants, as they are now allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity between 7am and 9pm.Rochika Katyal, IAS, District Magistrate of South Goa District in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 directed" that the following activities/establishments/facilities/events shall be prohibited or rested in the district of South Goa, from 7am on 5th July, 2021 to 7am on 12 July, 2021."Also read: NGT seeks inventory of Goa’s coastal structures to identify illegal constructionWhat is allowed:As per the order, bars and restaurants can open with 50 per cent capacity from 7am to 9pm.Shops selling medicines, drugs and related activities, shops (including in Municipal/Panchayat markets shopping malls) may remain open from 7am to 6pm (home delivery of all these items, except liquor, will be allowed anytime)Banks, insurance, custom clearance, ATMs, microfinance institutions, all medical and health-related service institutions, all industry, agriculture and construction-related activities are alllowed to be functional.Canteens/restaurants in the premises of permitted establishments catering to only inhouse staff and residents are also allowed.Interstate travel is allowed for people carrying negative Covid test report, test should be done 72 hours prior to entry into the state.Centre and state government offices, public utilities like power generation, couriers, transmission units etc along with hotels and hospitality sector for inhouse guests and residents, print and electronic media, telecommunication and internet services allowed to operate like before.What is not allowed:Casinos, indoor sports complex/auditoriums/community halls or similar places, river cruises, water parks, entertainment parks, gym, spa, massage parlors, swimming pools are prohibited.Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment zones within shopping malls, schools, colleges, religious places, weekly markets are not allowed.Social, political, cultural, academic gatherings are also prohibited. Marriage functions and other congregations are allowed with up to 100 people of 50 per cent of hall capacity. Cremation gatherings are allowed with 20 people or less without permission.The gathering of five people or more is not allowed in public places except for official functions or with permission.Goa reported around 164 new Covid-19 cases, 202 recoveries and four fatalities on Sunday. With this, the active caseload of the state stands at 2,087, according to the health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-allows-bars-restaurants-to-open-with-50-capacity-know-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101625417392046.html
04-07-2021||India||Exhibition held to commemorate India's contribution during Korean War||Drawing from rare archival images, an online exhibition is currently underway to commemorate the contribution made by India's '60 Para Field Ambulance' unit that provided crucial medical support to the injured during the Korean War.The exhibition, hosted by the Korean Cultural Centre India (KCCI) in New Delhi, also marks the 71st anniversary of the War, and showcases the joint efforts of Indian and Korean troops, using 32 archived photographs, the organisers said.Korean War, the conflict between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) and People's Republic of Korea (South Korea), had broken out in June 1950 in which a large number of people lost their lives."During this time of war, India supported the UN Security Council Resolutions and deployed a medical troop '60 Para Field Ambulance' that provided medical support to those injured in the war. The troop totalled 627, and was the largest troop of medical unit during the Korean War," the KCCI said in a statement.The troop included four combat surgeons, two anaesthesiologists and one dentist.Commanded by Lieutenant Colonel A G Rangaraj, the '60 Para Field Ambulance' "provided assistance to an estimated 2.2 lakh wounded during the war, and performed 2,324 field surgeries," it said.The troop was further divided into smaller support units like Daegu Station and Uijeongbu. Among the 627 medical aid workers dispatched, a total of 10 members of the unit were injured and two lost their lives, the statement said.A spokesperson of the KCCI on Sunday said, the exhibition, titled, 'Korean War Special Exhibition - 60 Para Field Ambulance', began on June 25 and will be on view till August 25 this year.The exhibition will be available to all, on an online platform prepared by the KCCI.Through this exhibition, KCCI "expresses their gratitude and pays homage to the '60 Para Field Ambulance' and showcases the joint efforts of the Indian and Korean troops, " it said."The contributions made by them played an important role in bringing peace and harmony to the Korean Peninsula. The '60 Para Field Ambulance' and the Korean troops also played an important role in strengthening the relationship between the two countries. Korean Cultural Centre will play its part in carrying this relationship between the two countries forward," the KCCI said.Initially planned for the 70th Anniversary of the Korean War, the exhibition had to be postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic, "but we have shifted to an online platform this year, to reach our audience worldwide," the spokesperson said. PTI KND RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-exhibition-on-contribution-of-india-s-medical-troop-during-korean-war-101625419814309.html
04-07-2021||India||Air India data hack: Delhi journalist seeks ₹30 lakh compensation from airline||An Air India flyer on Sunday sent a legal notice to the national carrier’s management, seeking a compensation of ₹30 lakh over the recent leak of personal details of 45 lakh passengers, including those of her and her husband.Also Read: Air India says 10 years of passenger data breachedIn the notice, Delhi-based journalist Ritika Handoo claimed the airline informed her about the breach on June 1, her lawyer said. “The breach is a violation of my right to be forgotten and informational autonomy,” the notice quoted Handoo as saying.The notice also accused Air India of “knowingly, intentionally and deliberately” leaking the personal data for breach of sensitive information.“The noticee, Air India, is guilty of leaking the sensitive information and personal data of my client. She was shocked and alarmed to learn about the recent security lapse by the noticee, making my client’s data open to exploitation,” the notice, sent through advocate Ashwini Kumar Dubey, read. Stating that the breach violated Handoo’s right to privacy, it added that this is guaranteed as a fundamental right by the Supreme Court.On May 21, Air India said its passenger service provider system, SITA, faced a “sophisticated” cyber-attack in February, resulting in the personal details of 45 lakh passengers being leaked. “The breach involved personal data registered between August 26, 2011, and February 20, 2021, with details that included name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, Star Alliance and Air India frequent flyer data (but no passwords data were affected) as well as credit cards data,” the airline said in an email to its flyers.The breach was also acknowledged by SITA, which is based out of Geneva in Switzerland. “SITA confirms it was a victim of a cyber-attack leading to a data security incident involving certain passenger data that was stored on our Passenger Service System (US) Inc servers,” it said in a statement dated March 4, according to media reports.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-data-hack-delhi-journalist-seeks-rs-30-lakh-compensation-from-airline-101625418858898.html
04-07-2021||India||Bangladesh PM sends 2,600 kg of mangoes for PM Modi, Bengal CM||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Sunday sent 2,600 kilograms of mangoes as a gift for her Indian counterpart Narendra Modi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, according to Bangladeshi officials.The Haribhanga variety of mangoes, which are grown in Rangpur district, were sent across the land border via Benapole check post. The mangoes are a memento of the friendship between the two countries, Anupam Chakma, deputy commissioner of the Benapole customs house, told the Bangladeshi media.Mohammed Samiul Quader, the first secretary at Bangladesh’s deputy high commission in Kolkata, received the mangoes, which will be despatched to the prime minister in New Delhi and the chief minister.After the completion of customs and port formalities, the Bangladeshi truck carrying 260 cartons of mangoes crossed the border on Sunday afternoon. Several senior Bangladeshi officials, including the mayor of Benapole municipality, Ashraful Alam Liton, were present at the border.Reports in the Bangladeshi media said Hasina plans to send mangoes to the chief ministers of the northeastern states of Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura, all of which share borders with Bangladesh. Last year, Bangladesh had given its traders special permission to export nearly 1,500 tonnes of Hilsa fish, a favourite with people on both sides of the border, to India on the occasion of Durga Puja. Mango diplomacy is part of the politics of the subcontinent but has been more common between India and Pakistan. Former dictators Zia-ul-Haq and Pervez Musharraf and former interior minister Rehman Malik are among the Pakistani leaders who sent mangoes as gifts to the Indian leadership.The gift from Hasina comes at a time when there is growing disquiet on the Bangladeshi side over the halting of vaccine exports from India since late March. Under a commercial agreement signed with the Serum Institute of India, Bangladesh was to receive five million doses of Covishield each month during the first half of this year. About 1.5 million Bangladeshi nationals who have received the first dose of Covishield are still waiting for the second jab, and Dhaka has been forced to turn to Russian and Chinese firms for vaccines. Bangladesh is seen by India as a key part of the country’s “neighbourhood first” policy and in March this year, Dhaka was the destination for Modi’s first and only foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-pm-sends-2-600-kg-of-mangoes-for-pm-modi-bengal-cm-101625419085200.html
04-07-2021||India||Proportion of males hospitalised during Covid 2nd wave lower than 1st in India: Study||The proportion of males hospitalised for Covid-19 treatment during the 2nd wave of the pandemic in the country was slightly lower than the number in the first wave, a recent study, conducted by experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research, All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the National Centre for Disease Control has revealed. During the second wave, the proportion of younger people getting infected was higher than the first wave though 70 per cent of the admitted patients were above 40 years in both the wave of the pandemic, it said.The study titled 'Clinical profile of hospitalized COVID-19 patients in the first and second wave of the pandemic: Insights from an Indian registry based observational study' was aimed at understanding the difference between the first and the second wave of the pandemic in India. All data were collected from the national Clinical Registry for Covid-19. The study has been done on participants from 41 hospitals across India. For the analysis of the first wave, patients were enrolled between September 1, 2020, and January 31, 2021. For the second wave, patients were enrolled between February 1 and May 11. As on May 11 this year, 8,961 individuals were recruited in the registry, 12,059 and 6,903 reflecting in-patients from the first and second waves respectively, PTI reported.Here are the findings of the analysis> Higher mortality was reported in the second wave in all age groups except those below 20 years.> The mean age of the patients was lower in the second wave with a higher proportion of patients in the younger age group intervals of less than 20, and 20-39 years.> 70 per cent of the admitted patients were above 40 years in both the waves of the pandemic and the proportion of males were slightly lower in the second wave as compared to the first.> The most common symptom was fever in both the waves.> In the second wave, a significantly higher proportion complained of shortness of breath, developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), required supplemental oxygen and mechanical ventilation.> Younger people with lesser comorbidities were much affected in the second wave.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proportion-of-males-hospitalised-during-covid-2nd-wave-lower-than-1st-in-india-study-101625417445797.html
04-07-2021||India||‘Don’t pursue Mekedatu project,’ Stalin tells Yediyurappa||The construction of a reservoir in Mekedatu across the Cauvery river continues to cause friction between neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Sunday strongly opposed the Mekedatu reservoir project, once again, this time in response to a letter written to him by his counterpart, BS Yediyurappa in Karnataka over the issue. Though Yediyurappa made a fresh bid to resolve the issue, Tamil Nadu’s new chief minister urged him not to pursue the project.In his letter, Stalin said that the proposed Mekedatu project “would definitely jeopardize the availability of water to Tamil Nadu.” He contended that Karnataka’s view that the implementation of the project would not affect the interests of Tamil Nadu’s farming community cannot be agreed to. He said that the project would impound and divert the first component of uncontrolled flows coming in river Cauvery that is due to Tamil Nadu.Stalin noted that in the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, which has been modified by the Supreme Court of India, the three components contributing to the annual quantum of water to be delivered by Karnataka at the inter-State contact point have been clearly identified.Stalin said that Karnataka constructing “such a major reservoir”, which is too far away from Bengaluru “does not sound valid” by citing the reason of the top court allowing water to be drawn from the Cauvery river as drinking water for the capital city. He added that Karnataka already has adequate infrastructure to draw and meet the drinking water demand of Bengaluru, therefore, “the justification of the need for a reservoir with a storage capacity of 67.16 TMC to utilize 4.75 TMC as drinking water is not at all acceptable. This would definitely jeopardize the availability of water to Tamil Nadu.”Yediyurappa, in his letter on July 3, said that the project was in the interest of both states and urged Stalin not to oppose it. He also proposed a meeting to iron out differences. “In order to address issues, if any, it is suggested that a bilateral meeting could also be held in the presence of officials concerned to clear all apprehensions,” said Yediyurappa.“Karnataka will only take its share of water from the project and nothing more,” he had said. Stalin’s response didn’t address the proposed meeting but hoped for good cooperation and relationship to prevail between them.Stalin objected to Yediyurappa comparing the Mekedatu project with two hydropower projects undertaken by Tamil Nadu in the Cauvery basin -at Kundaha and Sillahalla- for which the latter said no consent was taken from them. “Let me clarify,” Stalin said, adding, “...there is no consumption of water in these two hydropower projects, with the available water being just re-circulated by pumping to meet peak power demand. Since there is no additional usage created, both the projects do not affect the availability of water for irrigation or drinking usage in Tamil Nadu. Hence, I wish to again emphasise that the comparison of such qualitatively different projects is not appropriate.”The 9000-crore project has been a non-starter and has been mired in litigation. Stalin said that the Supreme Court’s allotment of Tamil Nadu’s share of water hinges only on efficient water use but an increase in water use efficiency requires modernisation. “But unfortunately, the efficiency of irrigation in the Cauvery system in Tamil Nadu could not be improved much since litigation was on for long,” Stalin said. “Unless these works are carried out, it would be impossible for us to meet the water demand at the rate of supply stipulated in the order of the Hon’ble Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-pursue-mekedatu-project-stalin-tells-yediyurappa-101625416924314.html
04-07-2021||India||Cong questions govt’s silence after French authorities order probe into Rafale deal||Congress on Sunday questioned the Central government’s silence after French authorities ordered a probe into “corruption and favouritism” into the Rafale deal. Congress alleged that national security is not the government’s priority, unlike previous governments.Addressing a press conference, Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “Every successive government has always prioritised and taken pride in our National Security Policy. Although the Modi government makes loud song and dance about national security, on the other hand, it does everything under the sun to undermine India’s security interests when it comes to filling the coffers of its corporate friends.”“Today, after more than 24 hours of the decision by France to investigate corruption”, “influence peddling”, “money laundering”, “favouritism”, there is one question every responsible Indian, every concerned citizen asks - Why is the Government of India still silent?” he added.Khera sought to know that now that the French Public Prosecution Services (PNF) has initiated a probe into the corruption allegations against the previous president of France, who was one of the parties to the deal, why is there no enquiry on the role of the key functionaries of the Indian government.“It is downright insulting to the people of India that this government and its ministers have stayed tight-lipped about this entire scandal. Why is the Minister of Defence silent on accountability and scrutiny?” he asked.He presented certain documents and said the amount decided for the deal by Indian negotiators was massively spiked and also alleged that the corruption clause mysteriously disappeared.Khera categorically claimed that India and Indians have been on the losing end of the Rafael deal. “This is not a loss to France, it is a loss to India. It is not France that has been cheated or robbed, rather it is every single Indian taxpayer who has been cheated and robbed off. This inter-governmental deal is not funded by the private funds of anyone, it is paid for by public money,” he said.Stressing on the importance of truth, the Congress spokesperson reiterated the party’s demand for a joint parliamentary committee to investigate the deal.The press conference came a day after the French national financial prosecutor announced an investigation into the Rafale deal. “A judicial probe into suspected corruption has been opened in France over the 7.8-billion-euro sale to India in 2016 of 36 Dassault-built Rafale fighter aircraft,” Mediapart, a French investigative website, reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-questions-govt-s-silence-after-french-authorities-order-probe-into-rafale-deal-101625415485496.html
04-07-2021||India||Delhi, Karnataka, Sikkim, UP: What is opening where from July 5||States have been easing lockdown restrictions in a phased manner as coronavirus cases continue to decline all over the country. Recent figures show the decline in the daily tally of cases is steady and that's why states are now hoping to witness economic recovery. India recorded 43,071 coronavirus cases on Sunday, and the tally of active cases declined to 485,350, 955 fatalities were also reported in the last 24 hours.Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, and Sikkim have announced a further easing of restrictions, which are scheduled to come into force from tomorrow. Here is a complete list.Uttar PradeshKarnatakaDelhiSikkim||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-karnataka-sikkim-up-what-is-opening-where-from-july-5-101625415049937.html
04-07-2021||India||Haryana extends Covid lockdown till July 12, eases some curbs. Know more||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown that was imposed to control the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state for another week till July 12. The state government, however, also relaxed certain restrictions.The order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan read: “The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another week, that is from July 5 (5 am onwards) to July 12 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana.” The Covid-caused lockdown has been named "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)" by the state government.Here is the list of restrictions that have been eased:The government has allowed the Institute of Chartered Accountants to hold the Chartered Accountant examinations from July 5 to 20. The order instructed to follow the “guidelines for examination centres, examination functionaries and candidates for July 2021 CA examination in wake of the ongoing Covid pandemic, released by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India” along with Centre issued SOPs to prevent the Covid spread.The new order also allowed to conduct the Common Entrance Exam (CEE), which is to be held in Hisar by the Army Recruiting Office, Military Station Hisar. The order stated the exam is subject to strict observance of social distancing norms and Covid appropriate behaviour.Earlier relaxations are to be continued as it is like all shops are allowed to be operational from 9am to 8pm, malls can open from 10am to 8pm, restaurants and bars including those in hotels and malls can open from 10am to 10pm with 50 per cent capacity. Religious places are allowed to open with 50 persons, as are wedding functions and funeral ceremonies.Gyms are allowed to open from 6am to 8pm with 50 per cent capacity. All production facilities, industrial units and establishments are allowed open adhering to strict Covid guidelines, following earlier orders.However, swimming pools and spas are still to remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-extends-covid-lockdown-till-july-12-eases-some-curbs-know-more-101625410133151.html
04-07-2021||India||'Our friend Shiv Sena..': Fadnavis amid speculations of crack in Maha Vikas Aghadi||Maharashtra former chief minister and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, in a surprise comment on Sunday, said that Shiv Sena is not an enemy of the BJP, though there are differences of opinions on certain issues. There is no "ifs and buts" in politics and any decision regarding a patch-up between the two former allies will be taken depending on the situation, Fadnavis said, news agency PTI reported. "There are no ifs and buts in politics. Decisions are taken as per prevailing situations," Fadnavis said when he was asked about his recent meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and whether the BJP-Shiv Sena alliance is coming back."Our friend contested the 2019 Assembly elections with us. But after polls, they joined hands with the very people (NCP and Congress) against whom we contested the polls," Fadnavis said.Fadnavis' comment comes on the same day Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the more such rumours of BJP and Sena leaders meeting secretly spread, the stronger the Maha Vikas Aghadi government becomes. Sanjat Raut was asked whether he met BJP leader Ashish Shelar on Saturday. "The more such rumours spread, the stronger the MVA alliance will become. We may have political and ideological differences, but if we come face-to-face at public functions, we will cordially greet each other. I have had coffee with Shelar openly," Raut said.The Congress -- a partner of the Sena, Congress, NCP alliance government-- has recently said that it will contest the future polls in the state alone, which has triggered speculations that the MVA alliance is going through uncertainty, though the state Congress leadership clarified that their support to Uddhav Thackeray government will not waver until the term comes to an end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-friend-shiv-sena-fadnavis-amid-speculations-of-crack-in-maha-vikash-aghadi-101625413894863.html
04-07-2021||India||'Don't act as BJP's lackey': TMC MP Derek O'Brien's advice to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Derek O'Brien on Sunday targeted Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for allegedly meeting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari, urging Mehta to act in a "fair manner" and not as a "lackey of the BJP."O'Brien's tweet on the Solicitor General comes a day before a delegation of Trinamool MPs are scheduled to meet President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking Mehta's removal.Also Read: TMC to meet President Kovind to seek removal of Solicitor General"Mr Solicitor General, (1.) You gave a post-facto explanation after the story broke, (2.) Conflict of Interest, (3.) Even a public prosecutor (leave alone the high office of SG!) cannot represent or advise the accused, (4.) Impropriety. Act in a fair manner. Not as a BJP lackey," the TMC Rajya Sabha MP tweeted.Mr Solicitor General,1. You gave a post-facto explanation after story broke 2. Conflict of Interest3. Even a Public Prosecutor (leave alone high office of SG!) cannot represent or advise the accused4. Impropriety. Act in a fair manner. Not as a BJP lackey Here👇 pic.twitter.com/qbLvowRyY9Mehta and Adhikari, have both denied that the meeting took place. In a statement on Saturday, the day after the alleged meeting, Mehta admitted that Adhikari came to meet him "unannounced" at his residence cum office though he added that due to a pre-scheduled meeting he could not meet West Bengal's leader of the opposition, who, Mehta said, left without "insisting on meeting me."Also Read: Solicitor General Tushar Mehta says did not meet BJP’s Suvendu AdhikariAdhikari, a former TMC leader who defeated party supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee from the high profile assembly constituency of Nandigram in the recently held West Bengal assembly elections, is the "accused" O'Brien referred to in his tweet. The Nandigram MLA is an accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case which is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Mehta, the second-highest law officer of the central government, is representing the CBI in the Supreme Court and the Calcutta high court in the agency's probe against several leaders of the Mamata Banerjee-led party.Also Read: TMC MPs write to PM Modi, seek removal of Solicitor General Tushar MehtaIn a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, TMC leaders accused the Solicitor General of "impropriety" over his alleged meeting with Adhikari, urging the Prime Minister to remove Mehta from office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-act-as-bjp-s-lackey-tmc-mp-derek-o-brien-s-advice-to-solicitor-general-tushar-mehta-101625408718940.html
04-07-2021||India||‘Anyone who says Muslims should not live in India is not Hindu’: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said there is a need to guard against fear-mongering that the Sangh is against minorities or that Islam is in danger in India.Speaking at a book launch event organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, the Muslim wing of the RSS, Bhagwat said the Sangh has always believed that the DNA of the people of India is the same and that both Hindus and Muslims are one entity.“When people speak about the need for Hindu-Muslim unity, we say we are already one, we are not separate,” he said speaking at the launch of a book ‘The Meeting of Minds’ by Khwaja Ifteqar Ahmed in Ghaziabad.The RSS is the ideological fount of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and has oftebeen accused by its opponents of fostering majoritarianism. Bhagwat, for his part, defended the Sangh’s work as that of uniting people of different faiths. He said such work cannot be left to political parties.He went on to say that political parties cannot act as tools to either help unite people or deepen the divide but can influence it. Allaying fears that a majoritarian sentiment is gaining ground in India, he said when atrocities take place against the minorities, voices in protest come from the majority itself. “If anyone says that Muslims should not stay in India then he is not a Hindu,” Bhagwat said.In the backdrop of instances of violence against minorities by alleged cow vigilantes, Bhagwat said that though cows are revered in India, violence in the name of cow protection cannot be condoned.“Law should take its course. They should investigate without partiality and punish the guilty. But anyone who is involved in lynching is not a Hindu,” he said.The RSS chief also sought to iron out the differences over the use of the word Hindu for members of other communities. In the past, Sikhs and Muslims have objected to him referring to all Indians as Hindus. “If you don’t want to call yourself Hindu, you can say Indian instead but we should all work for the country,” he said.Bhagwat also distanced the Sangh from electoral politics and said his presence at the launch of a book, that the author describes as a bridging initiative, should not be construed as an image makeover or an attempt to woo Muslims ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.“This is not an image makeover. The Sangh never cared for its image. We only work to unite all. Our resolve is to work for all and not against anyone. No matter what others think, we continue doing our work,” he said.He went on to add that his presence is not an attempt to get votes for the next elections. “We are not interested in party politics. We have a view but we are not in anyone’s favour but in the country’s favour. We support those who speak for the country. This is not a political exercise or vote bank politics. We can do this ( politics), but we won’t. There are some things that political parties cannot do,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anyone-who-says-muslims-should-not-live-in-india-is-not-hindu-mohan-bhagwat-101625412723564.html
04-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt bus services in Tamil Nadu to resume at full scale from tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Govt bus services in Tamil Nadu to resume at full scale from tomorrowGovernment bus services in Tamil Nadu will resume at “full scale” from Monday, Tamil daily Dina Thanthi has reported, two days after the state government, on July 2, further eased the state’s Covid-19 induced lockdown, allowing inter-district travel as a part of new relaxation measures. Read more'Hindu-Muslim unity misleading because..' RSS chief Mohan BhagwatRashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said the concept of Hindu-Muslim unity is misleading because there is nothing to unite as they are no different. Read moreSirisha was very fascinated with the sky: Astronaut Sirisha Bandla’s grandfather on her maiden voyage to spaceRagaiah Bandla, grandfather of India-born American astronaut Sirisha Bandla, expressed his happiness over the news of his granddaughter’s voyage to space along with Virgin Atlantic’s Richard Branson. Read moreChinese astronauts conduct spacewalkTwo Chinese astronauts made the country’s first spacewalk in 13 years outside the core module of space station Tianhe on Sunday, elevating a camera and testing a 15-metre-long robotic arm. Read moreTaapsee Pannu on critics liking The Tomorrow War over Haseen Dillruba: 'Hollywood hai, sab chalta hai'Actor Taapsee Pannu has been tweeting about the negative reviews received by her movie, Haseen Dillruba. The romantic thriller and Chris Pratt's action film The Tomorrow War both released on Friday, and Taapsee has said Hollywood releases are favoured by critics. Read more'I can see talent': Indian Women's Cricket Team head coach Ramesh Powar names 'the find' of England seriesThe Indian women's cricket team came up short in the three-match One Day International series against England. India lost the first two ODIs to England but managed to win the third one due to a superior batting display by captain Mithali Raj. Read moreWatch | ‘Not like India-Pakistan…’: Sanjay Raut on meeting with BJP’s Ashish Shelar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-bus-services-in-tamil-nadu-to-resume-at-full-scale-from-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news-101625409575944.html
04-07-2021||India||Heavy to very heavy rainfall expected in these states. Check list||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated parts of several states in the country for the coming week. From north to south, and east to west many states are executed to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall, thunderstorms and lightning from July 4 to July 8.These are the states projected to experience a change in weather conditions in the coming days:The IMD has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya. Heavy rainfall is likely in isolated parts of states like Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry &Karikal, Kerala &Mahe, West Bengal and Sikkim, Odisha.Isolated heavy rainfall is predicted over Bihar from July 4 to 6, over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal on July 4, 7 and 8, over Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh on July 7 and 8, over Arunachal Pradesh on July 4 and 6, over Assam and Meghalaya on July 5 and 7 and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on July 4, 6 and 8.Also read: Monsoon not arriving in Delhi till July 7-8, predicts IMDIsolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is predicted over Bihar from July 7 to 8, over Assam and Meghalaya on July 4 and 6; and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal on July 7, according to the IMD.Parts of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Konkan and Goa, Kerala and Mahe and Lakshadweep along with Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad are likely to receive thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds of speed 30-40 km per hour. Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, west Rajasthan are yet to witness the arrival of the monsoon."Lightning at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, East Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal & Sikkim, Odisha, Assam & Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura, Gujarat Region, Coastal Andhra Pradesh &Yanam, Rayalaseema, interior Karnataka and Tamilnadu, Puducherry &Karaikal very likely," the ministry of Earth Sciences said on Sunday.The weather bulletin of the Met department has also predicted thunderstorms/duststorms over West Rajasthan. Owing to strong winds at the speed of 40-50 km per hour, gusting to 60 km per hour over the Southwest Arabian Sea, the department advised fishermen to not venture into these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-expected-in-these-states-check-list-101625406463876.html
04-07-2021||India||Amid Kitex pull out threat, CM says Kerala is best||Amid the threat of textile major Kitex Group to pull out of the ₹3,500 crore project in Kerala, alleging witch-hunt by the state government agencies, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said Kerala is one of the most investor-friendly states and it is committed to sustainable and innovative enterprises.After Kitex Group’s announcement last week, many neighbouring states rolled out the red carpet to it and offered many SOPs. Though the state government started the firefighting, the firm said there is no going back on its decision as of now. After the controversy, many economists have pointed out that the state’s “so-called aversion to big industries” is one of the reasons for its growing unemployment and subsequent export of human resources. Later Harsh Goenka, chairman of the RPG Enterprises, praised the state saying it is one of the largest employers in Kerala and it got enough support from the state government. “We are the largest employers of Kerala. We find the local government very supportive,” he tweeted. The CM re-tweeted the industrialist profusely, thanking him. “Thank you for allaying apprehensions over the ease of doing business in Kerala. Your honesty is much appreciated. Kerala has been one of the most investor-friendly states and continues to be so. The LDF government ensures that sustainable and innovative industries grow here,” the CM tweeted. Later well-known business tycoon from the state MA Youseff Ali has also urged the Kitex Group to reconsider its decision. “The exit of the group will send bad signals. I requested both, Kitex and the government, to amicably all settle issues,” he said in Dubai. State industry minister P Rajeev reiterated that the government will look into all complaints of the firm and requested its chairman Sabu M Jacob not to take any hasty decision, which he said, will tarnish the state’s image. Kerala is ranked eighth in the country in ease of doing business. The announcement has rattled the government which is having uneasy ties with the firm after it ventured into politics in 2015 by floating a political party called ‘Twenty20.’ Kitex Group chairman Sabu M Jacob said there is no going back on his decision. “Almost everyday officials of the government department descend on the premises of the company and make inquiries as if we committed a big fraud. I am fed up with continuous harassment. The government treats us like bourgeoises, exploiter capitalists and land encroachers. Enough is enough,” he said, adding that he was firm on his decision. He said at least three dozen charges were slapped on him and his firm was in the state for the last three decades.Besides calling off the project which was signed in the 2020 investor meet in Kochi, he said he will also be shifting some of the existing units to other states if the situation continued like this. He said the plan was to open three apparel parks in Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad as part of the industrial corridor intended to give jobs to at least 35,000 people. Headquartered in Kochi, the firm now gives 15,000 employment and exports ready-made apparel to many western countries.The ‘Twenty20 ‘is a party floated by the Kitex Group in 2015 and it now controls four local bodies in Ernakulam district. Asked whether the latest harassment had anything to do with the party he floated, he said, it multiplied after Twenty20 came into existence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-kitex-pull-out-threat-cm-says-kerala-is-best-101625410023153.html
04-07-2021||India||Covishield and Covaxin: List of European countries which recognise these Covid-19 vaccines||As Covishield awaits European Medicines Agency (EMA) approval and Covaxin is waiting for approval from the World Health Organization, some European countries have started recognising these two vaccines so that when the countries withdraw the travel ban on India, Indians vaccinated with either of these two vaccines do not face any problem.Here is the list of countries that accept CovishieldAustriaEstoniaGermanyGreeceIrelandNetherlandsSloveniaSpainApart from these countries which are part of the European Union, Switzerland and Iceland have also accepted Covishield as valid for travel purposes. Reports have claimed that Finland and Latvia too have approved Covishield.Estonia has approved both Covishield and Covaxin.What was the controversy?The European Union has introduced the green pass, a concept of travel pass among the EU countries from July 1. It mentioned that people vaccinated with either of the four vaccines Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and, Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen -- will be allowed to travel in EU countries. Since the name of Covishield was not mentioned on the list, while its equivalent Vaxzervria was mentioned, a row erupted apprehending that Indians vaccinated with Covishield and Covaxin will not be able to travel to European countries.Here are the facts> Indians, as of now, can't travel to many European countries as there is a travel ban.> The European Union clarified that the green pass is not for outside travellers.> Vaccine is not yet mandatory for international travel. Negative RT-PCR test report, followed by quarantine according to local rules, remain the standard of allowing outside travellers.> Serum Institute of India has said it has applied for EMA approval which is supposed to take about a month.> India has urged EU member nations to individually recognise Covishield and Covaxin and treat vaccinated Indians on par with those vaccinated in EU countries. This request comes with a diplomatic push that if Covishield and Covaxin are not recognised in EU countries, then people with EU vaccines will also not get quarantine exemption in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-and-covaxin-list-of-european-countries-which-recognise-these-covid-19-vaccines-101625408131295.html
04-07-2021||India||Sirisha was very fascinated with the sky: Astronaut Sirisha Bandla’s grandfather on her maiden voyage to space||Ragaiah Bandla, grandfather of India-born American astronaut Sirisha Bandla, expressed his happiness over the news of his granddaughter’s voyage to space along with Virgin Atlantic’s Richard Branson. He said Bandla is strong and determined and has always been fascinated with the sky.“I'm very happy. From the beginning, she was very fascinated with the sky. Now she's going to space with 5 other members. She is very brave and very strong in her decision,” her grandfather told news agency ANI.“I, along with my friends and relatives, wish her a successful and happy return to the land after completion of her journey,” he added.Also Read: Andhra born Sirisha Bandla to fly into space aboard Virgin Galactic's flightBandla, born in Andhra Pradesh and raised in Texas, will be one of the six space travellers aboard 'VSS Unity', scheduled to take off on July 11 from New Mexico. This will make her the second India-born woman, after Kalpana Chawla to travel to space.Bandla presently serves as the vice president of government affairs at Virgin Galactic and she studied at Indiana’s Purdue University’s school of aeronautics and astronautics. The 34-year-old took to microblogging site Twitter to announce her journey to space."I am so incredibly honoured to be a part of the amazing crew of Unity22, and to be a part of a company whose mission is to make space available to all," she tweeted.The upcoming trip will be Virgin Galactic’s fourth flight to space with crew members. Bandla will be joined on this suborbital flight by Beth Moses, the company’s chief astronaut instructor, who has flown previously; Colin Bennett, an operations engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sirisha-was-very-fascinated-with-the-sky-astronaut-sirisha-bandla-s-grandfather-on-her-maiden-voyage-to-space-101625407501354.html
04-07-2021||India||3 Garib Rath among several special trains to resume from Monday||Many special trains including Garib Rath are being resumed in view of an increase in passengers amid a decline in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, East Central Railway (ECR) announced on Sunday. Rajesh Kumar, the chief public relations officer (CPRO) for the ECR said in a release that seven pairs of special trains originating from Muzaffarpur, Saharsa, Gaya, Barauni are being resumed, which include three Garib Rath special trains.These fully reserved special trains will resume their operation with effect from July 5, 2021, and will continue till further notice. The 04060 Garib Rath weekly special train will depart from Anand Vihar Terminal for Muzaffarpur every Wednesday at 8:55pm from July 7 and will reach Muzaffarpur at 6:09 pm, the next day. The 04059 Muzaffarpur - Anand Vihar Terminal Garibrath weekly special train will run from Muzaffarpur to Anand Vihar Terminal every Friday from July 9. It will start at 3:15pm and will reach Anand Vihar Terminal at 12:35pm the next day.कोरोना के घटते संक्रमण एवं यात्रियों की बढ़ती संख्या को देखते हुए पूर्व मध्य रेल के गया, मुजफ्फरपुर, बरौनी, सहरसा आदि स्टेशनों से 03 गरीब रथ स्पेशल सहित कुल 07 जोड़ी स्पेशल ट्रेनों का परिचालन पुनः शुरु किया जा रहा है।विस्तृत विवरण यहाँ देखें https://t.co/SP1Hhfba3O pic.twitter.com/GYWlWkSvZ6Kumar requested the passengers to always wear masks while travelling to avoid infection.Here’s the list of special trains to resume their operation:Several states have started easing restrictions in view of the decline in Covid-19 cases. The Union health ministry on Sunday said that 43,071 new daily Covid cases were reported in the last 24 hours. India's tally of total coronavirus cases now stands at 30,545,433.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-garib-rath-among-several-special-trains-to-resume-from-monday-101625406843987.html
04-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Govt bus services in Tamil Nadu to resume at full scale from tomorrow||Government bus services in Tamil Nadu will resume at “full scale” from Monday, Tamil daily Dina Thanthi has reported, two days after the state government, on July 2, further eased the state’s Covid-19 induced lockdown, allowing inter-district travel as a part of new relaxation measures. On Friday, the Tamil Nadu government extended the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown by a week, with new relaxations scheduled to come into effect at 6am on July 5 and remain in force till 6am on July 12.Also Read: Tamil Nadu lockdown extended by a week, e-pass for inter-district travel revokedThe private and public vehicle movement across Tamil Nadu has been facilitated by the government’s revocation of the e-pass or the e-registration for people travelling between various districts. The inter-district transport was till now allowed in Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpet districts but was extended to 23 districts during the previous lockdown extension. Coimbatore, Erode, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Salem, Karur, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai were among the districts where the inter-district travel ban was still in effect but has been withdrawn now after a decline in fresh Covid-19 infections in the respective districts.As a result, government bus services will recommence at “full scale” from Monday. According to the government’s order, buses will operate at a passenger capacity of 50% but without air-conditioners. Additionally, standing passengers will not be allowed and transport corporation employees have been directed to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.According to new order by chief minister MK Stalin, complete prohibition will continue in all districts on theatres, bars, swimming pools, social and political gatherings, recreational and cultural activities, sports events, schools and colleges, private bus services and international air travel (except for routes approved by the Union government).Saturday’s health department bulletin showed that daily Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu declined further to 4,013 while 115 people lost their lives due to the viral disease. Also, 4,274 people were discharged following recovery and the number of active cases fell to 35,881. The state’s cumulative Covid-19 infection tally stood at 2,492,420, including 2,423,606 recoveries and a death toll of 32,933.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-govt-bus-services-in-tamil-nadu-to-resume-at-full-scale-from-tomorrow-101625406196003.html
04-07-2021||India||Farmers' stir: Samyukt Kisan Morcha will protest every day outside Parliament during monsoon session||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday announced that a group of as many as 200 farmers will protest against the three contentious farm laws of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government in front of Parliament every day during the monsoon session, as per a PTI report.SKM is the umbrella body of more than 40 protesting farmers' unions and it said during a press conference that two days prior to the beginning of the session, a "chetavani patra" (warning letter) will be given to all the opposition Members of Parliament (MPs) to protest the three agri laws inside the House.Also read: BKU farmers oppose Khattar’s Karnal visit"We will also ask the opposition MPs on July 17 to raise the issue every day inside the House while we will sit outside in protest. We will tell them not to benefit the Centre by walking out of a session. Don't let the session run till the government addresses the issue," farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said, as per PTI.The monsoon session in the Parliament is set to begin on July 19."We will continue protesting outside Parliament till they hear our demands," PTI quoted Charuni as saying, adding that five persons from each farmer union will be taken to join the protest.The SKM has also called for a nationwide agitation on July 8 or Monday against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders in the country.The body has asked people to come out and park the vehicles at the state and national highways from 10am to 12pm.Also read: Farmers block Jalandhar-Ludhiana NH for five hrs over power crisis"Whatever vehicle you have, tractor, trolley, car, scooter, just bring it to the nearest state or national highway and park it there. But don't create a traffic jam," PTI quoted him as saying, as he also asked to bring the LPG cylinders to the protest.The farmers across the nation, especially from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 for more than seven months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-samyukt-kisan-morcha-will-protest-every-day-outside-parliament-during-monsoon-session-101625402180650.html
04-07-2021||India||‘C’ in Congress stands for 'cunning' as party left Bahujans helpless: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati hit back at the Congress for suggesting BSP was in cahoots with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said the ‘C’ in Congress stands for cunning as the party, in spite of coming to power on the back of Bahujan votes, had left them helpless."The C in Congress actually stands for 'cunning' party which left Bahujans helpless and made them slaves despite forming governments at the Centre and in states for a long time due to their votes,” Mayawati tweeted.Eventually, the BSP was formed and at that time the BJP was not in power at the Centre or in the states," she added.Also Read: Congress can fight UP polls without alliance with SP or BSP: Ajay Kumar LalluThe erstwhile chief minister was responding to claims made by UP Congress of the 'B' in BSP denoting BJP. In a series of three tweets, she claimed that Congress was barely surviving in UP.“Congress, which is running on oxygen in UP too, says that BSP's 'B' means 'BJP'. This is grossly objectionable since BSP's 'B' means Bahujan, which includes SCs, STs, OBCs. People from religious minorities and other marginalized sections come, because of their large numbers, they are called Bahujans,” Mayawati said.As the political scenario has begun to heat up before the 2021 UP legislative assembly election, parties have been lashing out at one another every day. Mayawati claimed that elections in the state will never be free and fair under Congress, Samajwadi Party, and BJP, as they were under her government.“It is also well known that due to Congress, SP, and BJP, no small or big election can ever be free and fair in UP and no one should expect anything from them, whereas in the time of BSP government all the small and big elections were conducted free and fair,” tweeted Mayawati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/c-in-congress-stands-for-cunning-as-party-left-bahujans-helpless-mayawati-101625403334657.html
04-07-2021||India||As India is ready to share Co-Win with other countries, here's what all you can do from this platform||The Centre will hold a global conclave on July 5 on Co-Win where it will share how the vaccination process is being held through this site, which is the 'tech backbone' of India's vaccination drive. Health and technology experts from across the globe will take part in the conclave as India is ready to share the open-source software free of cost with other countries. A total of 50 countries, including Canada, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Nigeria, Uganda, Vietnam, Iraq, Dominican Republic, the UAE has expressed their interest in knowing about the Co-Win platform.Co-WIN: The tech backbone of India's vaccination drive. The #CoWINGlobalConclave is being held tomorrow that will see participation from health & technology experts from across the globe. India will share the experience of its vaccination drive through the #CoWIN platform. pic.twitter.com/ux4p2pK5dEHere is all you can do with the help of Co-WinThe full form of Co-Win is Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work. It was introduced by the central government in January when the vaccination drive against Covid-19 began. It is a website for beneficiaries and for officials associated with the vaccination process, there is a different mobile application.Registration, vaccine slot bookingRegistering through one's mobile number, one can book a vaccination slot on Co-Win. Prior registration on Cowin.gov.in is not mandatory anymore, but registration on this site remains mandatory so that every vaccination remains on the record. Certificate downloadFrom one's account on Co-Win, one can download the vaccination certificate after vaccination which in the coming days will become a crucial travel document. The ministry of external affairs has expressed hopes that the Co-Win certificate will also be recognised by other countries as valid proof of vaccination.Editing certificateThe platform now provides the option of editing any error in the vaccine certificate.Add passport details to the certificateTo facilitate Indians planning to travel abroad, the platform now offers the option of linking one's passport with that of the Covid-19 vaccine certificate.Merge certificatesIn case, beneficiaries have got two doses registering from two different phone numbers and have received two different certificates, they can now merge these two certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-is-ready-to-share-co-win-with-other-countries-here-s-what-all-you-can-do-from-this-platform-101625398323983.html
04-07-2021||India||Covid cases in Northeast declining but pockets of concern remain, says Centre||A day after Centre dispatched expert teams to six states including Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura in the north east, where Covid-19 cases were rising, the ministry of development of northeast region (DONER) said on Saturday that cases in all states in the region, except Meghalaya, were showing “progressive decline” in the test positivity rate (TPR). Jitendra Singh, minister of state for DONER chaired the meeting of senior officials of all eight NE states including Sikkim and noted that the second Covid wave took a huge toll in the region before showing an overall declining trend since early June even as some pockets continue to cause concern. Assam, the most populous state in the region, saw a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in April soon after the assembly polls ended. Around 3,500-4,000 new cases and around 80-90 deaths were recorded daily in May on an average. The TPR also hovered between 8% and 9%. However, containment measures such as curfew and ban on inter-district movement since mid-May helped in bringing down the numbers. On Saturday, the state recorded 2,375 new cases and 28 deaths with the TPR at 1.77%. Assam still has over 23,000 active cases and the situation in districts such as Biswanath and Goalpara, which are under total lockdown, is still not completely under control. The state government is expected to announce new restrictions this week to tackle the situation. Till Sunday morning, 7.6 million Assam residents, including the 6.3 million who received the first dose and 1.3 million who received both the doses, were vaccinated. The plan to inoculate 300,000 persons daily and cover 9 million beneficiaries a month was hit by irregular supply of vaccines, said officials. On Saturday, Tripura extended curfew for a week in nine different places including the capital city in view of a spike in Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, 409 fresh cases and two deaths were recorded in the state. In June, the state saw over 13,000 new infections and 153 deaths with the TPR oscillating between 2.66% and 5.84% in the period. Till Saturday, 2.596 million vaccine doses were administered among eligible beneficiaries in the state. In Manipur, despite improvement in Covid 19 situation, the TPR remains high at 11.40%, much lower than 15.54% recorded a fortnight earlier on June 21.Director (health services) Dr K Rajo Singh said unlike the past, Manipur was well prepared in terms of ICU beds, hospitals beds and Covid care centres besides oxygen supply. ”At present, three oxygen plants including one at JNIMS hospital in Imphal and two at Thoubal and Churachandpur district hospitals are functioning while nine others are in the process of development,” said Dr Rajo. According to the Manipur health department, 330 people died due to Covid 19 in June which also saw active cases decline from 9,613 to 5,642 while 21,020 recoveries outpaced 18,544 new cases in June. While Nagaland has begun the unlock process this week with a gradual decline in Covid-19 cases that shot up in the early part of May, the weekly positivity rate of 7% continues to be above the 5% benchmark, set for easing lockdown restrictions, that were first clamped in the state on May 14.The improvement is evidenced in the 3,558 positive cases reported in June compared to the 7,704 recorded in May, as per the weekly Covid-19 bulletin. Majority of the cases in the state during the second wave were from urban and densely populated towns, particularly Dimapur, capital Kohima and Mokokchung. On July 2, Nagaland reported presence of 93 Delta variant cases among positive samples collected in April and May. “As all are aware that the Delta variant is more infectious, the public are advised to continue to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccinate,” said Dr Neikhrielie Khimiao, principal director of the state health department. With 69 positive cases reported on Saturday, the state’s total caseload now stands at 25,451 including 1,253 active cases and 485 deaths recorded till date. As of Saturday, the state has administered 529,849 vaccine doses to residents, including 67,090 who have taken both the doses. In Arunachal Pradesh, 365 new cases were detected on Saturday, but thankfully no fresh deaths took place. The TPR for the state stood at 7.27% and there were 3,057 active cases at present. Till Saturday, 624,912 vaccine doses had been administered to residents including the 89,786, who had got both doses. Meghalaya was registering over 500 new cases in the past few days and the daily TPR was hovering around 12% -13%. In all, there were 14,187 new cases during the month of June as compared to 18,883 in May. East Khasi Hills district continues to the worst affected among the 12 districts with 4,948 positive cases registered last month, while East Jaiñtia Hills district is at the bottom of the table with only 372 positive cases. The vaccination drive has picked up pace in the state since mid-June after hesitancy in the initial months. Till Sunday morning, the state had administered over 733,000 doses. Though Mizoram has administered over 600,000 vaccine doses (nearly half the state’s population of 1.1 million), the state is witnessing over 200 new cases daily in the past few days and the TPR on Saturday was recorded at 6.75%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-in-northeast-declining-but-pockets-of-concern-remain-says-centre-101625398442455.html
04-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal asks PM Modi to confer Bharat Ratna to medical fraternity and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kejriwal writes to PM Narendra Modi, seeks Bharat Ratna for medical fraternityDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider awarding Bharat Ratna to healthcare professionals such as doctors, nurses and paramedics’ community in the country for their services during the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more here.Hina Khan on Aamir Khan-Kiran Rao divorce: ‘A child’s shoulders not built for weight of parents’ wrong decisions’Hina Khan took to Instagram Stories to share her views on the news of Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao’s divorce. She said that they have her respect for keeping the whole thing ‘graceful’. Read more here. Leander Paes and Mahesh Bhupathi's latest interaction sends Twitter into a frenzyBhupathi and Paes haven't played together as a team for several years in Grand Slam despite being one of the most successful pairs in the world during their heyday. However, there is some good news for the tennis fans. Read more here. Astronaut posts pics of iconic places in London taken from space. How many can you spot?The pictures show several iconic places in London like the Wimbledon, Buckingham Palace, Hyde Park, Big Ben and Westminster Abbey. Read more here. Mira Rajput's 'morning grind' is all about 'picking speed' while skipping ropeMira Rajput leaves us inspired for a full-body workout as she flaunts a perfect bod with a killer waistline while skipping rope this Sunday. Read the health benefits of the simple exercise inside. Read more here. Tharoor mocks PM Modi; Ranveer Singh memes; First Flying car l Viral Trends﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-asks-pm-modi-to-confer-bharat-ratna-to-medical-fraternity-and-all-the-latest-news-101625397164222.html
04-07-2021||India||Hoteliers in Himachal Pradesh hope for recovery as tourists flock hill stations||Thousands of tourists continue to flock to Himachal Pradesh as a heatwave has hit the plains and Covid-19 cases are dropping steadily in the country. Among the top tourist hotspots, Lahaul is attracting the maximum number of visitors due to the Atal Tunnel, which has made commuting to the scenic district easier. Kufri, Shimla, Narkanda, Dalhousie and Manali are also receiving large numbers of tourists from nearby states to escape the scorching heat.On Sunday, according to the local data, a record number of 6400 vehicles crossed the tunnel. "This was the highest single-day and highest till date arrivals," saidManav Verma, the superintendent of police of Lahaul-Spiti, PTI reported. Verma also said that 2001 vehicles crossed the tunnel on Friday.Occupancy in the hotels has also increased in the past few weeks. Shimla hotel and restaurant association president Sanjay Sood said the withdrawal of the condition of negative RTPCR report and e-Covid pass to enter Himachal Pradesh recently has given a boost to the tourism industry of the state, as per PTI report.However, it is yet to reach its peak of the pre-Covid era. "The occupancy in the hotels remains between 60 and 90 per cent during weekends, while on other days it remains around 40-45 per cent," Mohinder Seth, president of Tourism Industry Stakeholder Association, was quoted as saying by PTI.Budhi Prakash Thakur, a state convener of the forum of hotel and restaurant association, said, "The occupancy in hotels is dismal and figures hang around less than 25 per cent,” PTI reported.In Manali, Chamba and Dalhousie as well, the situation is similar but hoteliers are relieved that at least the number is picking up gradually after the massive slump in April and May. They are hoping that as a few months are still left until the summer season, the number of visitors may rise further. If the condition continues to be the same, the tourist influx would further increase, said Manoj Chadha of the Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Dalhousie.The state is in the middle of the reopening process after almost two months of Covid-19 lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases. Earlier in June, it opened the state for travellers outside the state, since then endless rows of cars are being seen, bringing traffic to a standstill as people from the nearby states thronged Himachal.It also one of the few states where one does not require to have an RT-PCR negative report to cross the border, making it easier for people to travel. However, a Covid e-pass is still mandatory for monitoring purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hoteliers-in-himachal-hope-for-recovery-as-tourists-flock-hill-stations-101625394389069.html
04-07-2021||India||Heatwaves claimed over 17,000 deaths in India since 1971: Study||Heatwaves have claimed more than 17,000 lives in the country since 1971, a study by a team of top meteorologists has claimed. The paper, which analysed heat wave incidents in the country from 1971-2019, stated 706 such incidents took place in this period. According to the study, extreme weather events (EWE) led to the deaths of 141,308 people since 1971. Of these, 17,362 people were killed due to the heatwave which is classified as a EWE, the study said. This is 12% of the total deaths due to EWEs in the last 50 years.Also Read: Heat wave has abated from plains in northwest India, says IMD; projects fall in maximum temperatureAndhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha recorded the maximum number of deaths caused by the heatwave, the study found.The research paper was authored by M Rajeevan, a secretary in the Union ministry of earth sciences, along with scientists Kamaljit Ray, SS Ray, RK Giri and AP Dimri. Kamaljit Ray is the lead author of the paper, which was published earlier this year.Also Read: Delhi gets a break from heatThe study assumes significance as it comes in the backdrop of heat waves that swept parts of the northern hemisphere, including the United States and Canada. In India, the northern plains, saw temperatures soar above 40 degrees Celsius. An intense heatwave was felt in the hills as well.Also Read: Canada heatwave toll tops 800There are various parameters to declare a heatwave. In the plains and hilly regions, a heatwave is declared when the actual temperature of a weather station is 40 degrees Celsius and 30 degrees Celsius respectively. In coastal areas, the maximum temperature at a station should be 40 degrees Celsius for authorities to announce a heatwave while the corresponding limit for other stations is 45 degrees Celsius. A heatwave is also declared when the actual maximum temperature exceeds the normal temperature, which should be more than 40 degrees Celsius.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwaves-claimed-over-17-000-deaths-in-india-since-1971-study-101625389505239.html
04-07-2021||India||Drones, unmanned vehicles banned in Srinagar after Jammu attack||The Srinagar district administration has imposed restrictions on drones and similar unmanned aerial vehicles days after the attack the Jammu air force station using drones, believed to be operated from across the boundary with Pakistan. Mohammad Ajaz, Srinagar's district magistrate, issued an order on Saturday banning the "storage, sale and possession, use and transport of drones and similar kinds of Unmanned aerial vehicles in the territorial jurisdiction of District Srinagar.""It is further ordered that persons already having the drone cameras/similar kind of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles in their possession shall ground the same in the local police station under proper receipt," Ajaz said in the order.Also read | CDS warns of retaliation if drones target military assetsIt also said that government departments using drones for mapping, surveys and surveillance in "agricultural, environment conservation and disaster mitigation" sectors will have to inform the local police before undertaking any such activity in the public interest. "Any violation of this order shall attract punitive action as warranted under relevant laws," he said.Earlier this week, the border district of Rajouri and Kathua issued similar orders and banned the operation of drones and low flying objects in their territories.Also read | Drones a clear, present threat, says army chiefOn Sunday, two explosions were reported from the Indian Air Force station in Jammu within minutes of each in an unprecedented unmanned attack, injuring two security personnel and damaging a building. Security forces thwarted a similar attack within 24 hours as they opened fire on unidentified drones hovering over the Kaluchak military base in Jammu. Several such sightings have reported over military bases in the region.Initial investigations into Sunday’s attack have pointed to the role of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the drone strike at a Jammu air force station.This is the first time that drones are being used in an attack on a major defence installation in the country, according to experts.And on Thursday, Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said the easy availability of drones has allowed both state and non-state actors to use them and building them was similar to a “DIY project that could be tackled at home”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-unmanned-vehicles-banned-in-srinagar-after-jammu-attack-101625392400279.html
04-07-2021||India||Why Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's 2015 tweet is going viral now||Before Pushkar Singh Dhami took the oath as the chief minister of Uttarakhand on Sunday, an old tweet of 2015 has tumbled out creating an uproar on Twitter to much embarrassment of the new chief minister. A day before the Independence Day of 2015, the BJP leader had posted a map of India, which at that time might have escaped attention, but now as that BJP leader is going to be at the helms of affairs in Uttarakhand, Twitter users have started pointing out that the map has several things wrong.Here is the tweet, the screenshot of which is being shared on social media platforms now.pic.twitter.com/RJYPiaHBQGMany social media users have been quick to point out that the map is not a correct representation of India and it has no regard for international borders as well. The map of 'Akhand Bharat' tweeted by Dhami includes neighbouring countries while India's map is not correct as it does not show Ladakh and Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir, Twitter users said. The saffron map with a caption of "Akhand Bharat -- the dream of every Rshtrabhakt," has the image of Bharat Mata at its centre.Some social media users, on the other hand, came to defend the map and the tweet of Dhami claiming that Akhand Bharat is more of a cultural concept than a territorial one.Shouldn’t BJP be making this man Foreign Minister of India rather than CM of a tiny state like Uttarakhand? Then, we can all move to 3rd World War! pic.twitter.com/7wkaDq5Y7uFormer IAS officer, former CEO of Prasar Bharati Jawhar Sircar too chimed in and sharing the screenshot of the six-year-old tweet, wrote, "Shouldn't BJP be making this man foreign minister of India rather than CM of a tiny state like Uttarakhand? Then, we can all move to 3rd World War."In the recent past, the government pulled up Twitter for carrying the wrong map of the country. Not only Twitter, but several international organisations had also drawn the ire of the government for misrepresenting India's borders.Pushkar Singh Dhami will be the third chief minister of the hill state since March as in quick succession the state saw the chair being shifted from Trivendra Singh Rawat to Tirath Singh Rawat and now to Pushkar Singh Dhami, who has never been a Cabinet minister but has been associated with the party, the RSS, ABVP for over three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-uttarakhand-chief-minister-pushkar-singh-dhami-s-2015-tweet-going-viral-now-101625389833148.html
04-07-2021||India||Karnataka's Namma Metro Train Services to be available on all days from Monday||The Namma Metro Train Services of Karnataka will be available from 7am to 8pm on all days from July 5, as per the Karnataka government's latest order. "The metro will operate at a frequency of 5 mins to 15 mins during peak and non-peak hours fromMonday to Friday and with increased/decreased frequency on Saturday, Sunday and General Holidays depending on the patronage," the government said.The government has requested the commuters to follow Covid appropriate behaviour of wearing of mask, social distancing and hand hygiene and cooperate with the staff of Bengaluru Metro in the fight against the spread of Covid.Karnataka has 48,116 active Covid-19 cases, as per the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakas-namma-metro-train-services-to-be-available-on-all-days-from-monday-101625388374525.html
04-07-2021||India||Monsoon not arriving in Delhi till July 7-8, predicts IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday said although the national capital witnessed rain, the temperature will once again rise, adding that monsoon is not arriving till July 7-8."Though Delhi witnessed a brief spell of rain, the temperature will once again go up. Western disturbances have moved away and monsoon is not coming till July 7-8. Break or weak monsoon will continue in parts of country till July 8," said RK Jenamani senior scientist, IMD, reported news agency ANI.The IMD said last week that monsoon had weakened due to impact mid-latitude westerly winds that didn’t allow easterly winds to progress. It further said that there was the impact of unfavourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) and absence of formation of low pressure system over North Bay of Bengal which helps monsoon progress and brings rain in its path.“Model forecasts show that easterly winds from Bay of Bengal in lower tropospheric levels are not likely to be established over north-western plains of India before July 7. Accordingly, further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab is not likely till July 7,” the statement added.“As predicted, monsoon enters into the break phase with little rains over the country and no signs of revival till July 7. Heavy rains could trigger floods over N-E and states like Bihar. Due to dry weather, temperature go up over NW India including Delhi with temperature higher than 40 Celsius,” tweeted M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-not-arriving-in-delhi-till-july-7-8-predicts-imd-101625386131336.html
04-07-2021||India||Karnataka-TN water dispute: A Ramadoss seeks action over Markandeya River dam||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) leader Anbumani Ramadoss urged the Centre to take action against the Karnataka government for building a dam across the Markandeya River. A stir among the Tamil Nadu polity is brewing in this matter as many leaders have expressed the same demand, a Tamil language newspaper reported on Sunday.The former Union minister said in a statement that it is shocking to learn that Karnataka has constructed the dam across the Markandeya, the tributary of the Thenpennai which is the source of irrigation for five districts of Tamil Nadu, according to the Dina Thanthi. Karnataka has arbitrarily constructed the structure even when the dispute over the Thenpennai river is pending with the tribunal, he pointed out.Among its tributaries, the Markandeya River is the major water source of Thenpennai which originates in Karnataka but empties in the Bay of Bengal traversing through Tamil Nadu.Ramadoss said that though it originates in Karnataka, the distance the river traverses in that state is only 30 kilometres. The 165 feet tall dam constructed in the tributary will store up to 2 TMC water, he quoted experts. So, it is doubtful if the water from the tributary will ever reach the Thenpennai and thousands of hectares of agriculture in districts namely Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Cuddalore will be affected, he said.Anbumani also pointed out that the riparian rights of the Thenpennai River are under the agreement entered between the then Madras Presidency and the State of Mysore in 1892. Karnataka should get the approval of Tamil Nadu, the tail end-user of the river, before executing any major project over it. The arbitrary act of Karnataka constructing the river without Tamil Nadu’s approval is contempt of the tribunal, Anbumani contended. He urged the Tamil Nadu government to take up the issue with the Centre and demand action against Karnataka.In another article published in the Dina Thanthi on Sunday, the Communist Party of India’s state secretary Mutharasan also reiterated that Tamil Nadu should take up a legal battle against the Karnataka government for constructing the dam across the Markandeya river. Meanwhile, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s general secretary Vaiko has slammed the previous AIADMK government’s lackadaisical approach towards the issue which paved way for the construction of the dam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakatn-water-dispute-a-ramadoss-seeks-action-over-markandeya-river-dam-101625385181483.html
04-07-2021||India||Indian-American Sirisha Bandla set to fly into space aboard Virgin Galactic mission with boss Richard Branson||India-origin woman Sirisha Bandla will travel to the edge of the space aboard ‘VSS Unity’ of Virgin Galactic, which is scheduled to fly off on July 11 from New Mexico. This is significant as she will be the third woman of Indian origin to go to space after Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams.Bandla, the vice-president of government affairs at Virgin Galactic in Washington DC, will travel alongside his boss and the group's founder, billionaire Richard Branson and four others in the company's spaceflight. Bandla will take care of the researcher experience of Unity22 mission.The 34-year-old hails from Guntur, Andhra Pradesh in India. She moved to the United States at the age of four along with her family. She graduated from the school of aeronautics and astronautics at Purdue University, Indiana. Bandla also has a masters degree in Business Administration from Georgetown University.Taking to Twitter to share the news, Bandla said she was "incredibly honoured" to be part of the crew. "I am so incredibly honoured to be a part of the amazing crew of Unity22, and to be a part of a company whose mission is to make space available to all," she posted.I am so incredibly honored to be a part of the amazing crew of #Unity22, and to be a part of a company whose mission is to make space available to all. https://t.co/sPrYy1stycFormer Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu also congratulated the astronautical engineer on Twitter. "Indian-origin women continue to break the proverbial glass ceiling and prove their mettle. On July 11th, Sirisha Bandla with Telugu roots is set to fly to space aboard VSS Unity with Richard Branson and the team marking the dawn of the new space age, making all Indians proud!," the Chief Minister tweeted.On June 2, Branson announced that he will make a spaceflight on July 11, earlier than billionaire Jeff Bezos. The Amazon founder is also going to make a spaceflight onboard the New Shepard spaceship, which is scheduled for July 20."I've always been a dreamer. My mum taught me to never give up and to reach for the stars. On July 11, it's time to turn that dream into a reality aboard the next @VirginGalactic spaceflight," Branson tweeted while making the announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-american-sirisha-bandla-set-to-fly-into-space-aboard-virgin-galactic-mission-with-boss-richard-branson-101625384702625.html
04-07-2021||India||2, including Kerala man, arrested at Chennai airport for visiting Yemen: Report||Two men, including one from Kerala's Malappuram district, have been arrested at Chennai airport after they returned from Yemen, one of the countries Indian citizens cannot travel to, a Tamil language newspaper reported on Sunday. Dinamalar reported that the arrested men were identified as 38-year-old Sameer from Malappuram and 33-year-old Feroz Khan from Pudukottai district of Tamil Nadu. The men told the officials that they travelled from Yemen to return to India after their Saudi Arabian visas expired, according to the newspaper.Sameer and Khan, who left for Saudi Arabia five years ago, worked as drivers in that country. They were staying illegally in Saudi Arabia after their work visas expired two years ago. When they realised they could land in trouble if they are caught by the country’s officials since the punishment for illegal stay in Saudi Arabia is very severe, they fled to Yemen, Dinamalar reported.They decided to come back to India from Yemen and approached the Indian embassy. They filed a complaint saying that they have lost their passports and with the help of local agents, they obtained the emergency certificate from the Indian embassy. Using the emergency certificate, they traveled from the Yemeni city of Sanaa to Sharjah from where they boarded a flight to India, Dinamalar reported.As immigration officials screened their documents, they realised the men traveled through Yemen to come back to India. The men were later handed over to the airport police for further investigation.India has banned citizens from going to Yemen since 2016. The travel advisory issued by the ministry of external affairs on April 1, 2016, warned that the security situation is very fragile in Yemen. The advisory came after an Indian nun was killed and a priest was abducted by extremists in Yemen. The government later imposed a stricter warning saying any Indian citizen who ignores the travel ban and travels to Yemen shall be accountable for the action under Section 12 of the Passports Act, 1967.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-including-kerala-man-arrested-at-chennai-airport-for-visiting-yemen-report-101625384393192.html
04-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jeff Bezos to step away as Amazon CEO on Monday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Leaving long legacy, Jeff Bezos set to exit as Amazon CEO on MondayJeff Bezos is all set to leave an enduring legacy after transforming Amazon from an online bookseller into one of the world's most powerful corporations. Read More'Real tribute': Kejriwal demands 'Bharat Ratna' for doctors who fought Covid-19Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal has demanded Bharat Ratna for the doctors and healthcare workers, who were on the frontline in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read MoreLakshadweep denies entry to Congress MPs, says visit may 'cause unrest'The Lakshadweep administration on Sunday rejected the application of Congress lawmakers from Kerala seeking permission to visit the island amid the unrest over contentious decisions taken by its administrator Praful Khoda Patel. Read MoreBCCI reacts after India captain Mithali Raj shatters huge batting record in women's cricketCaptain Mithali Raj has been a huge servant of Indian cricket. Read MoreAfter Aamir Khan-Kiran Rao’s divorce news, Pooja Bhatt says ‘relationships are not made/un-made on paper’Pooja Bhatt shared her views on the institution of marriage and separation. Read MoreKiara Advani in yellow strapless bikini makes a case for monotone swimsuitsWith her latest post on Instagram, Kiara Advani just sent a message to her bikini body, and we all relate. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jeff-bezos-to-step-away-as-amazon-ceo-on-monday-and-all-the-latest-news-101625381599795.html
04-07-2021||India||‘National security only a slogan for them’: Cong slams Centre over Rafale deal||The Congress party, which has been the strongest critic of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government over the deal with French manufacturer Dassault Aviation to purchase Rafale jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF), said on Sunday that national security is only a slogan for the Centre.Addressing a press conference, Congress national spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “Post-Independence, all central governments have regarded national security as a serious issue and have refrained from politicising it. The Modi government has too said that national security is paramount and there should be no compromise. However, when it comes to filling the pockets of their industrialist friends, their (Modi government’s) priority for the past seven years is crony capitalism. When it comes to filling their (industrialist friends) pockets, national security becomes a form of sloganeering for them (Centre).”Noting that France launched an investigation into the Rafale deal to find out if there was corruption, Khera said why the Indian government was still silent "even after 24 hours have passed".“There has been no response from the Centre till now. What was Rafale? It was an inter-governmental deal. France has launched an investigation. On the other hand, forget about investigation, the Indian government has not even given one comment. And this is the government which is only known for talking. The Prime Minister, defence minister and other members of the Cabinet are silent,” the Congress leader further said, adding the echo of this silence is being heard across the world.Khera also pointed out that France, who received the money and benefited from the deal, has launched an inquiry but the Indian government, which paid the money and suffered loss, has not done anything yet.He presented certain documents and said the amount decided for the deal by Indian negotiators massively spiked and also alleged the corruption clause mysteriously disappeared.Khera’s comments on Sunday came just a day after the Congress party demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the deal on Saturday. It said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should order the probe and also come clean on the deal.The French national financial prosecutor on Saturday announced that a judge has been appointed to investigate suspicions of corruption in the Rafale, according to French investigative website Mediapart.“A judicial probe into suspected corruption has been opened in France over the 7.8-billion-euro sale to India in 2016 of 36 Dassault-built Rafale fighter aircraft,” Mediapart said, adding the probe has been initiated by the national financial prosecutors’ office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-security-only-a-slogan-for-them-cong-slams-centre-over-rafale-deal-101625381160725.html
04-07-2021||India||Vaccinating adults will be key to prevent Covid-19 infection in schools: Study||A study has said that people living with more adults in their households are at increased risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Scottish study further said that living with children was not a risk factor.Vaccinating adults, parents and school staff will thus be key to prevent coronavirus infections in children and schools, news agency PTI reported quoting the study.There has been research earlier which said that Covid-19 is less severe in children and adolescents and most have mild infections or are asymptomatic.The new study said that given the increased risk in children with underlying health issues, there may be benefits to vaccinating these children over 12. But as increasing age is the biggest risk factor for severe disease, vaccinating older people should remain the priority.Are Covid-19 vaccines safe for kids?The study further said that common side-effects seen in a clinical trial of the Pfizer vaccine in 12- to 15-year-olds included injection site pain (up to 86 per cent of participants), fatigue (up to 66 per cent) and headache (up to 65 per cent). These were mild to moderate in severity and short-lived.However, two more serious, related conditions - myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the heart lining) - have been identified in safety surveillance in the United States, Canada and Israel following mRNA vaccines (Pfizer and Moderna).The highest rates are in men under 25 after the second dose. Based on US data up to June 11, for boys aged 12-17, the rate was 66.7 cases per million second doses.Outbreaks in schoolsThe extreme effect on children and adolescents during the Covid-19 pandemic has been the impact of school closures on learning, socialisation and emotional development, especially in children with special needs or mental health issues, said the study.The US and Canada are vaccinating adolescents partly to build confidence for returning to school, it added.Do we need to vaccinate children and teenagers to control Covid-19?The study says vaccinating large numbers of adults will prevent deaths and serious illness and therefore reduce the burden on health systems. But many countries are also aiming to achieve herd immunity through vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinating-adults-will-be-key-to-prevent-covid-19-infection-in-schools-study-101625380355491.html
04-07-2021||India||Petrol and diesel rates hiked on Sunday, over 10% jump in 2 months||Auto fuel rates rallied on Sunday as state-run oil companies raised petrol prices by 35 paise and diesel by 18 paise a litre in the 34th hike in two months, making the two fuels costlier by over 10% since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. Retail rates of auto fuels moved almost in tandem with international oil prices since May 4 resulting in 10.07% ( ₹9.11 per litre) jump in petrol and 10.68% ( ₹8.63 a litre) in diesel prices, while benchmark Brent crude surged 10.58% in the two-month period at $76.17 a barrel on Friday close. With the latest hike, petrol rates in Delhi and Kolkata have inched closer to the ₹100 a litre mark at ₹99.51 and ₹99.45 per litre respectively. New rates of diesel in Delhi and Kolkata are ₹89.36 per litre and ₹92.27 respectively. While fuel rates of state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Petrol has, however, crossed the ₹100 mark in three metros -- Mumbai, Chennai and Bangalore. The financial capital on Sunday priced petrol at ₹105.58 per litre and diesel at ₹96.91. The highest fuel rates have been recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar where pumps are selling petrol at ₹110.77 per litre and diesel at ₹102.60 a litre. Petrol rates have crossed ₹100/litre mark in various cities across the country, particularly in states and UTs of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Manipur, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Bihar, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Some of the cities selling petrol for over ₹100 per litre are Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Salem, Thiruvananthapuram, Mohali and Darjeeling. Surging international oil rates and the domestic taxes are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps. Domestic fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with respective international benchmarks of the previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates. International oil prices rally continued on Friday after producers’ cartel – the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) – on Thursday decided to restore less than expected supply even as global oil demand is growing. Brent crude surged 1.6% at $75.84 a barrel on Thursday and further gained 0.44% in the next trading session to close at $76.17 on Friday, the highest since October 2018. Domestic taxes are the other reason for high prices of auto fuels in the country. In Delhi, central levies account for 33.29% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to an official data of July 1. On diesel, central taxes are over 35.66% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic. According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers such as Indian Oil Company (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-and-diesel-rates-hiked-on-sunday-over-10-jump-in-2-months-101625381762083.html
04-07-2021||India||'Real tribute': Kejriwal demands 'Bharat Ratna' for doctors who fought Covid-19||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal has demanded Bharat Ratna for the doctors and healthcare workers, who were on the frontline in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. He said this would be the true tribute to those doctors who lost their lives."This year "Indian doctor" should get Bharat Ratna. And by “Indian Doctor” I mean all doctors, nurses and paramedics. This will be a true tribute to the martyred doctors. And an honour for those who serve without worrying about their life and family. The whole country will be happy with this," Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet posted in Hindi on Sunday.इस वर्ष “भारतीय डॉक्टर” को भारत रत्न मिलना चाहिए। “भारतीय डॉक्टर” मतलब सभी डॉक्टर, नर्स और पैरामेडिकशहीद हुए डाक्टर्ज़ को ये सच्ची श्रद्धांजली होगी। अपनी जान और परिवार की चिंता किए बिना सेवा करने वालों का ये सम्मान होगा।पूरा देश इस से खुश होगाPrime Minister Narendra Modi too had hailed the contribution of doctors in saving people's lives from Covid-19. "Losing the life of even one person is very saddening but India has also saved the lives of lakhs of its people from coronavirus. A big credit for it goes to our hard working doctors, healthcare workers and front line workers," he had said while addressing an event of the Indian Medical Association event (IMA) on National Doctors' Day on July 1.Noting that coronavirus is new and is mutating, the Prime Minister said India's doctors, with their knowledge and experience, are fighting the challenges posed by the virus.According to the IMA, nearly 800 doctors died during the second wave of Covid-19 across the country, out of which 128 - the highest - lost their lives in Delhi, followed by Bihar at 115.States like Maharashtra and Kerala where the prevalence of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 is on a rise also reported deaths of doctors in double digits. Maharashtra reported 23 doctor deaths and Kerala reported 24 deaths, according to IMA data.Puducherry has so far reported the lowest fatality count of doctors by logging one death only, the IMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/real-tribute-kejriwal-demands-bharat-ratna-for-doctors-who-fought-covid19-101625379864857.html
04-07-2021||India||Lakshadweep denies entry to Congress MPs, says visit may 'cause unrest'||The Lakshadweep administration on Sunday rejected the application of Congress lawmakers from Kerala seeking permission to visit the island amid the unrest over contentious decisions taken by its administrator Praful Khoda Patel. The administration rejected the request by Hibi Eden and TN Prathapan for an entry permit, stating that their visit might "disturb" the peaceful atmosphere. The administration also said that the visit might cause a surge in Covid-19 cases."The proposed visit of MPs from Kerala to Lakshadweep is likely to cause unrest in the islands as the political parties and leaders from the mainland have been making attempts to instigate local people, political parties/activists, social workers and people from different walks of life to oppose all administrative actions and to agitate against the Administration," said Lakshadweep additional district magistrate S Asker Ali in the order.Eden and Prathapan have said they want to visit the Union territory to "understand problems faced by islanders due to new policies of the administration."Earlier, the administration also denied entry for left MPs on the ground of the Covid situation.Lakshadweep witnessed protests after its administrator Praful Khoda Patel gave a slew of orders changing certain laws in the Union territory, sparking outrage within the islanders. The critics say that the orders are against the interest of the islanders and fear that the measures will dilute the unique culture of the Lakshadweep.People are also protesting against the draft legislation like Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act), which they think is not required for the Lakshadweep considering it has the lowest crime rate in the country. They are also against the Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation, and Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 among others. The Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF) said that the protests will continue until the administration withdraws the measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-denies-entry-to-congress-mps-says-visit-may-cause-unrest-101625379807175.html
04-07-2021||India||UP assembly polls: Yogi Adityanath accepts Owaisi's 'challenge', says BJP will win over 300 seats||Referring to All India Majlis-e-Ittahadul Muslimeen's stake to contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accepts AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi's "challenge". Putting his own two cents on the matter, CM Yogi said that there is "no doubt" that the BJP will form government in the state after winning "more than 300 seats" in the assembly polls next year."Asaduddin Owaisi is a big leader of our nation. If he has challenged BJP for the 2022 Assembly elections, then BJP's worker accepts his Asaduddin Owaisi challenge," Yogi told news agency ANI in an interview. "There is no doubt that BJP will form government in Uttar Pradesh in 2022."For context, the road to election campaigning has picked up in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly polls next year. AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi had said last month that his party will field candidates on as many as 100 seats in the state for the 2022 assembly elections. Owaisi's party is set to contest the elections along with the Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and other smaller parties, under the alliance banner of Sankalp Morcha.Notably, BJP won 67 out of the 75 district panchayat chairperson seats in the recently conducted Uttar Pradesh Zila Panchayat elections. The party's win has strengthened the confidence of its members ahead of the state assembly elections. Yogi Adityanath on Saturday thanked all the BJP party workers in the state and vowed to win the 2022 assembly polls in a similar fashion. "We will win more than 300 seats," the UP CM was quoted as saying.Shortly after the UP zila panchayat elections were out, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the party's state unit for the victory and recognised Yogi Adityanath as the key figure behind the party's spectacular performance. He also said that the results were a blessing given by the people for development, public service, and rule of law.Acknowledging the Prime Minister's comments, UP CM Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday that the BJP's "fruitful results" in the UP zila panchayat polls were a result of the guidance of PM Modi, BJP national president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah. "BJP won the 2014 General elections, 2017 Assembly elections, 2019 Lok Sabha elections and will claim victory in the 2022 Assembly elections," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assembly-polls-cm-yogi-accepts-owaisi-s-challenge-says-bjp-will-form-govt-101625374052159.html
04-07-2021||India||Swami Vivekananda death anniversary: Tributes pour in for one of India’s finest minds||Every year, July 4 is observed as the death anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, who is regarded as a one of the finest spiritual leaders and intellects India has produced. Vivekananda played an important role in introducing the philosophies of yoga and Vedanta to the West. He is best known for his speech at the World Parliament of Religion in Chicago in 1893 which started with the opening remarks, “My brothers and sisters of America.”Vivekananda has been credited with raising interfaith awareness and bringing Hinduism to a global platform in the 19th century. He is also known for his deep knowledge in science and religion. His teachings to the Western world demonstrated how the two could co-exist in harmony.He was born on January 12, 1863 in a Bengali family and was originally named Narendranath Datta. His father was Vishwanath Datta, an attorney at the Calcutta high court while his mother, Bhubaneswari Devi was a housewife. From a very young age, Vivekananda was interested in spirituality and would meditate in front of the images of Hindu Gods and Goddesses.Here are some of the memorable quotes of Swami Vivekananda which are relevant even in today’s world:> “You have to grow from the inside out. None can teach you, none can make you spiritual. There is no other teacher but your own soul.”> “In a day, when you don’t come across any problems - you can be sure that you are travelling in a wrong path.”> “Arise, awake, stop not till the goal is reached.”> “Take up one idea. Make that one idea your life; dream of it; think of it; live on that idea. Let the brain, the body, muscles, nerves, every part of your body be full of that idea, and just leave every other idea alone. This is the way to success, and this is the way great spiritual giants are produced.”> “The fire that warms us can also consume us; it is not the fault of the fire.”On Sunday, tributes started pouring in for Swami Vivekananda from public and political spheres. Using #SwamiVivekananda on social media handles, people spoke about his teachings, his life and his ideals.The life, ideals and teachings of #SwamiVivekananda fascinated me right from my young days. I feel everyone should read about him to have peace and bring positive change in life. Paying homage to the great son of Bharat Mata on his punnyatithi. @vkendra pic.twitter.com/J1xyYv8mpaAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted that everyone should read about Vivekananda to have peace and bring positive change in life. “The life, ideals and teachings of #SwamiVivekananda fascinated me right from my young days. I feel everyone should read about him to have peace and bring positive change in life. Paying homage to the great son of Bharat Mata on his punyatithi,” Sarma wrote on Twitter.On this day in 1902, Swami Vivekananda attained Mahasamadhi.We shall forever remain indebted to him for his teachings on individual freedom, social equality and justice into the Indian ethos. His thoughts & ideas are our guiding light, even today.On the other hand, Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “On this day in 1902, Swami Vivekananda attained Mahasamadhi. We shall forever remain indebted to him for his teachings on individual freedom, social equality and justice into the Indian ethos. His thoughts & ideas are our guiding light, even today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shall-forever-remain-indebted-to-him-india-pays-tribute-to-swami-vivekananda-101625371881995.html
04-07-2021||India||India's new Covid-19 cases fall to 43,071, active cases remain below 500,000||The cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India continued to fall on Sunday as the daily number of infections dipped further. Over the last 24 hours, 43,071 people found to be positive of the viral disease, according to the daily update by the Union health ministry. The country's tally now stands at 30,545,433. The death toll increased to 402,005 after 955 people succumbed to the disease, it also mentioned on its site.India's active cases also dropped further by 10,183 and it now stands at 485,350. While, 52,299 people recovered, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,658,078.Also Read | Who are 'highly protected' against Delta variant of Covid? ICMR study revealsOn the vaccination front, the cumulative number has surpassed the 35 crore mark.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23.While the overall tally is falling, several states including Maharashtra, Kerala are still seeing a jump in daily cases amid fears of the possible third wave. On Saturday, a scientist of a government panel said the possible third wave of Covid-19 infection may hit its peak between October-November if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed. Manindra Agarwal is working with the Sutra Model, the mathematical projection of the Covid-19 trajectory.The department of science and technology of the government formed the panel last year to forecast the surge of Covid-19 cases using mathematical models.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-new-covid-19-cases-fall-to-43-071-new-deaths-climb-to-955-101625370981586.html
04-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: US gears up for Fourth of July celebrations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fourth of July: With fireworks and parades, US celebrates Independence Day todayIndependence Day -- known colloquially as the Fourth of July -- is celebrated in the United States on July 4 annually to mark the Declaration of Independence signifying the freedom of the thirteen American colonies from British rule back in the 18th century. Read MorePushkar Singh Dhami: From student politics to the top post in UttarakhandPushkar Singh Dhami has been chosen for the top job in Uttarakhand after two chief ministers were replaced less than a year ahead of the assembly elections in the state. Read MoreComplaint filed against Twitter India, MD Manish Maheshwari for 'spreading communal hatred'Microblogging website Twitter, which is already facing problems in India over various issues, is now in fresh trouble. Read More'It's insulting for players already in team': Kapil Dev not in favour of additions in India squad for England TestsFormer all-rounder Kapil Dev is against the addition of any further openers in India's Test squad for the five-match series against England with the World Cup winning captain claiming there is no need to look beyond the pool of 20 players who are currently in the UK. Read MoreRGV defends Aamir Khan-Kiran Rao against trolls: ‘Divorce should be celebrated more than marriage’Ram Gopal Varma, also known as RGV, defended Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao against trolls after they announced their divorce on Saturday. Aamir and Kiran, who were married for 15 years, will co-parent their son Azad Rao Khan together. Read MorePriyanka Chopra in ₹70k shirt and pants is all about the flirty floral printsActor Priyanka Chopra Jonas has carved a name for herself globally with her jaw-dropping sartorial choices. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-gears-up-for-fourth-of-july-celebrations-and-all-the-latest-news-101625367871981.html
04-07-2021||India||Complaint filed against Twitter India, MD Manish Maheshwari for 'spreading communal hatred'||Microblogging website Twitter, which is already facing problems in India over various issues, is now in fresh trouble. A complaint has been filed with the Delhi Police's cyber cell against Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari for allegedly spreading communal hatred.A non-profit organisation has also been named in the complaint, news agency ANI reported. It has been filed by an advocate Aditya Singh Deshwal, according to ANI.The complainant has flagged a picture of Goddess Kali shared by the handle Atheist Republic and said that content posted by the Twitter users was not only abusive but has been posted for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience, danger, obstruction, insult, injury, criminal intimidation, enmity, hatred and ill will in society."It would also be not out of place to mention here that these posts have been put by the said user deliberately, to outrage the religious feelings of Hindus to insult our religious beliefs," the advocate said.He has asked registration of an FIR against Twitter Communications India Prviate Ltd, Manish Maheshwari, MD, Twitter India, Shagufta Kamran, Public Policy manager of Twitter India as well as Armin Navabi and Susanna Macintrye, the founder and CEO respectively of Republic Atheist.Deshwal accused Twitter of showing blasphemous content from July 2011, in connivance with Armin Navab and Atheist Republic. He further said that the profile of Atheist Republic is full of such blasphemous content about Hindu Religion and other religions."Twitter on the other hand, as a Significant Social Media Intermediary (SSMN) has taken no steps to remove such content but in a blatant violation of Indian laws has been acting as an accomplice to the crime and showing such blasphemous and insulting content," the advocate's complaint said.He accused Twitter of violating the provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), 1860 in the light of section 79 of Information Technology Act, 2000. Deshwal said that Maheshwari and and Kamran deliberately did not take any action to remove such objectionable content from the microblogging website.Twitter is involved in a legal tussle with the Indian government, which has accused the US company of not following the new IT rules enacted by the Centre in May this year. The accounts of Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, and Union ministers and ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders faced trouble, leading to escalation of the standoff.While the accounts of all these leaders are now functioning normally, the government has said that Twitter is not complying with the provisions of the new Indian act. Twitter, in turn, has raised concerns about the safety of its employees in India and flagged intimidation by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complaint-against-twitter-india-md-for-allegedly-hurting-religious-sentiments-101625365711851.html
04-07-2021||India||UP poll prep: Cong to hold training camps for block presidents in Agra, Kanpur||The Uttar Pradesh unit of the Congress party is hold training camps for block presidents, district-city presidents and state officials to prepare them for the high stake assembly elections scheduled to be held in the state next year.The training camps will comprise brainstorming sessions, during which discussions will be held on strengthening the organisation, booth constructions and several social media campaigns, a Congress leader told news agency ANI on Saturday. The sessions will be conducted in every district of Uttar Pradesh till July 10 and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi will address the local leaders virtually, the above leader added.From today, a two-day training camp is being held for block presidents of Agra and Kanpur divisions. Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Salman Khurshid will be inaugurating the camps, former MLA Pradeep Mathur told news agency PTI, adding people from Chhattisgarh have been roped in to train the block presidents of Agra and Kanpur.It is being observed that these camps are crucial for the Congress, which in recent years, has seen the exit of many prominent leaders, the latest one being Jitin Prasada, who jumped ship to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on June 9 this year ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.On July 2, Priyanka Gandhi was addressing training camps at Sultanpur and Allahabad districts through video conferencing, where she urged party leaders to start preparing for the assembly elections and said their views with regard to strengthening the Congress will be taken into account while preparing the manifesto. Gandhi also said that apart from strengthening the booth-level organisation, remaining active on social media was also important.“The manner in which Congressmen worked during the coronavirus pandemic for delivering oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, medical kits, ration kits, among others, from village to village, to migrant workers and others, shows the party’s concern for the public,” Gandhi said during the training programs, according to PTI.She also told the local leaders that they will have to stand with the citizens and share their problems related to inflation, unemployment and steep price rise of petroleum products.(With ANI, PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-poll-prep-cong-to-hold-training-camps-for-block-presidents-in-agra-kanpur-101625362041830.html
04-07-2021||India||How dangerous will 3rd wave of Covid-19 be? Scientist on govt panel explains||A scientist, who is part of a government panel, has said that a possible third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can hit its peak between October-November if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed. The panel is tasked with modelling of Covid-19 cases.The scientist, Professor Manindra Agarwal, who is working with the Sutra Model, the mathematical projection of the Covid-19 trajectory, said that the third wave may see half the daily cases recorded during the second surge.He, however, warned that if a new virulent strain emerges, the infection can spread faster during the third wave."We have created three scenarios. One is optimistic one. In this, we assume that life goes back to normal by August, and there is no new mutant. Second is intermediate one. In this we assume that vaccination is 20% less effective in addition to optimistic scenario assumptions," Professor Agarwal said in one of the tweets he posted on the issue."Third is pessimistic one. This has one assumption different from intermediate one: a new, 25% more infectious mutant spreads in August (it is not delta+, which is not more infectious than delta)," he added in the series of tweets.Here are plots for the three scenarios. Blue curve is actual data. Orange one is model prediction until May. Dotted curves are three scenarios plotted from June. pic.twitter.com/yDeLnp2rQfProfessor Agarwal then posted the bottom line: "If there is no significantly faster spreading mutant, third wave will be a ripple. And if there is such a mutant, third wave will be comparable to first one. However, if there is an immunity-escape mutant, all the above scenarios will be invalid!"The government panel, of which Professor Agarwal is a part, was formed by the Department of Science and Technology last year to forecast the surge of coronavirus cases using mathematical models. M Vidyasagar, another scientist with IIT-Hyderabad, and Lt. Gen Madhuri Kanitkar, Deputy Chief (Medical) of Integrated Defence Staff, are the other members of the panel.It was in the eye of the storm for not predicting the ferocity of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country, which wreaked havoc in the months of March and April. On May 7, India had recorded 4,14,188 Covid-19 cases, the highest during the second wave.Professor Agarwal, who works with IIT-Kanpur, said while replying to a Twitter user that India is in a better position than the United Kingdom because the second wave was caused by delta. "So a lot of people are now immune against delta unlike UK," he said in the reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-dangerous-third-wave-of-covid-19-will-be-scientist-on-govt-panel-explains-101625361039842.html
04-07-2021||India||121 mango varieties on a single tree? Horticulturists make it possible in UP||An experiment by the horticulturists has given a mango tree in Uttar Pradesh the ability to grow different varieties of the fruit. In fact, the popular tree in Saharanpur has 121 varieties of the fruit growing on it.The 15-year-old tree has become an attraction in the area and produces Dussehri, Langra, Chaunsa, Ramkela, Amrapali, Saharanpur Arun, Saharanpur Varun, Saharanpur Saurabh, Saharanpur Gaurav, and the local Saharanpur Rajiv.The horticulturists have been conducting experiments for the past five years. They wanted to develop new varieties of mangoes and experiment with their taste."The purpose of the experiment was to research new varieties of mangoes. Saharanpur is already a leading name in mango production. Mango horticulture is done extensively in the fruit belt of the district. Due to which research has also been done on new varieties of mango here," Bhanu Prakash Ram, Joint Director, Horticulture and Training Centre, Saharanpur, told news agency ANI.He said that the unique experiment was carried out in the Company Bagh area five years ago."We are working on new species so that better varieties of mangoes can be produced. People can also use this technique," Ram was further quoted as saying by ANI.Explaining the experiment, Ram said that branches of different types of mangoes were planted on the branches of the native mango tree. The department appointed a separate nursery in-charge to look after the tree, according to Ram.Apart from the above mentioned varieties, Lucknow Safeda, Pusa Surya, Rataul, Kalmi Maldah Mango, Bombay, Smith, Mangifera Jalonia, Gola Bulandshahr, Laranku, LR Special, Alampur Benisha and Asojia Deoband are also growing on the tree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/121-mango-varieties-on-a-single-tree-horticulturists-make-it-possible-in-up-101625359296791.html
04-07-2021||India||Population issue: Assam CM Himanta Sarma to meet 150 Muslim intellectuals today||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma will hold a meeting with leaders of the minority community to discuss the population issue. He told reporters on Saturday that the meeting will involve 150 Muslim intellectuals."During last 1 month, I met both fractions of All Assam Minority Students' Union and everybody has said that population is a problem and we need to resolve it. In Assam, there is no controversy," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."They (outside people) don't understand seriousness of situation and create controversy merely because BJP CM has said this. This can't be a controversy. People should welcome if somebody is trying to eradicate poverty and illiteracy among minority people," he further said.Sarma had said last month that his government will introduce a population policy with two-child norm, and will give benefits to families adhering to it.The chief minister had said that the Muslim community has been growing at a higher rate - 29 per cent (decadal) - in the state than the Hindus - at 10 per cent. Sarma said that he will discuss the population control measures with the leaders of the Muslim community and urge them to spread those.He had also said that the two-child policy is the only way to eradicate poverty and illiteracy in the Muslim community in the state. The chief minister said that there is no resistance from the community.Sarma has bene meeting the leaders of the Muslim community, explaining them the government's policy. He said organisations like All Assam Minority Students' Union admitted that Muslims in the state need population control measures.The state government's primary objective is to expand health and educational initiatives and check the growth of Muslim population through such steps, Sarma had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/population-issue-assam-cm-himanta-sarma-to-meet-150-muslim-intellectuals-today-101625358115449.html
04-07-2021||India||Will NC join J&K delimitation panel meetings? Farooq Abdullah may take a call today||The Jammu & Kashmir National Conference (NC) -- a member of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- may on Sunday take a call on the party's participation in the proceedings of the Delimitation Commission, tasked to carve out new constituencies in the Union territory. News agency PTI reported, citing an unnamed NC leader, that the final decision regarding this rests with party president Farooq Abdullah, who will soon be conveying the official party line.“The NC president will take the final call on the issue most likely tomorrow as he has been authorised by the party. He may then announce the decision himself,” the leader told the news agency a day ago.The Delimitation Commission will be visiting the Union territory next week, for which it has invited leaders of all national, regional, and registered political parties of J&K for separate meetings. The commission, which has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise of carving out new constituencies, will also reserve separate constituencies for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in J&K.Also Read | Delimitation Commission to visit J&K, meet partiesThe National Conference held an internal meeting on Saturday over the question of participating in the Delimitation Commission proceedings, the party leader said. “The meetings took place today where the issue of the participation in the exercise was discussed," PTI quoted the NC leader, without naming him. "The party leaders gave their inputs and those inputs will be shared with the party high command.”The two meetings over participation in commission proceedings were held at the National Conference headquarters in Srinagar, under the chairmanship of Ali Mohammad Sagar, the party's general secretary, and Nasir Aslam Wani, the provincial party president of Kashmir. Suggestions regarding the matter were taken from all the party leaders and later conveyed to NC president Farooq Abdullah, the leader said.Also Read | Political parties in a quandary over meeting delimitation panelThe Delimitation Commission, which was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of J&K, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland, is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai. Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioners of J&K and the three states are ex-officio members of the commission.The issue of delimitation was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from J&K last week. Modi had stressed that the delimitation exercise was required to happen quickly so that polls can be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-national-conference-join-j-k-delimitation-panel-meetings-farooq-abdullah-may-take-a-call-today-101625355636171.html
04-07-2021||India||Delta variant: No antibodies in 16% after second dose of Covishield, says study||Neutralising antibodies against the Delta variant (B1.617.2) were not observed in 58.1% of serum samples from those given one shot of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India as Covishield, according to a yet-to-be peer reviewed study by researchers from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).After two doses, the neutralising antibodies could not be detected in 16.1% of the samples, the study found. Additionally, the researchers saw that a prior infection along with vaccination produced much higher titres of neutralising antibodies.“Not observed is not equivalent to not present. The levels of neutralising antibodies could be significantly low that it did not get detected, but it may still be there and protect the person against infection and severe disease. Also, there would be some cell mediated protective immunity as well that can protect against infection and severe disease,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of microbiology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe titres of the neutralising antibodies – that specifically target the Sars-CoV-2 virus and kill it or prevent it from entering human cells – were also lower against the Delta variant as compared to the B1 variant that led to the first wave of infections in India. As compared to B1, the neutralising antibody titres against the Delta variant were 78% less in those who received one shot, 69% in those who received two shots, 66% in those who had the infection and received one shot, and 38% in those who had the infection and received both shots.What the study means for India’s vaccination drive is that some might require an additional booster shot of Covishield while those who have had the infection may require just one.“Assuming that the serum used for the study was from healthy individuals, the proportion of individuals with unobserved levels of neutralising antibodies will be higher among those who are old, comorbid, have chronic diseases as their immune response is lower. What this means is that men (women produce higher levels of antibodies) over the age of 65 years, those with diabetes, hypertension, chronic heart, lung, kidney diseases, or who are undergoing treatment for cancer should be given a third dose,” said Dr Jacob John.He added, “On the other hand, one dose is more than enough for an immune response in those who have had the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-variant-no-antibodies-in-16-even-after-second-dose-of-covishield-101625349161190.html
04-07-2021||India||Rafale row resurfaces as Congress demands JPC probe||The Congress on Saturday claimed it has been vindicated after French online journal Mediapart reported that a judge in France will probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the ₹59,000 crore Rafale deal with India for 36 fighter jets.The BJP, however, played down the appointment of the judge in France to lead a judicial investigation, saying the development was outcome of a complaint by an NGO and should not be seen as a matter of corruption.Randeep Surjewala, the Congress’s chief spokesperson, cited the latest development and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must “submit” its government to a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC). Congress has made this demand earlier as well.Surjewala described the development as “a scandalous expose of Rafale scam” that has led to “loss to public exchequer”. “The French have ordered an investigation into the Rafale deal for corruption and influence peddling. The sweetheart deal is now exposed. It calls for a thorough JPC probe. Will the PM (Prime Minister) answer to the nation and when will the government submit to a JPC probe?” he asked.But BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said that the French development was akin to a competent authority in India writing down in a file that “please act accordingly” when a matter is brought before him; he accused the Congress of spreading lies and misconceptions over the issue.Surjewala maintained that it is not a Congress versus Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) issue, but a matter related to national security.Mediapart reported the “highly sensitive probe into the inter-governmental deal signed in 2016 was formally opened on June 14”. It said the development was confirmed by the Financial Crimes Branch of the French Public Prosecution Services on Friday. The French website carried a series of reports on alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal in April.The criminal investigation, Mediapart said, will “examine questions surrounding the actions” of former French president François Hollande, who was in office when the Rafale deal was inked, his successor, Emmanuel Macron, the then economy and finance minister, and foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, who held the defence portfolio then.India ordered Rafale jets in September 2016 as an emergency purchase through a government-to-government deal that soon became controversial.The Opposition, led by the Congress, has claimed the price at which India was buying Rafale aircraft now is ₹1,670 crore for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by the company when the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was trying to buy the aircraft.The BJP’s Patra also alleged that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is acting as an agent of rival defence companies and being used as a “pawn”. “Probably, he is acting as an agent or some member of Gandhi family has been for a competing company,” Patra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-row-resurfaces-as-congress-demands-jpc-probe-101625348542842.html
04-07-2021||India||CM may meet Congress leadership in Delhi amid Punjab infighting||Days after the lunch diplomacy, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is all set to meet Congress high command in Delhi next week in order to resolve the ongoing crisis in the party’s state unit, said sources.The discussion will be held between the top leadership and Captain Amarinder Singh to clear the formula to accommodate Navjot Singh Sidhu and to end the crisis. Although the final date of the meeting is not decided yet,” a close aide of Amarinder Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier this week, Navjot Singh Sidhu met Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi and presented his side. Other senior leaders of the Punjab Congress had also held marathon meetings with Rahul Gandhi for four days in Delhi.Ahead of assembly elections in Punjab next year, tensions between Singh and Sidhu, which have been simmering since 2019, have added to the problems facing the Congress. Their bitterness mounted in May after the government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 case of police firing on a crowd protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book. A three-member panel, formed to resolve the crisis, submitted its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi on June 10.According to people familiar with the development, current PCC Chief Sunil Jakhar is all set to be replaced. Captain openly played his cards through the lunch diplomacy after which it was said that a Hindu leader should be given the chance to lead the party in the state. It is assumed that this is being done to counter Sidhu for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-may-meet-congress-leadership-in-delhi-amid-punjab-infighting-101625347622543.html
04-07-2021||India||Allahabad HC notice to SHO over Barabanki mosque razing||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Saturday issued a show cause notice to station house officer (SHO) of Ram Snehi Ghat in Barabanki for passing orders to demolish a mosque despite the court’s directions to keep in abeyance any such activity till May 31 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“From the averments made in the contempt petition as also the submissions advanced, prima facie, it appears that the demolition of the mosque in question on May 17, 2021 by the respondent no. 2—SHO Ram Snehi Ghat, Barabanki is in violation of the directions,” said the order by Justice Ravi Nath Tilhari.On May 17, the district administration of Barabanki bulldozed Gareeb Nawaz mosque, which is believed to be more than 100-years-old, after considering it to be an “illegal structure”.“We expect that the SHO will now explain in court as to why he took this illegal action and also at whose instance,” said Sarim Naved, counsel for one of the petitioners Wasif Hasan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-notice-to-sho-over-barabanki-mosque-razing-101625347020502.html
04-07-2021||India||Monsoon session: Traditional routines set to return||Parliament’s upcoming monsoon session will return to its traditional routine in terms of working hours and seating after more than a year of makeshift arrangements to ensure Covid-19 guidelines, including social distancing, with public galleries being used to accommodate MPs and the two houses working in shifts over the last two sessions.A bulletin issued by the Lok Sabha secretariat on Saturday said that the House will meet daily from 11am to 6pm with an hour of lunch break.The bulletin also urged the MPs to ask questions pertaining to the specific ministry to the respective minister.“It has been observed that sometimes Members raise two or more different and unrelated subjects, involving more than one Ministry/Department in one notice of question. This causes administrative inconvenience to the Ministry/Department. Accordingly, Members are requested to address their notices of questions appropriately to one Ministry/Department only,” it said.In the last two sessions, the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha opted for staggered shifts in adherence to Covid-19 norms. The Upper House sat every morning, while the Lower House began its proceedings only in the afternoon, two hours after the Rajya Sabha finished the day’s business.The normal schedule for the upcoming session will entail MPs sitting in their respective seats, according to people aware of the details. The staggered seating arrangement also meant that the lawmakers could not cast votes on bills or debates through the electronic system and had to resort to paper slips.At least 40 bills and five ordinances are currently awaiting Parliament’s approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-traditional-routines-set-to-return-101625343343925.html
04-07-2021||India||ED arrests Delhi journo linked to spying case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma in connection with a money laundering probe linked to the alleged leakage of sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers, the agency said in a statement on Saturday.Sharma was taken into ED custody on July 1 under the criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He was produced before a local court in Delhi on Friday, which granted the ED seven days’ custody, the agency said in a statement.The agency said its probe has revealed that 62-year-old Sharma “leaked confidential and sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officers, in exchange for remuneration, thereby compromising the security and national interests of India”.“It was further revealed that cash for remuneration of Sharma and other unknown persons was being generated through a ‘hawala’ by Mahipalpur-based (an area in Delhi) shell companies that were run by Chinese nationals... along with a Nepalese national,” it alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-delhi-journo-linked-to-spying-case-101625341166541.html
04-07-2021||India||Pakistan’s Kabul focus stalls backchannel with India||Backchannel contacts between India and Pakistan have stalled in recent months, largely because of the Pakistani side’s growing focus on the situation in Afghanistan and pressing domestic issues, according to people familiar with developments.There haven’t been any substantial contacts between the two sides since they agreed to revive the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control from February 25 and the two sides also haven’t been able to reach common ground on the next steps that could facilitate the expansion of the backchannel contacts, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Also Read: Drone spotted near Indian High Commission in Pakistan; India strongly objectsThe revival of the LoC ceasefire was followed by a proposal piloted by the Pakistani military establishment in March to resume limited trade relations with India, but this fell through because of strong opposition from several leaders in the civilian government, including foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed.“There was a feeling on the Pakistani side that things should be allowed to cool down for some time. There was also internal criticism within Pakistan because of a feeling in some quarters that Pakistan had agreed to recommit itself to the LoC ceasefire without any concessions from India,” said one of the people cited above.“A lot of the Pakistan government’s bandwidth has also been consumed by the fast-changing situation in Afghanistan and a second wave of Covid-19 infections and urgent domestic issues, such as economic problems,” the person added.The difficulty in selling the limited trade resumption package, which received the green light from Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa, too, was a factor in stalling of backchannel contacts, the people said.On the Indian side, there are concerns on whether Bajwa’s successor would continue efforts to work towards a normalisation of relations, and whether there is adequate buy-in from Prime Minister Imran Khan’s civilian government.Following an extension in service granted by the Pakistan government in January 2020, Bajwa’s term as army chief is set to end in about 17 months in November 2022.Also Read | India to Pak: Speed up release of civilian prisoners, missing defence personnel“It’s the classic problem of dealing with Pakistan’s military – we don’t know if the current army chief’s successor will continue this process. Gen Bajwa may be keen about this process but there is no guarantee the next general will stick to it,” said a second person.The two sides have also been unable to find common ground on the next steps that can help them take forward the backchannel contacts, including the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, the people said.Reports have suggested the Pakistani side suggested during the backchannel contacts that India should take steps to restore the statehood of J&K and put in place measures to maintain the current demography of the state and to protect the rights and employment opportunities of Kashmiris.Pakistan’s civilian leadership, including Prime Minister Khan, has linked any talks with India to the restoration of J&K’s special status, which was scrapped by the Indian government in August 2019. Some elements on the Pakistani side had even hoped that India’s current standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control could lead to some movement on the Kashmir issue, the people said.The people further said India’s recent outreach to some Afghan Taliban factions and elements was perceived as a “red flag” by Pakistan’s security establishment.Pakistan’s civil and military leadership have said in recent weeks that they do not see a large role for India in Afghanistan as the US begins a drawdown of troops. On the other hand, India has said it is in touch with “various stakeholders” in Afghanistan to protect its legitimate security interests.The India-Pakistan backchannel contacts gained urgency last year, the people said. Inter-Services Intelligence chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed has had two meetings with Indian interlocutors – one with a senior security official and another with his Indian counterpart in the United Arab Emirates in January that led to revival of the ceasefire, they said.Contrary to earlier reports, Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf is now playing a larger role in ties with the US, the people added.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash, who closely tracks developments in the region, said perpetual hostility between India and Pakistan “cannot and should not go on”. “We are neighbours, we may not like it but we must find a modus vivendi... keep all options open and try the dialogue route and the front and back channels, while we also have the necessary defences and counter-offensive capabilities.”“We have to be prepared for all eventualities and the end objective is that we coexist without acrimony and are not at each other’s throat...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistans-kabul-focus-stalls-backchannel-with-india-101625337347984.html
04-07-2021||India||Pak’s Kabul focus stalls backchannel with India||New Delhi: Backchannel contacts between India and Pakistan have stalled in recent months, largely because of the Pakistani side’s growing focus on the situation in Afghanistan and pressing domestic issues, according to people familiar with developments.There haven’t been any substantial contacts between the two sides since they agreed to revive the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control from February 25 and the two sides also haven’t been able to reach common ground on the next steps that could facilitate the expansion of the backchannel contacts, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The revival of the LoC ceasefire was followed by a proposal piloted by the Pakistani military establishment in March to resume limited trade relations with India, but this fell through because of strong opposition from several leaders in the civilian government, including foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed.“There was a feeling on the Pakistani side that things should be allowed to cool down for some time. There was also internal criticism within Pakistan because of a feeling in some quarters that Pakistan had agreed to recommit itself to the LoC ceasefire without any concessions from India,” said one of the people cited above.“A lot of the Pakistan government’s bandwidth has also been consumed by the fast-changing situation in Afghanistan and a second wave of Covid-19 infections and urgent domestic issues, such as economic problems,” the person added.The difficulty in selling the limited trade resumption package, which had received the green light from Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa, too was a factor in the stalling of the backchannel contacts, the people said.On the Indian side, there are concerns on whether Bajwa’s successor would continue efforts to work towards a normalisation of relations between the two countries, and whether there is adequate buy-in from Prime Minister Imran Khan’s civilian government, given the recent opposition to the resumption of even limited trade contacts.Following an extension in service granted by the Pakistan government in January 2020, Bajwa’s term as army chief is set to end in about 17 months in November 2022.“It’s the classic problem of dealing with Pakistan’s military – we don’t know if the current army chief’s successor will continue this process. Gen Bajwa may be keen about this process but there is no guarantee the next general will stick to it,” said a second person.The two sides have also been unable to find common ground on the next steps that can help them take forward the backchannel contacts, including the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, the people said. Reports have suggested the Pakistani side had suggested during the backchannel contacts that India should take steps to restore the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir and put in place measures to maintain the current demography of the state and to protect the rights and employment opportunities of Kashmiris.Pakistan’s civilian leadership, including Prime Minister Khan, has linked any talks with India to the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, which was scrapped by the Indian government in August 2019. Some elements on the Pakistani side had even hoped that India’s current standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control could lead to some movement on the Kashmir issue, the people said.The people further said India’s recent outreach to some Afghan Taliban factions and elements was perceived as a “red flag” by Pakistan’s security establishment.Pakistan’s civil and military leadership have said in recent weeks that they do not see a large role for India in Afghanistan as the US begins a drawdown of troops that is set to be completed by September. On the other hand, India has said it is in touch with “various stakeholders” in Afghanistan to protect its legitimate security interests.The India-Pakistan backchannel contacts gained urgency last year, the people said. Inter-Services Intelligence chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed has had two meetings with Indian interlocutors – one with a senior security official and another with his Indian counterpart in the United Arab Emirates in January that led to the revival of the LoC ceasefire, they said.Contrary to earlier reports, Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf is now playing a larger role in ties with the US, given his extensive American contacts from his stint in the Washington-based think tank United States Institute of Peace, the people added.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash, who closely tracks developments in the region, said perpetual hostility between India and Pakistan “cannot and should not go on”.“We are neighbours, we may not like it but we must find a modus vivendi. The point really is how we find it. You have to keep all options open and try the dialogue route and the front and back channels, while we also have the necessary defences and counter-offensive capabilities,” he said.“Basically, we have to be prepared for all eventualities and the end objective is that we coexist without acrimony and are not at each other’s throat even if we are not cooperating. It takes two to tango, and Pakistan has to make up its mind. We are very clear that whenever they are ready, so are we. The ball is in the Pakistani court and they have to decide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paks-kabul-focus-stalls-backchannel-with-india-101625337417998.html
04-07-2021||India||Rawat’s short tenure marred by controversies||The short tenure of Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned as the chief minister of Uttarakhand, making way for Pushkar Singh Dhami as his successor was marred by controversial remarks a poor handling of the Covid-19 situation during the Mahakumbh festival, according to political experts.Rawat triggered controversies with his critical views on women’s clothing and by saying that the waters of the Ganga could prevent Covid-19 infections. He also initially spoke about allowing Mahakumbh in Haridwar without any restrictions.About 9.1 million people took the holy dip – at least six million of them in April, coinciding with the peak of the second wave – and officials in many other north Indian states traced local infection surges to Kumbh returnees. The Uttarakhand high court sharply criticised the government for green-lighting the event.SMA Kazmi, a Dehradun-based political analyst, said Rawat was targeted on the management of the Mahakumbh – he initially said that people could attend the event without any Covid-19 test. “The Mahakumbh Covid-19 testing scam has been a big embarrassment for the government,” he said. The various controversial statements he made also created trouble, he added.Allegations of fake testing surfaced in Haridwar after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Rawat has said the irregularities occurred before his tenure, prompting a sharp denial from Trivendra Rawat. Tirath Singh Rawat and his predecessor were engaged in a war of words, with Trivendra Singh Rawat demanding a judicial probe into the fake testing scam.Since the creation of Uttarakhand in 2000, only one chief minister, the Congress’s ND Tiwari, has completed their full tenure in the state.“The opposition Congress will again get an opportunity to hit the government and it will try to portray the developments as growing political instability of the government and a betrayal of the people,” Kazmi said.Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress state vice-president, said the BJP has made a mockery of politics in the state by bringing in three CMs. “People feel betrayed and they can clearly see there is no political stability in the state. With such instability and infighting, can they provide any relief or succor to people here? They are themselves in crisis,” he said.Devendra Bhasin, state BJP spokesperson however said in BJP, they believe in working collectively and facing all challenges collectively. “Tirath Singh Rawat was brought as CM and he did what party wanted him to do according to our vision document. The new CM will also work as per the party’s vision”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rawats-short-tenure-marred-by-controversies-101625337357990.html
04-07-2021||India||Tradition routines set to return in Parliament||New Delhi: Parliament’s upcoming monsoon session will return to its traditional routine in terms of working hours and seating after more than a year of makeshift arrangements to ensure Covid-19 guidelines, including social distancing, with public galleries being used to accommodate MPs and the two houses working in shifts over the last two sessions.A bulletin issued by the Lok Sabha secretariat on Saturday said that the House will meet daily from 11am to 6pm with an hour of lunch break.The bulletin also urged the MPs to ask questions pertaining to the specific ministry to the respective minister. “It has been observed that sometimes Members raise two or more different and unrelated subjects, involving more than one Ministry/Department in one notice of question. This causes administrative inconvenience to the Ministry/Department. Accordingly, Members are requested to address their notices of questions appropriately to one Ministry/Department only,” said the bulletin.In the last two sessions, the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha opted for staggered shifts in a bid to give maximum protection to MPs and to adhere to Covid-19 norms. The Upper House sat every morning, while the Lower House began its proceedings only in the afternoon, two hours after the Rajya Sabha finished the day’s business.The normal schedule for the upcoming session will entail MPs sitting in their respective seats in the session, according to people aware of the details. The staggered seating arrangement also meant that the lawmakers could not caste votes on bills or debates through the electronic system and had to resort to paper slips.At least 40 bills and five ordinances are awaiting Parliament’s approval and the upcoming session can give the government enough room to push some of its key bills, while the Opposition, too, can demand discussion on issues such as the economic situation, the vaccination policy or spiralling fuel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tradition-routines-set-to-return-in-parliament-101625337238087.html
04-07-2021||India||RSS cadre to youngest Uttarakhand CM: Dhami’s rise through ranks||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Pushkar Singh Dhami, a 45-year-old leader who has been chosen to become Uttarakhand’s next chief minister, is a two-time MLA who has not held any ministerial position in the state government so far.Dhami, who was born in September 1975, is from Kanalichina, a remote village of Pithoragarh district. He has, however, mostly lived in the Khatima area of US Nagar after his parents moved there.A postgraduate from Lucknow University, Dhami began his political career with student politics in the early 1990s. He has been associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and held various positions in the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) between 1990 and 1999.Also Read: Pushkar Singh Dhami to take oath as new Uttarakhand CM todayHe later became the state president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha for two terms from 2002 to 2008. As a youth leader, he led many agitations and protests in the state.After the state was formed in 2000, he became officer on special duty (OSD) to then chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari in 2001-02.The primary focus of Dhami’s politics has been ensuring employment for the youth in the state so that migration from the hill districts can be checked, according to political analysts.In 2012, Dhami was elected as an MLA from Uttarakhand’s Khatima constituency, which he retained in the 2017 elections. He has also served as the state BJP vice-president twice, first from 2016 to 2020 and then from 2020 onwards.GS Dhami, the CM-designate’s uncle and president of the Gaurav Senani Sangathan, Khatima, said: “It is a pride for us that we have been given a young and energetic CM. Under his leadership, the state, especially Kumaon, will touch a new height of development. We as ex-army men also feel proud that the BJP leadership has given a chance to an ex-army man’s son.”Dhami’s father retired from the Indian Army as a subedar. During his school years, Dhami was also associated with activities of the National Cadet Corps and the National Service Scheme.Nandan Kharayat, a senior leader of the BJP in Khatima, said: “Khatima is known as a land of martyrs of Uttarakhand agitation. The BJP leadership has given us a moment of pride by selecting a man from Khatima for the CM post. Khatima is a remote place and will shine now on the national map after this political development.”Praveen Kabir, a social activist from Khatima, said: “Since Dhami is energetic and has a positive approach towards development and for the redressal of public grievances, I hope the entire state will have sustainable development under his leadership.”Ramesh Bahuguna, a BJP leader from the Kumaon, said: “I was the district general secretary of the BJP in Almora when Pushkar Singh Dhami was the state president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. I remember how efficient his working style was then and how he interacted with the people, especially the youth.”“He understands the problems of the workers and emphasises on finding solutions. He has a good rapport with everyone in both the Sangh Parivar and the BJP,” he said.(With inputs from Mohan Rajput and Ankur Sharma)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-cadre-to-youngest-uttarakhand-cm-dhami-s-rise-through-ranks-101625336232706.html
04-07-2021||India||‘Conversion’ case: ED conducts raids in 6 Delhi, UP locations||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday carried out raids at six locations in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in connection with allegedly forced conversions of differently abled children to Islam, agency officials said.ED’s money laundering probe is based on an Uttar Pradesh police investigation, which began with the arrest last month of the alleged mastermind of the racket Mohammad Umar Gautam and a preacher Mufti Qazi Jahangir Qasim, both residents of Jamia Nagar in Delhi.In Delhi, ED teams raided three places, including the office of the Islamic Dawah Centre and residences of Gautam and Qasim. In Uttar Pradesh, ED searched offices of the Al Hassan Education & Welfare Foundation and the Guidance Education & Welfare Society in Lucknow.These organisations, ED said, were run by Gautam and have been playing an instrumental role in carrying out forced conversions. The central agency said it recovered several “incriminating documents” on Saturday, “which reveal large-scale conversion carried out by accused Umar Gautam and his organisations all over India”.“The documents also reveal several crores of foreign funding received by the accused organisations for the purpose of illegal conversions,” said an officer, who did not wish to be named.The Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Uttar Pradesh arrested Gautam and Qasim from Delhi and claimed that they were running a “mass conversion racket” across India. Another person Salahuddin Sheikh was arrested in the case by ATS from Gujarat on Wednesday.Police have said the accused persons allegedly received funding from international organisations and targeted differently abled children and other vulnerable groups for conversion to Islam. They were allegedly involved in the conversion of over 1,000 people over the past 18 months from different states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, police said at a press conference last month.According to ATS officials, Gautam and Qasim also lured girls from poor backgrounds to give up their religion and accept Islam, promising them jobs, and eventually got them married to Muslim men. The investigators have said that Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-services Intelligence funded the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conversion-case-ed-conducts-raids-in-6-delhi-up-locations-101625337177991.html
04-07-2021||India||BJP wins panchayat chief elections in UP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday swept the zila panchayat chairpersons’ elections after candidates backed by the party attained victory in 67 of 75 seats.Of the 67, the BJP won 21 seats unopposed after several candidates from opposition parties joined the ruling party overnight and withdrew from the contest.Attributing the victory to policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted: “The BJP’s historic sweep in these elections is due to pro-people policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he tweeted.“It is also a reflection of the good governance model of UP,” he added while congratulating the people of the state on the party’s win.Modi also extended his wishes to the chief minister and party workers for the win.“The victory of BJP in the zila panchayat elections for development, public service and to maintain law and order is a blessing from the public. The credit goes to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s policies and the efforts put in by party workers. Hearty congratulations to the UP government and BJP party,” he tweeted.Zila panchayat chiefs are elected from among the elected members of zila panchayats. The four-phase panchayat polls concluded in the state last month.The victory in these elections is crucial for the ruling party which lost the zila panchayat ward members’ polls to the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) in April.While the Congress lost the only seat it contested in Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha bastion of party interim chief Sonia Gandhi, the Bahujan Samaj Party boycotted the polls, citing misuse of official machinery.The opposition Samajwadi Party also alleged misuse of state power. “The BJP demolished all democratic norms to manufacture a win. Such muzzling of democracy and such brute use of official machinery was never seen before,” party chief Akhilesh Yadav said.While the BJP secured a win in Unnao, the SP expelled its official candidate for siding with the former.In Amethi, the BJP won against the SP while the Congress failed to put up a candidate. The Congress had lost the region to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.In Jaunpur, BJP’s ally Apna Dal withdrew from the race in support of independent candidate Srikala Reddy, wife of former MP Dhananjay Singh, who eventually won the polls.In Ghazipur, two members who won on the backing of Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), extended their support to the BJP. Owaisi’s party plans to contest from 100 seats in the assembly elections next year.“AIMIM’s nexus with BJP now lies exposed,” Congress leader Surendra Rajput said.AIMIM’s UP chief Shaukat Ali, however, denied allegations of his party candidates backing the ruling party.While the SP won its stronghold Etawah unopposed, it registered a one-sided victory in Azamgarh, Yadav’s Lok Sabha constituency.The party also took the BJP by surprise in Etah, Sant Kabir Nagar and Ballia but faced a setback in bastions like Mainpuri, Rampur, Kannauj and Ferozabad. It also lost Farrukhabad where the ruling party fielded Monica Yadav, former wife of top SP leader Dharmendra Yadav, for the polls.The RLD won the Baghpat seat where the joint candidate of the two parties, Mamta Kishore, initially went “missing” and was later believed to have withdrawn her papers before an official protest by the parties ensured a contest.“The public built moral pressure and didn’t let desperate tactics (by the ruling party) succeed,” RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary said.Several videos accusing both ruling and opposition parties of foul play surfaced during the day. The SP, in a video, alleged that a senior district administration official in Auraiya was caught preventing voters allegedly belonging to the opposition party from casting their ballot.In Chandauli, another video that went viral showed former SP MP Ram Kishan Yadav touching the feet of zila panchayat ward members to secure the party’s win.“He is known for dramatics,” local SP leader Chandrashekhar Yadav said, accusing former Ram Kishan of conspiring against the party.“There is no direct co-relation to suggest that these polls will have a bearing on the 2022 UP polls. However, the manner in which the party’s top leadership has responded to the clean sweep in these rural polls does suggest that the BJP would surely market it as an achievement, especially after not performing well in the zila panchayat ward members’ poll. Politics is as much about perception as it is about performance and BJP would surely play up the win in an election year,” veteran journalist and political observer Irshad Ilmi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-panchayat-chief-elections-in-up-101625337118107.html
04-07-2021||India||Pushkar Singh Dhami to take oath as new Uttarakhand CM today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday chose the next chief minister of Uttarakhand, two-time legislator Pushkar Singh Dhami, for the state’s top post, after days of frenetic meetings and discussions that culminated in the resignation of CM Tirath Singh Rawat late on Friday night.Dhami, the legislator from Khatima constituency of US Nagar district, will be the third chief minister to lead the state in less than four months, triggering criticism from the Opposition and concerns among BJP leaders about political instability months before Uttarakhand goes to the polls. Assembly elections in the state are to be held in early 2022.The state unit of the BJP elected Dhami as the legislative party leader, paving the way for his official appointment as chief minister at the swearing-in ceremony in Dehradun on Sunday at 6pm.“My party has appointed a common worker, the son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in the border district of Pithoragarh to serve the people,” Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who attended the meeting in the town as a central observer, told reporters.Tomar added that former CM Tirath Singh Rawat and state BJP chief Madan Kaushik proposed the name of Dhami, and other senior leaders — including ex-chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat — backed the move.“We’ll work on people’s issues with the cooperation of all. I will carry forward the work done by my predecessors,” Dhami told reporters shortly after the meeting at the party headquarters. The CM-designate later visited governor Baby Rani Maurya’s residence to stake claim to the government.The 45-year-old, set to be the state’s 10th chief minister, is also the youngest leader to be appointed to the position in Uttarakhand. It wasn’t known until now that Dhami — who has never held a ministerial position before this, but has links with the RSS and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad — was being considered for the role.Outgoing chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, whose short term was marred by controversies that included allowing the Mahakumbh to convene with mammoth gatherings despite a raging pandemic, and a Covid-19 testing scam, congratulated Dhami and appeared to present a unified front . “All the 56 members of legislature party elected him unanimously. We are sure that Uttarakhand will attain new heights of development in the coming period under his leadership,” he said.Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the CM on Friday night, days after the BJP leadership summoned him to Delhi, where he met Union home minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda.He suggested he resigned on Friday because the Election Commission (EC) was unlikely to hold by-elections — which were necessary for him to continue in the post — due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Rawat was a member of Parliament when he was named the chief minister. He needed to be elected to the state assembly within six months of assuming the post to continue as the CM.Although it is atypical for EC to hold bypolls to an assembly whose remaining tenure is less year, an official of the body indicated to HT on Friday that no request was made by the party.The BJP has 56 lawmakers in the 70-member house.In March this year, Tirath Singh Rawat was appointed as the ninth chief minister of the state after his predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned due to infighting in the state unit.Political analysts say the change of guard this year and the controversies over the state government’s handling of the pandemic during the second wave of infections is likely to hit the BJP’s chances of returning to power in the state next year.“By stirring this political episode just a few months before the election, BJP has made the road to victory difficult for itself. The people of Uttarakhand will now think that the BJP is taking them as its laboratory for its political experiments. Secondly, the morale of its workers would also take a dent after this,” said MM Semwal, professor of political science at Garhwal Central University.On Saturday, the Opposition Congress also hit out at the BJP for what it termed was “political instability” and “lust for power”. “Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged.Dhami, however, adopted a defiant tone on concerns over the BJP’s electoral performance, and said that he was ready to take the “challenge” and turn it into an “opportunity”.State leaders said on Saturday that several factors worked in favour of Dhami, who was a relatively lesser known figure than some of the other BJP legislators. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj and education minister Dhan Singh Rawat were tipped to be elevated to the key position.“Dhami ticked several boxes. He is a member of the Thakur community, which helped as state party president Madan Kaushik is a Brahmin, the BJP couldn’t appoint two members of the same community,” an Uttarakhand minister said on the condition of anonymity. It also helped that Dhami has his roots in Kumaon, and will be seen as a representative of the people from the region as Kaushik is from Garhwal, the minister added.Another party MLA said Dhami is believed to be close to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and former Uttarakhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is currently the Maharashtra governor.However, state Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni believes that the BJP has only chosen Dhami instead of a big name to keep a “scapegoat” ready as the ruling party knows it is “going to lose”.BJP leaders disagree. “Dhami is a young leader with a significant support base among the youth,” said Ajay Bhatt, a BJP MP from Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pushkar-singh-dhami-to-take-oath-as-new-uttarakhand-cm-today-101625335492195.html
04-07-2021||India||RSS cadre to youngest U’khand CM: Dhami’s rise through ranks||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Pushkar Singh Dhami, a 45-year-old leader who has been chosen to become Uttarakhand’s next chief minister, is a two-time MLA who has not held any ministerial position in the state government so far.Dhami, who was born in September 1975, is from Kanalichina, a remote village of Pithoragarh district. He has, however, mostly lived in the Khatima area of US Nagar after his parents moved there.A postgraduate from Lucknow University, Dhami began his political career with student politics in the early 1990s. He has been associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and held various positions in the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) between 1990 and 1999. He later became the state president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha for two terms from 2002 to 2008. As a youth leader, he led many agitations and protests in the state.After the state was formed in 2000, he became officer on special duty (OSD) to then chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari in 2001-02. The primary focus of Dhami’s politics has been ensuring employment for the youth in the state so that migration from the hill districts can be checked, according to political analysts.In 2012, Dhami was elected as an MLA from Uttarakhand’s Khatima constituency, which he retained in the 2017 elections. He has also served as the state BJP vice-president twice, first from 2016 to 2020 and then from 2020 onwards.GS Dhami, the CM-designate’s uncle and president of the Gaurav Senani Sangathan, Khatima, said: “It is a pride for us that we have been given a young and energetic CM. Under his leadership, the state, especially Kumaon, will touch a new height of development. We as ex-army men also feel proud that the BJP leadership has given a chance to an ex-army man’s son.”Dhami’s father retired from the Indian Army as a subedar. During his school years, Dhami was also associated with activities of the National Cadet Corps and the National Service Scheme.Nandan Kharayat, a senior leader of the BJP in Khatima, said: “Khatima is known as a land of martyrs of Uttarakhand agitation. The BJP leadership has given us a moment of pride by selecting a man from Khatima for the CM post. Khatima is a remote place and will shine now on the national map after this political development.”Praveen Kabir, a social activist from Khatima, said: “Since Dhami is energetic and has a positive approach towards development and for the redressal of public grievances, I hope the entire state will have sustainable development under his leadership.”Ramesh Bahuguna, a BJP leader from Kumaon, said: “I was the district general secretary of the BJP in Almora when Pushkar Singh Dhami was the state president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. I remember how efficient his working style was then and how he interacted with the people, especially the youth.”“He understands the problems of the workers and emphasises on finding solutions. He has a good rapport with everyone in both the Sangh Parivar and the BJP,” he said.(With inputs from Mohan Rajput and Ankur Sharma)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-cadre-to-youngest-u-khand-cm-dhami-s-rise-through-ranks-101625337058027.html
04-07-2021||India||'Will pick officer, timeline not binding': Twitter to HC||Social media company Twitter has informed the Delhi high court that it is in the final stages of appointing officers for grievance redress but said the three-month timeline fixed by the Centre to appoint such officers under the new IT Rules is not binding.Under the new digital rules, social media companies such as Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter have been asked to put in place a three-tier grievance redress system and appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer by May 25.“In any event, it is submitted that the three-month time period is directory and not mandatory and is further subject to just exceptions including Covid-19. It is submitted that the petitioner’s grievance that on May 25 the requirements were to be complied is incorrect and for this reason alone, the writ petition deserves dismissal,” Twitter said in an affidavit to the court.“When the timelines mentioned in intermediary guidelines themselves are not mandatory and are subject to just exceptions, the question of a stay does not arise.”The new guidelines also require these companies to identify within 36 hours the originator of a flagged message as well as to regulate their content, appoint grievance officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt measures such as tracing of individual messages and voluntary user verification.The Centre and Twitter have been locking horns over compliance with the new IT rules. Twitter recently said it was committed to India as a vital market, but criticised the new rules that it said “inhibit free, open public conversation”.Responding to Twitter’s comments, the Centre had said the messaging platform was levelling baseless and false allegations to defame India and was dictating terms to the world’s largest democracy. The Centre has said that only WhatsApp and Facebook have complied with the guidelines on appointing three separate officers for grievance redress.The government has asserted that the social media firm has failed to comply with the guidelines, which can result in it losing safe harbour protection granted to intermediaries under the IT Act.Twitter, in turn, has raised concerns about the safety of its employees in India and flagged intimidation by the police. There have been several instances of confrontation between the social media firm and the government over orders to block access to content and marking of posts by BJP leaders as manipulated media.In its affidavit filed in response to a plea alleging that the microblogging site has not complied with the new information technology rules despite the three-month window given by the Centre from Feb 25 having lapsed, Twitter has said that it is in the “final stages” of appointment of a resident grievance officer and a chief compliance officer.The company said it appointed an interim resident grievance officer on May 29; however, even before steps could be taken to completely formalise this arrangement, the officer withdrew his candidature on June 21.Twitter’s grievance officer Dharmendra Chatur had stepped down, prompting the firm to hire a new official.The response came on a plea by advocate Amit Acharya, who through his counsel Akash Vajpai, contended that the rules came into effect from February 25 and the Centre had given three months to every social media intermediary, including Twitter, to comply with them.The matter will be heard next on July 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-pick-officer-timeline-not-binding-twitter-to-hc-101625336638503.html
04-07-2021||India||French judge to investigate Rafale deal||A French judge has been tasked with investigating suspicions of “corruption” in the ₹59,000 crore (7.8 billion euro) deal with India for 36 Rafale jets, the French national financial prosecutor’s office has said.The Parquet National Financier (PNF) or national financial prosecutor refused to investigate the deal in 2019, when the agency’s then head Eliane Houlette dismissed a complaint filed by French anti-corruption NGO Sherpa.Following a fresh complaint from Sherpa on the basis of a series of reports on the Rafale deal by news website Mediapart, PNF appointed a judge to lead a judicial investigation into suspected “corruption” and “favouritism”, Mediapart reported. The investigation was formally launched on June 14.PNF was also cited by AFP news agency as confirming the appointment of a judge to investigate the deal that was inked in September 2016, following the scrapping of the Indian government’s earlier plans to acquire 126 jets.There was no immediate response to the development from Indian officials, while the Opposition Congress party on Saturday demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary panel.In its latest complaint, Sherpa cited “corruption”, “influence peddling”, “money laundering”, “favouritism” and undue tax waiver related to the Rafale deal. Mediapart reported PNF, the financial crimes branch of the French public prosecution services, had confirmed the new investigation will focus on all four allegations.In April this year, Mediapart carried a series of reports on alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal. In one of those reports, Mediapart said former PNF head Éliane Houlette shelved an investigation into alleged evidence of corruption in the Rafale deal despite the objection of colleagues. It added that Houlette justified her decision by saying it was meant to preserve “the interests of France”.“Now, her successor as head of the PNF, Jean-François Bohnert, has decided to support the opening of a probe, after the complaint was updated with details from Mediapart’s recent series of investigations,” the website reported.The new criminal investigation, Mediapart reported, will “examine questions surrounding the actions” of former French president François Hollande, who was in office when the Rafale deal was inked, current French President Emmanuel Macron, who at the time was Hollande’s finance minister, and foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, who held the defence portfolio in 2016.Mediapart claimed in April that “millions of euros of hidden commissions” were given to a go-between who helped French aircraft manufacturer Dassault, the manufacturer of the Rafale jet, conclude the deal.Dassault has said the group’s audits had not flagged any wrongdoing. The firm said in April that it “acts in strict compliance with the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention and national laws”.According to an official French website, PNF’s jurisdiction is limited to France and it examines three categories of offences – breaches of probity (such as corruption, influence peddling and favouritism), breaches of public finances (such as aggravated tax fraud or VAT fraud), and damage to proper functioning of financial markets (such as insider trading or price manipulation). Under certain conditions, PNF can investigate crimes committed abroad.In its latest report, Mediapart cited confidential reports and said Dassault had “no interest in forming a partnership with Reliance other than for political reasons”. The two firms had created a joint venture called Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL) in 2017.Mediapart also cited the documents to report that the two firms agreed on a total investment of 169 million euros in DRAL, and that Dassault, which held a 49% stake in the joint venture, pledged to provide up to 159 million euros, while Reliance would provide 10 million euros.The website further cited the documents to report that Dassault and Reliance had signed their first memorandum of understanding setting out the “broad outlines of an agreement” on March 26, 2015, or 15 days before the Indian government announced that it was scrapping the earlier plan of buying 126 Rafale jets in favour of a deal for only 36 jets.The Congress party said its allegations had been vindicated by the reports that a French judge will probe suspected “corruption” in the Rafale deal. The Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told media that Prime Minister Narendra Modi must “submit” the government to a probe by a joint parliamentary panel, reiterating an earlier demand.He described the developments as “a scandalous expose of the Rafale scam” that caused a “loss to public exchequer”. Surjewala said: “The French have ordered investigation into the Rafale deal for corruption and influence peddling. The sweetheart deal is now exposed. It calls for a thorough JPC probe. Will the PM answer to the nation and when will the government submit to a JPC probe?”Surjewala maintained it is not a Congress versus BJP issue, but a matter related to national security.The Bharatiya Janata Party alleged on Saturday that Rahul Gandhi was acting as an agent of rival defence companies and being used as a “pawn”, and also said he and the Congress keep raking up allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal in an attempt to “weaken” India. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra played down the appointment of a judge in France to lead the judicial investigation, saying the development was the outcome of a complaint by an NGO and should not be seen as a matter of corruption.While the Congress had focused on the cost of the jets, the French probe will focus more on alleged corruption, favouritism and influence peddling. The Rafale deal became controversial when the Opposition, led by the Congress, claimed that the price for each Rafale jet was ₹1,670 crore, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by Dassault when the previous UPA government was trying to buy the aircraft.The NDA government has said it cannot disclose details of the price of the jets on two counts: a confidentiality agreement with France, and the strategic reason of not showing its hand to India’s enemies. However, the NDA said the current deal includes customised weaponry.The NDA’s decision to enter the government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 warplanes was announced in April 2015, and an agreement was signed a little over a year later. This replaced the previous UPA regime’s decision to buy 126 jets, 108 of which were to be made by state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) with transfer of technology.In early 2019, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, the government’s auditor, said there was nothing untoward in the deal, although, in late 2020, it pulled up Dassault for not meeting the terms of an offset clause. The Centre said later that it would henceforth scrap the offset clause for all government-to-government deals. The Supreme Court, in 2018 and later in 2019, rejected all petitions and said there were no irregularities related to the deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-judge-to-investigate-rafale-deal-101625336397984.html
04-07-2021||NA||Highlights: Train carrying tar sands derails in Canada's Alberta||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Train carrying tar sands and timber derails in CanadaA train carrying tar sands and timber derails in Canada. No injuries have been reported, news agency AP said. Capital's Covid-19 caseload dips furtherDelhi recorded 86 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. Maharashtra reports 9,489 cases of Covid-19, 153 deathsMaharashtra reports 9,489 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 6,088,841.153 deaths have also been recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 1,22,724.India’s cumulative vaccination coverage exceeded 35 cr, says govtThe ministry of health said on Saturday that the country's cumulative Covid vaccination coverage exceeded 35 crore, out of which a total of 57,36,924 vaccine doses have been administered today, reported ANI.Karnataka announces further relaxations in Covid-19 lockdownKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced further lockdown relaxation measures in the state. Night curfew has been lifted and government offices have been allowed to reopen. District Administration have been given the power to apply more restrictions as they see fit, reported ANI.Kerala reports 12,456 Covid-19 cases, 135 deathsKerala recorded 12,456 Covid-19 cases, active cases in the state now stands at 1,03,567. 135 deaths in the span of 24 hours, pushes the death toll to 13,640, reported ANI.Dominica PM says his govt was not involved in Choksi's abductionDominica PM Roosevelt Skerrit has termed “total nonsense” the claims that his government was involved in the alleged abduction of Indian diamantaire Mehul Choksi: Antigua News RoomCovaxin efficacy results will help in getting WHO approval, says govtDr NK Arora, chairman, Covid working group, said Covaxin's efficacy results will help the vaccine in getting WHO's emergency use approval, which in turn will increase the visibility of the country in the world stage, reported ANI.New Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami reaches Raj Bhawan to meet governor Uttarakhand: Pushkar Singh Dhami reaches Raj Bhawan in Dehradun to meet Governor Baby Rani Maurya pic.twitter.com/t8g9ihPjp1Pushkar Singh Dhami elected as new Uttarakhand CMPushkar Singh Dhani was elected as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand on Saturday at the BJP legislature meeting. He will be taking over from Tirath Singh Rawat who resigned on Friday. Police detained Aam Aadmi Party MLAs in Mohali Punjab police detained Aam Aadmi Party state legislators Bhagwant Mann & Harpal Singh Cheema, who were protesting at Mohali, reported ANI. AAP leaders have been protesting near chief minister Amarinder Singh's farm house in village Siswan.In final stage of appointing grievance officer, says TwitterTwitter Inc informed Delhi high court on Saturday that the company is in the the final stages of appointing a Resident Grievance Officer, after their interim Resident Grievance Officer withdrew his candidature on June 21.TV actor Pracheen Chauhan arrested for ‘molesting’ womanThe Mumbai police arrested actor Pracheen Chauhan Saturday for allegedly molesting a woman in an inebriated state, said police. Read moreTripura extends Covid-19 curfew till July 9The curfew imposed to the spread of the Covid-19 disease in Tripura has been extended till July 9, a government notification said. However, the curfew has been lifted from the state's villages. "The Covid curfew will remain in force in the jurisdiction of Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and eight other urban local bodies (ULBs) till July 9," the notification read.European nations struggle to ramp up vaccination drive to outpace increased spread of delta variantEurope is currently struggling to speed up its vaccination drive against Covid-19 and outpace the increased spread of the virus' delta variant. According to the European Centre for Disease Control, the risk of infection from the Delta variant is high to very high for unvaccinated or partially vaccinated citizens.ED issues fresh summons to Anil Deshmukh in money laundering caseNationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has been issued fresh summons by the enforcement directorate for appearance on Monday with regard to a probe being carried out against him and others in a money laundering cases, officials told news agency PTI on Saturday.India's cumulative Covid vaccination coverage exceeds 34 croresIndia's cumulative vaccination coverage against Covid-19 exceeded 34 crores of which 43,99,298 doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.Mayawati slams Punjab govt over electricity crisis in stateBahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati, who has joined hands with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, hit out at the Congress led state government over the electricity crisis in the state. Taking to Twitter, Mayawati said that Congress is responsible for poor management of industry-business, agriculture, farming in Punjab. All of this has been badly affected due to power crisis. "Ruling govt is only engaged in factionalism, tussle & conflict. Public needs to take its cognizance," she added.India records 44,111 new Covid-19 cases, 738 more deathsIndia on Saturday recorded 44,111 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 738 related fatalities, taking the country's cumulative tally past 30.5 million and the death toll to 401,050, the Union health ministry's data showed. Read moreSouth Africa's Covid-19 caseload breaches 2 million markSouth Africa's caseload of the Covid-19 disease breached the two million mark on Friday after 24,720 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Over 1.7 million have recovered from the viral disease so far while the death toll has climbed to 61,332.Fire breaks out at Delhi's Budh Vihar areaA fire broke out at Delhi's Budh Vihar area in the early hours of Saturday, news agency ANI reported. The Delhi Fire Service said that 3-4 people, including the fire fighting personnel, have been hospitalised with burn injuries and five tenders have been rushed to the spot.Bharat Biotech says has completed final analysis for Covaxin, claims 77.8% efficacyCOVAXIN® Proven SAFE in India's Largest Efficacy Trial. Final Phase-3 Pre-Print Data Published on https://t.co/JJh9n3aB6V pic.twitter.com/AhnEg56vFNHyderabad-based Bharat Biotech said on Saturday that its has completed the final analysis of its vaccine Covaxin as a part of phase III clinical trials, after evaluating 130 confirmed cases. The vaccine's efficacy was demonstrated at 77.8% against asymptomatic Covid-19 patients.Uttarakhand BJP meeting today after CM Tirath Singh Rawat's resignationThe Uttarakhand unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be holding its legislature party meeting on Saturday to decide on a new chief minister of the state after Tirath Singh Rawat resigned from the post. Uttarakhand BJP President Madan Kaushik said the meeting will be held at 3pm and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will be the central observer.Brazil reports 65,165 new Covid-19 cases, 1,857 more deathsBrazil's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 18,687,469 after 65,165 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry. As many as 1,857 more succumbed to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 521,952.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-3-2021-101625270309106.html
