05-07-2021||India||No decision on post of Maharashtra Speaker||The monsoon session of the state assembly did not witness the much-anticipated election for the post of the Speaker, which would have signalled the strength of the ruling coalition government that has seen a rocky year, including a high-profile resignation of the state home minister – even as 12 BJP legislators, including former ministers Ashish Shelar, Sanjay Kute, Girish Mahajan, and Jaykumar Rawal, were suspended on Monday for alleged misbehaviour. The election was expected to take place during the two-day monsoon session which ends on July 6, but neither a meeting of the state cabinet on Sunday nor those held by various leaders of the coalition last week, was able to reach a unanimous decision. While the Congress, a junior partner in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, was keen to hold the election soon, the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were not. “Eleven legislators from the treasury benches are absent as they have been affected by Covid-19. In such a situation it was not advisable to hold the poll,” Congress legislator Balasaheb Thorat said.The post has been lying vacant after Nana Patole resigned to head the state Congress in February. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal has been presiding in the absence of the Speaker. As per the power-sharing pact between the three allies, the post would be held by a Congress legislator. The election is held via a secret vote and is a bellwether of the strength of the government as it indicates how many MLAs are in support of the ruling party – or, in this case, the MVA coalition.“The election to the post of Speaker is held by secret voting, making it difficult to avert the cross voting. Proving the majority would not be an issue, but keeping the votes we received during the confidence motion in 2019 intact is important,” said a senior Shiv Sena leader on the condition of anonymity.The MVA government won a floor test in 2019 by polling 169 votes in 288-member House. Besides the strength of 154 MLAs from three parties the ruling alliance, 15 MLAs from smaller parties and independents also supported the government. The BJP, which has 106 seats,  claimed to have the support of nine MLAs from smaller allies and independents.The MVA government has faced a series of controversies in the past six months, and BJP leaders have dared the government to prove its majority on the floor of the House during the Speaker’s election. Last week, BJP leader Shelar said that they would ensure the MVA’s defeat on the floor of the House. Former CM and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’s meetings with BJP’s top leadership, especially with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi this week, led a section of BJP leaders to speculate on the longevity of the state government. In the past few days, the Shiv Sena and the BJP have made overtures towards ending the impasse, prompting political experts to contend that it was likely that the Shiv Sena deferred the Speaker election because of talks between the two parties whose political alliance dates back to 1995 and broke only prior to the formation of the current government. Shelar met Sanjay Raut of Sena this past Saturday; a day later, Fadnavis also said that Sena and BJP may have differences of opinion but they were not enemies. “We have parted ways due to some differences but we are certainly not enemies. Sena and BJP’s fight is not a long- standing traditional war.”On Monday, the legislators were suspended during the resolution moved by state government to seek empirical data from the Centre in order to restore reservation granted to members of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) which stands to be abolished following a recent Supreme Court order. There is a 27% reservation in local self-government body elections for this category. As the discussions became heated, Opposition legislators approached the seat of presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav and tried to snatch the microphone and remove the mace on the table. Jadhav announced the passing of the resolution and adjourned the proceedings for 10 minutes. He later told the members of the assembly that the MLAs hurled abuses at him and tried to manhandle him.“This has been unprecedented in my more than three decades legislative career. I was abused by the BJP legislators who also tried to physically assault me. They were supported by leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis,” said Jadhav.The BJP, however, refuted Jadhav’s claims with Shelar accusing the MVA government of “putting the Taliban to shame”.Fadnavis said that the government used the ruckus as an excuse to suspend MLAs. “Our legislators did not abuse the presiding officer. In fact Jadhav used filthy language which I cannot mention. The clashes between Shiv Sena and BJP legislators took place in the cabin when Sena legislators started creating ruckus. We apologised to Jadhav, despite which they suspended our MLAs without discussion.”The suspension of BJP legislators would not have helped the ruling coalition, Fadnavis said. “The suspension of 12 members would not help the government in winning the speaker’s election as one Supreme Court ruling has mandated against it. The apex court has clearly said that such suspension to facilitate any such floor test is invalid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decision-on-post-of-maharashtra-speaker-101625509751155.html
05-07-2021||India||Ramgarh Vishdhari to be the fourth tiger reserve in Rajasthan||The ministry of environment, forest and climate change on Monday approved the conversion of the Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary in Rajasthan’s Bundi district into the fourth tiger reserve in the state.Making the announcement on Twitter, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said: “Happy to sanction one more tiger Sanctuary, Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary which will link Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in the Northeast & Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve on the southern side. Increasing numbers of Tigers and other apex predators certify our robust biodiversity.”According to a 2018 tiger census, there are 102 tigers in three reserves -- Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in Sawai Madhopur, Sariska Tiger Reserve in Alwar, and Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve in Kota — in the state.The proposal for converting the Ramgarh Vishdhary Sanctuary, which is spread across 1,071 square kilometre, into a tiger reserve was recently approved by the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s technical committee, a senior forest official said. The state government will soon issue a notification in this regard, he said.Last year, the Rajasthan government announced its plan to develop the Bundi sanctuary as a tiger reserve to provide a second habitat for tigers in the Ranthambore Reserve. According to experts, there is overcrowding at the Ranthambore reserve, which houses 77 tigers. Over 300 sq km area in the proposed sanctuary will be left as a critical habitat for the animals, while the rest will be a buffer zone, the officials familiar with the matter said.The NTCA is now expected to send a committee to review the Bundi sanctuary, a second official said. Tigers from Ranthambore can only be translocated to the new sanctuary after the NTCA’s approval. Upgrading the sanctuary would resolve the space crunch at Ranthambore reserve, the second official said.Officials also hope to connect Ranthambore to Ramgarh and Mukundra. “To strengthen the prey base, the state has already approved shifting of chital (spotted deer) from Ghana Bird Sanctuary (Karauli) to Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve, Keoladeo National Park, and Ramgarh Vishdhari,” said third forest official who did not want to be identified.A fourth official said that the proposed sanctuary is known as a breeding place for tigers. According to a 1985 census, there were nine tigers there. At least three big cats have strayed out of Ranthambore to Ramgarh since 2013. This shows that tigers are migrating there naturally, the official said. Wildlife expert and founder secretary Sariska Tiger Foundation, Dinesh Durani, said the move to increase tiger population and reduce territorial infights is welcome. “But the focus should be on improving the existing tiger habitat and corridors for their easy disbursal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramgarh-vishdhari-to-be-the-fourth-tiger-reserve-in-rajasthan-101625509750567.html
05-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy dies in hospital; HC told of activist’s demise during bail hearing||Activist and Jesuit priest Stanislaus Lourduswamy, who worked for tribal rights in Jharkhand for five decades before being arrested under an anti-terror law and spending more than eight months in jail awaiting trial, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. He was 84. The activist, popularly known as Stan Swamy, died around 1.24pm after a cardiac arrest a day ago, his doctor and lawyer told the Bombay high court which was hearing his bail plea on medical grounds. The octogenarian suffered from Parkinson’s disease and was shifted to a private hospital in Mumbai in May after his health started deteriorating. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), where he tested positive for Covid-19 on May 30. On Sunday afternoon, he developed breathing difficulties and was put on a ventilator but subsequent efforts to resuscitate him proved futile. “It is with a very heavy heart I have to inform you that father Stan Swamy has passed away,” Dr Ian Dr Dsouza, medical director Holy Family hospital, told the high court. He added that Swamy was declared dead at 1.30pm on Monday. “With all humility at our command, we are sorry to know that he has passed away . We are shocked,” observed the bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar.The court directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and jail authorities to hand over Swamy’s mortal remains to Frazer Mascarenhes, the former principal of St Xaviers College and a friend of Fr Swamy who was allowed to meet him during his stay at Holy Family hospital, as the deceased priest did not have any relatives. “The Jesuits were his only family,” his lawyer Mihir Desai told the court. His funeral will be conducted on Tuesday in Mumbai.Swamy’s death was condoled by prominent Opposition politicians, including the chief ministers of two states, and officials from the United Nations, European Union and United States. It also put a spotlight on the stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Swamy was the oldest of 16 activists and lawyers arrested on charges of conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018. The village was rocked by caste clashes during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war by Dalits. He was arrested on October 8, 2020, by NIA, which alleged that the priest had Maoist connections and was working for the frontal organisations of the banned CPI (Maoist). He was charged under the UAPA and was sent to Taloja jail. In his defence, Swamy said evidence against him was fabricated and that he never conspired to foment violence.In November that year, Swamy, who suffered from advanced stages of Parkinson’s and several other ailments, asked for the NIA to provide him with a sipper and straw to help him eat. “I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s,” Swamy said. NIA asked for four weeks to respond to the request.In December, the NIA said the prison authorities had provided a sipper, straw, wheelchair, walking stick and walker.In October 2020, Fr Swamy applied for bail on medical grounds and for regular bail in November 2020. His request for bail was rejected by the NIA court on October 2020 and March 2021 on the grounds that he could not grant bail as he was charged under section 43D(5) of the UAPA. The section deals with frontal organisation of banned terrorist groups as per the first Schedule of the UAPA.In May this year, Swamy told the high court that his health had declined steadily at Taloja.“When I first came here, I could bathe, take a walk, write a bit, all by myself. But now, I need help with everything,” he said.On May 19, Swamy’s lawyers moved the high court, which ordered that he be checked by a panel of doctors. But Swamy refused to be shifted, saying he would rather die. “The condition of prisoners is not good and I would prefer to die here than be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital. I have seen the hospital and would prefer to remain in Taloja jail,” he said.On May 28, Desai informed the high court that he had convinced Fr Swamy to be shifted to a private hospital which he agreed and was subsequently shifted to Holy Family hospital on the same day and tested positive for the virus on May 30.“It is really unfortunate that we lost Fr Swamy. Our main grievances are against the NIA and jail authorities for not being sensitive towards the condition of Fr Swamy though he was an elderly man having medical problems. We hope to make suggestions to the high court to bring about changes in the Prison Manual while dealing with such inmates,” Desai said. In the high court, too, Desai said they were aggrieved by the NIA and jail authorities, not Holy Family hospital or the court. The comment was prompted after NIA and the state objected to the urgent hearing of the bail application which Desai had sought on Monday. In court, Desai insisted on a post mortem but Dr Dsouza said the cause of death was known to them and a death certificate could be issued. “I do not want to insist on post mortem if the doctor does not feel so. However I will request that his body be handed over to Fr. Frazer who is his friend. I am sure there will be no objection to this,” Desai said.But chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed the bench that under the law, an inquest and post-mortem had to be conducted because Swamy died of a heart attack and not Covid-19. “They can conduct post mortem, no objection. Because any death in custody, is termed as custodial death and a post mortem has to be conducted, it has to be as per the National Human Rights Commission of India (NHRC) guidelines. All medical reports and post mortem report has to be deposited with this court,” Desai said. The NHRC had issued a separate notice to the Maharashtra government on Sunday. Condemnation of the death poured in. “Heartfelt condolences on the passing of father Stan Swamy. He deserved justice and humaneness,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren attacked the Union government. “Shocked to learn about the demise of father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration,” Soren said. “Such travesty of justice should have no place in our democracy,” said Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stan-swamy-dies-in-hospital-hc-told-of-activist-s-demise-during-bail-hearing-101625509691396.html
05-07-2021||India||CBSE to hold 2021-22 board exams in 2 sets||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Monday it will conduct two sets of board exams, one between November and December and the other between March and April 2022, for students in Class 10 and 12 in the current academic session 2021-22 to prepare for any “unprecedented situation” that could arise because of the Covid-19 pandemic next year.The students enrolled in the current batches of classes 10 and 12 will have to appear in two sets of board exams in the academic year divided into two terms, each covering half the syllabus.The board cancelled the Class 10 and 12 exams this year after the massive second wave of the pandemic hit the country, with students being assessed using alternative assessment methods. The board ended up cancelling some exams last year as well.In a notification issued on Monday, CBSE director (academics) Joseph Emmanuel, said: “The syllabus for the academic session 2021-22 will be divided into two terms by following a systematic approach by looking into the interconnectivity of concepts and topics by the subject experts and the Board will conduct examinations at the end of each term on the basis of the bifurcated syllabus. This is done to increase the probability of having a Board conducting classes 10 and 12 examinations at the end of the academic session... The syllabus for the Board examination 2021-22 will be rationalised similar to that of the last academic session to be notified in July 2021.”At the end of the first term, CBSE will conduct the first examination in a flexible schedule between November-December 2021, with a window period of 4-8 weeks. “The question paper will have Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) including case-based MCQs and MCQs on assertion-reasoning type. Duration of the test will be 90 minutes and it will cover only the rationalized syllabus of Term I only (i.e. approx. 50% of the entire syllabus),” the notification added.The question papers will be sent by CBSE to schools along with the marking scheme and the exams will be conducted under the supervision of the superintendents and observers appointed by CBSE. Marks of the first-term exams will be contributed to the final overall score of students.Similarly, CBSE will conduct another examination covering the remaining 50% of the syllabus between March and April 2022 at examination centres fixed by the board. “The paper will be of two hours duration and have questions of different formats (case-based/situation based, open ended- short answer/ long answer type)... In case the situation is not conducive for normal descriptive examination, a 90-minute MCQ based exam will be conducted at the end of the Term II also. Marks of the Term II Examination would contribute to the final overall score,” the CBSE notification said.The board has also announced measures it will take in worst-case scenarios. For instance, in case the pandemic forces a complete closure of schools during November-December 2021, but the second-term exams are held, the MCQ based exam will be conducted in online or offline mode from the residence of the students. “In this case, the weightage of this exam for the final score would be reduced, and weightage of Term 2 exams will be increased for declaration of the final result,” the notification read.Similarly, in case the situation of the pandemic forces a complete closure of schools during March-April 2022, but first-term exams are held, then the results will be based on the performance of students in the said exam and internal assessments.In case both the exams are not conducted at centers/schools due to the pandemic and students have to take exams at home in offline or online modes, the notification said: “The result would be computed on the basis of the Internal Assessment/Practical/Project Work and theory marks of first and second term exams taken by the candidate from home in Class10 and 12 subject to the moderation or other measures to ensure validity and reliability of the assessment.”Several principals of CBSE-affiliated schools in Delhi welcomed the board’s decision. Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Schools, said: “This will reduce the stress of the final board exams on the students. It will allow continuous assessment. If a situation like this year happens again next year, there will be no issue in assessing students and preparing results.”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said: “It is to be appreciated that the board has come up with a Plan B for the current batches of board exam students. It is much needed and will keep us prepared in advance in case the Covid-19 situation gets worse again.”After the exams were cancelled this year, the board devised a criterion to assess Class 10 students on the basis of their performance in internal exams, pre-boards and practical exams. For Class 12, the board will assess students on the basis of their performance in final exams in Class 10 and 11, and Class 12 internal/pre-board exams with the weightage of 30:30:40 respectively, along with the marks in practical exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-to-hold-2021-22-board-exams-in-2-sets-101625509690659.html
05-07-2021||India||‘Shocking’: SC slams use of quashed IT law||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday said it was “shocking” and “distressing” that there was a fivefold increase in the registration of cases under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act though the provision was quashed by the top court in 2015. The court was informed that there were 229 cases pending in 11 states when the Supreme Court in April 2015 struck down much-abused Section 66A of the IT Act, which authorised police to arrest people for social media posts construed “offensive” or “menacing”. After the law was quashed, police in these states went on to lodge 1,307 new cases under the same provision.“What’s going on? It is terrible...shocking. It is distressing,” remarked the bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, as it took up a plea by NGO People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) to issue suitable directives to the Union government and subordinate courts in the country to make sure cases are not registered under Section 66A, and nobody is arrested or prosecuted under this quashed law. Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for the NGO, cited a study conducted by Internet Freedom Foundation and Civic Data Labs, which showed that while 229 cases were pending as on April 24, 2015 when the apex court declared Section 66A of the IT Act as “unconstitutional and void”, and 1,307 new cases got registered in the last six years under the law already struck down. Maharashtra topped the list with 381 cases, followed by Jharkhand (291), and Uttar Pradesh (245). Parikh lamented that even after the Supreme Court in February 2019 asked the chief secretaries and director generals of police of all states and Union territories to ensure that the 2015 judgment was widely publicised, the situation on ground did not change. “It is shocking. We will work out a method and will do something to make sure our judgment works,” retorted the bench, which also included justices KM Jospeh and BR Gavai. Attorney general KK Venugopal, appearing on behalf of the Centre, pointed out that Section 66A was still there in the IT Act, and the bare acts also contained this provision even after the 2015 judgment of the Supreme Court. “The section is still there in the statute. When a police officer looks at the law book, it is still there. The section has two stars with a footnote that says the section has bene struck down by a division bench of the Supreme Court. But the section is full there,” said the AG. “A police officer won’t read the footnote, we are sure,” quipped justice Nariman. At this, Venugopal suggested that the section must be identified as “struck down” right next to where it is mentioned in the bare act, and the footnote must also clearly say that the provision does not exist anymore for the purpose of registration of cases. “It is a shocking state of affairs. On Article 144, please read my dissent in the Sabrimala case. It is very hard-hitting,” justice Nariman told the AG and Parikh while issuing notices to the Union government and others on PUCL’s plea. The bench gave Venugopal two weeks to come back with a response to ascertain police stop invoking Section 66A of the IT Act in first information reports(FIRs), and listed the matter after three weeks. In November 2019, justice Nariman penned down a dissenting judgment on behalf of himself and justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud while the majority view of three judges ruled that a larger bench should again consider the matter of the entry of women of all ages into Kerala’s Sabarimala temple. Article 144 lays down that all authorities, civil and judicial, in the territory of India shall act in aid of the Supreme Court. In his dissenting judgment, justice Nariman emphasised that it is not judicial authorities alone that are to act in aid of the Supreme Court. But all authorities -- judicial as well non-judicial -- that exercise powers over the citizens are mandated to act in aid of the Supreme Court. The judge added that it is the bounden duty of every minister, including the Prime Minister and chief ministers, MPs and MLAs, as well as the executive branches of governments, to “faithfully aid in carrying out decrees and orders passed by the Supreme Court of India when such decrees and orders command a particular form of obedience, even where they are not parties to the litigation before the Supreme Court”. PUCL, in its new plea, has cited the court’s 2019 order whereby the bench directed that copies of its 2015 judgment be made available by every high court in this country to all district courts. It was also directed the Centre to supply copies of the judgment to chief secretaries of all state governments and Union territories, and told the officials, in turn, to sensitise the police departments by sending copies of the judgment to the director general of police in each state. However, the NGO contended, Section 66A of the IT Act has continued to be in use, not only within police stations but also in cases before trial courts. It complained that not only the police were lodging FIRs under section 66A, trial courts were also passing orders on charges and people were being prosecuted under the said provision of the IT Act. PUCL pleaded that a government agency should place before this court the complete data on cases under Section 66A, besides appropriate directives by the top court to subordinate courts and the Union government. Section 66A was brought into the statute by the second Unted Progressive Alliance government in 2009. After a clutch of petitions challenged the validity of the law citing its abuse and vagueness, the National Democratic Alliance government told the court in 2014 that the provision will be administered in a reasonable manner and that a panel was also set up to review its applicability. Underlining the supremacy of the right to freedom of speech and expression and the “chilling effect” Section 66A had on this fundamental right, the court held that governments may come and go but Section 66A will go on forever and, what is otherwise invalid, cannot be saved by assurances. The bench of justices J Chelameswar (now retired) and justice Nariman has termed Section 66A “open-ended and unconstitutionally vague”, adding nothing short of quashing the law in its entirety could suffice since this provision “arbitrarily, excessively and disproportionately” invaded the right to free speech, right to dissent, right to know, and had a “chilling effect” on constitutional mandates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-sc-slams-use-of-quashed-it-law-101625509630634.html
05-07-2021||India||LJP’s warring factions stake claim to Paswan’s legacy on his birth anniversary||PATNA After their split, the two factions of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan and his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras separately observed the birth anniversary of party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, who died just before the Bihar assembly elections last year.While the Paras group organised a function at the LJP office in Patna, which he has occupied since he proclaimed himself as the party president, Chirag chose to start with a function in Delhi and then fly to Patna to travel further to Hajipur, the constituency represented by Ram Vikas Paswan eight times since 1977 and now by Paras. Both factions also engaged in a poster war on the streets of Patna. For Chirag, it was his first visit to Bihar post-split, and he played the emotional card to remind people how “his own people ditched him less than a year after his father’s death and how his father, too, had to face attempts to pull him back during his days of struggle”. He was given a rousing reception at the airport, with a large crowd with bands, banners, horses, etc joining his cavalcade as he went to garland a statue of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar in Patna but was not allowed to do so by the local administration. “It is strange. Babasaheb is the framer of the Constitution. Why should anyone be stopped from paying respect to the leader? They can stop us from going to the statue, but they cannot stop us from cherishing his ideals,” Chirag said, shouting slogans such as “Babasaheb amar rahe, Ramvilas Paswan amar rahe” with his supporters. Later, Chirag’s supporters sat on a dharna there for some time in protest before heading to Sultanpur village in Hajipur to launch an Ashirvad Yatra to connect with people across the state. Chirag skipped going to the LJP office adjacent to the airport, where the rival faction was holding the fort. “People from across the state came to the office to pay their tributes to the LJP founder,” Paras said, adding that instead of Ashirvad Yatra, Chirag should have taken out a Shradhanjali Yatra. At Hajipur, where a large number of his supporters gathered, Chirag reiterated his resolve to take forward the ideals of his father. Earlier in the day, the RJD, which extended its support to Chirag during the factional war in the LJP, paid tributes to Ram Vilas Paswan. RJD chief Lalu Prasad mentioned Ram Vilas Paswan’s relationship with him in the course of his virtual address to underline the importance of the departed leader’s legacy in the Dalit politics of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljps-warring-factions-stake-claim-to-paswan-s-legacy-on-his-birth-anniversary-101625508670552.html
05-07-2021||India||Amid cabinet expansion buzz, PM Modi holds meeting with Shah, Santhosh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has held marathon meetings with Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh in what is being seen as the final touches being given to the details of a likely expansion of the Union Cabinet.Sources said Shah and Santhosh confabulated with Modi at his residence for several hours on Sunday amid a "strong possibility" that the Cabinet reshuffle may happen very soon.Some sources said the swearing-in may happen as early as Wednesday. However, there was no official word on it.If the prime minister goes ahead with the exercise, he will be expanding his Council of Ministers for the first time since assuming the charge in May 2019 for his second innings.BJP leaders Sarbananda Sonowal, the former Assam chief minister who made way for Himanta Biswa Sarma in the state, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sushil Modi are seen as strong ministerial probables amid indications that some allies of the saffron party may also get berths.The states which will go to the assembly polls early next year, including the all-important Uttar Pradesh, may figure high.West Bengal may also see its representation in the Union Council of Ministers go up, the sources said.It is believed that the BJP's allies like JD(U) and Apna Dal can also get representation.Presently, Republican Party leader Ramdas Athawale, a junior minister, is the only ally in the government after parties like the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal severed ties with the BJP.Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, a Cabinet minister, had died last year and all eyes are on whether his brother Pashupati Kumar Paras will be part of the expansion.Paras is engaged in a bitter battle with Paswan's son Chirag Paswan for the control of the party and has been recognised as the LJP leader in Lok Sabha after five of its six MPs lent their support to him.The current strength of the Council of Ministers is 53, besides Modi, and its maximum number can be 81.For the last few weeks, Modi has been meeting Union ministers in groups with BJP president J P Nadda also being present in the exercise to review their works and gather feedback.The BJP brass has also held organisational meetings in different states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-cabinet-expansion-buzz-pm-modi-holds-meeting-with-shah-santhosh-101625503378762.html
05-07-2021||India||‘Govt has no option but order JPC probe into Rafale deal’: AK Anthony||Continuing the attack on the government over the alleged scam in the Rafale deal, senior Congress leader and former defence minister AK Antony on Monday said the government’s silence points towards mal-intent to hush up the “corruption” and remarked that the government has no option but to order a probe by a joint parliamentary committee into the matter.“The intriguing silence of the Modi government points towards mal-intent to hush up the corruption. The refusal of the BJP government to probe and punish the guilty is even more astonishing, pointing towards a concerted effort to bury the scam,” Antony said in a press release.“The simple question is why has the government chosen to remain ‘mum’? Why have the prime minister and the defence minister not come forward to react to the shocking and sensational development of a corruption probe in the Rafale deal by the Public Prosecution Services of France? Can the Modi government escape accountability for corruption allegations by its intriguing silence? Is it not the responsibility of the government to come forward and accept the truth,” Antony questioned.The Congress veteran said PM Modi went to Paris on April 10, 2015, when he unilaterally announced the purchase of 36 Rafale aircraft without going through any tender process and in complete derogation of the ‘Defence Procurement Procedure’. “Every defence expert was shocked by this unilateral order which is India’s biggest defence deal. It was even more surprising because there was an ongoing negotiation for the purchase of 126 Rafale aircraft in pursuance of an international tender, which envisaged 108 aircraft to be made in India by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and 18 aircraft to be purchased in fly-away condition. This international tender for 126 aircraft also envisaged the all-important ‘Transfer of Technology’ to India,” Antony added.In a statement, Antony said neither the prime minister nor the BJP government has explained the reason for reducing the number of aircraft from 126 to 36 or the reason for sacrificing ‘Transfer of Technology’ to India.He pointed out that as 36 aircraft are being purchased by the Modi government under an ‘Inter-Governmental Agreement’ and one party to the agreement, which is the French government, has proceeded to order an investigation through a judge, the only way forward for the Modi regime is to accept accountability and order a free and fair JPC probe into the entire set of facts, evidence and allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal.The Congress leader’s statement was in continuance of the Congress keeping up its attacks on the Modi government in the light of the latest developments in France. India ordered the fighter jets in September 2016 as an emergency purchase through a government-to-government deal. The deal became controversial, with the Opposition, led by the Congress, claiming that the price at which India is buying Rafale aircraft now is ₹1,670 crore for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by the company when the UPA was trying to buy the aircraft. It also claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with the HAL.The NDA has not disclosed details of the price, but the UPA deal, struck in 2012, was not a viable one, former defence minister Manohar Parrikar previously said, implying that it would have never been closed and that, therefore, any comparison is moot. Indeed, the UPA was not able to close the deal till 2014, largely over discussions related to the pricing of items not included in the initial bid.The NDA government has said that it cannot disclose the details of the price on two counts: a confidentiality agreement with France, and the strategic reason for not showing its hand to India’s enemies; however, it said that the current deal also includes customised weaponry.The Supreme Court heard a public interest case on the deal and in November 2019, said it saw nothing wrong in it. In a February 2019 report, the government’s auditor, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India audited the deal and said India had not overpaid for the jets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-no-option-but-order-jpc-probe-into-rafale-deal-ak-anthony-101625505911078.html
05-07-2021||India||Concern over indecency of MPs and MLAs in Parliament, assemblies: SC||Supreme Court on Monday expressed concern over MPs and MLAs not properly maintaining the decorum of Parliament and Legislative Assemblies and observed that a strong message needs to be sent out and such behaviour could not be tolerated.A two-judge bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrahud and also comprising Justice M R Shah observed this while hearing the plea filed by the Kerala Government seeking permission to withdraw cases against prominent Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPI(M) leaders for alleged vandalism in the Kerala state Assembly in 2015 when the current ruling party in the state was in opposition."What is the larger public interest in shielding MLA who created a ruckus while a financial bill was being laid?" Justice Chandrachud observed."Strong message needs to be sent out and such behaviour could not be tolerated," the apex court said, during the course of the hearing.The court has fixed the matter for further hearing till July 15.The petition was filed before the Supreme Court against a March 12, 2021 order of the Kerala High Court.The Kerala HC had rejected the state's petition challenging the dismissal by the Chief Judicial Magistrate's Court seeking permission to withdraw prosecution against accused persons, including sitting ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concern-over-indecency-of-mps-and-mlas-in-parliament-assemblies-sc-101625501044895.html
05-07-2021||India||Afghanistan situation to be focus on Indian foreign minister’s visit to Russia||The rapidly deteriorating situation in Afghanistan and several upcoming high-level meetings, including the annual India-Russia Summit, are expected to top the agenda when external affairs minister S Jaishankar visits Moscow this week.Russia sees India as an important player for formulating a coordinated response to the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban have significantly stepped up attacks in recent weeks and captured key districts in different parts of the country. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Though there has been no formal announcement about Jaishankar’s visit, he is expected to be in Moscow later this week, the people said. Jaishankar had visited Russia in September last year to attend a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO).In addition to the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan, Jaishankar’s meetings with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov and other interlocutors are expected to focus on upcoming meetings between the two sides, including the annual India-Russia Summit, a meeting of the bilateral inter-governmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation in Delhi in August, and a meeting of the inter-governmental commission on military and military-technical cooperation in Moscow in November.Jaishankar’s visit to Moscow is a follow-up to the trip by Lavrov to New Delhi in April. The two sides are also expected to discuss cooperation in areas such as trade, defence, hydrocarbons, nuclear energy and India’s participation in the development of Russia’s Far East region.The annual summit, which couldn’t be held last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to be held in the second half of 2021, the people said.“The two sides will discuss all bilateral and international developments, including the most vital and current issues such as Afghanistan. The developments in Afghanistan are being seen as huge concerns,” said one of the people cited above.“There is scope for India and Russia to cooperate both bilaterally and through multilateral platforms. The situation in Afghanistan is a concern for everyone and Russia sees India as an important partner on the Afghan issue,” the person added.Russia is particularly concerned about an increase in instability in Afghanistan and the fallout on the Central Asian states, especially Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, which share borders with the war-torn country.“Instability in Afghanistan would be dangerous for the region and there is also the fear of a surge in refugees. This would pose an immediate security challenge to the Central Asian countries,” the person cited above said.Amid reports on Monday of more than 1,000 Afghan troops fleeing into Tajikistan following clashes with the Taliban, Russia is also looking at mounting a coordinated and joint response with the Central Asian states through the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), a collective security arrangement that includes Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.The Taliban have stepped up violence and targeted attacks against the backdrop of the withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan. India has repeatedly expressed concern at the surge in violence and called for a comprehensive ceasefire and the preservation of the democratic system built up in Afghanistan over the past two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-situation-to-be-focus-on-indian-foreign-minister-s-visit-to-russia-101625503151010.html
05-07-2021||India||Activists, opposition call out 'custodial murder' of Stan Swamy||The death of the 84-year-old activist Stan Swamy on Monday amid his fight for bail on the grounds of health issues sparked off intense responses on social media from political leaders, activists, journalists, intellectuals among others. Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, died after suffering a cardiac arrest on Monday.Opposition parties and other leaders called out the "inhuman treatment" meted out to the activist after being arrested on charges of an anti-terror law. The octogenarian had been on ventilator support since Sunday, when his health conditions worsened and was being treated at the Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai following the court order of May 28.Rights activist Shabnam Hashmi called Stan Swamy's death "custodial murder" and said that the government has to be held accountable. "#StanSwamy passes away. Fr. Stan Swamy passes away as undertrial in state custody under fake charges under UAPA, NIA, sedition. This is not death, this is custodial murder. Government has to be held accountable," she tweeted.#StanSwamy passes away . Fr. Stan Swamy passes away as undertrial in state custody under fake charges under UAPA, NIA, Sedition . This is nit death this is custodial murder. Govt has to be held accountable.RTI activist and anti-graft crusader Anjali Bhardwaj also expressed the anguish in the same vein and called it an "institutional murder". "With UAPA, the process is the punishment. The death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy should be recognised for what it is - institutional murder. RIP Father Stan," Bhardwaj posted on Twitter.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Shashi Tharoor and Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren also tweeted about Stan Swamy's death and demanded justice for the inhuman treatment against him. DMK lawmaker Dayanidhi Maran also said that they will be raising the issue in Parliament. "This is a sad state of Indian politics. We are going to raise this issue in Parliament to voice out that you cannot squeeze or mute the dissident voices of people. This is a democracy," ANI quoted the MP as saying.Also read: UAPA undermines personal libertyCondemning Stan Swamy's arrest and treatment under the UAPA, the CPI (M) demanded immediate release of all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detainees under “politically motivated” cases, misusing laws like UAPA, sedition, among others. "Deeply pained and outraged at the death of Father Stan Swamy. A Jesuit priest & social activist he tirelessly helped the marginalised. Draconian UAPA custody, inhuman treatment since October 2020 with no charge established. Accountability must be fixed for this murder in custody," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted.Eamon Gilmore, the European Union's Special Representative for Human Rights, and Mary Lawlor, a United Nations Special Rapporteur for human rights defenders, also expressed their grief over the news of the death of the tribal rights activist, who was possibly the oldest political prisoner in the country.India: I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities. https://t.co/DNpNa1r8cq"The news from India today is devastating. Human Rights Defender and Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy has died in custody, nine months after his arrest on false charges of terrorism. Jailing HRDs is inexcusable," Lawlor tweeted."I am very saddened to hear that Father Stan Swamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples' rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities," Gilmore said, quoting Lawlor's tweet.The Elgar Parishad case is related to the alleged inflammatory speeches by some activists at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017. The police claimed that the speeches triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of Maharashtra city.Swamy was waiting for interim bail in the case on the grounds of medical issues, had many health problems, one of which was Parkinson's.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-opposition-call-out-custodial-murder-of-stan-swamy-101625494111357.html
05-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Twitter failed to comply with IT rules, Centre tells Delhi HC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Twitter has failed to comply with IT rules’: Centre tells Delhi high courtThe faceoff between India and Twitter continued on Monday as the central government filed an affidavit in the Delhi high court, accusing the social media giant of failing to comply with the IT rules. Read more'No one has any doubt about his ability': Laxman wants 21-year-old Indian batsman to play all six matches against SLVVS Laxman has revealed his choice of opener for the ODI and T20I series against Sri Lanka. Laxman has said that he wants Prithvi Shaw to open all six matches during India's tour of Sri Lanka. Read moreMalaika Arora is startled at first but obliges traffic cop's request for pic. WatchMalaika Arora appeared to be taken aback by a traffic police officer who was taking a picture with her. In a video shared a paparazzo account on Monday, the actor was seen exiting her yoga class. Read moreThis wedding menu card from the 90s may leave you feeling nostalgicFrom having simple decoration styles and themes to elaborate destination weddings, many trends of a wedding aren’t what they were even 20 years ago. Read more‘BJP will get less than 100 seats in UP’: Sanjay Singh | On The RecordAam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh spoke about his meeting with Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav. Singh said the meeting with Yadav was to discuss how “BJP used money power during the Zila Panchayat Chairperson polls”. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-twitter-failed-to-comply-with-it-rules-centre-tells-delhi-hc-and-all-the-latest-news-101625498383600.html
05-07-2021||India||‘Unruly behaviour by MLAs inside House unacceptable’: Supreme Court||Acts of indiscipline inside Parliament and state assemblies cannot be condoned, said the Supreme Court on Monday, taking a strict view of an incident which took place in March 2015 when four former members of legislative assembly (MLA) and two others, who are presently MLAs in the Kerala Assembly, created a ruckus inside the House to protest the presentation of the finance budget.“This kind of behaviour is unacceptable,” said a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah pointing to the unruly behaviour shown by the accused legislators in the House by climbing on to the Speaker’s dais, throwing mikes and destroying public property worth over ₹2.20 lakh. “Such kinds of incidents are increasing and they are happening even in Parliament. We can’t condone the behaviour of MLAs who disrupt House by throwing the mike and destroying public property,” the bench observed.The Court was dealing with separate appeals filed by the accused legislators and the state against an order of the Kerala High Court of March 12 this year that viewed the incident and refused to go with the decision taken by the public prosecutor to withdraw cases against the six accused – KT Jaleel, V Sivankutty, CK Sadasivan, EP Jayarajan, K Ajith and Kunjammadu Master.The comments by the top court could spell trouble for Jaleel and Sivankutty who are presently MLAs while Sivankutty is also the education minister. The case against them has been lodged under Sections 447 (criminal trespass) and Section 427 (causing mischief) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The latter provision is punishable with a maximum sentence of five years. In the event they are convicted and the sentence awarded is more than two years, the present MLAs will incur disqualification under the Representation of Peoples Act to continue in office.Holding a prima facie view in favour of the High Court, the top court said, “We must ensure some modicum of decorum is maintained in legislative bodies. These are sentinels of democracy. They are MLAs and they represent the people. What is the message being given that my MLA is behaving in this manner? They have to face trial. There cannot be any deference to such kind of behaviour.”The incident took place on March 13, 2015. The case was investigated by the Kerala police and a final report was submitted to the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Thiruvanthapuram.After the trial court took cognizance of the charges in the year 2019, the Left Front government, through public prosecutor, sought withdrawal of cases against the accused. This power is available to the public prosecutor under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The Chief Judicial Magistrate refused withdrawal, a view that the Kerala High Court concurred with.The Kerala government, through senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, replied on the privileges of MLAs and the immunity granted against criminal prosecution for proceedings inside the House.“The MLAs in question were suspended for seven days. They have a right to protest and they protested against the tabling of Budget by the then Finance Minister who was corrupt.” The then finance minister, KM Mani, whose party, Kerala Congress (Mani), is part of the present Left Democratic Front (LDF) government led by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.The bench asked the state, “What is the larger public interest in shielding MLAs who have disrupted the House proceedings and avoided presentation of Budget by the Finance Minister. Budget presentation is of utmost importance irrespective of the personality who is submitting it.”On the right to protest, the Court refused to approve such manner of protest as it said, “Prima facie, we have to take a strict view of this kind of behaviour.” The matter has now been posted to July 15 as the state requested time to provide case laws in support of its argument.In its judgment of March 12, the single judge bench of Justice VG Arun had said that privileges and immunities are provided to MLAs to ensure smooth functioning of the House and not to disrupt the proceedings of the assembly session. Further, the HC took note of Clause 44 of the ‘Code of Conduct for the Members of the Kerala Legislative Assembly’ which exhorts members to safeguard public property and abjure violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unruly-behaviour-by-mlas-inside-house-unacceptable-supreme-court-101625497871863.html
05-07-2021||India||These states may witness heavy rainfall from July 10: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) tweeted on Monday that the southwest monsoon is most likely to advance over the remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10. “Accordingly, the southwest monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10,” said IMD.The weather system is very likely to increase rainfall activity over northwest and central India from July 10, it added.This will be the most delayed arrival of monsoon in Delhi in the last 15 years, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. Srivastava told news agency PTI that before this monsoon had once reached the national capital on July 7 in 2012 and once on July 9 in 2006.Also Read: Monsoon likely to cover all of NW India around July 10: IMDMonsoon arrived two days late in the state of Kerala and dashed across the country covering eastern, central and adjoining northwest India seven to ten days earlier than usual. However, as conditions became unfavourable for its further advancement, the monsoon weakened to enter a ‘break’ phase. Delhi, Haryana, and parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, west Rajasthan are yet to experience the arrival of this year’s monsoon.IMD also said low-pressure areas are forming over West Central India and adjoining the northern Bay of Bengal. “A low pressure area is likely to form over West Central and adjoining Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 11,” the weather bureau tweeted.“The moist easterly winds in lower level from Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. It is likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10,” IMDadded.The northern limit of southwest monsoon is passing through Meerut, Aligarh, Ambala, and Amritsar, said IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-may-witness-heavy-rainfall-from-july-10-imd-101625497187481.html
05-07-2021||India||Opposition remains sceptical of Sangh’s minority outreach||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s statement at a book launch on Sunday, that Hindus and Muslims are one entity and those who believe Muslims have no place in India are not Hindus, perceived to be in line with the Sangh’s ongoing outreach towards the minorities, has failed to cut ice with its political opponents. The RSS, which is the ideological fount of the Bharatiya Janata Party, has been accused by its opponents of fostering sectarianism and orthodoxy. Over the years, the Sangh, through its affiliates such as the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, has been trying to shed this image. While Bhagwat’s statement, which carries conciliatory undertones, has been welcomed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the political arm of the RSS, political opponents of the BJP are not convinced. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo, Mayawati for instance, said the RSS does not walk the talk on the issues it raises, and the statement, therefore, carries little weight. In a statement issued on Monday, she said the government at the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and other states are running on the narrow mindset and principles of the RSS instead of the Indian Constitution. She said there is violence and chaos in society, including in the financial areas. “The statement regarding lynching being against the principle of Hindutava and all people having the same DNA is not trustworthy as BJP and RSS are known for doing the opposite of what they say,” the statement in Hindi said.All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief, Asaduddin Owaisi, also criticised Bhagwat‘s statement and said those who were involved in lynching may not know the difference between a cow and a buffalo but know enough to kill those with names like Junaid, Akhlaq, Pehlu, Alimuddin - victims of violence by so-called cow vigilantes.In a series of tweets, Owaisi said, “Alimuddin‘s killers were garlanded by a Union minister, Tricolour was placed over the body of Akhlaq’s killer, a mahapanchayat was convened in support of those who killed Asif where a BJP spokesperson was quoted to have said, ‘can we not even murder’”. Owaisi was referring to the mahapanchayat held in Haryana where villagers came in support of those arrested for lynching Asif Khan.The BJP, for its part, sees a design in the criticism. Rajya Sabha MP, Rakesh Sinha said “He attacked their (BSP, AIMIM) politics of perception (that BJP is against the minorities) and appeasement, therefore, there is a commonality in their reaction,” he said.Hailing Bhagwat’s statement as “progressive” he said the Sangh chief’s statement testifies that the ideology does not support violence. “He has started a critical, decisive dialogue wherein he scientifically says conversion does not change nationality, legacy, ancestry and culture,” Sinha said. Despite the Sangh’s assertions to the contrary, it has been accused by its opponents of propagating a majoritarian sentiment, imposing restrictions on food habits, lifestyle and even on choice of partners in a marriage. The Sangh’s unequivocal support for laws against conversion through coercion in a marriage, or what they term as Love Jihad, is also seen in the context of its hardline views on interfaith marriages. Bhagwat’s statement reiterating the Sangh’a views on Hindu-Muslim unity is also perceived as an attempt by the RSS to extend an olive branch to the minorities who are present in large numbers in poll-bound states - the Sikhs in Punjab and the Muslims in Uttar Pradesh.On Sunday, Bhagwat said that if anyone has an objection to being called Hindu, they can opt for Bharatiya (Indian). This is seen as assuaging the Sikhs and the Muslims who have objected to Bhagwat’s earlier stated position that all Indians are Hindus.The acceptance of using ‘Indian’ instead of ‘Hindu’ is also in the continuation of the Sangh’s earlier stance adopted during Balasahed Deoras’s (third RSS chief) tenure, said a Sangh functionary. “As opposed to (KB) Hedgewar, the first chief who focused on Hindutva, Balasaheb Deoras took a line of Bharatiya instead of Hindutva to accommodate all faiths. He initiated dialogue with Muslims and Christians. There was some discomfort within the Sangh, but the sentiment was carried forward by KS Sudarshan who was the chief before Bhagwat took over,” the Sangh functionary said. To be sure, in his speech, Bhagwat clarified that his presence at the launch of a book authored by a Muslim is neither an image makeover nor a political outreach ahead of the next set of elections.“We are not interested in party politics. We have a view, but we are not in anyone’s favour but the country’s favour, we support those who speak for the country. This is not a political exercise or vote bank politics. We can do this (politics), but we won’t,” Bhagwat said.Sangh watcher Dilip Deodhar said Bhagwat’s speech reflects the Sangh’s view that it does not consider Hinduism as a religious but a civilisational issue. “Sangh does not want Hindusim to be seen as a religious activity. In 2018, Bhagwat clarified as much and even said how the Sangh has moved on from the Bunch of Thoughts (by MS Golwalkar) categorising the Muslims, Christians and Communists as enemies,” Deodhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-remains-sceptical-of-sangh-s-minority-outreach-101625495530483.html
05-07-2021||India||Covid-19 curfew timings relaxed in 11 districts of Andhra Pradesh. Details||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday eased Covid-induced curfew timings in 11 districts of the state, to be effective from July 8, the chief minister's office (CMO) said. The curfew timings have been relaxed in all districts except the East Godavari and West Godavari districts, the CMO said on Monday. The new curfew timing in the 11 districts of the state will be 6am to 10pm from July 8. The shops have been ordered to close by 9pm. The state government has also allowed theatres, restaurants and gyms to operate following strict Covid protocols. The authorities have made the gap of two seats mandatory."From the 8th of this month, curfew will be relaxed in all the districts except the two Godavari districts till 10 pm, said CM Shri YS Jagan. In a review of Covid control, the CM said theatres, restaurants and gyms should follow Covid protocols," a tweet by the CMO, in Telugu, read.Also read | India's third Covid-19 wave from August, peak in September: SBI reportThe CMO also said that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officers to prioritize vaccination of teachers and complete vaccination of government employees by departments. Restrictions in both the Godavari districts will continue till the positivity rate there does not fall below five per cent, CMO said. "The CM directed the officers to give priority to teachers in vaccination and complete the vaccination of government employees by departments as per the priorities. Sanctions will continue in both the Godavari districts till the positivity rate falls below 5," CMO's tweet, in Telugu, read.The curfew in the two districts of Godavari will remain in place from 6am to 7pm, until the Covid positivity rate in the district falls below 5 per cent.The chief minister also instructed officials to take timely measures to contain the spread of the fatal virus.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-curfew-timings-relaxed-in-11-districts-of-andhra-pradesh-details-101625489701300.html
05-07-2021||India||NRAI reaches out to CCI against 'anti-competitive practices' by Zomato, Swiggy||Alleging "anti-competitive practices" by Zomato and Swiggy, restaurant industry body NRAI on Monday said it has approached fair trade regulator CCI for a detailed probe against the food ordering platforms.Keeping the interest of restaurants in mind and how they have been affected by the "inherently anti-competitive practices" of Zomato and Swiggy, the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) on July 1 filed information with the Competition Commission of India (CCI), it said in a statement.Issues such as bundling of services, data masking and exorbitant commissions charged, deep discounting, violation of platform neutrality and lack of transparency have been flagged in the submission, it added."We have been in constant dialogue with the food service aggregators over last 15-18 months to resolve critical issues impacting the sector."However, despite all our efforts, we have unfortunately not been able to resolve them with the aggregators. The needle hasn't moved much on these issues," NRAI President Anurag Katriar said.NRAI has therefore approached the CCI now to look into the matter and investigate them thoroughly, he added."We are committed to the cause of our partners, and we will put our best efforts with the CCI to ensure that the practices of these marketplace platforms are aligned to the benefit of the entire F&B industry," Katriar said. E-mails sent to Zomato and Swiggy seeking comments on the matter did not elicit any immediate response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nrai-reaches-out-to-cci-against-anti-competitive-practices-by-zomato-swiggy-101625490324255.html
05-07-2021||India||‘Twitter has failed to comply with IT rules’: Centre tells Delhi high court||The faceoff between India and Twitter continued on Monday as the central government filed an affidavit in the Delhi high court, accusing the social media giant of failing to comply with the IT rules, which it described as the "law of the land."Also Read: 'Will pick officer, timeline not binding': Twitter to HC"In spite of three months' time granted to all significant social media intermediaries to comply with the IT Rules, 2021, Twitter Inc has failed to comply with the same," the Centre said in its affidavit in the high court.The affidavit said as of July 1, Twitter has not appointed a chief compliance officer, resident grievance officer, nodal contact person (even on an interim basis), and is not showing physical contact address on its website as mandated under the rules. The document also said IT rules are "law of the land" which the San Francisco-headquartered company has to comply with. "Any non-compliance amounts to a breach of the provisions of IT Rules thereby leading to Twitter losing immunity conferred under Section 79(1) of IT Act, 2000," the affidavit mentioned.Also Read: Twitter loses legal protection, fails to comply with new IT rulesMonday's development comes two days after Twitter informed the high court it is in the "final stages" of appointing a local grievance officer. The company's interim resident grievance officer in India, Dharmendra Chatur, resigned on June 27, amid differences with the central government over the new norms. Twitter then appointed US national Jeremy Kessel in the role in the violation of the rules.Also Read: Twitter appoints American Jeremy Kessel as new grievance officer for IndiaThe Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, were announced on February 25. Social media companies operating in India, including Twitter, were given time till May 25 to comply with these. On May 28, a petition was filed in the Delhi high court against Twitter for alleged non-compliance with the guidelines after which the court issued a notice to the company on June 1. It fixed July 6 as the next date of hearing.(Inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-has-failed-to-comply-with-it-rules-centre-tells-delhi-high-court-101625487794680.html
05-07-2021||India||India's third Covid-19 wave from August, peak in September: SBI report||India may see the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic from August and it would reach its peak in September, a report by the State Bank of India (SBI) has projected. The report, "Covid-19: the race to finishing line," was prepared by SBI Research. "Going by the current data, India can experience daily Covid-19 cases around 10,000 somewhere around the second week of July. However, the cases can start rising by the second fortnight of August," the report said, adding that the country reached the peak of the second wave on May 7.The projections are based on "historical trends," the study said. It said that the global data shows that on average, peak cases reached during the third wave are nearly twice or 1.7 times those from the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.The projections come even as the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic recedes and most experts are almost unanimous that a third Covid-19 wave would hit the country. There are, however, various projections over when this potential third wave would arrive.An SBI report, published in June, said a possible second wave could be "as severe as second," though it also said the number of coronavirus related fatalities would be less than the corresponding figures due to the second wave.Also Read | Third Covid wave could be as severe as second, but deaths to be less: SBI reportIndia's second Covid-19 wave was at its peak in April and May. The country saw a record number of daily fresh infections and deaths due to the coronavirus disease several days during this period and also battled an oxygen crisis. Since then, however, daily cases have come down, in part due to restrictions put in place by states and Union territories. Several states and UTs have now started to unlock amid a fall in daily cases.In the last 24 hours, India recorded 39,796 new Covid-19 cases and 723 deaths due to the viral disease, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Monday. The cumulative infection tally has risen to 30,585,229 which includes 29,700,430 recoveries, 482,071 active cases and 402,728 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-third-covid-19-wave-for-august-peak-in-september-sbi-report-101625483387782.html
05-07-2021||India||Telangana BJP chief to start padyatra from Aug 9 ahead of Huzurabad by-polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) Telangana unit president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has announced he would begin a padyatra (foot march) from the state capital of Hyderabad on August 9, which will end in Huzurabad. The first phase of the march will cover nearly 750km and will be spread over 55 days, he told news agency PTI.Speaking at the Telangana BJP executive meeting, Kumar said on Sunday that the journey would conclude on October 2 in Huzurabad. He added that the padyatra would be conducted in phases in all assembly constituencies across the state, the PTI report stated.Highlighting that Mahatma Gandhi started the Quit India movement on August 9, 1942, to end the British rule in India, Kumar said that the party drew “inspiration” from the same with the aim to achieve ‘Democratic Telangana’.According to the PTI report, the foot march is focused on creating awareness among people on the alleged failures of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government and also to expose the alleged corrupt practices of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, his party MLAs, and his cabinet colleagues.The BJP state chief said that during the journey, people would be apprised of the different welfare and developmental initiatives implemented by the BJP-lead central government, and also the party’s vision, should they come to power in Telangana, PTI reported.Kumar also demanded that Rao apologise to the people of Telangana for the two-year delay in responding to the Andhra Pradesh government’s construction of projects across the Krishna River, the Deccan Chronicle reported. Confident that his party will win the upcoming Huzurabad by-polls, he said that reports and pre-poll surveys projected a certain victory for Eatala Rajender. Notably, Rajender is the former health minister of the state who left the TRS to join the BJP last month.Meanwhile, chief minister Rao on Sunday announced many incentives for the citizens of the state, including lowering the age to 57 years for Aasara pension eligibility, the New Indian Express reported. A provision of ₹5 lakh insurance cover for the powerloom and handloom weavers as per the Rythu Bheema scheme was also included among the new incentives. Rao also announced that the monthly stipend of first, second and third-year students will be hiked to ₹5,000, ₹6,000, and ₹7,000, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-bjp-chief-to-start-padyatra-from-aug-9-ahead-of-huzurabad-bypolls-101625486084722.html
05-07-2021||India||Nearly 200 crocodiles relocated from lake near Statue of Unity for tourists' safety||Around 194 crocodiles have been relocated from a lake near the Statue of Unity in Gujarat's Narmada district in the last two years to ensure the safety of tourists, who pay a visit and go for boat rides, news agency PTI has reported. The Panchmuli lake, near the 182-metre tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Kevadia, called the 'Statue of Unity', had a large number of crocodiles that posed a threat to the visitors, according to officials cited by PTI."In 2019-20 (October-March), we relocated 143 crocodiles. In 2020-21, another 51 crocodiles were shifted to two rescue centres in Gandhinagar and Godhra," PTI quoted Kevadia range forest officer Vikramsinh Gabhania as saying on Sunday. "Some 60 cages are placed around the lake to trap the crocodiles. The part of the lake where seaplanes (flying between Ahmedabad and Kevadia) land is completely safe," he told PTI.Also read: Canada to ease travel restrictions for international students. All you to knowThe lake, which is also known as 'Dyke-3' of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, was developed for tourists visiting the Statue of Unity. Many of those reptiles still exist in the lake, as per Gabhania. Authorities, therefore, decided to relocate the crocodiles to prevent any unfortunate incident, according to the official, PTI reported.As many as 73 rescued crocodiles were released in the Sardar Sarovar reservoir in 2019-2020. The animals rescued from the lake were also transferred to the rescue centres at Godhra in Panchmahal district, and Gandhinagar, the official said.The Gujarat State Forest Development Corporation Ltd (GSFDC) began the boat ride in the Panchmuli lake in 2019. The lake is rich in flora and fauna and surrounded by lush green forests, as part of the eco-tourism activity in the region surrounding the great monument, according to the state tourism department.The boat ride in the lake is one of the major tourist attractions in the area and records a heavy rush of visitors, especially on weekends, as per a spokesperson of the Statue of Unity, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 31, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-200-crocodiles-relocated-from-lake-near-statue-of-unity-for-tourists-safety-101625483154790.html
05-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Supreme Court 'shocked' at use of Section 66A despite being scrapped and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Amazing, shocking’: Supreme Court on use of Section 66A despite being struck downThe Supreme Court on Monday came down heavily on the Union government over people still being booked under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, calling it "amazing and shocking." In March 2015, Section 66A was struck down by the top court. Read MoreTMC delegation meets President Kovind to seek removal of Solicitor GeneralA delegation of West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) met President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to seek the removal of India’s Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta. Read MoreUK must learn to live with Covid, says Johnson ahead of scrapping preventive measuresBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday indicated a shift in his earlier stance and said that the country would "learn to live with this virus" as he is expected to unveil mandatory measures as a personal choice. Read MoreBefore team meeting, Shikhar Dhawan & Co compete in a gaming session; coach Rahul Dravid watches over: See PicsThe first India vs Sri Lanka ODI in Colombo is a week away and the Indian team has begun their strategy-making. Read MoreHaseen Dillruba 'twist' reminds viewers of Roald Dahl short story Lamb to the Slaughter; reactions are mixedAudiences are noticing similarities between the plot of Haseen Dillruba, a new Netflix film starring Taapsee Pannu, and writer Roald Dahl's 1953 short story, Lamb to the Slaughter. Read More2022 Suzuki Hayabusa first ride review: The 'legend' continuesSuzuki Hayabusa has defined the word 'legendary' in the world of superbikes for decades. Read MoreWhy over 50 countries want to use India’s CoWIN platform to beat CovidIndia's vaccination drive against Covid-19, pegged as the largest adult immunisation drive ever, is underpinned by the CoWIN application. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-supreme-court-hits-out-at-govt-over-use-of-section-66a-and-all-the-latest-news-101625482923324.html
05-07-2021||India||PM Modi supports Tokyo-bound athletes with 'Cheer4India' message||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has wished Tokyo-bound athletes with his 'Cheer4India' message and asked people to support the Indian contingent for the upcoming Olympics.The Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports, Kiren Rijiju took to Twitter and posted a video in which PM Modi said, "We will all support our players bound for Tokyo. Cheer4India, Cheer4India, Cheer4India."Rijiju posted the Indian Olympic contingent's official anthem "Lakshya Tera Samne Hai" which is composed and sung by Mohit Chauhan.Sports Minister wrote, "Hon'ble PM @narendramodi Ji has wished Tokyo-bound athletes with his #Cheer4India message. As our athletes head to #Tokyo2020 Olympics, let us unite as a nation to support them. Indian Olympic Contingent Official Anthem by @_mohitchauhan encompasses the spirit of our athletes!"A total of 115 Indian athletes have qualified so far for Tokyo Olympics which will begin on July 23 and will run up to August 8 this year. The event was slated to be held last year, but it was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In the 2016 Rio Olympics, 117 Indian athletes had qualified but couldn't better the medals haul from the 2012 London Games, which remains India's highest medal tally at a single Olympic Games -- six medals. Indian athletes would be hoping to break that threshold in Tokyo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-supports-tokyo-bound-athletes-with-cheer4india-message-101625481779385.html
05-07-2021||India||CoWIN to be open source, will be available to all countries: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the country’s flagship Covid-19 vaccination application, CoWIN, will now be open source, with its software available to all countries across the world looking to bolster their digital systems to combat the pandemic.“India’s technology platform for Covid-19 vaccination, CoWIN, will now be open source,” Modi said. “It will be available to any and all countries. The platform has been used to administer 350 million doses so far.”The Prime Minister was speaking at the CoWIN global conclave organised by the government wherein health and technology experts representing different countries across the globe will be speaking.Also Watch | Why over 50 countries want to use India’s CoWIN platform to beat CovidModi said that in the fight against the pandemic, everyone needed to come together and share their experiences. “India has been committed to its experiences, expertise and resources with the global community despite constraints,” he said. “Technology is integral to our fight against Covid and software is one area where there have not been many constraints. Our Covid tracking and tracing app (Aarogya Setu) was made open source last year. The best hope for humanity to emerge successfully from the pandemic is to adopt digitisation.”He added that India’s vaccination strategy was made keeping a digital approach in mind, especially considered the value of each dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. “It is important to ensure each dose is tracked and wastage is minimized,” he said. “No one will need a fragile piece of paper to prove that they have been vaccinated as it all available online.”The PM also highlighted that CoWIN could be customised according to local needs. RS Sharma, CEO, National Health Authority (NHA), last week said that many countries had expressed an interest in the vaccination platform. “#CoWIN has become popular! Over 50 countries from across Central Asia, Latin America & Africa, are interested in this #technology. @PMOIndia has directed us to create an open-source version of #CoWIN free of cost to any interested country,” Sharma tweeted on June 28.The PM also condoled the loss of lives due to Covid-19 across the world, adding that there has been no parallel to such a pandemic in 100 years. “Experience shows that no nation however powerful it is, can solve a challenge like this in isolation,” the Prime Minister said.India kicked off its vaccination drive on January 16. While vaccines were initially made available to frontline workers, vaccines are now being made available to all over the age of 18 free of cost at government run vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-to-be-open-source-will-be-available-to-all-countries-pm-modi-101625482209863.html
05-07-2021||India||TMC delegation meets President Kovind to seek removal of Solicitor General||A delegation of West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) met President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday to seek the removal of India’s Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta, after BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, an accused in Sarada chit fund case and Narada sting case, went to meet him last week. As both the cases are handled by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the TMC has alleged that the action of Mehta, who also serves as the special prosecutor of the apex probe agency, raises “extremely serious doubts of impropriety”. In its petition to the President, the TMC, represented by MPs Sukhendu Sekhar Ray and Mahua Moitra also submitted a letter to the president, which said, “A meeting between an accused in grave criminal offences and the SG, who is advising the very investigating agency, reeks of impropriety. Such a meeting makes a mockery of the criminal justice system and serves to destroy common man’s faith in the judiciary.” Also Read | Abhijit Mukherjee, Pranab Mukherjee’s son, set to join TMC todayOn his part, Mehta had clarified that AdhikarI, the Leader of Opposition in Bengal assembly, had come to his residence unannounced but he couldn’t meet him due to preoccupation. Trinamool MP Mohua Moitra rejected Mehta’s version and said, “Can anyone enter the SG’s bungalow without an appointment and have a cup of coffee?” “The meeting was not only biased and there was a conflict of interest, but the SG also allowed an accused to come to his residence and have a meeting. The TMC has demanded the immediate resignation of the SG on grounds of gross misconduct and impropriety, failing which we hope the President will investigate and take action,” she said. Alleging that July 1 meeting was organised to influence the outcome of the cases, the TMC appealed to the President to “initiate necessary steps for the removal of Mr. Tushar Mehta from the post of the Solicitor General of India to uphold India’s constitutional values.”The Central leadership of the BJP has not responded so far to the Trinamool’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcdelegation-meets-president-kovind-to-seek-removal-of-solicitor-general-101625481729737.html
05-07-2021||India||Activist Stan Swamy, accused in Elgar Parishad case, dies after cardiac arrest||Stan Swamy, a human rights activist and an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, died after suffering a cardiac arrest early on Monday, doctors informed the Bombay High Court. Eighty-four-year-old Swamy was put on ventilator support at the Holy Family Hospital on Sunday after he faced severe breathing difficulties with doctors examining him saying his condition was “critical” due to post-Covid complications.Also Read: Stan Swamy put on ventilator support, NHRC issues notice to Maharashtra govtAhead of Swamy’s bail hearing on Monday, Dr Ian D'souza of the Holy Family Hospital informed the high court that the activist suffered a cardiac arrest at around 4am. The hospital, D'souza said, tried to resuscitate Swamy but his condition only deteriorated and that he was declared dead at 1:30pm.Mihir Desai, a senior advocate representing Stan Swamy in the high court, called for a post-mortem of his body. "We have a grievance of gross negligence and hence a post mortem could be conducted," Desai said to the court, which said it had no words to express its condolences. Countering this, Dr D'Souza said since the cause of death is known, a post-mortem is not necessary, adding that a death certificate can be issued.In such a case, Desai said, Swamy's mortal remains should be handed over to Father Frazer Mascarenhas who was looking after the priest during the course of his hospitalisation.Reacting to the news of Swamy's death, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said he deserved "justice and humanness." Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, meanwhile, said it is "unjustifiable" that a man like Swamy had to die in custody.Heartfelt condolences on the passing of Father Stan Swamy. He deserved justice and humaneness.Deeply saddened by the passing of Fr. Stan Swamy. Unjustifiable that a man who fought all through his life for our society's most downtrodden, had to die in custody. Such travesty of justice should have no place in our democracy. Heartfelt condolences!On May 29, Swamy was shifted from the Taloja Central Jail to the Mumbai-based private hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. He was arrested on October 8, 2020, from his home in Ranchi by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged role in the Bhima Koregaon violence, also known as the Elgar Parishad case, and charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or UAPA.Also Read: Evidence fabricated in Bhima Koregaon case? What prompted Rona Wilson’s pleaSeveral activists were arrested by the Pune Police in August 2018 in a series of nationwide raids in connection with the case and are currently awaiting trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-stan-swamy-accused-in-elgar-parishad-case-succumbs-to-cardiac-arrest-101625478894101.html
05-07-2021||India||‘Amazing, shocking’: Supreme Court on use of Section 66A despite being struck down||The Supreme Court on Monday came down heavily on the Union government over people still being booked under Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, calling it "amazing and shocking." In March 2015, Section 66A was struck down by the top court."Don't you think this is amazing and shocking? Shreya Singhal judgment is of 2015. It's really shocking. What is going on is terrible," a bench, comprising Supreme Court Justice RF Nariman, Justice KM Joseph and Justice BR Gavai, told senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, who appeared for NGO People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL). The Supreme Court, which was hearing an application filed by PUCL, issued a notice to the Centre and listed the matter for hearing after two weeks.Also Read: The lawyer who took down Section 66A and the girls who inspired herAppearing for the central government, attorney general KK Venugopal sought to explain why Section 66A is still being used despite being scrapped. "On perusal of the IT act, it can be seen that Section 66A features in it but in the footnote, it is written that the section has been scrapped. So, now when a police officer has to register a case, he sees the section and registers the case without going through the footnote," Venugopal said. On a possible solution, he said what can be done is placing a bracket after Section 66A mentioning it has been scrapped and put the entire extract of the verdict in the footnote.PUCL said in its application in the Supreme Court that despite the court's February 2019 order, the section continues to be used in police stations as well as in trial courts across the country. On February 15, 2019, the top court directed all state governments to sensitise their police personnel about the March 24, 2015, judgement.In 2012, law student Shreya Singhal filed the first PIL in the Supreme Court on the misuse of Section 66A. The PIL was filed following arrests of two girls in Maharashtra who objected to a bandh called in Mumbai by the Shiv Sena after the demise of its founder Bal Thackeray. While one was arrested for posting a Facebook post against the bandh call, the other was held for "liking" it.Under Section 66A, a person posting "offensive" messages faces imprisonment for up to three years as well as a fine.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazing-shocking-supreme-court-on-use-of-section-66a-despite-being-struck-down-101625474833278.html
05-07-2021||India||Monsoon likely to cover all of NW India around July 10: IMD||Monsoon is gradually likely to revive over south peninsula, including west coast and adjoining eastcentral India from July 8, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. It is likely to cover all of northwest India, includingDelhi, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana around July 10. HT has reported that monsoon is likely to gradually revive by this weekend. “According to latest numerical weather prediction model guidance, the southwest monsoon likely to revive gradually over south peninsula including West coast and adjoining eastcentral India from July 8,” said IMD. A low pressure area is also likely to form over westcentral and adjoining Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 11. The moist easterly winds in lower level from Bay of Bengal is likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. It is likely to cover northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. Accordingly, southwest monsoon likely to advance over remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10. There is likely to be an increase in rainfall activity over northwest and central India from July 10. Normal date for monsoon onset over Delhi is June 27. So this year onset is likely to be 13 days late. In 2012, the southwest monsoon arrived in the Capital on July 7, a full 10 days after its usual arrival date of June 27. The latest it has arrived in the past 17 years for which IMD has data is on July 9 in 2006. So, this year is likely to make a record in terms of most delayed onset over Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-cover-all-of-nw-india-around-july-10imd-101625478609465.html
05-07-2021||India||At CoWIN Global Conclave, PM Modi urges countries to work together to fight Covid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the biggest lesson from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is that all countries have to work together and move ahead together for humanity and the human cause.Addressing the CoWin Global Conclave, Modi said, “We have to learn from each other and guide each other about our best practices. Right from the beginning of this pandemic, India has been committed to sharing all our experiences, expertise and resources with the global community in this pandemic.”Condoling the loss of lives due to the viral disease across the world, PM Modi said there is no parallel to such a pandemic in 100 years. “Experience shows that no nation, however powerful it is, can solve a challenge like this in isolation,” the Prime Minister said.He also pointed out that vaccination is the best hope for humanity to emerge successfully from the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read| CoWIN to go global today, 50 countries show interest“Technology is integral to our fight against Covid-19. Luckily, software is one area in which there are no resource constraints. That is why we made our Covid tracing and tracking app open source as soon as it was technically feasible,” PM Modi said during the virtual conclave.India will now provide CoWin, a vaccine registration platform, as a digital public good to other nations to conduct their own vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease.Modi also said through CoWin, people do not have to carry "fragile pieces of paper" to prove anything to get inoculated as details are available in digital format. The software can be customised to any country as per its local requirements, he added.The CoWin Global Conclave aims to share India’s experience regarding universal vaccination to combat Covid-19 through CoWIN, according to the National Health Authority (NHA). “India is excited to join hands with the world to win over Covid-19 together with Co-WIN,” the NHA said in its statement.Also Read| As India is ready to share Co-Win, here's what all you can do from this platformUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan inaugurated the event on Monday. Other top central government officials including NHA’s chief executive officer (CEO) Dr RS Sharma, foreign secretary HV Shringla and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan are also expected to address the gathering. The conclave will also see participation from health and technology experts across the world.Fifty countries including Mexico, Canada, Uganda, Nigeria are interested in adopting CoWIN to run their inoculation drives, NHA’s Sharma told news agency PTI on Sunday, adding PM Modi instructed officials to create an open-source version of the vaccine registration platform and share it with any country which wants it for free.Also Read| 'Mind the gap': Rahul Gandhi targets Centre over vaccination rateIndia started its nationwide vaccination drive on January 16 this year, where doses were administered to citizens in phases. Currently, people above the age of 18 are being inoculated against Covid-19.In a major development aimed towards speeding up the vaccination drive, the central government started inoculating all adults above 18 free at government vaccination centres from June 21. The announcement for the same was made by PM Modi in his address to the nation on May 31. The government is planning to vaccinate all adult citizens by the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-cowin-global-conclave-101625474729118.html
05-07-2021||India||Manipur enters India’s railway map as first passenger train reaches the state||A passenger train – Rajdhani Express from Assam’s Silchar railway station - reached the Vaingaichunpao railway station in Manipur for a trial run on Friday, putting the state on the Indian Railways map.According to reports, the train covered the distance of 11 km between the two northeastern stations, with railway officials onboard. The train halted briefly at Manipur’s Jiribam railway staition, where railway officials were greeted by local citizens before the national flag was hoisted accompanied by the national anthem, East Mojo reported.Among the Indian Railways officials that reached Jiribham station from Silchar were North East Frontier (NF) Railway senior PRO Nripen Bhattacharya, and CDO Silchar, Abdul Hakim, among others.Addressing the media, Bhattacharya said that the broad-gauge train service was extended up to Vaingaichunpao railway station from Silchar, and that the passenger train service from Vaingaichunpao to Silchar will start soon, East Mojo reported.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Saturday took to Twitter to hail the moment as “historic”. “The first trial run of a passenger train from Silchar to Vaingaichunpao in Tamenglong was successfully conducted on Friday,” he wrote in the post, adding that the “people of Manipur are immensely grateful” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Historic moment for Manipur as the first trial run of a passenger train from Silchar to Vaingaichunpao in Tamenglong was successfully conducted on Friday. The people of Manipur are immensely grateful to PM @narendramodi Ji for the transformation brought under his leadership. https://t.co/Xf6ltAf8sKEchoing him, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Union minister of state (MoS) for Development of North Eastern Region Dr Jitendra Singh also wrote in his post on Twitter that the moment was “historic”.Notably, the Vaingaichunpao-Imphal (capital of Manipur) railway line is also under construction, East Mojo reported. Once completed, it will be the longest railway tunnel near Imphal, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-enters-india-s-railway-map-as-first-passenger-train-reaches-the-state-101625474463824.html
05-07-2021||India||Aadhar update: 35 services can now be availed through upgraded mAadhar app||Aadhar has emerged as one of the most important documents from availing public schemes. From taxes to vaccines everything is linked to this one identity proof. And now, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has updated the mAadhar app, which grants smartphone users access to over 35 Aadhaar-related services, available 24/7 at their fingertips.UIDAI took to microblogging site Twitter to announce this new facility for both Android and iOS users, to avail services like Aadhaar card download, Aadhaar card status check, Aadhaar card reprint. In a subsequent tweet UIDAI asked users to uninstall the previous version of the app on their phones and reinstall it for an upgraded version which offers access to 35 services.Read on to find out more about the new features||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhar-update-35-services-can-now-be-availed-through-upgraded-maadhar-app-101625474814062.html
05-07-2021||India||Abhijit Mukherjee, Pranab Mukherjee’s son, set to join TMC today||In another setback for the Congress in West Bengal, late President Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijit Mukherjee is set to join Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday. Abhijit Mukherjee has been a two-term MP in the Lok Sabha in his father’s seat of Jangipur. But he lost the last election. Even though he is not a political heavyweight, his shift to TMC could be a major embarrassment for the Congress, which has lost some of its prominent faces in recent years. Jyotiraditya Scindia, Jitin Prasada, Himanta Biswa Sarma are some of the prominent leaders who left the Congress to join the Bharatiya Janata Party in the past few years. Also Read | BJP’s Kolkata protest rally against fake vaccination racket may trigger clashesThe former President’s daughter is a Congress leader in Delhi.Abhijit Mukherjee could not be contacted. But a senior TMC leader said Abhijit Mukherjee met the party’s second-in-command Abhishek Banerjee two weeks ago to discuss his prospects. In the recent West Bengal elections, the Congress drew its first-ever blank and won no seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhijit-mukherjee-pranab-mukherjee-s-son-set-to-join-tmc-today-101625471168999.html
05-07-2021||India||'Not like India-Pakistan': Sanjay Raut on Shiv Sena-BJP relationship||The political ways of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena might be different but the friendship between both the parties "will remain intact," senior leader of Maharashtra government Sanjay Raut said on Sunday. Reacting to BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis' 'we are not enemies' remark, Raut said, "We are not India-Pakistan."He also cited an example of a Bollywood power couple, Kiran Rao and Aamir Khan, who announced their separation recently. "Look at Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao, it is like them. Our (Shiv Sena, BJP) political ways are different but the friendship will remain intact," news agency ANI quoted Raut as saying. Raut was referring to the couple's statement following the divorce announcement in which Rao and Khan said, they will begin the new chapter of their lives -- "no longer as husband and wife, but as co-parents and family for each other".The former chief minister of Maharashtra and now the leader of the opposition, Fadnavis on Sunday said, "There are no ifs and buts in politics. Decisions are taken according to the prevailing circumstances. There might be some differences with Shiv Sena but we are not enemies."In a veiled swipe, Fadnavis also added, "Remember that Shiv Sena fought elections with us and after the results, joined hands with Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)."Speaking further on the topic, Fadnavis also said he has no information whether Raut has met any BJP leader or not. "Sanjay Raut speaks something in the morning and something else at night," he also said.In the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls, BJP emerged as the single largest party in Maharashtra with 105 seats followed by Shiv Sena with 56 seats. The NCP bagged 54 seats while Congress got 44 seats in the 288-member Maharashtra Assembly.The BJP-Shiv Sena alliance won an absolute majority in the election but could not form the government over the conflict regarding the chief ministerial post. Later, Shiv Sena along with NCP and Congress formed the government in the state under the leadership of Uddhav Thackeray, who took oath as Maharashtra chief ,inister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/not-india-pakistan-sanjay-raut-on-shiv-sena-bjp-relationship-101625470617615.html
05-07-2021||India||Scientists identify post-infection treatment for Covid-19||Scientists have identified a post-infection treatment for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and successfully demonstrated its efficacy in stopping viral reproduction in mice.The study, published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, showed that animal models infected with coronavirus and treated with an inhibitor of protease enzymes had significantly increased survival and decreased lung viral quantity, reported news agency PTI.The study said that these protease inhibitors are a class of antiviral drugs that prevent viral reproduction by selectively binding to viral enzymes and blocking the activation of proteins that are necessary for the production of infectious viral particles."We developed the protease inhibitor GC376 for treating a fatal coronavirus infection in cats, which is now under commercial development as an investigational new animal drug," said Yunjeong Kim, associate professor at Kansas State University in the US."After Covid-19 emerged, many research groups reported that this inhibitor is also effective against the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, and many are currently pursuing the development of protease inhibitors as a treatment," Kim added.The researchers said that their team modified GC376 using a tool called deuteration to test its efficacy against SARS-CoV-2. Treatment with a deuterated variant starting at 24 hours post-infection resulted in significantly increased survival of mice compared to untreated mice.The results suggested that deuterated variants have excellent potential as antiviral agents against SARS-CoV-2, they said."Treating SARS-CoV-2-infected mice with deuterated GC376 significantly improved survival, viral replication in lungs and weight losses, which shows the efficacy of the antiviral compound," said Kyeong-Ok Chang, professor at Kansas State University."The results suggest deuterated GC376 has a potential for further development, and this deuteration method can be utilised to other antiviral compounds to generate potent inhibitors," Chang added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-identify-post-infection-treatment-for-covid19-101625468987393.html
05-07-2021||India||At least one dose of Covid vaccine given to 10 million people in Odisha||Odisha has administered more than 10 million people in the state with at least one dose of Covid vaccine even as the state recorded its highest single-day toll with 52 deaths recorded over past 24 hours and reported on Monday.State health and family welfare department officials said over 10.006 million residents got the first dose while over 2,210 million received both the doses of Covid vaccine in the state. A total of 12.216m doses have been administered including over 10,732m doses of Covishield and over 1.483m doses of Covaxin.Khurda district has registered the highest number of vaccinations with 1.215m first doses and 566,807 second doses administered till date. Odisha has 30.9m residents eligible for Covid vaccination.“As we steadily move towards universal vaccination for our eligible population, we thank the people of Odisha and our dedicated healthcare workers for making this possible,” said a senior official of the health department.Meanwhile, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Monday started walk-in vaccination at pre-designated centres to administer 1st dose to the 18-44 age group. BMC officials are hoping to vaccinate every eligible person by the end of July.Meanwhile, Ganjam district administration started giving Covaxin jabs to eligible recipients from Monday. Till now, people in Ganjam were getting Covishield jabs as Covaxin was limited to Bhubaneswar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-one-dose-of-covid-vaccine-given-to-10-million-people-in-odisha-101625470089102.html
05-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Anil Deshmukh claims probe against him is not transparent and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Anil Deshmukh writes letter to ED, claims probe against him not transparentFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh sent a letter to Enforcement Directorate (ED) claiming that the ongoing investigation against him is not transparent. Read More'Betrayed by own people', says Chirag Paswan as he launches Ashirwad YatraLok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan said on Monday said that he doesn't have the status to show off as he launched the 'Ashirwad Yatra' on his father Ram Vilas Paswan's birth anniversary. Read MoreMeet organisations bridging Odisha’s great digital divide to teach studentsOdisha government’s push for online education for class 1 to 10 during the Covid pandemic ended up excluding a majority of students last year. Read MoreRise of Taliban 2.0 will turn India into frontline state against terrorAfter the withdrawal of US-NATO forces from Afghanistan, the Taliban appear to be on a rampage in the strife torn country with the insurgent force capturing the exit points. Read MoreTaapsee Pannu lashes out as critics highlight Haseen Dillruba's glorification of 'toxic masculine love'Taapsee Pannu began her week by defending her film Haseen Dillruba against a fresh wave of criticism. Read MoreWatch: Landslide in Japan's Atami, 20 people missing, at least 3 killedA massive landslide ripped through a Japanese seaside resort town on July 3. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-anil-deshmukh-claims-probe-against-him-is-not-transparent-and-all-the-latest-news-101625467752677.html
05-07-2021||India||Meet organisations bridging Odisha’s great digital divide to teach students||Odisha government’s push for online education for class 1 to 10 during the Covid pandemic ended up excluding a majority of students last year, but a handful of social organisations and individuals are determined to bridge the digital gulf in a state where only 2% government schools have internet facilities and just 28.22% internet subscribers as per the government data.The school and mass education department admitted that online education could not reach more than one third of 6 million school students last year. But in its effort to provide continuity of education, amid Covid pandemic, the Odisha School Education Programme Authority started a WhatsApp-based teaching system and followed it up with YouTube live streaming classes for students of Class 1-10 from last month.“As there is no clarity on when schools will reopen, we have to continue with online education. We are getting reports of children having to climb trees, hills to get net connectivity, but it is a Central issue and our chief minister has taken up the matter with the Prime Minister for expanding net connectivity in remote areas of the state,” said Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Dash. It’s not just a signal issue, the fact remains that YouTube learning is able to cater to just about 1.2 million of the 6.6 million school students since tribal districts and rural areas lack internet connectivity and poor children don’t have mobiles. “The pandemic has led to an ‘education deficit’ or the difference between the reality children experience and government’s commitments in human rights treaties. This not only undermines the fundamental human right to education, but has real dire consequences for global development and an entire generation of children,” said activist Radhakanta Tripathy, who has filed a petition before the National Human Rights Commission in this regard. However, a few individuals as well as NGOs are innovating to bridge the great digital divide. Headmaster of Mundamurai primary school in Dharakote block of Ganjam district, Surjya Narayan Sahoo makes video modelled on the YouTube classes which are encoded by cable operators and beamed on local cable network, accessible to students in 7 gram panchayats. “All the students have TV in their homes and at least a feature phone. Whatever is shown on YouTube channel, I teach them the same through cable TV. I also address their doubts over ordinary mobile phones,” said Sahoo. Binayak Acharya’s education start-up ThinkZone has been reaching out to over 10,000 children in the districts of Khurda, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Cuttack even if they don’t have smartphones or internet access. Since the start of the pandemic last year, Acharya’s start-up has been teaching the students of class 1-5 through remote instructions by feature phone and simple text messages along with automated voice calls to engage with children. Every morning, teaching content is sent to the feature phones of the parents and in the afternoon, the teachers check with the students if they went through the contents. The students have to call a toll free number and listen to the teaching. . The content includes a lot of home-based learning activities, focusing on foundational skills in Odia and Mathematics. The activities are very simple in nature. “When lockdown started and children could not come to school, we started reaching out to children using feature phones as most of the parents are in low income groups. We regularly follow up and see whether a child is getting engaged. We are doing it for students of class 1 to 5 free of cost,” said Acharya, whose organization is now partnering with Odisha government’s Mo School programme for developing a home-based learning programme. In the remote Malkangiri district, non profit organization Atmashakti Trust, through its ally Shramajeebee Sangathan, started ‘Mo Chatashalee’, a community-led remedial education centre in the village where children can study with the help of a trained volunteer. Kawasiguda is a remote village of Kalimela block in Malkangiri with most of the inhabitants being Koya tribals, who have only 29.87% literacy, far less than the district and the state figures as per 2011 census. The village’s only school has been closed since mid-March last year following the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. With schools shut, children got involved in household or livelihood activities such as collecting firewood and forest produce, grazing animals etc. “Parents almost lost hope and it was critical to strike a balance for them to address the learning needs of their children. Therefore, we mobilized them to open ‘Chatashalee’, a remedial education centre in the village where children can continue their education with the help of a trained volunteer. We are using the school verandah for this purpose where 56 children are divided into two groups and imparted remedial class in morning and evening shift respectively,” said Ere Madhi, president of Mahila Shramajeebee Sangathan, a women-led people’s collectives in Malkangiri. In three tribal-dominated blocks of Kalahandi, Rayagada and Kandhamal Livolink Foundation, an associate of Tata Trusts, working in the education sector, began a home-based learning support program for tribal children as soon as the lockdown was announced last year. “We knew that prolonged school closure would lead to learning losses in the tribal areas. Online classes were also ruled out. So we started organizing classes in school buildings as the concept of studying at home is largely absent in tribal households. Instead of textbooks, our volunteers used locally available teaching-learning materials such as flowers, pebbles, twigs or even toffees for over 140,00 pre-school and primary school children,” said Santosh Dash, programme manager at Livolink Foundation. This year when the second wave of Covid started, the volunteers of Livolink started conducting classes at children’s homes, verandahs (porch), community areas or under shade of trees between 8 am and 10am and 3 and 5 pm. “The teaching process is not exam-oriented but rather fun and play based,” said Dash. Educationist Pritish Acharya said if the government continues online education without necessary supportive measures, the prevailing disparity in the virtual world could translate into widening educational inequalities. “Education has become a distant dream for the students who are poor and those living in remote and inaccessible areas. The government needs to think of an alternative model to reach out to such children,” said Acharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-organisations-bridging-odisha-s-great-digital-divide-to-teach-students-101625467929048.html
05-07-2021||India||'Betrayed by own people', says Chirag Paswan as he launches Ashirvad Yatra||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan said on Monday said that he doesn't have the status to show off as he launched the 'Ashirvad Yatra' on his father Ram Vilas Paswan's birth anniversary. Chirag said the aim is to take blessings of the people."I am beginning Ashirvad Yatra from Hajipur because it was my father's work land. We will hold this yatra in every district. Our only aim is to take everyone's blessings. I don't have the status to show power to anyone. My own people have betrayed me," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He is involved in a tussle with uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras for the control of the party, which was formed by Ram Vilas Paswan two decades ago. He passed away in October last year."I am the son of a lion, will never be scared, no matter how much people try to break us," said Chirag before launching the yatra (a roadhshow). He also launched a book titled 'Paswan'.The battle for Paswan's legacy is being played out with a tussle between his son Chirag and uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, who was elected as LJP's leader in Lok Sabha by five of the party's six lawmakers.On June 13, Paras was recognised as the leader of LJP in Lok Sabha in place of Chirag after the five of the six-party MPs gave a letter in his support.The Speaker accepted Paras as the floor leader of the LJP in the lower house of Parliament. In a revised list of floor leaders of parties, Paras was listed as the Lok Sabha LJP leader.While the wing led by Chirag has expelled the five MPs from the party, the rival group has removed him as its president.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/betrayed-by-own-people-says-chirag-paswan-as-he-launches-ashirwad-yatra-101625465741264.html
05-07-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh writes letter to ED, claims probe against him not transparent||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh sent a letter to Enforcement Directorate (ED) claiming that the ongoing investigation against him is not transparent. The agency has sent summons to the politician in connection with an alleged money laundering case linked to a purported bribery racket operated through dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze.Deshmukh has sent the letter to the Assistant Director of the agency. The ED has asked the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to appear before it on Monday."A series of events has given rise to apprehensions in my mind that neither procedure of law is being followed nor any objective investigations are being carried out. Therefore, I'm approaching Hon’ble Court to ensure that probe is within ambit of the procedure established by law," Deshmukh said in the letter.He had moved the Supreme Court on Sunday seeking protection from any coercive action in the case.The ED has also summoned Deshmukh's son Hrishikesh on July 6 in the same case.This is the third time Deshmukh has been summoned by the ED in the case. He skipped two of the agency's earlier summons. Through his lawyers, he had sought documents pertaining to ED’s complaint against him and also requested the agency to record his statement online. Both his requests were turned down by the agency.Deshmukh has denied all the allegations against him and claimed that he is cooperating with ED.On June 25, the ED had raided Deshmukh's residences in Nagpur and Mumbai. Raids were conducted at five other places.The case against the former Maharashtra home minister was registered on May 11 following an explosive letter from ex-Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who claimed that Deshmukh had asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from hotels and pubs in Mumbai.Deshmukh called the allegations false, but resigned from the post of home minister after a court ordered registration of cases against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-writes-letter-to-ed-claims-probe-against-him-not-transparent-101625464874905.html
05-07-2021||India||CBI raids 40 locations in fresh probe in UP’s Gomti Riverfront project||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday launched searches at over 40 locations in Uttar Pradesh and a few other states after registering a fresh case to investigate alleged irregularities in Gomti Riverfront project, launched by then Samajwadi Party government in 2015 with Akhilesh Yadav as the chief minister, people familiar with the development said.The raids were conducted following a First Information Report lodged on Friday by the anti-corruption wing of Lucknow unit of CBI against 189 people under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act.This is the second CBI probe in the project worth ₹1,600 crore, which is marred by allegations of diversion of funds, and not following the due process before awarding contracts. The first case was registered by the central agency in December 2017 on the recommendation of UP government. Also Read | Uttar Pradesh’s tree cover goes above national average, says Forest Survey of India reportThe Yogi Adityanath government recommended a CBI probe into the alleged irregularities on July 17, 2017, when a four-member committee appointed by it found that only 60% work had been carried out despite an expenditure of ₹1,435 crore (95% of project cost) on the project. In the latest case, people cited above said that several former chief engineers, superintending engineers, other engineers and public servants of the state irrigation department, private contractors and businessmen have been named as accused. The CBI teams, after registering the case, swooped in to raid the accused at 40 locations in 13 districts, including Lucknow, Agra, Noida, Bulandshahr, and Raebareli in the state and one place each in West Bengal and Rajasthan. “The CBI was entrusted with the investigation in 2017, why did it take so many years to make any headway in the case? Samajwadi Party welcomes the investigation in any developmental activity carried out by the previous government. But why this hullabaloo when UP Vidhan Sabha elections are fast approaching? Investigation cannot be used as a political ploy to divert the attention of people from pressing issues. We want free and fair investigation but this government is only interested in political vendetta. The investigation is just a facade to malign the previous government”, said Samajwadi Party leader and spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi.(With inputs from Chandan Kumar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-raids-40-locations-in-fresh-probe-in-up-s-gomti-riverfront-project-101625463189357.html
05-07-2021||India||'America coming back together': Joe Biden on Covid-19 situation in US||US President Joe Biden on Sunday (July 4) hosted a large gathering of healthcare workers and first responders at the White House to mark the celebrations of the country's 245th independence day. Addressing the large, cheering crowd, Biden also called on Americans to do their parts to end the Covid-19 pandemic.The US has "gained the upper hand against this virus," he announced while adding a caution of warning about the dangerous mutations of Covid-19. "Don't get me wrong. Covid-19 has not been vanquished. We all know powerful variants have emerged, like the Delta variant," he added."Today, all across this nation, we can say with confidence: America is coming back together," Biden also said.He further called on Americans to vaccinate in large numbers and said it is "the most patriotic thing" one can do for their nation.He also drew a comparison between the declaration of independence from the British Empire in 1776 and today's rapid recovery from the viral infection. "Two hundred and forty-five years ago, we declared our independence from a distant king. Today, we are closer than ever to declare our independence from a deadly virus," he told the crowd.He further said that this year's celebration is "special" as the country is "emerging from the darkness of a year of pandemic, isolation and a year of pain, fear and heartbreaking loss."While maintaining an upbeat tone mostly about how the country has overcome the spiralling crisis of Covid-19 under his leadership in the address, Biden also paid tribute to those who have lost their lives to the disease. "Over the last year, we have lived through some of our darkest days," Biden said, adding, "We are about to see our brightest future."The US was one of the top countries in the list of nations with the highest number of cases and deaths. Since the beginning of the pandemic in December 2019, the virus claimed 605,000 lives, while more than 33.7 million people have been infected.For Biden, the White House celebration of the fourth of July was a long-awaited opportunity to highlight the success of the vaccination campaign he championed. The event was the largest yet of his presidency, in a clear indication that the US has moved into a new phase of virus response. Shifting from a national emergency to a localised crisis of individual responsibility, the nation also moved from vaccinating Americans to promoting global health.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/america-coming-back-together-joe-biden-on-covid-19-situation-in-us-101625462667729.html
05-07-2021||India||Who is Sirisha Bandla: Know all about Indian-origin woman to fly to space||Sirisha Bandla has made headlines as the second Indian-origin woman to head to space as part of Virgin Space Ship Unity on July 11. Andhra Pradesh-born Bandla will be one of the six space travellers aboard 'VSS Unity' of Virgin Galactic, scheduled to take off from New Mexico alongside the company's founder Richard Branson.The Telugu woman from Andhra's Guntur district who was brought up in Houston will become the second India-born woman to fly into space after Kalpana Chawla. Rakesh Sharma and Sunita Williams were the other Indians who went into space prior to Bandla.Taking to Twitter, the 34-year-old aeronautical engineer shared she was "incredibly honoured" to be part of the crew. "I am so incredibly honoured to be a part of the amazing crew of Unity22, and to be a part of a company whose mission is to make space available to all," she posted.Sirisha is brave and strong when making decisions, Dr Ragaiah, Bandla's paternal grandfather told news agency ANI. "I am overwhelmed with joy and happiness that my second granddaughter is going to space. She has been very brave right from the beginning and is a very strong decision-maker. She completed her schooling in the US. She has always had a fascination for the sky," said the 85-year-old.Sirisha completed her Bachelor of Science in Aerospace, Aeronautical and Astronautical Engineering in 2011 from Purdue University and went on to do her MBA from George Washington University in 2015.She joined Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic after completing her studies and is currently the Vice President of Government Affairs at the British-American spaceflight company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-sirisha-bandla-know-all-about-indian-origin-woman-to-fly-to-space-101625460552861.html
05-07-2021||India||Govt presents draft bill to check human trafficking, suggestions invited||The Centre has invited suggestions for the draft of the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021 which it has presented. According to ministry of women and child development, the objective of the bill is to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children.The draft bill has proposed severe punishment for offences classified as aggravated forms of trafficking.What are the provisions of the bill?According to the draft bill, a person found guilty of trafficking can be imprisoned for a minimum term of seven years, which can be extended to 10 years. The provisions will apply to every offence of trafficking in persons with cross-border implications.Those convicted shall also be liable to a fine of ₹1 lakh to five lakh, the bill has proposed. It will also allow the properties of the convicts, bought using money from trafficking, to be forfeited.What does the government say?The ministry of women and child development has said that the proposed bill will provide care, protection, and rehabilitation to the victims of trafficking, while respecting their rights. It will also create a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them and also to ensure prosecution of offenders, it added.The ministry has invited suggestions till July 14 after which the bill will be sent to the Union Cabinet for approval.In May, the Bengaluru Police arrested five people, including a woman, for allegedly raping a woman, torturing her and recording the assault. The victim was believed to be from Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-presents-draft-bill-to-check-human-trafficking-suggestions-invited-101625458954199.html
05-07-2021||India||CoWIN to go global today, 50 countries show interest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will address the CoWIN global conclave, where countries who have shown interest in the government's digital platform will be given an opportunity to adopt it. The platform is being used in India to help people register for vaccination against Covid-19, book a slot and download vaccination certificates.As many as 50 countries including Canada, Mexico, Nigeria, Panama and Uganda have shown interest in adopting the CoWin platform. Various health and technology experts from different countries are expected to participate in the event, which will be inaugurated by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.Foreign secretary HV Shringla, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Dr RS Sharma, the CEO of the National Health Authority (NHA), are also expected to speak at the event.The conclave aims to share India's experience with regards to universal vaccination to fight Covid-19 through CoWIN, the NHA said in a statement posted on its website.The event, being organised in a joint initiative by the Union ministry of health, external affairs and the NHA, aims to share India's experience with regards to universal vaccination to fight Covid-19 through Co-WIN.What is CoWIN?The full form of CoWIN is Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work. It was introduced by the central government in January when the vaccination drive against Covid-19 began in the country. It is a website for beneficiaries and for officials associated with the vaccination process, there is a different mobile application as well.Key featuresThe e-portal allows beneficiaries to book a vaccination slot. They can choose a day and time slot as per their preference. The beneficiaries can register at the website with their phone number. They will then receive an OTP to be entered in the required field. The beneficiary will then be asked to enter their Aadhaar details and can move forward to book their vaccination slot.It also allows the user to add four family members in their profile and book slots for them as well.After successful vaccination, they can also download their certificate from the portal.To facilitate Indians planning to travel abroad, the platform also offers the option of linking one's passport with that of the Covid-19 vaccine certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-to-go-global-today-50-countries-show-interest-101625457771714.html
05-07-2021||India||India's fresh Covid-19 cases fall further to 39,796, active cases continue to stay below 500,000||India on Monday reported 39,796 new cases of the Covid-19 disease and 723 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,585,229 and 402,728 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. The total recoveries climbed to 29,700,430 after 42,352 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The daily recoveries continued to outnumber the new cases for the 53rd straight day.The active cases have further declined to 482,071 and constitute 1.59 per cent of the caseload.Monday’s case count is 3,275 less than that of Sunday’s when 43,071 cases were reported. On the other hand, the toll on Monday is 232 less than that of Sunday’s when 955 succumbed to the viral disease.A total of 419,777,457 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease so far of which 15,22,504 were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Monday.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/xkHZDolAgGAs the daily infections in India have been dipping for nearly two months and the country has not seen a peak since May 7, states and Union Territories (UTs) have further eased their Covid-19 related restrictions.The national Capital Delhi, as a part of its sixth phase of the unlock process, on Sunday allowed stadiums and sports complexes to open without spectators from 5am today. However, all forms of public gatherings are prohibited. Auditoriums, spas, amusement parks, schools and colleges continue to remain closed in Delhi.Also Read| Karnataka relaxes Covid-19 lockdown from today: Check what’s allowed, what’s notIn Karnataka, the state government on Sunday allowed places of worship including temples, mosques, churches, gurudwaras and other religious places to only open for prayers with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. However, no seva/offering or other such activities are allowed, the government said in its order. Malls, shopping complexes will reopen from today while stadiums and sports complexes can only open for practice sessions. The state recorded 1,564 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest single day tally in 3.5 months.The administration in Jammu and Kashmir announced that there will be no weekend lockdown in 13 districts from today. But the daily curfew in these districts will remain in force from 8pm to 7am. Outdoor shops in the Union Territory are allowed to open on all days of the week from 7am to 7pm. Restaurants and bars are allowed to open for dine in at 50 per cent capacity. However, only vaccinated people will be allowed.Meanwhile, according to the Union health ministry, a total of 351,221,306 vaccine doses against the Covid-19 disease have been administered to beneficiaries so far of which 287,137,161 have received the first dose and 64,084,145 have received both doses. Over 6.38 million beneficiaries were inoculated in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-39-796-fresh-covid-19-cases-daily-fatality-count-falls-to-723-101625456960237.html
05-07-2021||India||TMC delegation to meet President today, seek removal of Solicitor General||A delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders is likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind this afternoon seeking removal of Tushar Mehtra as the Solicitor General (SG) of India, days after writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi making the same demand.“A TMC delegation comprising MPs would directly approach the President and apprise him of the meeting between SG Tushar Mehta and the Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal assembly [Suvendu Adhikari],” a TMC leader said, adding that the President has given his consent and the delegation would meet him around 2.30pm.Party MPs had earlier written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Mehta’s removal over his alleged meeting with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Suvendu Adhikari which they said was in violation of established norms.The letter, signed by party MPs Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra, said the alleged meeting between Adhikari and Mehta “reeks of impropriety”.Adhikari is an accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, and Mehta -- the Union government’s second highest law officer -- is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation in the Supreme Court and Calcutta high court in the agency’s probe against senior TMC leaders in the case.Also Watch | ‘My tax amount is...’: President Kovind on his salary & how ‘teachers save more’Both Mehta and Adhikari have denied the meeting took place. Mehta said on Friday that Adhikari, the Leader of Opposition in West Bengal, came to his residence-cum-office in Delhi at 3pm on Thursday, but left without meeting the SG as the latter was tied up in previous engagements and expressed his inability to meet the Nandigram MLA.The TMC, however, raised doubts, alleging that Adhikari was at Mehta’s residence for around 30 minutes. “Narada accused enters home of SG (who is also Special PP, CBI in Narada case) in vehicle, is checked & waved inside by security guards & exits after 30 mins. They say nothing happened. Yeah, right,” TMC MP Mahua Moitra tweeted on Saturday.On its part, the BJP has backed Adhikari and blamed the state government of seeking resignations. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh had said to mediapersons, “The TMC is engaged in politics of removal. Earlier, they wanted the state Governor removed. Now, they want the SG to be removed. Mamata Banerjee has lost the elections [she was defeated from Nandigram by Adhikari though TMC won the polls] but has become the chief minister through the backdoor. We are seeking her removal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-delegation-to-meet-prez-kovind-today-seeking-removal-of-solicitor-general-101625457488236.html
05-07-2021||India||PM Modi remembers 'friend' Ram Vilas Paswan on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder, late Ram Vilas Paswan, on his birth anniversary. He said that Paswan was one of India’s most experienced Parliamentarians."Today is the birth anniversary of my friend, late Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. I miss his presence greatly. He was one of India’s most experienced Parliamentarians and administrators. His contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered," PM Modi said on Twitter.Today is the birth anniversary of my friend, late Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. I miss his presence greatly. He was one of India’s most experienced Parliamentarians and administrators. His contributions to public service and empowering the downtrodden will always be remembered.Ram Vilas Paswan, the veteran socialist and Dalit leader, passed away on October 8 last year.Paswan was a minister in the VP Singh government, and emerged as a key champion of the implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations. He was also a minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, the Manmohan Singh government and the Narendra Modi government.The battle for Paswan's legacy is being played out as a son Chirag is involved in tussle with uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, who was elected as LJP's leader in Lok Sabha by the five of party's six MPs.Both the factions have now moved to control the party and project their group as the real LJP, founded by Ram Vilas Paswan.While the wing led by Chirag Paswan has expelled the five MPs from the party, the rival group has removed him as its president.A meeting of the LJP national executive last Sunday endorsed Chirag's leadership and hit out at the faction headed by his paternal uncle for working against the party's constitution.Chirag, meanwhile, will take out a 'Ashirwad Yatra' on the occasion of Ram Vilas Paswan's birth anniversary on Monday to seek blessings of the people of Bihar. The yatra, in the form of a roadshow, will start from Hajipur, represented by Ram Vilas Paswan in the Lok Sabha eight times. Paras is currently the Lok Sabha MP from here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-remembers-friend-ram-vilas-paswan-on-his-birth-anniversary-101625456059941.html
05-07-2021||India||Army chief to inaugurate memorial for Indian soldiers in Italy during visit||Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General MM Naravane embarks on a four-day visit to the United Kingdom and Italy starting Monday, July 5. The visit will also see the army chief inaugurating an Indian Army Memorial in the Cassino town of Italy.In the first leg of the visit on July 5 and 6, the COAS will hold talks with the UK’s Secretary of State for Defence, Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of General Staff and other dignitaries, the army said.“The COAS will also inaugurate the Indian Army Memorial in the famous town of Cassino and will be briefed at the Italian Army’s Counter IED Centre of Excellence at Cecchingola, Rome,” it said.Also Read | Death toll in Philippines troop plane crash rises to 29The memorial was built to pay homage to over 5,000 Indian soldiers who lost their lives fighting German and Japanese forces during the World War II. Between 1943 and 1945, nearly 50,000 Indian soldiers were deployed to fight for Italy’s liberation.“The fourth, eighth, and tenth Indian Infantry Divisions were employed in the battle for the capture of Monte Cassino and in the bitter campaign that followed for the breaching of the Gothic Line,” former Italian army chief General Fabrizio Castagnetti had said while speaking at a ceremony at Cassino earlier in which tributes were paid to these slain Indian soldiers.Besides Casino, Italy has many cemeteries where Indian soldiers are buried. Perugia, Luca, Florence, San Marino, Cesena, Forli, Ferrara, and Bologna are a few of the Italian cities that Indian soldiers helped to liberate during World War II. Six Indian soldiers who were part of allied contingents fighting for the liberation of Italy also received the prestigious Victoria Cross. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-to-inaugurate-memorial-for-indian-soldiers-in-italy-during-visit-101625455868159.html
05-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: How rich did Amazon make Jeff Bezos and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jeff Bezos to step down as Amazon CEO today. How rich the business made him?Jeff Bezos, the American business magnate, who is founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of one of the world’s largest technological organisations Amazon, will step down from the top position on Monday. Read moreBihar to carry out Covid-19 vaccination only on 4 days every week: ReportThe Bihar government has changed it norms to vaccinate its population against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. Read moreDelhi weather: Partly cloudy sky with a change of thunder, lightning todayDelhi is likely to witness partly cloudy sky with possibility of development of thunder, lightning on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Read moreCovid-19: 13 districts in Jammu and Kashmir to see more relaxations from todayAs Covid-19 cases started declining in Jammu and Kashmir, the government has announced that there will be no weekend lockdown in 13 districts. The daily night curfew, however, will continue from 8pm to 7am in these districts. Read moreKapil Dev has his say on whether Rahul Dravid should replace Ravi Shastri as next India head coachWith Rahul Dravid coaching the Indian limited-overs team in Sri Lanka, many believe it to be a sign of things to come for the future of Indian cricket. Read moreKatrina Kaif copies Shanaya Kapoor's affordable tie-dye look for shoot, see picsKatrina Kaif and Shanaya Kapoor seem to have found a shared love for tie-dye ensembles, and their most recent looks are proof of that. While Katrina is known for her girl-next-door style with voguish choices, Shanaya has become the poster girl for Gen-Z fashion that she often gives a glimpse of on her Instagram. Read morePriyanka Chopra misses her ‘firework’ Nick Jonas, holds on to him in throwback photoPriyanka Chopra wished her fans on American Independence Day by sharing a throwback photo with her husband Nick Jonas, and called him her ‘firework’. The picture was taken during a family barbeque in 2018. Read moreSleeping lynx gets woken up by house cat. Clip is too amusing to missIn an amusing encounter, a lynx that was sleeping on the porch of a house was woken up with a surprise. The old video, reshared on the subreddit ‘aww’ has again grabbed the attention of netizens and prompted some hilarious responses about the situation. Read moreWatch| ‘Modi govt working under…’: Rakesh Tikait on talks with Centre over farm laws||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-how-rich-did-amazon-make-jeff-bezos-101625454299949.html
05-07-2021||India||'10th avatar of Lord Vishnu': Gujarat man makes bizarre threat to get gratuity money||A former Gujarat government employee, Rameshchandra Fefar, has claimed to be the 'Kalki' avatar or the last incarnation of Lord Vishnu and has demanded that his gratuity be released immediately or else he will bring a severe drought on the world using his "divine powers", reports news agency PTI.Fefar was earlier granted premature retirement from the government service due to his absence from office following his 'avatar' claim.In his letter dated July 1 addressed to Secretary, Water Resources Department, Fefar stated "demons sitting in the government" are harassing him by withholding his " ₹16 lakh gratuity and another ₹16 lakh as the salary of one year".For the "harassment", Fefar said he will bring "severe drought on the earth" because he is the tenth incarnation of Lord Vishnu who rules 'Satyug' (the age of truth when humanity is governed by gods, according to Hinduism).In his letter, Fefar also claimed that India had received good rainfall in the last two decades because of his divine presence as the 'Kalki' avatar. "There was not a single drought for even a year in the country. India reaped a profit of ₹20 lakh crore due to good rainfall over the last twenty years. Despite this, the demons sitting in the government are harassing me. Because of this, I am going to bring severe drought across the globe this year. That is because I am the tenth avatar of Lord Vishnu and I rule the earth in Satyug," he added.Fefar was posted as the superintendent engineer with the Sardar Sarovar Punarvasvat Agency of the state's Water Resources Department, which looks after the resettlement and rehabilitation of families affected by the Narmada dam project, at its Vadodara office.He was served a show-cause notice earlier in 2018 for attending the office for only 16 days in eight months. "Fefar is asking for the salary even without attending the office. He insists that he should be paid only because he is an incarnation of 'Kalki' and was working to bring rain on earth. He is full of nonsense. I have received his letter claiming gratuity and one-year salary. His gratuity is under process," said Secretary (Water Resources), MK Jadav."There was an inquiry after he made the claim (of being the Kalki avatar) last time. The government had even approved his premature retirement considering his mental condition as a special case. Normally, a person facing inquiry does not get premature retirement," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10th-avatar-of-lord-vishnu-gujarat-man-makes-bizarre-threat-to-get-gratuity-money-101625452810300.html
05-07-2021||India||Action against lynching, no image makeover: 5 big points from RSS chief's speech||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat addressed a book launch event on Sunday where he talked about Hindu-Muslim unity. He also allayed fears that Islam is in danger in India.The event was organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, the Muslim wing of the RSS. Bhagwat said in his address that there can never be any dominance of either Hindus or Muslims.Talking about the impact of politics on unity, he said that politics cannot unite people but it can be used as a weapon to distort unity.Dismissing that his speech at this juncture is to gather votes in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the RSS chief said, "We neither intending for an image makeover nor for the votes of Muslims in the next election."Here are some of the quotes from Mohan Bhagwat's address on Sunday:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-against-lynching-no-image-makeover-5-big-points-from-rss-chief-s-speech-101625454090506.html
05-07-2021||India||Maharashtra daily Covid tally hovers between 8k-10k||Amid concerns of a third Covid-19 wave hitting the state in the coming months, Maharashtra has seen its daily caseload between the 8,000-10,000 for close to a month, according to health department data. Even in terms of deaths, the daily toll has been hovering around 150 for over two weeks.On Sunday, the state reported 9,336 cases and 123 deaths, along with reconciling 183 earlier deaths. A total of 3,378 more people recovered.Also Read | Bihar to carry out Covid-19 vaccination only on 4 days every week: ReportExperts said the reason behind the daily numbers being the same, more or less, is due to over half a dozen districts still reporting large numbers of cases. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “The reason we are not seeing a fall is because of the alarming number of cases from districts such as Palghar, Raigad, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. The number of cases being reported in these districts needs detailed investigation. At the same time, we also need to ensure that the unlocking is mindful, and that we maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-daily-covid-tally-hovers-between-8k10k-101625453228434.html
05-07-2021||India||Bihar to carry out Covid-19 vaccination only on 4 days every week: Report||The Bihar government has changed it norms to vaccinate its population against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. According to the new guidelines, the Covid-19 vaccination will be carried out for four days in a week.Two days will be kept for regular vaccination, while no such activity will be carried out on Sunday, Live Hindustan reported.The move will give relief to thousands of frontline workers and other people involved in giving jabs to the people. However, the Bihar government will have to speed up the pace of inoculating the people of the state in order to achieve the target if vaccinating 60 million people in the next six months.According to the Bihar government order on Sunday, Covid-19 vaccination will be carried out in the state on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Some district authorities followed the new norms and no vaccination was done in Arwal, Lakhisarai, Madhepura, Bhojpur, Gopalganj, Begusarai, West Champaran and Siwan, according to Live Hindustan. Ten people were given vaccine shots in Arariya, 16 in Vaishali, 32 in Kaimur, 70 in Samastipur and 96 in Jehanabad, it further reported.The decision has been taken by the state health department because regular vaccination was getting affected due to Covid-19 inoculation drive. The state government has chosen Wednesday and Friday as regular inoculation days, reported Live Hindustan.The Bihar government launched the 'Maha Abhiyan' on June 21 to inoculate 60 million of its population till December this year. As per the original plan, 3,30,000 people were supposed to be inoculated every day to achieve the target. Now, as per the revised plan, the projected number has increased to 5,70,000.Chief minister Nitish Kumar has instructed the state government officials to increase the pace of vaccination.According to state government data, 1 crore 72 lakh people in Bihar have so far been inoculated. Out of this, 1.48 crore people have received the first dose, while 24.18 lakh have been given both the doses.The vaccination drive in Bihar began on January 16 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-carry-out-covid-19-vaccination-only-on-4-days-every-week-report-101625450161381.html
05-07-2021||India||BJP chief JP Nadda to inspect Atal Tunnel in Himachal Pradesh today||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda will inspect the Atal tunnel in Himachal Pradesh on Monday. Nadda reached the state on Sunday and met BJP workers in Bilaspur.Apart from inspecting the high-altitude tunnel, Nadda will also attend a party meeting in Kullu-Manali.The tunnel was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year. It is located at a distance of 25km from Manali at an altitude of 3,060 metres.The 9.02-kilometre-long tunnel has been built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas. It has cut down the distance between Leh and Manali by 46 km and the travel time by four to five hours.Meanwhile, the Congress has demanded that a foundation plaque bearing party president Sonia Gandhi's name must be reinstalled at the Atal tunnel. All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Sanjay Dutt on Sunday threatened to protest if this is not done.Dutt said that despite the assurances, the state government did not reinstall the plaque.The Congress has said that Sonia Gandhi laid the foundation stone for the Rohtang Tunnel project on June 28, 2010, at Dhoondi in Manali.Dutt said that the tunnel is the gift of the then Congress-led UPA government.Originally conceived as Rohtang Tunnel, it was rechristened Atal Tunnel on December 25, 2019, in the memory of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The tunnel is equipped with various security features such as CCTV cameras, telephone connections at every 150 metres for any emergency, fire hydrant mechanism at every 60 metres and auto incident detection system.There are evacuation lighting and exit signs at every 25 metres and broadcasting system throughout the stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-to-inspect-atal-tunnel-in-himachal-pradesh-today-101625446752872.html
05-07-2021||India||Covid-19: 13 districts in Jammu and Kashmir to see more relaxations from today||As Covid-19 cases started declining in Jammu and Kashmir, the government has announced that there will be no weekend lockdown in 13 districts. The daily night curfew, however, will continue from 8pm to 7am in these districts. The relaxations will come into effect from Monday.As per a government order, the 13 districts are - Jammu, Kathua, Samba, Poonch, Rajouri, Udhampur, Anantnag, Bandipora, Baramulla, Budgam, Ganderbal, Pulwama and Shopian.As per the Union health ministry, there are currently 4,048 active Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir. As many as 3,08,246 recoveries and 4,335 deaths have been reported from the union territory so far. A total of 47,61,579 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in Jammu and Kashmir, including 40,14,703 first doses and 7,46,876 second doses.Here are the latest guidelines of the Jammu and Kashmir government6.25 per cent of shops in indoor shopping complexes and malls are allowed to open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-13-districts-in-jammu-and-kashmir-to-see-more-relaxations-from-today-101625445064489.html
05-07-2021||India||LJP's Chirag Paswan to begin 'Ashirvaad Yatra' in Bihar amid tussle with uncle||Locked in a tussle with uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras over the control of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Chirag Paswan is set to hold a roadshow (called 'Ashirvaad Yatra') in Bihar starting Monday. He will begin the roadshow from Hajipur, the constituency Chirag's father and LJP founder represented eight times since 1977. Chirag's uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras and leader of the rebel faction currently represents the constituency in Lok Sabha."We have a small programme to observe the birth anniversary in Delhi and after that, I will fly to Patna and go directly to Hajipur from the airport," Chirag said on Sunday.He also said that the 'Ashirvaad Yatra' is being organised to seek "blessings of the people". "In Hajipur, everyone knows how passionate my father was about Hajipur’s people. I will seek their blessings to kick start the yatra.""I will be at my father’s karmbhoomi to embark on a new mission to do whatever I could for my state. I had presented my vision for Bihar even during assembly elections and got good responses despite not getting seats, and I will continue doing so," Chirag said ahead of the roadshow.The first leg of Ashirvad Yatra will cover 12-13 districts. "After the first phase, there will be a second phase and in the next one and half months, I will cover the entire state and it will culminate as a National Council Meeting in Patna," he also informed.The roadshow is being seen as the beginning of a new politics by Chirag, who is often accused of operating from Delhi and not spending much time in his home state.Earlier in June, a faction of LJP, led by the younger brother of Ram Vilas Paswan, removed his estranged nephew from the post of party chief. Paras was also recognised in Lok Sabha after five of the six-party MPs gave a letter in his support.Chirag Paswan has termed the election "illegal" as it was conducted by members of the LJP who were suspended from the party. However, from the rebels' side, it has been reported that they have not been happy with the style of functioning of Chirag, who took over the party reins after his father, LJP founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan died in 2020.On Sunday as well, Sanjay Saraf, a leader of the faction said that the party got "weak" when Chirag Paswan was the chief of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljps-chirag-paswan-to-begin-ashirvaad-yatra-in-bihar-amid-tussle-with-uncle-101625445835616.html
05-07-2021||India||PM Modi to share his thoughts at CoWIN Global Conclave today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday share his thoughts at the CoWIN Global Conclave, as India will offer the CoWIN platform as a digital public good to other countries to run their own Covid-19 inoculation drives.About 50 countries, including Canada, Mexico, Nigeria, Panama and Uganda, have shown interest in adopting CoWIN, a digital platform, to run their vaccination drives, Dr R S Sharma, the CEO of the National Health Authority (NHA), had said recently, adding that India is ready to share the open-source software for free.PM Modi has directed officials to create an open-source version of the platform and give it to any country that wants it for free, Sharma had said, reports news agency PTI."We are elated to announce that Hon'ble PM @narendramodi would be sharing his thoughts on #CoWINGlobalConclave as India offers #CoWIN as a digital public good to the world to combat #COVID19," the NHA has said in a tweet.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan will inaugurate the virtual conclave. Others expected to speak at the event include Foreign Secretary H V Shringla, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Sharma.The virtual meet will start at 3pm and will see participation from health and technology experts representing countries across the world. The conclave aims to share India's experience with regards to universal vaccination to fight Covid-19 through Co-WIN, the NHA said in a statement posted on its website.India developed Co-WIN as the central information technology (IT) system for strategising, implementing, monitoring and evaluating Covid vaccination. Recently, many countries have shown interest in using the platform, the NHA said. "India is excited to join hands with the world to win over Covi-19 together with Co-WIN."Join us as we unfold the story behind the development of a scalable, inclusive and open platform called CoWIN, the tech backbone of India's vaccination drive," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-share-his-thoughts-at-cowin-global-conclave-today-101625443150284.html
05-07-2021||NA||Highlights: Tremors felt in Delhi, Gurugram, other areas of NCR||Breaking News updates: Covid-19 cases in India jumped to 30,585,229 after 39,796 found to be positive of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The death toll reached 402,728 after 723 people succumbed to the disease over the last 24 hours. In Bihar, Chirag Paswan commenced his 'Ashirvad Yatra' in shift of new politics by the leader locked in a tussle with uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras over the control Lok Janshakti Party.Meanwhile, in the United States, President Joe Biden hosted a largest event to mark the fourth of July celebrations. At the event, President Biden said that the US has "gained the upper hand against this virus." "Don't get me wrong. Covid-19 has not been vanquished. We all know powerful variants have emerged, like the Delta variant," he added.Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Jammu and Kashmir govt launches Mishri Cherry export to Dubai for 1st timeJammu and Kashmir government on Monday launched export of Mishri Cherry from Srinagar to Dubai for the first time in history of the Union Territory, reported ANI.Tremors felt in Delhi, Gurugram, other areas of NCREarthquake of Magnitude:3.7, Occurred on 05-07-2021, 22:36:54 IST, Lat: 28.70 & Long: 76.65, Depth: 5 Km ,Location: 10km N of Jhajjar, Haryana for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/9csmviZyai pic.twitter.com/89Jl1AVWUfCovid recovered with 1 or both doses of vaccine has higher protection against Delta variant: ICMR studyRecent study by ICMR revealsed that breakthrough cases and Covid-19 recovered individuals who have received one or both doses of vaccine have relatively higher protection against Delta variant in comparison to the participants who were administered either one or two doses of Covishield, reported ANI.Airports authority employees to protest against reduced allowances on TuesdayThe Airports Authority of India (AAI) Employees Joint Forum Association and Unions on Monday announced that it will launch a nationwide protest on Tuesday against AAI management regarding the reduction in allowances of employees in view of Covid-19.Bihar: All MLAs, MLCs, 12 senior Congress leaders to meet Rahul Gandhi on July 7Bihar Congress working president Sameer Kumar Singh on Monday said all MLAs, MLCs, and 12 senior party leaders from the state will meet Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on July 7, reported ANI.Over 1.8 million vaccine doses administered to 18-44 years age group for 1st dose in 24 hours: Govt#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ More than 10.55 Cr Vaccine doses administered in the age group 18-44, so far.➡️ More than 18.30 Lakh vaccine doses administered to 18-44 age group for first dose today. pic.twitter.com/Q9ZwmQzMv5CBSE announces Class 10, 12 board exam schemes for 2022, academic session to be divided into two termsAcademic session 2021-22 of class 10th & 12th to be divided into 2 terms with approx 50% syllabus in each term. Syllabus for Board examination 2021-22 will be rationalized similar to that of last academic session to be notified in July 2021: Central Board of Secondary Education pic.twitter.com/8vyfPUhWX7Civil aviation ministry allows domestic carriers to operate at 65% passenger capacity from the current 50%The civil aviation ministry on Monday allowed domestic carriers to operate at 65% passenger capacity from the current 50%.NCPCR requests FIR against Twitter India MD, policy manager for post showing child firingNCPCR on Monday wrote to Jammu and Kashmir Police requesting to lodge an FIR against Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari and Twitter India Policy Manager Shagufta Kamran for a tweet showing a child firing in the air and being encouraged by a group of 4-5 men.Centre grants further relaxation in e-filing of I-T forms Central Board of Direct Taxes on Monday granted further relaxation in electronic filing of income tax forms 15CA/15CB. Taxpayers can now submit the said forms in manual format to authorized dealers till July 15, 2021.Delhi’s daily Covid-19 infections decline to 54; active cases fall further to 912🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 5th July 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/qrcYwxCCacKejriwal govt completely failed people of Delhi: Punjab CM over free power promisePunjab CM Amarinder Singh on Monday slammed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for making false promises of free power in Punjab, if come into power. "The Kejriwal government has completely failed the people of Delhi on all counts, with no free power to the farmers in the villages located in the national capital and excessively high power tariffs for the industry," said Punjab CM.West Bengal CM urges PM to reduce taxes imposed by Centre on petrol, dieselWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting to 'substantially' reduce taxes charged by Central government on petrol and diesel, and to 'check the overall inflationary trend in the country'.TMC to stage protest against rising fuel prices on July 10, 11: Partha ChatterjeeThe Trinamool Congress leader Partha Chatterjee on Monday said that sit-in protests will be staged against hike in fuel prices in every block and town of West Bengal on July 10 and July 11, following all Covid protocols, reported ANI.Congress leader and former President Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijit joins TMCFormer President Pranab Mukherjee's son Abhijit Mukherjee joins Trinamool Congress in Kolkata pic.twitter.com/LVLPdzpVCtSukhbir Singh Sandhu appointed as new chief secretary of UttarakhandIAS officer Sukhbir Singh Sandhu has been appointed as the new chief secretary of Uttarakhand, as per ANI.Over 2.01 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states, private hospitals: GovtThe Union health ministry on Monday said more than 2.01 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered.PM Modi addresses CoWIN global conclave, says India has been committed to sharing its experience and expertise since beginning of CovidRight from the beginning of the pandemic, India has been committed to sharing all our experiences, expertise and resources with the global community in this battle.Despite all our constraints, we have tried to share as much as possible with the world: PM @narendramodiHuman rights activist and Elgar Parishad accused Stan Swamy dies after suffering cardiac attackDr Ian Dsouza of Holy Family Hospital on Monday informed the Bombay high court that Stan Swamy, Elgar Parishad accused passed away suffering a cardiac arrest. He said they declared Swamy dead at 1.30pm. Swamy suffered cardiac arrest at around 4am and the hospital tried to resuscitate him but his condition worsened and he passed away, the doctor informed.Govt, non-govt offices in Bihar allowed to open normally; restaurants and eateries to function at 50% seating capacityकोरोना स्थिति की समीक्षा के बाद सभी सरकारी, गैर सरकारी कार्यालय को सामान्य रूप से खोलने का निर्णय लिया गया है। टीका प्राप्त आगंतुक कार्यालय में प्रवेश पा सकेंगे। (1/3)Uttarakhand curfew extended till July 13Covid-curfew extended till 6 am of July 13 in Uttarakhand. Malls to reopen at 50% capacity and markets to remain closed on weekends: Uttarakhand GovtAbhijit Mukherjee, Pranab Mukherjee’s son, set to join TMC todayIn another setback for the Congress in West Bengal, late President Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijit Mukherjee is set to join Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday. Read MoreMembers of Gupkar Declaration express disappointment over Delhi meet with PMAll members of People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration expressed disappointment at outcome of Delhi meet (with PM) especially at absence of substantial Confidence Building Measures like releasing political and other prisoners and concrete steps to end siege: Official StatementLalu Prasad Yadav inaugurates RJD's foundation dayRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad Yadav, wife Rabri Devi inaugurate party's foundation day as the party completes 25 years today.Rise of Taliban 2.0 will turn India into frontline state against terrorAfter the withdrawal of US-NATO forces from Afghanistan, the Taliban appear to be on a rampage in the strife torn country with the insurgent force capturing the exit points over Amu Darya to neighbouring Tajikistan and encircling border areas, major cities and strategic highways. Read MoreLajpat Nagar market closed for non-adherence to Covid protocolLajpat Nagar market in Delhi to be closed for one day due to non-adherence of the Covid appropriate guideline.CBI raids 40 locations in UP in Gomti river front development project caseCBI raids going on at 40 locations in Uttar Pradesh in connection with alleged irregularities in ₹1,600 crore Gomti river front development project, which was launched by previous Samajwadi Party government led by Akhilesh Yadav in 2015.India records 39,796 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily fatality count falls to 723India on Monday reported 39,796 new cases of the Covid-19 disease and 723 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,585,229 and 402,728 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am.Army chief to inaugurate memorial for Indian soldiers in Italy during visitChief of Army Staff (COAS) General MM Naravane embarks on a four-day visit to the United Kingdom and Italy starting Monday, July 5. Read MoreLJP's Chirag Paswan to begin 'Ashirvaad Yatra' in Bihar amid tussle with uncleLocked in a tussle with uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras over the control of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Chirag Paswan is set to hold a roadshow (called 'Ashirvaad Yatra') in Bihar starting Monday. Read MoreBiden says Covid-19 not yet "vanquished""We’ve gained the upper hand against this virus," US President Joe Biden tells a large, cheering crowd of guests on White House lawn. "Don't get me wrong: Covid-19 has not been vanquished. We all know powerful variants have emerged, like the Delta variant," he also said.Rains predicted for Delhi, other adjoining areasThunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of South-west Delhi, Farukhnagar, Bhiwani, Charki-Dadri, Bhiwadi, Jhajjar (Haryana) and adjoining areas during the next 2 hours (issued at 04:45 IST): India Meteorological DepartmentCongress may have new leader in Lok Sabha, Rahul Gandhi top contenderThe Bharatiya Janata Party is abuzz with talk of a reshuffle of the cabinet and the Congress, for its part, is abuzz with talk of its own reshuffle. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-5-2021-101625442379366.html
05-07-2021||India||Bus service to resume across Tamil Nadu from Monday; e-pass not required for inter-district travel||The Tamil Nadu government has announced easing of more Covid-19 curbs from Monday and declared uniform relaxations in restrictions across the state. Restrictions that prohibit inter-state public bus services, social, political, entertainment, cultural and sport-related gatherings and reopening of schools, colleges, cinemas, bars, swimming pools and zoos would continue to be on till 6am on July 12, the government has said.Tamil Nadu on Sunday recorded 3,867 new coronavirus cases, pushing the tally to 24.96 lakh while 72 deaths in the last 24 hours mounted the toll to 33,006.Here is the latest guidelines of the Tamil Nadu government1. Only a maximum of 50 and 20 people would be allowed to participate in wedding events and funerals, respectively.2. The fresh relaxations, effective from Monday include extension of time till 8pm from the previous 7pm for a variety of retail outlets, shops and all other activities, an official release said.3. Intra and inter-district bus services would be operational across Tamil Nadu, doing away with a previous restriction that barred such services in 11 districts including Coimbatore.4. Hotels, lodges and guest houses would be allowed to resume functioning and restaurants would be permitted to re-start dine-in services (6am to 8pm), with 50 per cent customer occupancy and similarly, tea stalls too could offer services by following the same 50 per cent norm.5. Entertainment and amusement parks would be allowed to operate by allowing access to 50 per cent visitors.6. State-run retail liquor outlets would be allowed to function till 8 PM.7. The requirement of e-pass, mandated for purposes like travel in 11 specific districts has been removed now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bus-service-to-resume-across-tamil-nadu-from-monday-e-pass-not-required-for-inter-district-travel-101625442444751.html
05-07-2021||India||UP opens gyms, cinema halls and multiplexes from Monday||The Uttar Pradesh government will open gymnasiums, cinema halls, multiplexes and sports stadiums at 50 per cent of their capacity from Monday. A government spokesperson said on Friday that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced the relaxations in view of improving Covid-19 situation in the state, reports news agency PTI.Under the new guidelines, which will come into effect from 7am on Monday, all gymnasiums, cinema halls, multiplexes and sports stadiums will be allowed to open between 7am and 9pm five days a week with strict compliance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, the spokesman said.However, these will be allowed to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity, Adityanath said at a Covid review meeting, according to the spokesperson. The gyms in containment zones will remain closed.The CM directed the installation of posters or banners telling about preventive measures at all public places, the spokesman said.The chief minister said the government's focus is on restoring normalcy in the state with an aim to save both lives and livelihood while staying they are ready the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Adityanath also instructed to set up helpdesks close to public places to ensure the compliance of the coronavirus protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-opens-gyms-cinema-halls-and-multiplexes-from-monday-101625442272247.html
05-07-2021||India||Karnataka relaxes Covid-19 lockdown from today: Check what’s allowed, what’s not||The relaxations in Covid-19-related restrictions, recently announced by the Karnataka government, will come into effect from Monday. The new guidelines will allow certain activities, including re-opening of religious places and do away with the weekend curfew. The timings of night curfew will also be relaxed to 9pm to 5am, from the current 7pm to 5am. The relaxations would be in place for the next 15 days from July 5, chief minister B S Yediyurappa had said on Saturday.He added that the government has authorised the deputy commissioners of the districts to decide on easing or imposing restrictions.Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,564 fresh Cov-19 cases, 4,775 patient discharges, and 59 deaths in the last 24 hours, said the health department of the state.Here’s what’s allowed and what’s not1. Theatres, cinemas and pubs would remain closed while swimming pools would be opened only for competitive training purpose.2. Sports complexes and stadia shall be opened only for the purpose of practice whereas social, political, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings and large congregations have been prohibited.3. Weddings and family functions are permitted with the presence of not more than 100 people. Places of worship are allowed to open only for 'darshan' not for 'sevas'.4. The order said cremation and funerals would be allowed with a maximum of 20 people, while public transport is allowed to operate up to its seating capacity.5. Shops, restaurants, malls, and private offices have to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour failing which action will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,' Yediyurappa said.6. Educational institutions, tutorials and colleges would remain shut until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-relaxes-covid-19-lockdown-from-today-check-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101625442057526.html
05-07-2021||India||New CM lands in row for sharing distorted India map 6 years ago||Hours before he took oath as the 10th chief minister of Uttarakhand, Pushkar Singh Dhami triggered a political slugfest on Sunday over a 2015 social media post in which he shared an image of “Akhand Bharat” that allegedly showed misrepresented parts of the present-day map.The map, posted on Twitter on August 14, 2015, purportedly showed “Akhand Bharat (undivided India)” leaving out parts of Ladakh and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) . The post triggered sharp responses from opposition parties Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, which sought action against the 45-year-old leader.Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress vice-president for the Uttarakhand unit, said it was surprising that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government didn’t take any action against Dhami. “Instead, they have made him the CM. Even the past two CMs have given controversial statements during their tenures, inviting flak not only from Congress but people in general. We expect CMs to talk about issues of people, on unemployment, on price hike, not just make controversial statements or tweets.”Misrepresentation of the Indian map recently landed Twitter in trouble, when a world map under the careers sections of the company’s page titled Tweep Life, showed the disputed Aksai Chin area of Ladakh, illegally occupied by China, as part of that country and depicted the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir as a separate entity.Two police cases were filed against Twitter for carrying the distorted version on its website. In October last year, the Centre served Twitter with a notice over the geotag for Leh, showing it as a part of China.The AAP’s state unit president SS Kaler, too, called for action against Dhami, saying: “Whether a person is a common man or a VIP, the law should be the same for all citizens. How can a BJP leader himself show the map of India without Ladakh and Pakistan Occupied Kashmir?...”The BJP, however, launched a counter-attack and sought the Congress’s stand on the revocation of J&K’s special status. “It is the BJP government that revoked Article 370 and integrated Kashmir with the rest of India... I want to ask Congress what has been their stand on Article 370, what they have done for the integration of the country, ” said state BJP spokesperson Devendra Bhasin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-cm-lands-in-row-for-sharing-distorted-india-map-6-years-ago-101625430225479.html
05-07-2021||India||Uncertainty grows over BSY’s future as old cases resurface||Bengaluru Despite the assurances made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on continuing with BS Yediyurappa as the chief minister of Karnataka is yet to have any bearing on the stability of the two-year-old government whose future remains under a cloud of uncertainty. With Yediyurappa’s past actions like his alleged involvement in the land denotification scam among othersreturning to haunt the 78-year-old and growing allegations of corruption and impropriety against him and his family, people aware of the developments said that it is just a “matter of time” before the central leadership initiates measures to replace him.On Saturday, a special court in Bengaluru dismissed a ‘B’ Report filed by the Lokayukta police seeking the closure of over a 15-year-old investigation against Yediyurappa in a land denotification case- a reason why the latter was asked to step down at least once in his four stints at the top chair. The legal setback dates back to 2006 when Yediyurappa was the Deputy CM .“Everything is in the right path,” said one BJP legislator, indicating that the process to change Yediyurappa is on course. People aware of the developments said that Yediyurappa is likely to budge on condition that his son--or sons--are placated. A senior Union minister said on condition of anonymity that while a final decision has not been taken, his son BY Raghavendra is likely to be accommodated in the union cabinet reshuffle being planned in Delhi as part of the process. Raghavendra is the MP from Shivamogga, the home district of Yediyurappa. However, there are no guarantees on the other son, BY Vijayendra, who is currently the state BJP vice president and nurses ambition to take over the reins of his father and wants to be seen as the natural heir as a leader of the dominant Lingayat community, people aware of the developments said. While it remains to be seen if BJP can strike a deal to get Yediyurappa to step down on his own to cause least amount of collateral damage, the possibility has already bolstered the principal opposition, Congress, to make their move. Yediyurappa’s purported removal from the top post has fueled speculation that a section of the turncoats, who defected from the HD Kumaraswamy government, are likely to make their way back into their parent parties (JD(S) and Congress) before the assembly elections in 2023. People aware of the developments said that this helps Yediyurappa retain his bargaining power to keep him in the top chair for the next two years and their possible return to the Congress could help Siddaramaiah muster enough support to back him as the chief ministerial face, if Congress returns to power. Hinting at rolling out a red carpet for the defactors, state Congress president on Saturday had even said that the party was open to welcome all those who identified with its ideology. Taking a dig at the chief minister, Siddaramaiah on Sunday said that Yediyurappa, all PAs of ministers and BY Vijayendra were out to “loot” the state. AH Vishwanath, one of the 17 members who did defect to the BJP on Sunday said that he appreciated a “clever and astute” Shivakumar but added that “it was not like they (turncoats) would go back tomorrow itself.”Vishwanath was the president of the JD(S) when he defected and shares a turbulent relationship with both Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah.But the attacks on Yediyurappa have come from within his own government.“What has happened is that despite us coming to power, the opposition parties influence is more is what I have said repeatedly to the chief minister. The reservation for the Zilla and taluk Panchayati election is done like what Kumaraswamy and the opposition parties wanted and not by the government,” CP Yogeshwara, Karnataka’s minister for tourism, environment and ecology said on Sunday.“I cant keep telling you our pain but we are undergoing torture. They have distributed and categorized it according to their (oppositions) convenience. How can we compete? Despite the BJP being in power, we have been unable to give social justice and it pains me,” he said.Yogeshwara has maintained that Yediyurappa has used his working relationship with Kumaraswamy, Deve Gowda, Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah to keep the BJP at bay and serve his own interests to remain in power.At least for the last two decades, Yediyurappa, Gowda and Siddaramaiah have controlled the political narrative in Karnataka and have resisted any attempts by the high commands of both national parties to take control over the southern state, Hindustan Times had reported on May 28.. The Yediyurappa government on Thursday faced further embarrassment when Karnataka social welfare minister B Sriramulu’s close acquaintance Rajanna was arrested following a complaint by Vijayendra who accused him of misusing the latter’s name and taking money in return to land government jobs. The arrest has fueled speculation of a growing rift within the Yediyurappa-led government and his cabinet, wherein the minister claimed to have become aware of the developments only through media reports.In the last two months, at least four BJP legislators have made serious charges against Yediyurappa and his son including the “sex-for-job” scandal on Ramesh Jarkiholi, “bribe-for-bed scam” against Satish Reddy, allegations of taking cuts from private hospitals for vaccination against Ravi Subramanya and one (Arvind Bellad) who suspected that his phone was being tapped.The developments involving Sriramulu only added to growing allegations of corruption against the Yediyurappa-led government. Other than this, a complaint has also been registered against Karnataka mines and geology minister, Murugesh Nirani’s son, Vijay, for alleged violations in his sugar factory. The complaint was filed by a Congress worker and Vijay termed it “politically motivated”. “Our company is not involved in cheating or any wrongdoing. We have paid all the dues including salary to workers in time and payment also made to farmers as per the rules. We have been functioning and carrying out all our transactions as per the law and there is no question of any violation,” Vijay Nirani clarified in a statement on Sunday. He even warned Dr HN Ravindra, the Congress functionary, of legal action if the latter does not apologise for making baseless and false allegations.Murugesh Nirani is from the Panchamasali sect, the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats, and whose name has been mooted as a possible replacement to Yediyurappa by his own partymen. Political analysts said that the BJP may not have the same attraction for the 17 turncoats as it did two years ago, largely because their attachment to the BJP has been routed through Yediyurappa. “We dont quite know if in the next round (elections) the BJP will bypass Yediyurappa,” said Bengaluru-based political analyst, requesting not to be named. Yediyurappa had to personally convince his own party aspirants to back the turncoats before the December 2019 assembly bypolls, antagonizing several influential local leaders who had in the 2018 elections worked to defeat candidates who later defected into the BJP. In Maski, Basanagouda Turvihal, who was with BJP lost by a slender margin of 213 votes in 2018, fought on a Congress ticket in the April bypolls to defeat Pratapgouda Patil, one of the turncoats. Similarly, the BJP had lent a hand to ensure victories of turncoats like Dr K Sudhakar, BC Patil, Shivaram Hebbar, Byrathi Basvaraj among others in December 2019, denying most of the candidates an opportunity to claim it on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-grows-over-bsy-s-future-as-old-cases-resurface-101625427968520.html
05-07-2021||India||Child trafficking under police lens in Madurai||Madurai police on Sunday arrested three couples for illegally adopting a child each from their mother, an official said. The latest incident comes a day after the police nabbed an NGO owner and his accomplice in child trafficking case from the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. Child trafficking and illegal adoption are under scanner in Madurai. Police have made multiple arrests in the above two cases involving brokers, childless couples, and have rescued five children. A senior police officer investigating Sunday’s incident said: “The mother seems mentally unstable, and she had voluntarily given away her children due to poverty.” “We are in a dilemma because the children are being taken care of well by these adoptee families, and it has been a few years. However, the birth mother doesn’t seem fit for caregiving. So, the offence is procedural.” The children – identical twin girls – were given away four years ago, and another girl born to the mother on her fourth delivery was given away two years ago. The children will be produced in front of the magistrate this week for a decision. The three couples are being investigated for offences under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000. The case came to light after one of the accused, Kalavathi Balachandar, 33, had approached Grace Kenneth Foundation in Madurai, a specialised adoption agency recognised by the government a few years ago. Recently, she told members of the child welfare committee (CWC) that she gave birth to a baby, so she didn’t need to adopt anymore. “This raised a doubt among CWC, and we are now taking the case forward legally,” the officer quoted above said.In another alarming child trafficking racket in Madurai, police have arrested nine people. On Saturday, they arrested the main accused G R Shivakumar, who sold children to childless couples through his prominent NGO, Idhayam Trust. He and his accomplice Mathersha had absconded and police launched a manhunt. They nabbed them from the Tamil-Nadu Kerala border. Besides them, seven others were arrested in connection with this case, including two couples. They allegedly purchased the children, a one-year-old boy for a lakh and a two-year-old girl for two-lakhs, respectively. The prime accused and director of the NGO, Shivakumar had interchanged the death certificate of another child with that of the boy baby and claimed that he had died after his mother tested positive for Covid-19, said Madurai police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha. Azhruddeen, a local activist, had earlier sent this mother and her baby to an NGO. “When the activist found the child is missing, he suspected foul play and informed us,” Sinha said. Government officials have sealed the NGO and shifted more than 40 inmates, including adults and children to other government-run shelters. Shivakumar and his accomplice have been booked under sections 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (fraudulent use of documents) ,420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 80 (giving away an orphan, abandoned or surrendered child, for the adoption without following procedure), 81 (punishment for selling or buying a child) of the Juvenile Justice Act. Police are investigating if they are involved in selling any other children. “He has also misused several funds coming into the NGO, which we are looking into,” said Sinha.To address this issue, child rights activists say that children in need of care and protection from either vulnerable or broken families have to be identified so they can be tracked and the adoption process have to be more friendly. “In both these cases, the response of the system has been very quick by rescuing children and making arrests as compared to previous years,” said Andrew Sesuraj, state convenor, Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch. “Looking at this issue on a bigger scale, we have to simplify the adoption procedure which is mired in red tape. We have to make it more relevant for those looking to adopt so that they don’t resort to illegal ways of adopting children. Couples looking to adopt have to wait for a long time for the system to match them with a child. We have to ensure that children also don’t get stuck in this racket so every district child welfare officer should also identify vulnerable children who are born out of wedlock, who are from broken families and to parents with disabilities so these children can be tracked and if needed brought into the system for adoption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-trafficking-under-police-lens-in-madurai-101625426884464.html
05-07-2021||India||Jai Hind row: Deputy LoP asks Stalin to expunge MLA’s remarks||Chennai: Ten days after Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi’s (KMDK) ER Eswaran made a statement over using the Hindi phrase ‘Jai Hind’, Tamil Nadu’s deputy leader of opposition O Panneerselvam asked chief minister MK Stalin to take steps to expunge the remarks of the MLA in the assembly records.After the nomenclature over union and centre in addressing the Modi-led government in the capital, the new row is over the use of ‘Jai Hind’. Panneerselvam elaborated that this episode was in defiance of the patriotic word. Taking a swipe at the ruling government, he stated, “Perhaps, the usage of ‘union government’ and the absence of ‘Jai Hind’ was not among what was not promised (in the election manifesto). The party coordinator of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) urged the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) to instead focus on its election promises such as cutting fuel prices and abolishing the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). On June 23, Eswaran belonging KMDK, an ally of the DMK, thanked the government for avoiding ‘Jai Hind’ in the Governor’s first customary speech at the 16th legislative assembly that concluded recently. “Just after reading the Governor’s address, I understood that Tamil Nadu has held its head up high. Last year, the Governor concluded his speech with Jai Hind. This year, Jai Hind was not there. I would like to record this here,” Easwaran had said. The state BJP unit sought Stalin’s apology over these remarks. Eswaran later clarified to reporters that he didn’t insult a patriotic slogan but that he was highlighting a Hindi word being used under the previous AIADMK regime which he charged as being subservient to their ally, the BJP. The state chief of BJP, L Murugan in a statement, a week ago, charged that the DMK began calling the central government as ‘Ondriya Arasu’ meaning union government showing a separatist attitude and now through the ‘Jai Hind’ row, they are defaming freedom fighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jai-hind-row-deputy-lop-asks-stalin-to-expunge-mla-s-remarks-101625426885035.html
05-07-2021||India||Govt sounds caution as more curbs eased in K’taka||Bengaluru The new Covid-19 guidelines, which relax more lockdown-restrictions, will come into force from Monday, as the BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government looks to restore normalcy and economic activities after at least six weeks of restrictions. Karnataka, which was among the worst Covid-19 impacted regions in the country, has seen a decline in new infections in the past few weeks, allowing the state government to relax restrictions such as reopening of religious places and allowing more visitors at weddings and funerals. In a series of tweets on Sunday, Bengaluru city police commissioner Kamal Pant reminded people to strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “I urge everyone to strictly follow #COVID19 appropriate behavior for our own safety. Remember, the cases have decreased, but the virus is still around,” Pant tweeted on Sunday. He added that teams of marshals and police personnel will be deployed in Bengaluru to keep vigil on violation of Covid-19 norms. “A total of 54 special teams comprising BBMP Marshals and @BlrCityPolice personnel will be deployed across the city to impose fines and register cases on individuals and commercial establishments that violate #COVID19 norms,” Pant tweeted. The new guidelines will be in force for 15 days. “The new guidelines will come into effect from 6 AM on July 5 and be in force up to 6 AM on July 19,” Pant said. Meanwhile, the state government has increased restrictions for people coming from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra in an effort to control movement from regions that have witnessed an increase in the new Delta Plus variant of the novel coronavirus. People coming from Maharashtra and Kerala will be allowed entry into Karnataka only on presenting a Covid-19 negative certificate not older than 72 hours, or with at least one dose of vaccination, according to the new restrictions announced by the state government. Taking a lesson from the past, when Karnataka, and particularly Bengaluru, had let the guard down, the administration this time around is trying not to repeat the same mistakes, an official from the city’s civic body, BBMP, said on the condition of anonymity. According to the new guidelines, across the state, theatres, cinemas and pubs will remain closed while swimming pools, sports complexes and stadia are allowed to open only for practices and professionals to train. Social, political, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large gatherings and congregations remain prohibited across the state. The limit of attendees has been increased to 100 people at weddings and 20 people at funerals, according to the new guidelines. “Shops, restaurants, malls, and private offices have to enforce Covid-appropriate behavior, failing which action will be initiated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” Yediyurappa said on Saturday. The state government is yet to take a call on reopening of physical classes for school students while the higher education department is trying to vaccinate all students above the age of 18 to restart graduate courses. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) on Sunday announced that it will operate around 4,500 buses within the city adding that the number of services could be increased based on volume and demand. Bus services will be operational from 5 am to 9 pm, the BMTC said in a statement. Metro services will be operational from 7 am to 8 pm, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited said in a statement on Sunday. However, the night curfew between 9 pm to 5 am will remain in force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sounds-caution-as-more-curbs-eased-in-ktaka-101625426644473.html
05-07-2021||India||Sidhu pushes for free 300 units of power in Punjab||CHANDIGARH Congress minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who hit out at chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh recently over his handling of power crisis, on Sunday pushed for free electricity up to 300 units and round-the-clock power supply to consumers in the state. Sidhu said that domestic industrial consumers should be given electricity at cheaper rates. “Punjab already provides ₹9000 crore subsidy but we must do more for domestic and industrial consumer by giving power at ₹3-5 per unit, instead of surcharge inflated ₹10-12 per unit, along with 24-hour supply with no power-cuts & free power (Upto 300 Units)..It is definitely achievable,” he said in a tweet. The former minister’s suggestions are on the lines of promises made by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at a press conference here on June 28. He had promised free electricity up to 300 units for each household and 24-hour supply if his party wins the state polls. Sidhu, who quit the state cabinet when the CM changed his portfolio from local government to power in 2019, again advocated that power purchase agreements signed during the previous SAD-BJP government should be nullified. “Let us start with Congress High Command’s Pro-People 18 Point Agenda and get rid of the faulty un-negotiable Badal-signed Power Purchase Agreements through “New Legislator in Punjab Vidhan Sabha” fixing rates as per National Power Exchange with no fixed charges,” he tweeted. The chief minister, in a statement on Saturday, had stated that his government would soon announce its legal strategy to counter the “ill-conceived” PPAs. In the run-up to the 2017 elections, the Congress had promised that it would renegotiate the existing PPAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-pushes-for-free-300-units-of-power-in-punjab-101625425504862.html
05-07-2021||India||Central panel, railways at odds on IPS deputation||The Centre’s cadre restructuring committee has recommended the creation of more posts for Indian Police Service (IPS) deputation in the Indian Railway Protection Force Service (IRPFS), highlighting the need for better coordination with state police forces even as the railway ministry stressed the need for promoting cadre officers for career progression, according to officials aware of the development and documents reviewed by HT.At a meeting chaired by the cabinet secretary, the committee recommended that the cadre structure with IPS deputation on seven or eight posts should be taken up, ranging from director general, higher administrative grade-plus (HAG+), HAG, and senior administrative grade.To be sure, in December 2019, the railways renamed its security force RPF (Railway Protection Force) as the Indian Railway Protection Force Service and granted organised group A status to the RPF in the light of a Union cabinet decision taken for cadre restructuring. A senior official aware of the development said on condition of anonymity after the meeting that no decision had been finalised on IPS deputation yet.“As the senior-most member of the service, the ADG RPF briefed the steps taken by the IRPFS officers in improving efficiency. He was of the view that IPS deputation may not be required except for the DG’s post, and the cadre officers can effectively tackle issues in the area of the work of the IRPFS. He further emphasised that keeping in view the workload, functional requirement and parity with other railway services, 8 posts at ADG and 32 posts at SAG may be allowed. He requested that all these posts may be allotted exclusively for cadre officers for career progression,” the minutes of the meeting reviewed by HT said.“Chairman & CEO, Railway Board, supported the view of the ADG RPF and informed that various technological advancements have taken place and IRPFS officers have been up to the tasks before them. However, due to increasing challenges to the service, especially in the North East and Jammu & Kashmir, and sensitive networks like Mumbai, the officers at zonal level have higher responsibilities and therefore need to be of an appropriate level. He supported the cadre structure with IPS deputation only for DG post,” the minutes added.However, the home ministry noted that any decision on IPS deputation may have implications for other Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and therefore cannot be considered in isolation.In the meeting, the finance secretary noted that decisions taken in one cadre had wide impact on similar cadres, and hence these may be taken in harmony as a matter of policy. “He opined that being an armed force of the Union, the RPF may not be completely different from other forces, and hence the provision of IPS deputation is needed in IRPFS, in line with the other forces for the sake of uniformity,” the minutes said.The DoPT secretary noted that the deputation of IPS officers not only enhances the effectiveness of the forces, but also provides experience to the deputed officers.In December 2019, the Union cabinet in a major move to reform the 150-year-old railway board approved the restructuring of the apex body of the Indian Railways by trimming its strength to half, and unifying its eight railways services into a central service called the Indian Railway Management Service. The eight services that are being merged are traffic, accounts, personnel, engineering, stores, electrical engineering, signal engineering and mechanical engineering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-panel-railways-at-odds-on-ips-deputation-101625425504253.html
05-07-2021||India||Congress may have new leader in Lok Sabha, Rahul Gandhi top contender||The Bharatiya Janata Party is abuzz with talk of a reshuffle of the cabinet and the Congress, for its part, is abuzz with talk of its own reshuffle.Among the larger changes in the organisation, the Congress Party is expected to have a new leader in the Lok Sabha and at least two senior Congress leaders confirmed to HT that Rahul Gandhi is a top contender for the job.To be sure, there is nothing official about it because Gandhi is yet to agree to this, they added. However, HT learns that Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are both keen that Gandhi accept this role and are trying to all they can to ensure he does.Congress’s chief spokesperson Rabdeep Surjewala refused to comment.If Gandhi accepts, the post of Congress President could go to someone outside the family, something that would also address the demands of the Group of 23 Congress leaders who have been asking for internal elections, the two leaders added. However, the decision on the Congress President may be taken later stage since the tenure of the current All India Congress Committee is till 2022.Not everyone in the Gandhi camp is convinced he should take the job which is currently Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s.“This would tie him down to Parliament, and in some ways it is a much tougher job than being Congress President,’’ said one member of Parliament who asked not to be named. Gandhi has often been attacked by the Bhartiya Janata Party for his patchy parliament attendance, and not being regular even in the parliamentary committee hearings.Chowdhury was blamed for the Congress’ abysmal performance in the West Bengal elections where the 135 year old party failed to get a single seat in the assembly. Other than this, Chowdhury’s colleagues also gave him poor reviews in managing the party’s affairs in Lok Sabha and some even felt that he wasn’t antagonistic enough to the ruling party.When contacted Adhir Chowdhury’s office said no one has indicated to him that his position in the Lok Sabha will end soon. Chowdhury also told a senior Congress leader that if the party decides to give him some other role, he will gladly accept it. the second Congress functionary added that Chowdhury might have to leave the West Bengal state Congress president’s post after the debacle of the party in the recent assembly pollsGandhi has indicated that he may agree to taking up an official post, even saying so to a visiting leader from a Southern state last week.“Rahul Gandhi as leader in Lok Sabha was something that has always been an idea and even Pranab Mukherjee suggested it once,” said a senior leader who asked not to be named, but “whether he will accept it at this stage is a big if.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-may-have-new-leader-in-lok-sabha-rahul-top-contender-101625425384244.html
05-07-2021||India||Assam CM meets Muslim team on population control||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday held a meeting with the representatives from the indigenous Muslim community and said that they agreed that there was a need to control “population explosion” in parts of the state to spur its growth.On June 18, Sarma proposed formulation of a stringent population policy and gradual implementation of the two-child norm for availing government benefits in Assam. The chief minister on Tuesday said that the policy was the only way to eradicate poverty and illiteracy in the Muslim community in the state.“Population explosion in some parts of Assam has posed a real threat for development, more particularly in the economic sense. If we have to become among the (top) five states in the country, we have to manage our population explosion. That has been agreed to today,” Sarma said after Sunday’s meeting.Sarma said that during the meeting, the 150 representatives also put forth the problems faced by the Assamese Muslim community“We discussed various issues confronting the religious minorities of Assam, more particularly the indigenous Assamese Muslim community,” the CM said after the meeting.“They have a distinct identity and rich cultural tradition and heritage. The meeting emphasised that the uniqueness of indigenous Assamese Muslims should be protected and preserved,” he added.Unlike Bengali Muslims who migrated from the pre-Partition East Bengal and later Bangladesh and settled in Assam, the indigenous Assamese Muslims use Assamese as their mother tongue and follow cultural traditions and festivities similar to Assamese Hindus which clearly differentiate them from the migrants.Indigenous Muslims are divided into three distinct groups called Goria, Moria and Deshi and have some smaller groups like Moimal, Julha, Ujani etc. According to the 2011 Census, there are over 10.67 million Muslims in Assam. Indigenous Assamese Muslim groups claim that they comprise around 4 million of that figure. Groups representing this section have been seeking a separate census to find out their exact numbers and want separate measures for protection of the community, which is distinct from the Bengali Muslims.Since coming to power in May, Assam’s new CM has been urging the migrant Muslim community (Bengali Muslims) ‘decent family planning norms’ to reduce poverty and control social problems in the state.To achieve that, he said, eight sub-groups focusing on health, education, population stabilisation, cultural identity, financial inclusion, women empowerment, skill development, etc, would be constituted.“A whole range of issues will be discussed in the sub-groups, and after three months we will prepare a roadmap for the next five years,” Sarma said.Lawyer Nekibur Zaman who was part of Sunday’s deliberations said they were confident that the government will address their concerns.“There was no such initiative taken by any CM or government in the past to address the problems of our community. Indigenous Assamese Muslims are a microscopic minority. Though there are over 4 million of us, we don’t have any representative from the community in the state assembly as we are scattered all over the state. In contrast, Bengali Muslims are concentrated as several pockets and are able to elect 20-25 representatives to the assembly. Because of our marginalisation, we are also deprived of the benefits of most government schemes directed towards the minorities,” said prominent lawyer Nekibur Zaman who was part of Sunday’s deliberations.Representatives of political parties and student organisations from minority communities were not included in Sunday’s meeting. The CM informed that another meeting will be held in the coming days with politicians, students and social organisations representing minority communities.“Today’s discussion was with the representatives of the indigenous Muslim community. In the next few days, we will have a similar meeting with the representatives of the Muslim community that has its origins in (the erstwhile) East Bengal. There’s a cultural difference between both these Muslim communities of Assam and we respect their distinct identities,” said Sarma.“We are going to conduct a series of meetings on population management. The next meeting will be held with the migrant Muslim community. Such meetings will continue for the next three months,” he added.In 2017, the Assam assembly had passed a ‘population and women empowerment’ policy which prevented people having more than two children from securing government jobs. It also prevented such people from contesting panchayat and municipal elections. The policy is yet to be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-meets-muslimteam-on-population-control-101625425324376.html
05-07-2021||India||NIA launches probe against SFJ head Pannun||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has launched a probe against designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, head of the banned outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), for releasing a video on social media in which he has sought the Balkanisation of India through its military, people familiar with the development said.The video, uploaded last month on various social media platforms, shows Pannun instigating soldiers belonging to Punjab, West Bengal, and Maharashtra to desert, close the borders of their respective states, and save their families.“In the latest video, Pannun is propagating the idea of Balkanisation (division of a country into several small political units) of India, openly spreading disaffection in the country, and making imputations prejudicial to national integration,” said an officer on condition of anonymity.SFJ is a secessionist organisation that supports the secession of Indian Punjab as Khalistan.The US-based leader of SFJ is already under investigation in multiple cases for radicalising Sikh youth for the purpose of reviving militancy in Punjab and the creation of Khalistan under the banner ‘Punjab Referendum 2020 for Khalistan’ apart from organising demonstrations and on-ground campaigns outside India’s diplomatic missions in the UK, Canada, US, Germany and other countries.He has already been declared as an “individual terrorist” under the fourth schedule of UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Amendment Act) and his properties in Punjab have been attached.A chargesheet filed by NIA in December 2020 against Pannun, UK-based Paramjit Singh Pamma and Canada-based Hardeep Singh Nijjar, stated that SFJ, floated under the guise of a human rights advocacy group with offices in the US, UK, Canada, Australia, is a front organisation of Khalistani terrorist outfits operating from foreign soils, including Pakistan.“Under this campaign, numerous social media accounts on Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, YouTube channels, and a number of websites have been launched, which are being used to propagate sedition as well as enmity on the grounds of region and religion, to radicalise impressionable youth, to cause disturbance to peace and harmony, and to raise funds for terrorist activities,” another officer said.Multiple agencies are also investigating the source of funding of Khalistani operatives as it is suspected that Pannun and his associates based in India receive funds through non-governmental organisations apart from other modes.SFJ is also accused of trying to instigate farmers sitting at Delhi’s borders in protest against three farm laws.India’s attempts to issue an Interpol red notice against Pannun have failed so far but NIA has already sent a request to the US seeking information on his activities. Pannun resides at 167-05, Powel Boulevard, Unit-22 White Stone, New York, where he meets other co-conspirators as well, according to Indian intelligence agencies.Over 40 websites linked to SFJ were blocked by the Indian government last year for propagating Khalistani activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nialaunches-probe-against-sfj-head-pannun-101625424904147.html
05-07-2021||India||After attack, drones banned in Srinagar||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has banned the sale, possession and use of drones in Srinagar, around a week after two blasts — believed to be from a drone strike — targeted an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu and triggered a security scare.Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz on Saturday issue the order, outlawing the sale, possession, storage, use and transportation of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and drones in the district. The order said the ban was necessitated by the “recent episodes of misuse of drones posing threat to security infrastructure”.Those who already possess drone cameras or UAVs the district have been asked to submit their devices at their local police stations. The order did not specify a deadline. Additionally, those who want to use the drones for mapping and surveillance for agricultural, environmental conservation and the disaster management “shall inform”the local police stations before using the devices, it noted.“Keeping in view the security situation apart from concerns of breach of privacy, nuisance and trespass, it is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles wander around in skies within the territorial jurisdiction of district Srinagar,” the Srinagar DC’s order said.The Jammu attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility. On June 27, two blasts within minutes of each other damaged a building and injured two personnel at the technical airport — part of which is operated by the IAF. Since then, security forces have reported many sightings of drones in the region — including near other military facilities.The incidents prompted the armed forces to step up security as top government officials and military leaders went into a huddle to discuss the challenge. Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week chaired a meeting of top ministers including home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh to discuss the long pending policy on the management of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) and the ways to deal with the issue, people familiar of the matter had told HT.Srinagar hosts a set of strategic military installations and buildings,including the headquarters of the Army’s Chinar Corps.Drones and small UAVs have become increasingly popular for aerial photography and videography by filmmakers, tourism stakeholders, professional landscape photographers and photojournalists world over.“With a view to secure aerial space near vital installations and highly populated areas, it is imperative to discontinue the use of drones in all social and cultural gatherings to eliminate any risk of injury to life and damage to property,” said the order, which has been enforced under Section 144 (that prohibits certain activities or actions in the area where it is imposed) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Of late, security forces said Pakistan-based terrorists have started using drones from across the Line of Control to smuggle arms, ammunition, drugs and money into Jammu and Kashmir.Last week, Indian Army chief General MM Naravane flagged the easy availability of UAVs – both to state and non-state actors – and said that building drones was similar to a “DIY project that can be tackled at home”. He added that forces are also working actively to adopt counter-drone technology to repel any attacks in the future.The Srinagar district is the latest to announced such restrictions. The Rajouri district in Jammu too barred the use of drones or small UAVs on June 30.Drones are governed by The Aircraft Act, 1934 and the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021 that already restrict flying the UAVs in prohibited areas that are within a distance of 3km from any civil, private and defence airports, military facilities, and state secretariats. The prohibition is also applicable within 2km from any strategic installations besides national parks and wildlife sanctuaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-attack-drones-banned-in-srinagar-101625424844747.html
05-07-2021||India||Whoever says Muslims should not stay in India isn’t a Hindu: Bhagwat||New Delhi :Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday that there is a need to guard against fear mongering that the Sangh is against minorities or that Islam is in danger in India. Speaking at a book launch event organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, the Muslim wing of the RSS, Bhagwat said the Sangh has always believed that the DNA of the people of India is the same and that both Hindus and Muslims are one entity. “When people speak about the need for Hindu-Muslim unity, we say we are already one, we are not separate,” Bhagwat said at the launch of a book called ‘The Meeting of Minds’ by Khwaja Ifteqar Ahmed in Ghaziabad.The RSS, which is the ideological fount of the Bharatiya Janata Party, has been accused by its opponents of fostering majoritarianism. Bhagwat defended the Sangh’s work as that of uniting people of different faiths and said such work cannot be left to political parties. He went on to say that political parties cannot act as tools to either help unite people or deepen the divide but can influence it. Allaying fears that a majoritarian sentiment is gaining ground in India, he said when atrocities take place against the minorities, voices in protest come from the majority itself. “If anyone says that Muslims should not stay in India then he is not a Hindu,” Bhagwat said. In the backdrop of instances of violence against minorities by alleged cow vigilantes, Bhagwat said that though cows are revered in India violence in the name of cow protection cannot be condoned.“Law should take its course. They should investigate without partiality and punish the guilty. But anyone who is involved in lynching is not Hindu,” he said.The RSS chief also sought to iron out the differences over the use of the word Hindu for members of other communities. In the past both Sikhs and Muslims have objected to him referring to all Indians as Hindus. “If you don’t want to call yourself Hindu, you can say Indian instead. But we should all work for the country,” he said. Bhagwat also distanced the Sangh from electoral politics and said his presence at the launch of a book that the author describes as a bridging initiative should not be construed as an image makeover or an attempt to woo Muslims ahead of the upcoming assembly elections.“This is not an image makeover. The Sangh never cared for its image. We only work to unite all. Our resolve is to work for all and not against anyone. No matter what others think, we continue doing our work,” he said. He went on to add his presence is not an attempt to get votes for the forthcoming elections. “We are not interested in political party politics. We have a view, but we are not in anyone’s favour but in the country’s favour: we support those who speak for the country. This is not a political exercise or vote-bank politics. We can do this (politics), but we won’t,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whoever-says-muslims-should-not-stay-in-india-isn-t-a-hindu-bhagwat-101625424844215.html
05-07-2021||India||Dhami takes oath as CM, vows to take Uttarakhand to new heights||Dehradun Two-time legislator from Uttarakhand’s Khatima constituency, Pushkar Singh Dhami took oath as the state’s 10th chief minister on Sunday, a day after the Bharatiya Janata Party picked him for the top post.The oath of office was administered on Dhami and his ministers by Governor Baby Rani Maurya at a function held on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan in the presence of several MPs and MLAs of the ruling BJP and senior government officials.After the swearing-in ceremony, Dhami thanked the party’s central leadership including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda, for assigning him the role.“I am grateful to the party leadership for giving me this opportunity to serve the people of Uttarakhand. They have placed their trust in me, I will put all my possible efforts to prove their decision right and take the state to new heights of development,” said Dhami.The state unit of the BJP elected Dhami as the legislative party leader at a meeting on Saturday, which was attended by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and party general secretary D Purandeshwari as central observers.At 45, Dhami takes over as the youngest chief minister of the state, replacing Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned on Friday, days after the BJP leadership summoned him to Delhi, where he met Shah and Nadda.Rawat suggested he resign because the Election Commission (EC) was unlikely to hold by-elections — which were necessary for him to continue in the post — due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Dhami is the third chief minister to lead Uttarakhand in less than four months, triggering criticism from the Opposition and concerns among BJP leaders about political instability months before the state goes to the polls. Assembly elections in the state are to be held in early 2022.No new face has been inducted into Dhami’s cabinet, which remains as it was under his predecessor. The ministers included Subodh Uniyal, Satpal Maharaj, Arvind Pandey, Dhan Singh Rawat, Rekha Arya, Harak Singh Rawat, Yashpal Arya, Vishen Singh Chuphal, Bansidhar Bhagat, Ganesh Joshi and Swami Yatishwaranand. Several senior BJP leaders, including PM Modi, extended congratulations to Dhami. “Congratulations to Pushkar Singh Dhami and all others who took oath today. Best wishes to this team as they work towards the progress and prosperity of Uttarakhand,” Modi tweeted.Shah said that he hopes that Dhami will provide new energy and momentum to the developmental journey of the state. “I believe that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, you (Dhami) will give new energy and momentum to the developmental journey and work of public welfare in Devbhoomi Uttarakhand will continue with full devotion and dedication,” Shah tweeted in Hindi.Nadda tweeted: “Hearty congratulations and best wishes to Pushkar Singh Dhamiji on becoming Chief Minister of Uttarakhand state. I am sure that under the guidance of Prime Minister Narender Modi ji and in your leadership, the state will get new energy and new parameters of progress will be established.”Earlier in the day, Dhami met three of his predecessors -- Tirath Singh Rawat, Trivendra Singh Rawat and Maj Gen BC Khanduri (retd). He also met BJP leader Satpal Maharaj amid reports that the senior party leader had expressed unhappiness at the party leadership’s decision to elevate Dhami as the CM.The BJP’s state unit has, meanwhile, clarified that all the leaders support the decision.Refuting the reports of discontent, party leader Bansidhar Bhagat said, “All these are rumours. All the leaders are supporting the decision of party leadership as they are party’s soldiers. Nobody is upset with Dhami being elected to be the next CM. We all are with him to continue the development works and win the next assembly elections to be held in 2022 with a thumping majority like in 2017.”Brushing aside reports of discontent, Dhami said on Sunday: “There is no such thing among the party leaders. If it was true then why would have they come to the [swearing-in] ceremony? We all are together in the party and we will work for the state’s development.”Dhami also said that his government will emphasise on issues pertaining to the youth. “I have been working among them for long, hence I am aware of their issues. The ongoing pandemic has affected their livelihood drastically and to help them, we would work on the recruitments in over 20,000 vacancies in various government departments,” the new chief minister said.Later on Sunday, Dhami held his first cabinet meeting with all the ministers at state secretariat in Dehradun. However, no major decisions were taken, as it was held as per traditions by a new CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhami-takes-oath-as-cm-vows-to-take-uttarakhand-to-new-heights-101625424784792.html
05-07-2021||India||Covid cases in Northeast declining but pockets of concern remain, says Centre||A day after Centre dispatched expert teams to six states including Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura in the north east, where Covid-19 cases were rising, the ministry of development of northeast region (DONER) said on Saturday that cases in all states in the region, except Meghalaya, were showing “progressive decline” in the test positivity rate (TPR).Jitendra Singh, minister of state for DONER chaired the meeting of senior officials of all eight NE states including Sikkim and noted that the second Covid wave took a huge toll in the region before showing an overall declining trend since early June even as some pockets continue to cause concern.Assam, the most populous state in the region, saw a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in April soon after the assembly polls ended. Around 3,500-4,000 new cases and around 80-90 deaths were recorded daily in May on an average. The TPR also hovered between 8% and 9%.However, containment measures such as curfew and ban on inter-district movement since mid-May helped in bringing down the numbers. On Saturday, the state recorded 2,375 new cases and 28 deaths with the TPR at 1.77%. Assam still has over 23,000 active cases and the situation in districts such as Biswanath and Goalpara, which are under total lockdown, is still not completely under control. The state government is expected to announce new restrictions this week to tackle the situation.Till Sunday morning, 7.6 million Assam residents, including the 6.3 million who received the first dose and 1.3 million who received both the doses, were vaccinated. The plan to inoculate 300,000 persons daily and cover 9 million beneficiaries a month was hit by irregular supply of vaccines, said officials.On Saturday, Tripura extended curfew for a week in nine different places including the capital city in view of a spike in Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, 409 fresh cases and two deaths were recorded in the state. In June, the state saw over 13,000 new infections and 153 deaths with the TPR oscillating between 2.66% and 5.84% in the period. Till Saturday, 2.596 million vaccine doses were administered among eligible beneficiaries in the state.In Manipur, despite improvement in Covid 19 situation, the TPR remains high at 11.40%, much lower than 15.54% recorded a fortnight earlier on June 21.Director (health services) Dr K Rajo Singh said unlike the past, Manipur was well prepared in terms of ICU beds, hospitals beds and Covid care centres besides oxygen supply.”At present, three oxygen plants including one at JNIMS hospital in Imphal and two at Thoubal and Churachandpur district hospitals are functioning while nine others are in the process of development,” said Dr Rajo.According to the Manipur health department, 330 people died due to Covid 19 in June which also saw active cases decline from 9,613 to 5,642 while 21,020 recoveries outpaced 18,544 new cases in June.While Nagaland has begun the unlock process this week with a gradual decline in Covid-19 cases that shot up in the early part of May, the weekly positivity rate of 7% continues to be above the 5% benchmark, set for easing lockdown restrictions, that were first clamped in the state on May 14.The improvement is evidenced in the 3,558 positive cases reported in June compared to the 7,704 recorded in May, as per the weekly Covid-19 bulletin. Majority of the cases in the state during the second wave were from urban and densely populated towns, particularly Dimapur, capital Kohima and Mokokchung. On July 2, Nagaland reported presence of 93 Delta variant cases among positive samples collected in April and May.“As all are aware that the Delta variant is more infectious, the public are advised to continue to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccinate,” said Dr Neikhrielie Khimiao, principal director of the state health department.With 69 positive cases reported on Saturday, the state’s total caseload now stands at 25,451 including 1,253 active cases and 485 deaths recorded till date. As of Saturday, the state has administered 529,849 vaccine doses to residents, including 67,090 who have taken both the doses.In Arunachal Pradesh, 365 new cases were detected on Saturday, but thankfully no fresh deaths took place. The TPR for the state stood at 7.27% and there were 3,057 active cases at present. Till Saturday, 624,912 vaccine doses had been administered to residents including the 89,786, who had got both doses.Meghalaya was registering over 500 new cases in the past few days and the daily TPR was hovering around 12% -13%. In all, there were 14,187 new cases during the month of June as compared to 18,883 in May. East Khasi Hills district continues to the worst affected among the 12 districts with 4,948 positive cases registered last month, while East Jaiñtia Hills district is at the bottom of the table with only 372 positive cases.The vaccination drive has picked up pace in the state since mid-June after hesitancy in the initial months. Till Sunday morning, the state had administered over 733,000 doses.Though Mizoram has administered over 600,000 vaccine doses (nearly half the state’s population of 1.1 million), the state is witnessing over 200 new cases daily in the past few days and the TPR on Saturday was recorded at 6.75%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-in-northeast-declining-but-pockets-of-concern-remain-says-centre-101625424784258.html
05-07-2021||India||Curbs on unvaccinated violate rights: Gauhati HC||The Gauhati high court has observed that restrictions imposed by the Mizoram government on movement and work of persons who are yet to get vaccinated for Covid-19 were arbitrary and violated the provisions of the Constitution of India.“The restrictions placed upon unvaccinated individuals vis-à-vis vaccinated individuals are arbitrary and not in consonance with the provisions of Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution,” the Aizwal bench of high court said in its order on Friday.Articles 14, 19 and 21 are part of the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution of India. Article 14 promises equality before law, Article 19 guarantees protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc. while Article 21 talks about protection of life and personal liberty. Article 19 also includes the right to practice any profession and to move freely throughout India.A division bench of justices Michael Zothankhuma and Nelson Sailo passed the order on Friday while acting on a petition against standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued last week by the Mizoram government restricting movement of unvaccinated persons.“Allowances available and given to vaccinated persons in the above clauses shall also be made equally applicable to unvaccinated persons,” the bench said while directing the state government to issue a corrigendum of the SOPs declared on June 29, at the earliest.The next date of hearing in the case is on July 14.The SOPs issued on June 29 by Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo had included a provision that stated, “Only vaccinated individuals of the family members may be detailed for errands within and around localities having significant Covid19 active cases.”The SOPs also said that only vaccinated persons should be engaged in manning stores, shops or undertaking any works. Store attendants and other employees should be able to produce proof of vaccination. Only those drivers and conductors of commercial passenger vehicles who have been vaccinated should be allowed to operate public transport, according to the SOPs.“A perusal of the above clauses implies that all persons would require to be vaccinated or else they cannot leave their houses or earn their livelihood. The question that would arise…is whether a person can be vaccinated against his will and whether the non-vaccination of the said individual can debar him from earning his livelihood,” the court observed.“Though the state can make a law imposing reasonable restrictions in the exercise of any of the rights under Article 19, so long as the said restriction is a reasonable restriction… the above-mentioned clauses do not appear to be reasonable,” the HC bench added.In his submission before the court, the additional advocate general of Mizoram, C Zoramchhana, stated that 519,452 individuals (67% of eligible population) have been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the state against the target of 775,106 people. He, however, could not say how long it would take to vaccinate all eligible people with the first dose.“There is nothing to show that vaccinated persons (first dose) cannot be infected with coronavirus, or they cannot be spreaders. As the vaccinated and unvaccinated persons would have to follow the Covid proper behaviour protocols as per the SOP, there is no justification for discrimination,” the order read.“The unvaccinated citizens of the state can’t be faulted, due to the state’s failure in not completing the vaccination of the targeted population,” it added.Mizoram has been reporting over 200 daily new Covid-19 cases for the past few days and the test positivity rate (TPR) in the state on Saturday was recorded at 6.75%, according to the state health department bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-on-unvaccinated-violate-rights-gauhati-hc-101625424546869.html
05-07-2021||India||Active Covid cases below 1k in Delhi for first time since April 2020||Fewer than 1,000 people in the national capital are currently battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the first time Delhi’s active case count has dropped below that mark since the early days of the pandemic in April last year, showed the state government’s daily health bulletin, marking an important landmark for the city in its turnaround since the devastating fourth wave of infections less than two months ago.The health bulletin on Sunday showed that Delhi currently has 992 active Covid-19 cases, less than 1/100th of the number at the peak of the fourth wave of infections on April 28, when 99,752 in the city were battling the viral disease.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe city last saw fewer than 1,000 cases in the second week of April last year.The Capital also added 94 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, the fourth day in a row that the city recorded fewer than 100 infections. Over the past week, Delhi added an average of 89 new Covid-19 cases each day, showed government data.The turnaround in the city’s fight against Covid-19 comes just around two months after a brutal surge of infections between April and May this year, when over 760,000 contracted the infection, and more than 13,000 succumbed to it. The surge left health infrastructure overrun, medical workers overwhelmed, and led to crematoriums running out of space.At the peak of the April-May surge, the Covid-19 test positivity rate — the proportion of test samples that return positive — touched 36.24%. Experts regard the test positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection in a region,.This number has dropped consistently since the first week of May this year, and has now been below 1% for 35 days, and below 5% for 45 days.Meanwhile, seven people died of the infection. An average of four people died of Covid-19 each day in the city over the past week, said government records.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said: “It is good that active cases have finally dropped below 1,000. However, there is something concerning. For more than a week now, the number of new cases surfacing each day is swinging between 85-100 and not dropping below that. In shows that transmission of the virus is continuing in some pockets. This may need some specific strategies. We need to bring it down to zero new cases to be in a safe zone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-cases-below-1k-for-first-time-since-april-2020-101625424125536.html
05-07-2021||India||More heat before rains revive by weekend: IMD||After a “break” of about 13 days, the monsoon is likely to revive by the end of this week, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday, days after a deviation in the predicted weather pattern led to delayed and scanty rainfall in most parts of the country.After having announced previously that the monsoon would arrive in the national capital about two weeks ahead of schedule, IMD, in its forecast last week, said the monsoon was unlikely to advance in the remaining parts of north-west India, including Delhi, till at least July 7. If the monsoon arrives on July 7, that will make the 2021 onset in the national capital as delayed as in 2012 and the most delayed since 2006, according to the weather office’s records.Also Read: Behind Delhi’s unusual weather this summerOn Sunday, IMD said there was just 1% excess rain in the country. Between July 1 and July 4 there is a 40% deficiency in rain, with 65.1% deficiency over northwest India. Though Delhi witnessed a two-day spell of rain, temperatures in the Capital are expected to go up once again as western disturbances have moved away and the monsoon arrival is unlikely before July 7-8, said IMD scientist RK Jenamani.After the “break”, the southwest monsoon is again set to enter an active phase, M Rajeevan, secretary of ministry of earth sciences said, noting that forecast models show signs of increasing rain activity from July 8. He said that models indicate the formation of a weather system in the Bay of Bengal.“Monsoon Update: @moesgoi models show signs of revival- increasing rains in South, west coast & East Central India from 8 Jul… Models also make an early indication of formation of a weather system over BoB by12th & subsequent active monsoon phase,” Rajeevan tweeted.This time, the “break” phase of the monsoon is likely to last for 12-13 days. “We have a record of 21 days of break monsoon in the past. So, such fluctuations happen. Monsoon will start reviving by the end of the week, as per our models,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD. The current “break” phase of the monsoon has already lasted seven days.The subdued monsoon also coincides with the critical period of sowing and paddy transplantation. IMD cautioned on Thursday that subdued monsoon conditions in early July are likely to impact agricultural activities such as sowing and transplantation of crops, irrigation scheduling, and also affect power requirements.“June last week to July first week is the most critical period for farming. For south India, most of the sowing happens around June 15. Those sowing late will not be able to do so, and those who have sown crops, those crops may not germinate when there is such a large gap in rain. The yield may be significantly affected and farmers will have to depend on contingency crops,” said GV Ramanjaneyulu, executive director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Hyderabad.After a good spell of rains in the first two and half weeks of June, the southwest monsoon has not advanced further since June 19. Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, west Rajasthan are yet to see the arrival of the monsoon.In its forecast for July, IMD said the country as a whole will witness good rainfall this month.The northern limit of the southwest monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar for the past 15 days.“Prevailing meteorological conditions, large-scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab during next 4-5 days. Hence, subdued rainfall activity is very likely to continue to prevail over northwest, central and western parts of peninsular India during the next 4-5 days,” IMD said in its bulletin on Sunday.IMD scientists said the weakening of the monsoon flow this time was mainly because of the unfavourable location of Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) and the absence of low-pressure systems forming over the Bay of Bengal. “MJO was over eastern Africa; it has started propagating towards the India Ocean. This movement will make conditions conducive for monsoon revival. A low-pressure area is also likely to form over Bay of Bengal around July 11. Together, they will help monsoon advance,” said OP Sreejith, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD.MJO is a band of rain clouds that moves eastwards over the tropics and is responsible for most weather variations in the region – including the south-west and north-east monsoons.Sreejith said that the current “break” phase cannot be compared to break monsoons in the past. “The term break monsoon can be used only when the monsoon has covered the entire country. Right now, the trough cannot be called a monsoon trough either. When the monsoon has covered the country, breaks happen during some years. Models are showing chances of very good rain over the west coast after a week.”The country will receive “normal” rain in July, between 94 and 106% of long period, IMD said last week. During July, when most of the monsoon rain usually happens, “below normal” (<94%) to “normal” (94 to 106%) rain is likely over most areas of north-west India, parts of south peninsular, central, east and north-east India, IMD said in its forecast. “Normal” to “above normal” (>105%) rainfall is likely over parts of central India and adjacent areas of peninsular India and Gangetic plains in July.“After July 8, rains are likely to pick up over the west coast covering all of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, etc., and models are showing good rains so the deficiency may be covered gradually,” IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-heat-before-rains-revive-by-weekend-imd-101625421486691.html
05-07-2021||India||Farmers to march to Parliament during monsoon session||Farmers protesting three contentious agricultural laws enacted last year said on Sunday they will take their demonstration to the national capital and protest outside Parliament during the entire duration of the upcoming monsoon session, setting the stage for a fresh deadlock between farm unions and the government.A group of around 200 farmers will protest against the Centre’s three farm laws outside Parliament every day during the monsoon session, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Sunday.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of more than 35 farm unions spearheading the protests, spurned the government’s offer to put the three laws on hold to look into problems that the farmers may have had with any specific provisions, demanding that the government scrap the legislation entirely.Also Read: Farmers' protest may be sabotaged by Pakistan's ISI, alerts intel reportThe umbrella body said at a news briefing that two days before the session begins, a “chetavani patra” (warning letter) will be given to all Opposition MPs to protest the laws inside the House.“This is an ultimatum. We can’t wait forever and we are being forced to move into the Capital,” Gurnam Singh Charuni, a farm leader, said. Parliament convenes on July 19 for its monsoon session.The farm unions said they will intensify their protests, move protesters along with their tractors to the vicinity of Parliament and also organise demonstrations across the country.In November last year, thousands of farmers had pitched tents at five sites near Delhi’s borders — Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border) — from where they have been carrying on their protests.The call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to march into the Capital is likely to be met with resistance from the Delhi Police because such protests near Parliament are barred. On January 26, a tractor rally by the farmers on Republic Day in the national capital turned violent when protesters clashed with policemen and breached the Red Fort.The farm unions’ platform said nothing short of repeal of the laws would be acceptable to them and “mere tinkering here and there will not work”.“Ministers have been stating that the government is ready for talks, provided that the farmers are ready to discuss provisions that they have problems with. The ministers are also stating that the government will not repeal the three black central laws. Farmers have already clearly stated why amendments will not work,” Darshan Pal, a key leader of the unions, said.The cultivators say the laws enacted by the Narendra Modi-led government to liberalise farm trade will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and jeopardise their livelihoods. They have also said the new laws would lead to the dismantling of a system of assured prices that the government offers for farm produce.The government has billed the laws as necessary reforms to modernise India’s farming sector deemed largely unproductive. The gross domestic product (GDP) per worker in agriculture is one-third of the economy-wide GDP per worker. This means productivity in agriculture is too low to lift the overall economy.Despite 11 rounds of talks — the last one was held on January 22 — there has been no point of agreement between the government and the farmers. The government then offered to freeze the laws for 18 months, a proposal which the farmers had rejected.“We have been peaceful and always will be peaceful,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, another farm leader who sits on the decision-making committee of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha.On Thursday, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government was ready to talk to farmers and willing to look into their objections to the three laws.“We are ready to talk to the farm union on any issue they may have except on the question of repealing the farm laws,” Tomar said while on a tour to Morena in Madhya Pradesh.The farmers say a number of convoys of tractors will begin heading towards the Capital as part of their plan to step up their agitation. One convoy left Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh and more are reaching protest sites with people and material, such as food and cooking gas, said Rajewal.The three agricultural laws have virtually tested the Modi government’s ability to push reforms in the farm sector and thrown up a political challenge of sorts.“It is easier to do a stock-market reform or financial reform because its scope is limited to a certain elite section of the population. But when it comes to hard reforms affecting masses, such as labour or agricultural reforms, these are areas where we will see big challenges,” said KK Kailash, who teaches political science at the University of Hyderabad.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in Parliament in February that the system of minimum support prices “was there and will continue to be there”.The Supreme Court had put the three laws on hold on January 12.The government has said that the changes in the farm-trade system in the country envisaged by the laws were necessary to bring investment and growth in the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population.Farmers say the laws would work against their interests. “The crux of the matter is that the government’s laws are centered around large corporations which are against the interest of farmers and consumers. Why can’t markets be farmer-led?” asked Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture who the farmers had nominated to argue their case with the government during talks held earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-march-to-parliament-during-monsoon-session-101625421483796.html
05-07-2021||India||Panacea Bio gets DCGI nod to make Sputnik V||The Drugs Controller General of India has granted Panacea Biotec the licence to manufacture the Russian-made Covid vaccine Sputnik V in India, the company announced on Sunday, making it the first firm that will manufacturing the vaccine locally.Panacea Biotec is one of six companies to have entered into partnerships with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that is marketing the vaccine globally.“Panacea Biotec… (is in) receipt of manufacturing licence from Drugs Controller General (India) for Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 pursuant to its collaboration with Russian Direct Investment Fund. The licence is a necessary condition for using Sputnik V produced by Panacea Biotec in India,” the pharma company said in a statement.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe two-dose vaccine has 91.6% efficacy in preventing serious illness.The initial test batches produced at Panacea Biotec’s facilities at Baddi in Himachal Pradesh were earlier shipped to the Gamaleya Center in Russia for quality control.“The said batches have successfully passed all the checks for quality parameters both at the Gamaleya Center in Russia and at the Central Drug Laboratory, Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh in India,” the company statement read.Even though the company did not respond to further queries on when the vaccine will be available, people familiar with the matter, on condition of anonymity, said that under its terms with RDIF, Panacea is likely to produce 100 million doses per year. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories that has tied up with RDIF to market the first 250 million doses of the Russian vaccine, is also likely to market the doses produced by Panacea. Sputnik V was registered in India under the emergency use authorisation procedure on April 12 and vaccination against Covid-19 with the Russian vaccine started on May 14.As part of the soft launch, the vaccine has been administered in several Indian cities so far, including Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Baddi, Chennai, Miryalaguda, and Kolhapur. Sputnik V has been registered in 67 countries globally with total population of over 3.5 billion people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panacea-bio-gets-dcgi-nod-to-make-sputnik-v-101625420679937.html
05-07-2021||India||Kejriwal writes to PM Narendra Modi, seeks Bharat Ratna for medical fraternity||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider awarding the Bharat Ratna — India’s highest civilian award — collectively to health care professionals, including doctors, nurses and paramedics who have been on the front-line of India’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“I want to request the central government to award this year’s Bharat Ratna to an “Indian doctor”. By an “Indian doctor”, I mean the entire medical community — all doctors, nurses and paramedics should be given the award, collectively,” CM Kejriwal said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.He added that this was the best way to pay homage to all the people who lost their lives while serving the nation while on Covid-19 duty.According to an estimate by the Indian Medical Association till late June, nearly 1,500 doctors in the country succumbed to the viral illness apart from a large number of other health care professionals.The Bharat Ratna award is conferred every year in recognition of exceptional service/performance without distinction of race, occupation, position, or gender in arts, literature, science, public services or any field of human endeavour.“What can be a better token of gratitude for them? If the current rules do not allow Bharat Ratna to be awarded to a community, then I urge you to tweak the rules. The entire country is grateful to doctors. If they are awarded Bharat Ratna, the whole nation will be pleased,” said Kejriwal in his letter, a copy of which HT has seen.A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.IMA data shows that deaths of 798 doctors — over 53% out of the total 1,492 deaths so far — were recorded during the second wave. The highest number of fatalities among doctors was reported from Delhi (128), followed by Bihar (115) and Uttar Pradesh (79).The Kejriwal government has been providing ex-gratia compensation of ₹1 crore each to the families of front-line workers and doctors who lost their lives on Covid-19 duty. A Delhi government official said on condition of anonymity that 17 such grants have been made so far.On July 1, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation to mark the National Doctors’ Day and said hundreds of thousands of lives in the country were saved during the devastating pandemic due to the efforts of doctors and health care workers.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-narendra-modi-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-doctors-101625391361996.html
05-07-2021||India||Here’s why Congress may drop Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury as LoP in Lok Sabha||As the monsoon session of Parliament is nearing, the Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury is likely to be replaced. The Member of Parliament from Bengal and state unit chief faced considerable criticism from within his party but the recent Bengal polls has made his position untenable, said party leaders aware of the developments. Here are five other reasons that may lead to his ouster:1. In his two year-long stint as the leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha, Chowdhury is accused of never holding any meeting of the opposition parties involving the Trinamool Congress. A senior TMC leader said, “Chowdhury would send some other leaders to inform us about the Congress’ stand vis-à-vis bills, plans for dharna or walk out. We never had a meeting together.” Another opposition leader recalled that in the 16th Lok Sabha, when Mallikarjun Kharge and Jyotiraditya Scindia were the floor leader and the chief whip, the opposition coordination was much better. 2. In the run up to the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections, Congress leaders including Abhishek Singhvi (MP from Bengal) and state leaders such as Pradip Bhattacharya (former Pradesh Congress Committee or PCC chief) favoured a tie up between the Congress and the Trinamool. But Chowdhury, a bête noire of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, opposed any such plan. According to a top-ranking Trinamool leader, “No offer came from the Congress for a tie up.” 3. On several occasions, Trinamool Congress skipped meetings called by the Congress and vice versa in the current Lok Sabha. The second-largest opposition party in Parliament was not invited at an opposition meeting chaired by Rahul Gandhi in the Congress parliamentary party office. On another occasion, in a protest programme organised by the Congress in front of the Gandhi statue, Trinamool could not be seen. Similarly, protests led by the Trinamool saw little participation of the Congress. 4. Whenever West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, a five time former MP, used to come to Parliament, leaders cutting across political lines would pay her a courtesy visit. Chowdhury, however, never turned up or met Banerjee. Trinamool leaders saw it as a sign of personal rivalry. Chowdhury’s office, however, alleged that they sought Banerjee’s appointment “more than a hundred times”, but was never given any time.5. Trinamool also made no efforts to reach out to Chowdhury alleging he preferred to maintain an elementary equation with the BJP but not with them. “In one of the all-party meetings, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Chowdhury as “tiger of Bengal.” It was very unusual,” said a senior Trinamool leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heres-why-congress-may-drop-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-as-lop-in-lok-sabha-101625387941963.html
05-07-2021||NA||Highlights: PM Modi to address Co-Win global conclave tomorrow||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Uttarakhand new CM chairs state cabinet meetingUttarakhand's new chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami chaired a meeting of the state cabinet in Dehradun on Sunday. "Many important decisions have been taken in the meeting, in interests of the youth and unemployed persons," ANI quoted state govt spokesperson Subodh Uniyal as saying.PM Modi to address Co-Win global conclave tomorrowShri @narendramodi will address the #CoWINGlobalConclave tomorrow, 5th July at 3 PM. https://t.co/Y7qZj7njVlGoa govt allows bars, restaurants to open with 50% capacityGoa government issues fresh guidelines regarding COVID restrictions; allows bars & restaurants to function with up to 50% of seating capacity between 7am-9pm pic.twitter.com/iRowngwv82Temples in Tamil Nadu sanitized ahead of reopening tomorrowTamil Nadu: Temples in Madurai are being cleaned and sanitised ahead of their reopening tomorrow; visuals from Arulmigu Kallalagar Temple pic.twitter.com/zLODVsQSj3Maharashtra's former home minister moves SC seeking protection from coercive actionFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has filed a plea in Supreme Court praying that no coercive action should be taken against him, his lawyer Inderpal B Singh said on Sunday, according to ANI. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Deshmukh for questioning on July 5, in connection with alleged money laundering case.J-K: PAGD leaders meet at its chairman Farooq Abdullah's residenceJammu & Kashmir: Leaders of People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) hold a meeting at the residence of its Chairman Farooq Abdullah in Srinagar pic.twitter.com/hvMwyinS282 new Covid vaccine testing facilities set up from PM CARES Fund: GovtThe Centre on Sunday said that with the funding support from PM-CARES Fund, two new Covid-19 vaccine testing facilities have been set up in National Centre for Cell Science, Pune and National Institute of Animal Biotechnology, Hyderabad as Central Drug Laboratory for batch testing and quality control of vaccines, reported ANI.Haryana govt extends Covid lockdown till July 12; eases some curbsHaryana government issues order to extend lockdown till July 12 with some relaxations in the state#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/W6S7Dw9m7hAir quality of Delhi-NCR likely to be moderateAir quality over Delhi-NCT is likely to improve marginally but remain in moderate category on Sunday, said the ministry of earth sciences. Air quality is likely to remain in moderate category on July 5 and 6 2021, as per the air quality & weather forecast bulletin for Delhi issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD), the ministry added.'Best wishes to this team': PM Modi to new cabinet ministers of UttarakhandCongratulations to Shri @pushkardhami and all others who took oath today. Best wishes to this team as they work towards the progress and prosperity of Uttarakhand.Discussed various issues confronting religious minorities: Assam CMAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday after meeting with 150 intellectuals from religious minorities of the state said that 8 sub-groups should be constituted. One sub-group will work on health, one on education, one on population stabilization, one on cultural identity, one on financial inclusion, one on woman empowerment, one on skill development. "If at all we have to become among the 5 states of the country, then we have to manage our population explosion. That has been agreed upon today," the CM said, reported ANI.Bishan Singh Chuphal, Subodh Uniyal, among others take oath as new ministers in Uttarakhand cabinetBishan Singh Chuphal, Subodh Uniyal, Arvind Pandey, and Ganesh Joshi were sworn-in as ministers in the new cabinet of Uttarakhand. Dhan Singh Rawat, Rekha Arya, and Yatishwaranand also took oath as new ministers on Sunday.Pushkar Singh Dhami sworn-in as chief minister of UttarakhandBJP MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami sworn-in as the next Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, at a programme in Raj Bhawan, Dehradun pic.twitter.com/FFQcbU0gQ0Jammu and Kashmir govt relaxes weekend lockdown in 13 districtsThere will be no weekend lockdown in 13 districts - Jammu, Kathua, Samba, Poonch, Rajouri, Udhampur, Anantnag, Bandipora, Baramulla, Budgam, Ganderbal, Pulwama and Shopian. However, the daily night curfew will continue from 8 pm to 7 am: Govt of Jammu and Kashmir #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/gYXmYYaoftDeath toll in Philippine plane crash rises to 29#BREAKING Death toll rises to 29 in Philippine military plane crash: official pic.twitter.com/wImRHhAysWNow there will be no shortage of medical oxygen: Gadkari inaugurates plant in NagpurUnion minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday inaugurated an Oxygen Plant at Vivekanand Hospital in Nagpur. "Now there will be no shortage of medical oxygen. The hospital is serving poor people of the district," ANI quoted Gadkari as saying.Delhi’s active Covid-19 caseload falls below 1000-mark; city sees 94 fresh infections and seven related deathsDelhi reported 94 new Covid-19 cases, 111 recoveries and 7 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,34,554Total recoveries 14,08,567Death toll 24,995Active cases 992Assam CM to meet 150 Muslim intellectuals in view of 2 child policyAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday joined 'ALAAP- ALOCHANA: Empowering The Religious Minorities', an interactive session with intellectuals and religious minorities. Earlier, he had said that he will be meeting 150 Muslim intellectuals in view of state's 'two-child policy', reported ANI.Congress leader DK Shivakumar challenges K'taka govt to vaccinate 80% of state's adult population by September endKarnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said on Sunday that Karnataka can only be save from the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic if 80 per cent of its 'adult population' is vaccinated. "Experts are predicting that the third wave will hit us by October. However, if we fully vaccinate at least 80 per cent of the adult population by September-end, there may be no third wave. Even if there is, it will be very mild. That is why I am asking the Karnataka government if they are up for this challenge?" Shivakumar said in a statement, according to news agency ANI. PM Modi greets US Prez Joe Biden on America's Independence Day, says strategic partnership has 'truly global significance'Warm felicitations and greetings to @POTUS @JoeBiden and the people of the USA on their 245th Independence Day. As vibrant democracies, India and USA share values of freedom and liberty. Our strategic partnership has a truly global significance.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted United States President Joe Biden on America's 245th Independence Day. Taking to Twitter, Modi said, "Warm felicitations and greetings to @POTUS@JoeBiden and the people of the USA on their 245th Independence Day. As vibrant democracies, India and USA share values of freedom and liberty. Our strategic partnership has a truly global significance.Odisha adds 2,870 new Covid-19 cases, 42 more deathsOdisha's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 921,896 on Sunday after 2,870 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, a health department official told news agency PTI. Forty-two more people succumbed to the viral disease and 3,158 recovered, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 4,196 and 887,420 respectively. ‘National security only a slogan for them’: Cong slams Centre over Rafale dealThe Congress party, which has been the strongest critic of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government over the deal with French manufacturer Dassault Aviation to purchase Rafale jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF), said on Sunday that national security is only a slogan for the Centre. Read moreDelhi unlock: Stadiums, sports complexes to open; movie halls to remain shutIn a fresh order issued on Sunday, the Delhi government allowed stadium and sports complexes to open without spectators from Monday as the city will enter the sixth phase of the unlock process, news agency ANI reported. Read moreMaharashtra's Thane district reports 475 new Covid-19 cases, 13 more deathsThane has added 475 new cases of coronavirus, taking the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 534,011, an official said on Sunday. Read moreTremor of 3.7 magnitude hits Gujarat's KutchA tremor of 3.7 magnitude was experienced in Gujarat's Kutch district on Sunday morning, officials told news agency PTI. No casualties or damage to property have been reported so far, the officials said. Philippine military plane carrying 85 people crashes, rescue operations onA military plane carrying 85 people crashed in Southern Philippines on Sunday, the country's armed forces chief told news agency AFP. So far 15 have been rescued from the burning wreckage of the C-130, which crashed as it tried to land on Jolo island in Sulu province, General Cirilito Sobejana said. Germany's Covid-19 caseload climbs to over 3.7 millionGermany on Sunday reported 559 new cases of the Covid-19 disease and seven more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 3,730,912 and 91,030 respectively, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed. 'Dysfunction' in Kamala Harris' office: 2024 is elephant in the roomThe White House has moved to defend US Vice President Kamala Harris after media reports claimed there is dysfunction and infighting in her office. Read moreIndia's new Covid-19 cases fall to 43,071; 955 more deaths reportedIndia's daily tally of the Covid-19 disease continued to fall after 43,071 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. As many as 955 succumbed to the viral disease within the same period, taking the toll to 402,005. Read more2 dead, 20 missing in mudslide-hit Atami in JapanTwo people have died so far while 20 others are still missing after mudslides swept away homes and cars in the Atami town of Japan. Hundreds of firefighters, military troops and three coast guard ships have been carrying out rescue operations since Saturday, according to news agency AP. Ten people have been rescued so far while 121 have been evacuated from Atami. Ahead of US Independence Day, Donald Trump holds 'Save America' rally in FloridaA day ahead of the Fourth of July, the country's former president Donald Trump on Saturday held his much anticipated "Save America" campaign-style rally at the Sarasota Fairgrounds in Florida. Read moreHow dangerous third wave of Covid-19 will be? Scientist on govt panel explainsA scientist, who is part of a government panel, has said that a possible third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can hit its peak between October-November if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed. The panel is tasked with modelling of Covid-19 cases. Read moreExplosion reported at chemical plant in Maharashtra's Palghar districtMaharashtra: An explosion took place at Bharat Chemicals in Plaghar's Boisar Tarapur Industrial area yesterday. Injured admitted to Thunga hospital. More details awaited. pic.twitter.com/MNDIEFFFAqAn explosion took place at a Bharat Chemicals in Maharashtra's Palgarh district on Saturday night, news agency ANI reported. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the injured were shifted to Thunga hospital. The cause of the explosion is yet to be ascertained, ANI further reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-4-2021-101625360500773.html
