06-07-2021||India||Will follow any decision by Sonia, says Punjab CM||New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi met with Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday to resolve the crisis facing the party in the state ahead of next year’s assembly elections. . After the meeting, also attended by Congress Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge, the head of a three-member committee that looked at dissent and differences in the Punjab unit of the party, and presented the chief minister with a 18-point to-do list, Singh said they discussed the development of Punjab and “internal matters of the party” and that he would follow any decision taken by Gandhi. He also avoided commenting on Navjot Sidhu, the cricketer and TV personality who is his biggest detractor with the party, and who seemingly enjoys the patronage of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, both of whom separately met Gandhi ahead of her meeting with Singh. “I do not know anything about Sidhu,” Singh told reporters. His comments seemed to suggest that Gandhi will take a final call on what is to be done in Punjab, including on a possible position for Sidhu who is keen on becoming the chief of the local unit of the party ahead of next year’s elections, something Singh is opposed to. HT learns that an 18-point list was discussed at the hour-long meeting, and that Singh was told the party has to be united ahead of the election, and to be accessible to his party colleagues. The latest round of troubles for the CM started in April with the Punjab & Haryana high court quashing reports submitted by the Punjab Police in connection with the Kotkapura firing incidents dating back to 2015, and asking for the constitution of a new special investigation team to look into the issue. The firing, which resulted in the deaths of two people protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs, is being investigated, and the new SIT has questioned then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal and his son and then home minister Sukhbir Badal in connection with the case. The chief minister’s detractors allege that he has been soft on the Badals, slow to implement the party’s poll promises, and too reliant on powerful bureaucrats. As the voices of dissent grew with some lawmakers joining the chorus, the Congress’s central leadership set up a three-member committee headed by Kharge to settle the discord. The committee met all the MLAs, Sidhu and the CM. Last week, Sidhu also met with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. According to a person aware of developments, while the Captain’s leadership was not challenged, Gandhi told him ”to take Sidhu into confidence’.’ The party is keen that they go into polls next year with both the CM and Sidhu having made peace and exhibiting “a united face’’. It isn’t clear whether Sidhu, who has openly called Singh a “liar” and also targeted him over the power situation in the state and power supply agreements signed with private firms when the Akalis were in power, will be ready to go along. Sidhu was not available for a comment.It is also not clear whether Gandhi made any commitments to Singh on him being the party’s chief ministerial candidate in the elections. Sidhu left the BJP in 2016, almost joined the Aam Aadmi Party, then joined the Congress. Ahead of the latest controversy, the Congress seemed set to retain Punjab, although the damaging internal fight may have changed the equation now. “The Captain’s position has been deliberately undermined whereas Sidhu has been given such a long rope. The right way should have been to ask captain to take immediate actions to try to fulfill some promises like power sector reforms, employment generation. Sidhu gets unnecessary focus. AAP would not take him. So the only way for him to float his own party and then make alliances,’’ said Ashutosh Kumar, professor of political science in Panjab University. A senior Congressman seemed to think the meeting had achieved enough. “With this, we hope to have partially defused the situation,” he said. There was no official comment from the Congress Party on the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-follow-any-decision-by-sonia-says-punjab-cm-101625595976127.html
06-07-2021||India||Delhiwale: The time capsules of Green Park||A gate just big enough for a car to pass through. Beyond it, a small lawn on the side, not fanatically trimmed. And then the single-storey house, not modern-looking, but not nostalgically old-fashioned either. It appears to be a child of the late 1970s, when such no-fuss design was said to be in vogue.This is a residence in Green Park. Until a decade ago it was just an average sight in the leafy south Delhi colony. But now it stands out for being less common, though still quite a few of them exist.Like many genteel Delhi neighbourhoods, Green Park is adapting to the new age. The homes that were originally built to support one household—with at best a barsati on the roof for a single person living on rent—are being pulled down to make way for multi-floor apartments. The ground floors of yesterday are now parking lots for the residents’ cars. Tall walls and immense gates make it impossible to see anything inside. It’s like the gated suburbs have come to the city centre. The modern-day Green Park dwellers are rarely sighted outside their gleaming fortresses, unless you decide to get jalebis at the nearby Evergreen Sweets or the imported Camembert at the nearby Modern Bazaar supermarket.This evening, one of these lanes is mostly empty. The few people you get to see are uniformed security guards outside the new sleek edifices, or construction labourers working in one of the sites of a former house. A few of the old houses are empty—one is in ruins.The new residences have no uniformity in their aesthetics. Some are moderately elegant, others betray too much ambition in their extravagance. The white one near the Jagannath Temple, though, is very minimal, with straight stern lines—it looks so international that it’s as if you were in a gentrified neighbourhood of any city of the world.Besides a turning, a house is being demolished. By now it’s mostly a hill of bricks and cement. Four labourers are dispersed about a concrete crusher.A few steps away stands another of those one-storey houses, with a Fiat Padmini parked inside. It evokes a time when each financially-secured family had just one car, one TV, and one landline phone. Green Park still has some of these time capsules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-time-capsules-of-green-park-101625594142664.html
06-07-2021||India||NIA arrests arms trafficker from Meerut in Khalistani terrorists extortion case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested an arms trafficker in a case related to extortion by Khalistani terrorists, its spokesperson said.Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, was produced before a special NIA court in Mohali in Punjab which sent him to eight-day custody of the agency, the spokesperson said.The NIA said Singh was wanted in a case, originally registered at Mehna Police Station in Moga district of Punjab on May 22, relating to the information received by the police that Arshdeep Singh alias Aarsh, Charanjit Singh alias Rinku and Ramandeep Singh alias Jajj, all currently abroad, had formed a gang and are threatening and extorting money from people.The NIA had re-registered the case on June 10 and taken over the investigation, the spokesperson said.The investigation revealed that Gagandeep Singh is a close associate of Aarsh.Aarsh is a close associate of Hardeep Singh Nijjar, a designated terrorist and chief of the Khalistan Tiger Force, the spokesperson said.The NIA said Gagandeep Singh was involved in smuggling of weapons and on the directions of Aarsh, he had supplied several weapons to the other arrested accused persons which were further used in killing and extorting money from businessmen in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-arms-trafficker-from-meerut-in-khalistani-terrorists-extortion-case-101625590993715.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Historic’: Govt creates new ministry of co-operation ahead of reshuffle buzz||New Delhi: Ahead of a much-speculated cabinet reshuffle, the Union government on Tuesday announced the creation of a new ministry of co-operation to focus on strengthening the cooperative movement in the countryAn official statement described the creation of a new ministry as “a historic move” by the Narendra Modi government to realise the vision of ‘Sahkar se Samriddhi’ (prosperity through cooperatives).It signals the government’s deep commitment to community-based development partnership and fulfils the budget announcement made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the statement said, a reference to the minister’s budget announcement earlier this year.In her February 1 speech, Sitharaman proposed to set up a separate administrative structure to “streamline ease of doing business for cooperatives”.Tuesday’s statement added that “a co-operative based economic development model is very relevant where each member works with a spirit of responsibility”.Commerce and railways minister Piyush Goyal called the decision was “another visionary step” that will give a massive boost to co-operative movement and create a true people’s momentum for development.RS Sodhi, managing director of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd which markets Amul brand of milk and dairy products, welcomed the creation of the new ministry."It's a revolutionary step by @PMOIndia recognising the role cooperatives can play in creating big businesses by small holders/farmers /workers/traders," Sodhi tweeted.Earlier in the day, President Ram Nath Kovind appointed Union social justice minister Gehlot as the governor of Karnataka, former Gujarat minister Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel as the governor of Madhya Pradesh, BJP MP Hari Babu Kambhampati as the governor of Mizoram, and former Goa minister Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar as the governor of Himachal Pradesh.The appointments came as senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies flew into the Capital ahead of a possible Cabinet reshuffle, the first since Narendra Modi swept back to power with an increased majority in 2019.A cabinet meeting is likely to be held at 11am on Wednesday and the swearing-in ceremony of new ministers is scheduled for 6pm, said people aware of developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-govt-creates-new-ministry-of-co-operation-ahead-of-reshuffle-buzz-101625593396021.html
06-07-2021||India||India will be engine of global growth after 2nd Covid wave: Jaishankar||India’s strong economic recovery after it emerges from the second wave of Covid-19 infections will be an engine of growth for the global economy, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday.Jaishankar made the remarks while addressing the maiden edition of the Indo-Pacific Business Summit organised by the external affairs ministry and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) as part of efforts to drive post-pandemic economic growth.The Indo-Pacific concept reflects the “reality of globalisation, the emergence of multi-polarity and the benefits of rebalancing”, and means the “overcoming of the Cold War and a rejection of bipolarity and dominance,” he said. It is also an expression of the collective interest in promoting global prosperity and securing the global commons, he added.“India is coming out of the second wave and will witness a strong economic recovery. It will be a more dynamic and friendlier business destination. We will contribute to being an engine of growth for the global economy,” Jaishankar said.“And we will be very much a part of more reliable and resilient supply chains that the post-Covid world requires. International cooperation...will be very much a key to the better world that we all seek. The Indo-Pacific – a region in which we are so deeply invested historically – will be an arena of particular activity and energy,” he said.Several sessions of the business summit on Tuesday were addressed by envoys of key countries, including Singapore high commissioner Simon Wong, Vietnam ambassador Pham Sahn Chau and United Arab Emirates ambassador Ahmed Al-Banna.Jaishankar noted that the transformation of the past decade has been overshadowed by the impact of Covid-19, which disrupted supply chains, negatively impacted manufacturing, made international trade unpredictable and ruined many services sectors.“Globalised production networks remain vulnerable and fragile, with global merchandise trade falling by 5.6% in 2020, compared to 2019, and the predicted trade in services declining by as much as 15.4% in the same duration...The hit taken by travel, transport and tourism activities is alarming and really moves us into unchartered territory,” he said.Three factors – the salience of health, the power of digital, and the importance of re-building greener – will be crucial as countries chart a course towards recovery, he said.“Covid-19 had brought out many inadequacies in the global health system and the resulting debates are taking place elsewhere. What is relevant for us here is to recognise that in every society, the expectation of our public with regard to health has gone up,” he said.“Whether it is the next wave, the next pandemic or indeed something quite different, part of the answer lies in greater international collaboration. By that I mean the working together not just of governments, but of businesses and the medical and scientific professions,” he added.High-speed internet, cyber security, enhanced digital literacy, regional e-commerce and efficient e-governance will become more important and the strengthening of digital connectivity within and between countries of the Indo-Pacific is essential for economic prosperity, Jaishankar said.Collective efforts are also needed to re-define infrastructure and urbanisation, and can make agriculture more sustainable. “Physical and digital connectivity remain important for supporting shorter, efficient and diversified supply-chains, risk mitigation, enhanced trade facilitation, and reduction in the costs of intra-regional trade,” he remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-be-engine-of-global-growth-after-2nd-covid-wave-jaishankar-101625593216278.html
06-07-2021||India||Central government creates a new Ministry of Cooperation||Ahead of the much awaited cabinet expansion, the Union government on Monday announced the creation of a new ministry named the Ministry of Co-operation to implement the vision of ‘Sahkar se Samriddhi’ or prosperity through cooperation.As per a government functionary aware of the developments, the ministry will provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in the country.“The ministry will work to streamline processes for ease of doing business for co-operatives and enable development of Multi-State Co-operatives (MSCS),” said the functionary quoted above.The creation of a separate ministry is also indicative of the Union government’s commitment to community based developmental partnership and fulfils the budget announcement made by the finance minister, the functionary explained.In the past, the government has renamed several ministries to expand their work profile. For instance, the ministry of environment was named as the ministry of environment, forests and climate change; similarly the ambit of the ministry of animal husbandry was expanded to include Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and the HRD ministry was renamed as education ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-government-creates-a-new-ministry-of-cooperation-101625591776206.html
06-07-2021||India||Thaawarchand Gehlot takes over as Karnataka governor from Vajubhai Vala||Thaawarchand Gehlot was appointed the governor of Karnataka on Tuesday and he relieved Vajubhai Vala from the office Vala held since September 1, 2014. Gehlot’s placement is part of eight gubernatorial appointments approved by President Ramnath Kovind.“I extend my warm welcome to Shri Thawarchand Gehlot Ji as the new governor of Karnataka. The state will benefit from Gehlotji’s long experience in public life & commitment to social justice. I thank governor Shri Vajubhai Vala Ji for his contribution to Karnataka,” BS Yediyurappa, the chief minister said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.“Many congratulations to Union minister Shri. #ThawarchandGehlot for being appointed as [the] governor of Karnataka. I wish him success in the new role and hope he works earnestly to uphold the Constitutional values,” Siddaramaih, the Congress’ leader of the opposition in Karnataka said. He did not mention Vala.“Congratulations to Sri @TCGehlot on being appointed as the Governor of Karnataka. My best wishes to the outgoing governor Sri Vajubhai Vala for his future endeavours,” DK Shivakumar, the state Congress president said in a post on Twitter.Vala had taken over from K Rosaiah, the then governor of Tamil Nadu, who was given additional charge of Karnataka after H R Bhardwaj’s five-year tenure came to an end in June 2014.Vala presided over a tumultuous period during which the state saw four chief ministers in a span of seven years. Siddaramaiah was chief minister from 2013-18 when Vala took office. However, after the assembly elections, on May 17, 2018, Vala invited Yediyurappa and the Bharatiya Janata Party that had won 104 out of the 224 assembly seats to form the government since it was the single largest party despite it being short of the majority of 113. The invitation led to accusations of bias since the Janata Dal (Secular) and the Congress had already forged a formal alliance that gave them the majority. On top of this, Vala gave Yediyurappa 15 days to prove his majority despite the latter only seeking seven days.The Congress and JD(S) took the matter to the Supreme Court and a three judge bench, in a midnight hearing, said the majority had to be proven by the evening of May 20.Yediyurappa had to step down after just two days in power. Three days later on May 23, HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) was sworn in as chief minister after joining hands with the Congress.In the 14 months that followed, the Karnataka Raj Bhavan’s role came under scrutiny for alleged political activities before the Cong-JD(S) coalition was nearly wiped out in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, which gave the BJP an unprecedented 25 out of the 28 seats in the state.Soon, mass resignations followed from within the coalition government amid allegations that Yediyurappa and the BJP were luring legislators from the Congress and JD(S) to defect to the party. Yediyurappa was finally sworn in as chief minister for a record fourth time on 26 July 2019.Vala leaves at a time when Yediyurappa’s future as CM of the state is under constant challenge from dissenters within the state unit of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thaawarchand-gehlot-takes-over-as-karnataka-governor-from-vajubhai-vala-101625590635974.html
06-07-2021||India||22.5% children have significant fear of Covid-19, 42.3% suffer from irritability: AIIMS study||A study by the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) revealed that at least 22.5% of children developed a significant fear of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while 42.3% suffer from irritability and 30.8% with inattention."At least 22.5% of children had a significant fear of Covid-19, and 35.2% and 21.3% of children had boredom and sleep disturbance," said the AIIMS study.Also read | 'Not much data to suggest Delta Plus can cause more deaths': AIIMS directorThe study named 'Psychological and behavioural impact of lockdown and quarantine measures for Covid-19 pandemic on children, adolescents and caregivers' published in the Journal of Tropical Pediatrics in December 2020 concluded that children with pre-existing behavioural problems have a high probability of worsening of their behavioural symptoms.It also found that "anxiety, depression, irritability, boredom, inattention and fear of Covid-19 are pre-dominant new-onset psychological problems in children during the Covid-19 pandemic.""Fifteen studies describing 22,996 children/adolescents fulfilled the eligibility criteria from a total of 219 records. Overall, 34.5%, 41.7%, 42.3% and 30.8% of children were found to be suffering from anxiety, depression, irritability and inattention," the study said.The pandemic and quarantine negatively affected the behaviour or psychological state of a total of 79.4% of children, the study added."Similarly, 52.3% and 27.4% of caregivers developed anxiety and depression, respectively, while being in isolation with children," the study also noted.Studies performed in the past during epidemics caused by SARS, Ebola virus and Middle-east respiratory syndrome have shown a high prevalence of adverse psychological consequences in both adults and children, according to the study.It also noted that while children are less likely to be infected with the virus, or if infected will have milder symptoms or remain asymptomatic, they are not immune to the psychological impacts of the pandemic. It said that children as young as two years of age are aware of the changes around them and get affected by them.Also read | Covid-19 killed more people under 50 than any other age group: AIIMS studyA meta-analysis of observational studies in epidemiology and Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses (PRISMA) guidelines were followed for the study."Only original articles describing prospective/cross-sectional studies, with/without comparison and control arms, enrolling children up to 18 years and their caregivers were included, only if they have a sample size of 50 or more to provide a true pooled estimate," the study noted while describing the methods and materials of the research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/225-children-have-significant-fear-of-covid-19-42-3-suffer-from-irritability-aiims-study-101625586802167.html
06-07-2021||India||Rajnath Singh, Anurag Thakur flag off concentrators for oxygen banks in Himachal Pradesh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday flagged off trucks transporting 900 oxygen concentrators for Himachal Pradesh under an initiative launched by Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur, a native of the hill state. The oxygen concentrators, Singh said, will cater to 1,400 beds and strengthen Himachal Pradesh's fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).700 का लक्ष्य था,1400 हासिल कियारक्षा मंत्री श्री @rajnathsingh जी ने श्री @ianuragthakur जी द्वारा हिमाचल में बनाए गये ऑक्सीजन बैंक के लिए अनुराग जी द्वारा एकत्रित किए 900 ऑक्सीजन कंसंट्रेटर,1 लाख मास्क व 3500 पीपीई किट को हरी झंडी दिखाकर हिमाचल रवाना किया।#sevahisangathan pic.twitter.com/aH2hAsNEECApplauding Thakur, the junior finance minister, said, "I applaud him for setting up an oxygen bank for Himachal Pradesh. He has previously sent multiple consignments, including several Covid relief materials and his efforts are immensely admirable. This is a big effort and I encourage him to continue social efforts for his constituency and state." Thakur, Singh further said, took up this endeavour with the intent of "seva" (service) which, he said, is in line with the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) motto of "seva hi sangathan."Speaking on the occasion, Thakur, Lok Sabha MP from Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur constituency, thanked the defence minister for flagging off the trucks. "Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have provided over 1,000 oxygen concentrators and three pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants for Himachal Pradesh. We have also strengthened the local administration by providing masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, surgical gloves and other Covid resources. Additionally, we dispatched 17 mobile medical units carrying Covid relief materials for 12 districts in our state," he said.Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, the Hamirpur MP added that all efforts have been made to avert the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, and thus save lives.Besides Singh, BJP national president JP Nadda recently laid the foundation for two PSA oxygen plants containing 140 litres per minute (LPM) each for Hamirpur and Bilaspur and flagged off 108 oxygen concentrators along with 160 oxygen cylinders as part of Covid relief materials for Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-anurag-thakur-flag-off-concentrators-for-oxygen-banks-in-himachal-pradesh-101625584132220.html
06-07-2021||India||Taiwan President follows PM Modi, wishes Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted the 14th Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday. This was the second such call to the Tibetan spiritual leader by Modi since he took over as the prime minister of the country in 2014.The officials in Dharamshala said Modi spoke to the 14th Dalai Lama for almost 20 minutes on Tuesday morning and His Holiness, who is in Dharamshala, the seat of the Tibetan government-in-exile, was delighted to receive the call.Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life.Apart from PM Modi, Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen – a country claimed by China – also wished the revered leader on this birthday, sources close to the development said.In a Twitter post, Ing-wen said, “Wishing a very happy 86th birthday to His Holiness the@DalaiLama. Thank you for teaching us the importance of coming together to help one another through this pandemic.”Wishing a very happy 86th birthday to His Holiness the @DalaiLama. Thank you for teaching us the importance of coming together to help one another through this pandemic. pic.twitter.com/GWyrIVeMl4Many other leaders of international stature and several chief ministers also called up to wish the Dalai Lama throughout the day.Prominent among them are foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and road transport minister Nitin Gadkari.ALSO READ | Dalai Lama turns 86, still longs for Wutai Shan pilgrimage in ChinaUS Ambassador to Nepal Randy Berry also took to Twitter to greet the Tibetan spiritual leader on his birthday. He said that “peace and freedom cannot be ensured as long as fundamental human rights are violated."Peace & freedom cannot be ensured as long as fundamental human rights are violated. Similarly, there cannot be peace and stability as long as there is oppression & suppression."Happy 86th birthday to His Holiness the 14th @DalaiLama. Keep inspiring us for world peace & love!🙏 pic.twitter.com/PwssHq2q3pThe envoy’s tweet followed another tweet by US Ambassador in India Atul Keshap, who said the Dalai Lama's messages of peace and compassion inspire and transcend globally.Wishing His Holiness the @DalaiLama a very Happy 86th Birthday today. His messages of peace and compassion inspire and transcend globally. pic.twitter.com/M3WlNtAYylSeveral chief ministers including Punjab’s Captain Amarinder Singh, Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Sikkim’s Prem Singh Tamang and Delhi's Arvind Kejriwal also greeted the Dalai Lama in a show of respect.Other leaders who also called him included oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan, chief ministers Pema Khandu (Arunachal Pradesh), Pamod Sawant (Goa), Conrad Sangma (Meghalaya), James Sangma (Meghalaya's minister of environment and forests) and Bimal Borah (sports and culture minister in Assam).In exile now for 62 years, the 14th Dalai Lama has been a symbol of struggle for the Tibetan people to the entire world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taiwan-president-follows-pm-modi-wishes-dalai-lama-on-his-86th-birthday-101625588047651.html
06-07-2021||India||Madras HC orders police protection for queer woman from her family||The Madras high court recently granted police protection to a queer woman belonging to the LGBTQ community as she was receiving frequent life threats from her family members after she disclosed her sexual orientation to them. The bench comprising justice M Nirmal Kumar followed the guidelines laid down by the Madras high court earlier in a historic judgment delivered by justice Anand Venkatesh in June in the case of a lesbian couple seeking protection. It included guidelines for police not to harass the community on account of their parents filing ‘missing complaints’ which is what had happened in this case. According to the counsel, the petitioner left home on April 17 fearing for her life and safety as she was subjected to physical and verbal abuse and her family was aware that she was living with a female friend but her brother sent her on WhatsApp, a copy of a missing woman FIR filed on April 22. “The petitioner is a major who consciously and deliberately left her native [place] to escape from her abusing family members and she is now living with her friend,” the counsel submitted. “The petitioner’s apprehension is that the family may try to kill her in the name of honour or adopt other tactics to cause grievous physical harm to her. In view of the same, the petitioner has requested for Police Protection,” the counsel added. The counsel also submitted that immediately after the petitioner completed class 12, she was forcibly married when she was only 17 years old. “The petitioner, in course of time, realized that she was queer and could not stay in a heterosexual marriage. As a result, the petitioner and her husband have fallen apart and nothing survives in the marriage,” the counsel said . She later began living with her friend and later they left the village fearing her parents, who thought she brought disrepute to the family, the counsel said.The police submitted that a case of ‘women missing’ was registered on the complaint of the petitioner’s mother but “the Police, on receipt of any complaint regarding girl/woman/man missing, which upon enquiry/investigation is found to involve consenting adults belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community, after receipt of their statements, closes the complaint without subjecting them to any harassment.” The court observed that the petitioner and her friend are “conscious about their relationship.” “In view of the above, the respondent police is directed not to cause any harassment and also give appropriate protection for the safety and life of the petitioner following the guidelines issued by this Court... dated 07.06.2021.” the court said in its order passed on June 25, which was made public on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-police-protection-for-queer-woman-from-her-family-101625587335721.html
06-07-2021||India||India not closing missions in Afghanistan, says MEA as Taliban expands footprint||NEW DELHI: India on Tuesday dismissed speculation about the closure of its embassy and two consulates in Afghanistan even as Afghan envoy Farid Mamundzay briefed foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on the fragile security situation in the troubled country. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Indian authorities were keeping a very close watch on the fluid situation in Afghanistan, especially against the backdrop of a massive surge in violence by the Afghan Taliban, to ensure that Indian officials and nationals were not put in harm’s way. Gains by the Taliban in northern Afghanistan have led to some countries closing their consulates in this region. Reports suggested some districts collapsed without a fight and that some 1,000 Afghan security personnel crossed the border to seek refuge in Tajikistan. There were also reports that the Turkish and Russian missions in Mazar-e-Sharif, the capital of northern Balkh province, have been closed.In Photos: Afghan forces move in to Kabul’s Bagram Air BaseAmid the uncertainty, the Indian embassy in Kabul ruled out the immediate closure of the Indian missions in Afghanistan. “Media reports on #India closing its Embassy & Consulates in [Afghanistan] are incorrect. @IndianEmbKabul, Consulates in Kandahar & Mazar are open, functioning. We DO HOWEVER continue to closely monitor the evolving security situation particularly around Kandahar & Mazar cities,” the embassy tweeted. The people cited above said officials were continuously monitoring the situation to ensure the safety of Indian officials and nationals. “As of now, the embassy and consulates are functioning and everything is connected to the evolving situation,” a person said. Also Read: Afghanistan situation to be focus on Indian foreign minister’s visit to RussiaThe Indian side is keen to not do anything that would send a wrong signal to the Afghan government or elements that have sought to use Afghanistan for anti-India actions, the people said, adding New Delhi would also keep a watch on the actions of other key players such as the US. In a separate development, Afghan ambassador Mamundzay briefed foreign secretary Shringla during a meeting in South Block. This was the first one-to-one meeting between the two officials since the envoy assumed office in New Delhi. Joint secretary JP Singh, the external affairs ministry’s pointperson for Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran, was also present at the meeting. “Ambassador briefed FS on the security situation in Afghanistan. FS assured our Afghan friends of India’s long term commitment towards peace and prosperity in Afghanistan,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted after the meeting but didn’t give details. The people cited above said the Afghan envoy’s briefing on the situation touched upon the overall security situation, including the gains made by the Taliban and the actions taken by Afghan security forces to drive back the militants, especially over the past two days. The Afghan side sought India’s cooperation at the UN Security Council for the listing and delisting of Taliban leaders and commanders under UNSC Resolution 1267, the people said. There is a perception on the Afghan side that far too much leeway has been given to sanctioned Taliban leaders in easing restrictions on their movements. The Afghan side also sought India’s help in addressing a shortage in food supplies, especially wheat, the people said. Last year, India shipped 75,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan through Iran’s Chabahar port as humanitarian assistance to overcome food insecurity amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Afghanistan has so far not sought any security assistance amid the spike in Taliban violence, and this remains a sensitive issue for India. New Delhi has in the past assisted Kabul by providing a limited number of helicopter gunships and spare parts for Russian-origin military hardware. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure during external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s visit to Russia during July 7-9. Russia has its own concerns about instability in Afghanistan spilling over into several Central Asian states and is keen to mount a coordinated response along with India. The Taliban have taken over Sher Khan Bandar crossing, the main trade gateway to Tajikistan that is located north of Kunduz city, over the past fortnight. Another border town, Bandar-e-Hairatan in Balkh province, which is the main trade gateway to Uzbekistan, has been under threat from the Taliban. On June 29, India issued a detailed and specific security advisory for its nationals in Afghanistan following an escalation in terrorist attacks, warning that they should exercise utmost vigilance as they faced a “serious threat of kidnapping”. Indian nationals were strongly advised to avoid all non-essential movements. According to the external affairs ministry’s data, there are around 3,100 Indian nationals in Afghanistan. A majority of them are engineers and staff working on hundreds of development projects being implemented across the country. India is the largest regional donor in Afghanistan, with pledges of around $3 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-not-closing-missions-in-afghanistan-says-mea-as-taliban-expands-footprint-101625586075951.html
06-07-2021||India||After Shimla, tourists flock Mussoorie after Uttarakhand eased Covid-19 norms||After Himachal Pradesh, its neighbouring hill state, Uttarakhand, has been witnessing a rapid rise in the inflow of tourists after it eased Covid-19 induced curbs in the state. Tourists have been gathering in Mussoorie, the popular hill station of the state, also called 'Queen of Hills', to beat the summer in north India.The Uttarakhand government relaxed the restrictions imposed in the state to contain the spread of the viral infection. The state government also allowed gyms and coaching centres to function at 50% capacity, and allowed the markets to stay open every day except Sunday.Also read: Manali flooded with tourists, social media erupts with 3rd wave warning & memesHowever, as per a revised order issued in June last week, markets will remain open on Sunday in Mussoorie and Nainital and will be shut on Tuesday.Despite the limitation of carrying a negative RT-PCR report for entering the state, tourists are flooding Mussoorie and Nainital, the popular hill stations of Uttarakhand."Weather is very good here. I came here with my joint family. We are vaccinated and taking Covid-19 precautions," ANI quoted Navdeep Kaur, a tourist from Amritsar as saying.In the images released by the ANI, tourists can be seen roaming around Mall Road, one of the famous tourist destinations of the hill station. In the images, most of the tourists are seen flouting Covid-19 appropriate guidelines as they can be seen without masks.Meanwhile, highlighting the violations of the protocol in hill stations, ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday said pictures (from hill stations) are "frightening". People must comply with Covid appropriate guidelines. Stressing on the presence of the pandemic, the Union health ministry said violations of the protocols can nullify the progress made so far.Himachal Pradesh recorded traffic of around 6-7 lakh tourists in the state in less than a month starting from June, according to an ANI report. Rush of tourists has been reported in popular destinations of the state like Shimla, Manali, Dharamshala, Dalhousie, Narkanda among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-shimla-tourists-flock-mussoorie-after-uttarakhand-eased-covid-19-norms-101625580869639.html
06-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Opposition leaders write to President seeking justice for Stan Swamy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ask Centre to act against those responsible for false cases against Stan Swamy: Opposition leaders urge PresidentA day after the death of 84-year-old tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, 10 opposition leaders urged President Ram Nath Kovind to direct the Union government to act against those responsible for false cases on him. Read moreCommon eligibility test for Central govt jobs from 2022The first common eligibility test (CET) to recruit non-technical group B and C government staff has been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and is unlikely to be held by the end of this year. Read moreJaishankar calls for greater cooperation between Indo-Pacific countries to tackle Covid-19India is coming out of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will witness a strong economic recovery, Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. Read morePunjab: Two Indian army sepoys held for spying for ISIThe Punjab Police have busted a cross-border espionage network with the arrest of two army sepoys, who are accused of providing classified documents to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Read moreRashid Khan appointed Afghanistan's T20I captainAfghanistan's star leg-spinner Rashid Khan has been named the national side' T20 captain, with the forthcoming T20 World Cup in mind. Read moreMadhuri Dixit says she's 'concerned' as son Arin leaves for the US for higher studiesMadhuri Dixit on Monday shared a video where she talked about her feelings as her older son Arin Nene leaves for the US to pursue his higher studies. Arin recently passed out of school. Read moreThis bug can disable your Apple iPhone Wi-Fi; Here’s how it works and what you can do to stop itApple iPhones are well known for their stability and reliable software experience, but even iOS occasionally suffers from bugs that can somewhat impair functionality of their pricey fhandsets. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-opposition-leaders-write-to-president-kovind-after-stan-swamy-s-death-and-all-the-latest-news-101625584302938.html
06-07-2021||India||Amazon lists AC worth ₹96,000 for ₹5,900. Corrects mistake hours later||E-commerce giant Amazon on Tuesday made an error while listing a Toshiba 2021 range split system air-conditioner as it mistakenly quoted its selling price at ₹5,900 instead of ₹90,800. The air-conditioner originally cost ₹96,700 but Amazon mistakenly offered 94% discount on the item, according to a report by BGR India.Amazon India was supposed to sell the AC for ₹90,800 after offering a discount of ₹5,900 but listed the item for sale at ₹5,900. The e-commerce giant did not comment whether the customers who booked the item for ₹5,900 will receive the item at the quoted rate. Amazon after realising its mistake changed the selling price, offers and discount on the item in its India website.Amazon last month made another mistake of sending packages to a woman in the US that she didn’t order and the e-commerce platform initially even refused to retrieve those items. The woman from New York even contacted Amazon but even after tracing the owner Amazon said that she would have to keep the items already delivered along with over 1,000 boxes that were already in transit. Amazon finally took the items back after a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazon-lists-ac-worth-rs-96-000-for-rs-5-900-corrects-mistake-hours-later-101625584731138.html
06-07-2021||India||Jaishankar calls for greater cooperation between Indo-Pacific countries to tackle Covid-19||India is coming out of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will witness a strong economic recovery, Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. He also called for greater cooperation between countries in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and assured that India would be an “engine of growth” for the global economy.The minister made the remarks during his address to the inaugural session of the Indo-Pacific Business Summit, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with the ministry of external affairs.“India is coming out of the second wave and will witness a strong economic recovery. It will be a more dynamic and friendlier business destination. We will contribute to being an engine of growth for the global economy and we will be very much a part of the more reliable and resilient supply chains that the post Covid world requires,” Jaishankar said.In his address, Jaishankar also said that the pandemic disrupted supply chains across the globe, negatively impacted manufacturing and has also made international trade unpredictable.Also read | Quad summit in October, rising China on agenda“Globalised production networks remain vulnerable and fragile, with global merchandise trade falling by 5.6% in 2020, compared to 2019, and the predicted trade and services declining by as much as 15.4% in the same duration. This decline in merchandise trade is the sharpest since 2009, whereas the decline in services trade is the biggest since 1990,” he said.Stressing on the need for international collaboration to improve public health, the minister said that the collaboration between not just governments but businesses and medical and scientific professions is needed.“Prime Minister Modi has called for adopting ‘one earth, one health’ approach at the recent G7 summit, where India was a guest. We need meaningful partnerships, sharing of advanced technologies, collaboration in vaccine and pharma production, cap building and transparency in health information and in all of this, the role of our private sectors is critical,” he further said.He also said that Covid-19 has made people much more digital and along with it the risks too have magnified. “The strengthening of digital connectivity, both within and between the countries of the Indo-Pacific, is an essential condition for our economic prosperity and development. Like-minded countries must work together for data driven digital dev partnerships,” the minister said.“High speed internet, cyber security, enhanced digital literacy, deeper technical cooperation, regional e-commerce and efficient e-governance will have a more salient place in the conversations of the coming days,” he added.The pandemic, he said, brought three major issues to the fore namely, the salience of health, the power of the digital and the importance of building or rebuilding greener. He also said this is a time to introspect on how to build greener, as the pandemic has slowed down the global economy.“Physical and digital connectivity remain important for supporting shorter, efficient and diversified supply chains, risk mitigation, enhanced trade facilitation and reduction in the cost of intra-regional trade,” Jaishankar said.He also assured that the Indian government has taken many measures to improve public health, infrastructure, agriculture and manufacturing sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-calls-for-greater-cooperation-between-indo-pacific-countries-to-tackle-covid19-101625585027653.html
06-07-2021||India||Domestic air traffic grew by nearly 40% in June: Report||Domestic air passenger traffic grew by 41-42% with an estimated 2.9 to 3 million passengers flying in June as compared to 1.98 million passengers in May as the rate of Covid- 19 infections dipped after peaking during the second wave, according to credit rating agency ICRA.Airlines’ capacity deployment for June 2021 was around 46% higher than June 2020 with 31,700 departures in June 2021, against 21,696 departures in June 2020, the report noted. On a sequential basis, the number of departures in June 2021 was higher by 14-15%, as Covid-19 infections demonstrated a downward trajectory.“For June 2021, the average daily departures were at ~1100, significantly higher than average daily departures of 700 in June 2020, and higher than ~900 in May 2021, though [it] remains significantly lower than ~2000 in April 2021. The average number of passengers per flight during June 2021 was 94, against an average of 77 passengers per flight in May 2021. Though there is some recovery observed in June 2021, there exists continued stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, while both leisure and business travel have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions, despite the decline in infections,” Kinjal Shah, vice president & Co-group head, ICRA said.The aviation ministry in May 2020 increased capacity deployment on domestic routes gradually from 33%, with effect from May 25, 2020, to 80%, with effect from December 03, 2020. However, it reduced the permissible capacity deployment to 50% of pre-Covid levels with effect from June, 2021 due to the resurgence of the second wave of the pandemic. On Monday it permitted increasing the capacity to 65% with effect from July 5, 2021, applicable up to July 31, 2021.The Airport Authority of India tweeted on Tuesday to say that the Indian airspace was witnessing a rise in the domestic & international flight operations and the air traffic graph over Indian air space was also showing the same. “...AAI Airports across all five regions are operating in full swing, keeping up with safety precautions against Covid-19,” it said.Earlier this month the finance ministry announced a scheme providing financial support in the form of working capital/personal loans to 10,700 regional level tourist guides recognised under the tourism ministry and tourist guides recognised by the state governments and travel and tourism stakeholders (TTS) recognised by the Ministry of Tourism.Additionally, to provide an impetus to the tourism industry, the finance ministry announced a scheme to issue one-month tourist visas free of charge to first 500,000 customers, validity of which is until March 31, 2022.“This is a right step towards demand push for the airlines sector, primarily directed at inbound international travel. However, impact of the same is expected to be realised only once scheduled international operations are permitted by the government on a regular basis and the global fear psychosis related to travel to India subsides,” the report added.While the scheduled international operations have been suspended further till July 31, 2021, under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) for evacuation of Indian citizens from foreign countries and air bubbles, which started from May 07, 2020, the international passenger traffic (inbound and outbound) for Indian carriers stood at 3.7 million for the period between May 7, 2020 to June 30, 2021.For June 2021, the international passenger traffic for Indian carriers under the VBM was estimated at 147,000, a sequential growth of ~4% as flights to/from India remained suspended in June 2021 by many countries, citing the new variant of Covid-19 and high infection levels, the report noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-air-traffic-grew-by-nearly-40-in-june-report-101625584275757.html
06-07-2021||India||Delhi HC instructs National Board of Examinations to delete question of FMGE||The Delhi High Court has directed the National Board of Examinations to treat the disputed question of the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination (December 2020) as deleted and to award one extra mark to those candidates who were assessed as having answered it incorrectly."The respondent is directed to treat the disputed question (set out in paragraph 4 above) as deleted from the FMGE (December 2020), and to award one extra mark to those candidates who were assessed as having answered it incorrectly. In the event any candidate thus achieves the passing score of 150 marks, they would be treated as having passed the FMGE (December 2020). The directions be complied with within four weeks from today," a bench of Justice Prateek Jalan said.The present petition was filed by Association of MD Physicians, which were concerned over the FMGE conducted on December 4, 2020.The Association of MD Physicians was represented by advocates Adit S Pujari and Kajal Dalal.The petitioner has sought in the present petition to the grant of one additional mark to the candidates who took the FMGE (December 2020) claiming one extra mark is based on the contention that one of the questions in the examination had no correct answer and was therefore a patently erroneous question.The petitioner-association consists of Indian citizens who hold degrees in Medicine from foreign universities. In order to register themselves with the Medical Council of India (now National Medical Commission), foreign medical graduates are required to take a screening test called the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination (FMGE), which is conducted by the respondent National Board of Examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-instructs-national-board-of-examinations-to-delete-question-of-fmge-101625572402352.html
06-07-2021||India||UN human rights chief, USCIRF chair express concern at Stan Swamy’s death||UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet and human rights officials of the US and European Union (EU) have expressed concern at the death of octogenarian Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, with some of them even saying that he had been imprisoned on “false” terrorism charges. The external affairs ministry responded to the criticism on Tuesday by saying “due process under law” was followed in Swamy’s case, and that India remains committed to promoting and protecting the human rights of all citizens. The UN high commissioner for human rights and other United Nations independent experts had repeatedly raised the cases of Swamy and 15 other human rights defenders associated with the Bhima Koregaon case with the Indian government over the past three years and sought their release from pre-trial detention,Bachelet’s spokesperson for Liz Throssell said. “In light of the continued, severe impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is even more urgent that States, including India, release every person detained without a sufficient legal basis, including those detained simply for expressing critical or dissenting views,” the spokesperson said in a statement. “We stress, once again, the high commissioner’s call on the Government of India to ensure that no one is detained for exercising their fundamental rights to freedom of expression, of peaceful assembly and of association,” Throssell said. Swamy, 84, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a raid at his non-governmental organisation Bagaicha, on the outskirts of Ranchi, on October 9 last year and charged with being a member of the banned Communist Party of India-Maoist and involvement in a conspiracy to instigate caste violence in Bhima Koregaon village near Pune in 2018. Swamy denied the charges. In its response, the external affairs ministry said Swamy was arrested and detained by NIA “following due process under law”, and his bail applications were rejected by courts because of the “specific nature of charges against him”. Authorities “act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights”, and all such “actions are strictly in accordance with the law”, the ministry said. In view of Swamy’s poor health, Bombay high court allowed his treatment at a private hospital, where he received “all possible medical attention” since May 28. His health and treatment were closely monitored by courts, the ministry added. “India’s democratic and constitutional polity is complemented by an independent judiciary, a range of national and state level human rights commissions that monitor violations, a free media and a vibrant and vocal civil society. India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens,” the ministry added. Both Mary Lawlor, the UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders, and Nadine Maenza, chair of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), contended that Swamy had been held on “false” charges of terrorism. They were joined by Eamon Gilmore, the EU special representative for human rights, in expressing concern at Swamy’s death. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the criticism by the UN, US and EU officials. The statement from the UN human rights chief said: “We are deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, a human rights defender and Jesuit priest, in Mumbai yesterday, following his arrest in October 2020 under India’s Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).” It noted that Swamy had been held in pre-trial detention without bail since his arrest and charged with terror-related offences in relation to demonstrations dating back to 2018. “He was a long-standing activist, particularly on the rights of indigenous peoples and other marginalised groups. While in Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail, his health deteriorated and he reportedly contracted Covid-19. His repeated applications for bail were rejected. He died as the Bombay high court was considering an appeal against the rejection of his bail application,” the statement added. Bachelet has also raised concerns over the use of UAPA in relation to human rights defenders, a law Swamy had challenged in Indian courts days before he died. Lawlor expressed concern at Swamy’s death in a tweet, saying: “The news from #India today is devastating. Human Rights Defender & Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy has died in custody, nine months after his arrest on false charges of terrorism. Jailing HRDs is inexcusable.” Gilmore tweeted, “India: I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities.” Maenza too raised the issue of Swamy’s death on Twitter, saying: “Heartbreaking: death of Indian prisoner Father Stan Swamy after he got COVID. He was elderly priest & human rights activist imprisoned on false terrorism charges. @USCIRF spoke out against his arrest & when he was denied bail as his health deteriorated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-human-rights-chief-uscirf-chair-express-concern-at-stan-swamy-s-death-101625582055577.html
06-07-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari to promote Khadi Prakritik, India's first paint made from Cow Dung||Union MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said he would be the brand ambassador of Khadi Prakritik Paint and would promote it across the country so as to encourage young entrepreneurs to take up the manufacturing of the cow dung paint.Inaugurating the new automated manufacturing unit of this paint in Jaipur, he said this would go a long way in empowering the rural and agro-based economy in the country.It is India's first and only paint made from cow dung, the ministry said in a statement."Even inaugurating infrastructure projects worth lakhs of crores of rupees is not as pleasing and satisfying as inaugurating this manufacturing unit."Khadi Prakritik Paint has immense potential of creating sustainable development for the benefit of the poorest of the poor and the target should be setting up a parkritik paint unit in each and every village," the ministry said quoting Gadkari.The new plant has been set up in the campus of Kumarappa National Handmade Paper Institute, Jaipur. Commissioning of the new unit will double the production capacity of the paint.Currently, the daily production of the paint is 500 litres which will go up to 1,000 litres per day, it said."Available in two variants, Distemper and Emulsion; Khadi Prakritik Paint contains 'AshtaLaabh' — eight benefits like anti-bacterial, anti-fungal and natural thermal insulation properties. This paint is eco-friendly, non-toxic, odorless and cost-effective," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-to-promote-khadi-prakritik-india-s-first-paint-made-from-cow-dung-101625576945303.html
06-07-2021||India||Centre seeks transfer of pleas challenging IT Rules from high courts to Supreme Court||The Union government on Tuesday filed an application in the Supreme Court seeking transfer to the top court of all the petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, filed in high courts across the country.In its transfer petition in the Supreme Court, the Centre said petitions against the IT Rules have been moved in high courts like Delhi, Bombay, Madras and Kerala, adding that only the apex court should adjudicate the issue. In the Madras high court, for example, petitions have been filed by the Digital News Publishers Association (DNP), comprising 13 media outlets, along with senior journalist Mukund Padmanabhan seeking that the court declare that the rules are in violation of fundamental rights granted by the Constitution.Also Read: Twitter has not complied with IT rules as of July 1, Govt tells HCThe IT rules were notified on February 5 and social media platforms, online publishers, as well over the top (OTT) platforms were given three months, or till May 25, to comply with various norms under the rules. These include a quicker takedown of contentious content, appointing a local grievance officer to deal with content flagged by authorities etc.The government is engaged in a faceoff with Twitter, which, it alleges, has failed to comply with the IT Rules, filing an affidavit in the Delhi high court on July 5 in this regard. "Despite three months being granted to all the significant social media intermediaries, Twitter has failed to fully comply," the Centre mentioned in the affidavit.Also Read: Delhi HC slams Twitter over non compliance of IT rulesIn a hearing on Tuesday, the Delhi high court took Twitter to task for not appointing a resident grievance officer, directing it to inform the court in two days regarding its compliance with the requirements.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-transfer-of-pleas-challenging-it-rules-from-high-courts-to-supreme-court-101625574084325.html
06-07-2021||India||Common eligibility test for Central govt jobs from 2022||The first common eligibility test (CET) to recruit non-technical group B and C government staff has been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and is unlikely to be held by the end of this year, a senior Union minister said on Tuesday.The CET will be conducted by the newly constituted National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to screen/shortlist candidates for above mentioned government jobs, selections for which were earlier done through the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS), union minister for personnel, pensions and grievances Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday.“This unique initiative undertaken with the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to screen and shortlist candidates for recruitment to Central government jobs was scheduled to take off with the first such test before the end of this year, but is likely to get delayed on account of the Covid pandemic, he said,” Singh said at the launch of e-Book Civil List-2021 of IAS officers.He said the CET will bring “ease of recruitment” to young job aspirants and be a “great boon” to those that live in remote areas. “The NRA will be a multi-agency body which will conduct the common test to screen and shortlist candidates for Group-‘B’ and ‘C’ (non-technical) posts,” he said. “The most significant feature of this reform is that every district in the country will have at least one examination centre which would greatly enhance access to the candidates living in far-flung areas.”Singh also highlighted other reforms under taken by the government since 2014, such as doing away with the practice of getting documents attested by a gazetted officer and replacing it with self-attestation and mandatory three-month stint for Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers as assistant secretaries with the Central government in the beginning of their career.The government has also launched ‘Mission Karamyogi’ to streamline training and competency building of civil servants through an HR council comprising select union ministers, chief ministers, international leaders and civil servants who will choose the ‘right person for the right role’.It is likely to be a major transition for the bureaucracy, as civil servants training will become a ‘continuous process’ and a dashboard will monitor and audit the capacity building scheme, and a report will be submitted annually to ascertain its success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/common-eligibility-test-for-central-govt-jobs-from-2022-101625580375654.html
06-07-2021||India||Ask Centre to act against those responsible for false cases against Stan Swamy: Opposition leaders urge President||A day after the death of 84-year-old tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, who was booked under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, 10 opposition leaders urged President Ram Nath Kovind to direct "your government" to act against those responsible for false cases on him. The opposition party leaders requested the President to direct the Centre to take action against those responsible for his continued detention and inhuman treatment.The leaders in a letter to the President also demanded the release of all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA, sedition etc.Also read: BJP targets Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren for backing ‘Maoist’ Stan Swamy"We are urging your immediate intervention as the President of India to direct “your government” to act against those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention in jail and inhuman treatment. They must be held accountable," the letter read.The letter was undersigned by the leaders of the major opposition parties of the country including Congress' Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar of NCP, HD Deve Gowda of JD-S, TMC's Mamata Banerjee, RJD's Tejaswi Yadav, DMK's MK Stalin, D Raja of CPI, Heman Soren of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Farooq Abdullah of JKPA and CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury.The death of the Jesuit priest and activist amid fighting for bail on the grounds of medical conditions stirred a nationwide outcry on Monday. The octogenarian, who was suffering from multiple health issues one of which was Parkinson's, was denied basic necessities like straw and a sipper. It was after a countrywide campaign that a sipper was made available to the champion of tribal rights.Activists across the country expressed anguish on his demise and called it an "institutional murder" and demanded the government be held accountable.The country's possibly oldest accused died in custody after suffering a cardiac arrest on Monday. After the Bombay high court's intervention, Swamy was admitted to a private hospital when his condition started worsening due to Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ask-centre-to-act-against-those-responsible-for-false-cases-against-stan-swamy-opposition-leaders-urge-president-101625577267965.html
06-07-2021||India||BJP targets Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren for backing ‘Maoist’ Stan Swamy||Jharkhand Bharatiya Janata Party chief and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash on Tuesday alleged that 84-years old Jesuit priest Stan Swamy was a Maoist who died a natural death in a Mumbai hospital on Monday and that chief minister Hemant Soren was indulging in dirty politics by supporting him while ignoring the pain of tribal victims in the state.“Soon after Hemant Soren government came to power, a group of tribals were massacred in Chaibasa. Till now thousands of women have been brutalised but the CM continued to remain mum. He kept quite on Rupa Tirkey case for months, but the CM started doing politics soon after the death of a Maoist,” said Prakash in a tweet in Hindi.Hemant Soren has been vocal against Stan Swamy’s arrest on terror charges by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in October 2020 in connection with Bhima Koregaon violence case. Swamy died in a Mumbai Hospital on Monday, where he was admitted in March on Bombay high court’s instruction after his health deteriorated at Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai. Soren blamed the Centre for the death of the man, who is widely seen as a tribal rights activist.“Shocked to learn about the demise of Father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration. The Union government should be answerable for absolute apathy and non provision of timely medical services, leading to his death,” chief minister Hemant Soren said on Monday.Deepak Prakash claimed that Soren’s sympathy was misplaced as he may not have been “provided with the complete information”. “It’s the court that kept Stan Swamy in jail over allegations of anti-national activities and the jail is administered by the Maharashtra government. Why such a hue and cry over a natural death, just to clean the stain of Stan?” Prakash said in another tweet.Stan Swamy was born in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirapalli town in 1937 and travelled the world as a Jesuit priest before settling down and building a centre outside Ranchi to work for tribal rights. He helped tribal people fight illegal capture of their lands, filing claims and records and worked for the release of young tribal people from prison.He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in an early morning raid at his non-governmental organisation (NGO) Bagaicha, on the outskirts of Ranchi, on October 9 last year and charged with being a member of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and involvement in a conspiracy to instigate caste violence in the Bhima Koregaon village near Pune in 2018. Swamy denied the charges.Swamy’s death has evoked outrage in the Indian public sphere and political leaders cutting across party lines have condemned the Central government’s handling of his case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-targets-jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-for-backing-maoist-stan-swam-101625576955821.html
06-07-2021||India||Dextrodiwas: PM Modi 'names' day after doctor on her birthday||A doctor’s wish to receive a birthday greeting from the Prime Minister came true on Tuesday as Narendra Modi wished her on Twitter.A Twitter user who goes by the username Dextrocardiac1 received the message from the Prime Minister after the doctor asked another Twitter user whose handle the Prime Minister follows to ask him to wish her on her birthday.Happy Birthday...or as you are describing it - Dextrodiwas... :) Have a great year ahead. https://t.co/X0Z5DrdMQ1“Happy Birthday...or as you are describing it - Dextrodiwas... :). Have a great year ahead,” PM Modi quoted the tweet of Dextrocardiac1 in his post. The Twitter conversation began when the founder of the website ‘The Frustrated Indian’ wished the Twitter user Dextrocardiac1 and used the term Dextrodiwas - coining a term for the person’s birthday.Thankyou ajit. Dextrodiwas par please ask pm to wish me as you follows you both 🤭“Thank you Ajit. Dextrodiwas par please ask pm to wish me as you (he) follows you both,” Dextrocardiac replied, whose response was quickly noticed by PM Modi. PM Modi, too, used the term and wished the medical professional a great year ahead.I'm the luckiest human alive guys ✨✨✨✨https://t.co/cXtVskTzx5Following the birthday wish, Dextrocardiac1 thanked PM Modi by saying that they are ‘the luckiest person alive’. “I'm the luckiest human alive, guys,” Dextrocardiac1 tweeted. The tweet by the Prime Minister garnered 1,584 retweets, 323 quote tweets and more than 11,000 likes. Ajit Datta who was the first to wish the doctor also responded, “Thank you so much PM @narendramodi. Humbled, honoured and happy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dextrodiwas-pm-modi-names-day-after-doctor-on-her-birthday-101625575126348.html
06-07-2021||India||'Mother summoned by ED over unknown charges': PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti alleged on Tuesday that her mother has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) over "unknown charges," adding that investigating agencies have become "tools" in the central government's hands to "settle scores."Also Read: Delimitation commission to arrive in Srinagar today"On the day PDP chose not to meet the Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempt to intimidate political opponents, the government of India doesn't even spare senior citizens. Agencies like the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and ED are now its tools to settle scores," the People’s Democratic Party president wrote on Twitter.On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents,GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores pic.twitter.com/pVw2uYMAorMufti's allegations come on a day the delimitation commission, headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai, arrived in Srinagar to hold talks over the next four days with various stakeholders on the ongoing process of carving out new constituencies in the region. Earlier in the day, the PDP wrote to Desai stating they won't attend the exercise which, the party alleged, was "pre-planned" and aimed at "disempowering" the people of Jammu and Kashmir.Also Read: Disappointed at outcome of Delhi meet, says PAGDOn June 24, Mufti, who is being probed by the ED in connection with an alleged money laundering case, was a part of a delegation of political leaders from the Valley who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi for the first dialogue between the Union government and Jammu and Kashmir politicians since the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019.Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti appears before ED in SrinagarIn the meeting, Prime Minister Modi is believed to have assured the leaders that the Centre is "committed" to granting statehood to Jammu and Kashmir, which, in 2019, was bifurcated into the Union territories of J&K, and Ladakh. The restoration of statehood, however, is likely to take place at an "appropriate" time after assembly elections are organised in the erstwhile state following the completion of the delimitation exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-summoned-by-ed-over-unknown-charges-pdp-chief-mehbooba-mufti-101625574755404.html
06-07-2021||India||Domestic air passenger traffic sees growth in June amid dipping Covid-19 cases: Report||Domestic air passenger traffic was back on the growth trajectory in June amid a declining trend in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country with around three million passengers flying on local routes in the last month in contrast to around two million in May, according to a report by credit rating agency ICRA, reported PTI.The domestic passenger traffic saw sequential growth of 41-42% in June over its previous month. The domestic passenger volume, however, increased 51% on a year-on-year basis, the report said on Tuesday. June 2020 was fully operational after domestic commercial flights operations resumed on May 25 following a nearly two-month ban owing to the nationwide lockdown.Also read| Pilots land Boeing 737 in ocean near Honolulu. Here’s how they were rescuedThe civil aviation ministry recently increased the capacity to 65% with effect from July 5 from the previous 50%, this will remain applicable till July 31."For June 2021, the average daily departures were at around 1,100, significantly higher than average daily departures of around 700 in June 2020, and higher than around 900 in May 2021, though remains significantly lower than around 2,000 in April 2021," said Kinjal Shah, vice-president and co-group head at ICRA.The average number of passengers per flight during the month was 94, up as against the average of 77 passengers per flight in May, Shah said, according to PTI.Though there was some recovery in June, the continued stress on demand still exists, largely due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, PTI quoted Shah as saying.She noted that leisure and business travels have been restricted owing to various state-wide Covid curbs, despite the dip in the daily infections.The government's recent announcement of a scheme aimed to provide financial support in the form of working capital/personal loans to around 0,700 recognised regional-level tourist guides is predicted to offer much-needed liquidity support to tourism and travel stakeholders (TTS), as per ICRA.Meanwhile, the international passenger traffic for Indian carriers under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) was estimated to be at around 1.47 lakh, a sequential rise of around 4%, as flights to and from India remained suspended in June by many countries due to the emergence of the new variant of the virus.International flight operations are functional under the VBM for evacuation of Indian citizens from foreign countries, since May last year, as scheduled international flights have been suspended further till July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-air-passenger-traffic-sees-growth-in-june-amid-dipping-covid-19-cases-report-101625571649600.html
06-07-2021||India||Chirag Paswan says he may go to court if any LJP ‘rebel’ gets cabinet berth||Chirag Paswan said on Tuesday that he might go to court if any rebel Lok Janshakti Party MP including his estranged uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras was included in a Union cabinet expansion, widely expected to take place soon.The Jamui MP insisted that he was the legitimate president of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and he had not been consulted for induction of any party member into the Union cabinet as is required under the coalition norms.“If any of them gets included in the cabinet from the party’s quota, I will certainly have an objection to it and may have to take legal recourse. If anyone is made minister as an independent or [a member of] some other party, I have no issue, as it is entirely the prerogative of the party. But as far as LJP is concerned, the party constitution allows me to be the president and the matter is before the election commission as well as the Lok Sabha speaker,” he said in Patna.It is being speculated that LJP MP from Hajipur, Pashupati Kumar Paras-- who was recognised as the leader of the party in Lok Sabha after he claimed to have removed Chirag from the position with the help of four other party MPs-- could be included in the impending cabinet expansion- the first in the second term of Narendra Modi government.Chirag said he has told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he had suspended the rebel MPs in accordance with the party’s constitution and they don’t qualify for a cabinet berth from party quota.“I have already written to PM Narendra Modi as well as the EC in this regard. A common practice is that the party president is consulted if anyone from the party has to be included in the cabinet,” he added.PM Narendra Modi is expected to induct new ministers into his cabinet sometime this week and reshuffle a few existing ones while also accommodating allies such as the Janata Dal United and Apna Dal apart from others. While the LJP continues to be part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre, it currently has no representation in the Union cabinet after the death of Chirag’s father late Ram Vilas Paswan, founder of LJP, before Bihar elections in 2020.Chirag also said that his uncle engineered the split in the LJP to become minister at the behest of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. “It is ironic that Nitish Kumar always tried to insult my father, but my uncle chose to sit in his lap even at the cost of the family and party, which gave him everything,” he added.Chirag alleged that Nitish Kumar was “known” for attempts to not only split the LJP, but also cause a rift among the Dalits, the socially backward community LJP represents.Chirag said, “I am not eager to become a minister, as my first objective is to build the party as a viable alternative in Bihar”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-says-he-may-go-to-court-if-any-ljp-rebel-gets-union-cabinet-berth-101625574737134.html
06-07-2021||India||TMC leader tries to enter Solicitor General’s house to ‘find gaps’ in his statement||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Kunal Ghosh tried to enter Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta’s residence in New Delhi on Tuesday without a prior appointment to “find gaps” in the latter’s statement last week denying meeting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari at the law officer’s house. On July 1, TMC alleged Mehta and Adhikari met even as both rubbished the charges. In his statement issued after the alleged meeting, Mehta said Adhikari came to his residence-cum-office unannounced, but he did not meet the BJP leader.Ghosh said the security guards at Mehta’s house did not allow him to enter saying he did not have an appointment to do so. “This is the norm. So how could Adhikari enter the residence with his armed guards when he is an accused in a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) case? This means he had a prior appointment. This proves that he was trying to influence the case,” said Ghosh.Also Watch | ‘Act of impropriety’: TMC delegation meets President over Tushar Mehta’s removalAdhikari is accused in the 2016 Narada sting tapes case that the CBI has been investigating. The case pertains to series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company.Mehta is representing the CBI in the case in the Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court. The prime accused in the multi-crore Saradha Ponzi scam has accused Adhikari of accepting money even though the BJP leader has refuted such allegations. The TMC has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Mehta’s removal for alleged “misconduct and impropriety” over his alleged meeting with Adhikari. On Monday, a two-member delegation of TMC parliamentarians met President Ram Nath Kovind and submitted a memorandum for the removal.Mehta denied the charges in a statement last week. “...Adhikari did come to my residence cum office yesterday at around 3 pm, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea. When my meeting was over and my staff informed me about his arrival, I requested my staff to convey to Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait,” Mehta said in the statement.TMC lawmaker Abhishek Banerjee asked Mehta to make public the CCTV footage of his residence to substantiate his claims.BJP leader Jay Prakash Majumdar accused the TMC of trying to divert attention from major issues. “The SG (Solicitor General) knows his job and his jurisdictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-tries-to-enter-tushar-mehta-s-house-to-find-gaps-in-his-statement-101625574735667.html
06-07-2021||India||Yogi visits former UP CM Kalyan Singh at Lucknow's SGPGI||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday visited Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow to meet former CM Kalyan Singh, who is admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the hospital.The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister, who was also governor of Rajasthan, developed an inflammation in the parotid gland and was also diagnosed with irregularities in his kidney function.Earlier in the day, Yogi Adityanatha took to the Twitter to pray for the recovery of the former chief minister. “I pray to Lord Ram that he returns to good health soon.”A team of senior doctors is supervising Singh's treatment, and his vital parameters were reported to be under control.A release on Kalyan Singh's health condition by the hospital read, "There is a slight improvement in his sensorium today as he opened his eyes and gave a very mild response when CM enquired about his well-being."It added, "A panel of 10 doctors, including director Dr RK Dhiman, was supervising Singh's treatment, and his vital parameters were reported to be under control."On Sunday evening, Sanjay Gandhi PGI in an official statement informed, "Kalyan Singh had been feeling unwell for almost two weeks. His blood pressure and pulse rate are normal but he is not fully conscious. Keeping in mind his many existing ailments, he has been kept in the Intensive Care Unit of Critical Care Medicine."Singh had been unwell for the past two weeks and was hospitalised on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-visits-former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-at-lucknow-s-sgpgi-101625570580172.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Frightening’: ICMR, health ministry on overcrowding in hill stations||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday warned against complacency amid the waning second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, referring in particular to the "frightening" images of crowded hill stations, with people rushing to places like Manali, Kullu, Shimla and Dharamsala to beat the heat.Also Read: "No bed in hospitals to no bed in hotels," netizens mock viral Manali images"Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is absolutely essential. The pictures that we have seen today are frightening and we have to be very careful, very responsible and very cautious," ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said at the health ministry's press conference on the current Covid-19 situation in the country.Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the health ministry, also spoke on the issue of people becoming complacent due to the waning second wave of Covid-19. "I would like to highlight media coverage of revenge travel. People, fed up of sitting at home due to restrictions, now seem to believe that if restrictions have been lifted, it means that the virus has ended. The infectious disease is still among us. We need to continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Even a small mistake could prove costly," Agarwal said. He further warned that the second wave is still existent in a "limited way" in some areas.As the second wave declines, overcrowding has been seen at markets in various cities of the country. On Monday, authorities in Delhi ordered the closure of the famous Lajpat Nagar market over alleged violation of Covid-19 norms. Several other markets in the Capital, too, have been warned against overcrowding.Also Read: Sarojini Nagar, Sadar Bazar among prominent markets warned over crowdingIn the last 24 hours, India reported 34,703 new Covid-19 cases and 553 deaths due to the viral disease, according to the health ministry's data. In the 24-hour period before that, the country saw 39,796 fresh infections and a daily toll of 723.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frightening-icmr-health-ministry-on-overcrowding-in-hill-stations-101625568819591.html
06-07-2021||India||IMD alerts: Monsoon to bring heavy rainfall in these states from July 8||IMD has said that several states and Union territories will receive heavy rainfall from July 8 onwards under the influence of the southwest monsoon (SW). According to the predictions by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday, early winds from Bay of Bengal would establish over parts of east India from July 8 onwards. The department reiterated in its alerts that these winds would then spread into northwestern India; hence southwest monsoon is expected to advance over some parts of western Uttar Pradesh, and Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi around July 10.This southwest monsoon condition will lead to heavy rainfall in almost all corners of India – starting from north to northwest and south.Here is a list of key IMD alerts on how the southwest monsoon will affect some states and UTs:1. Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh in central India will receive scattered to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls from July 8 onwards. Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh are very likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall on July 8.2. Isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Uttarakhand from July 8 onwards; over Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh from July 9 onwards, and over east Rajasthan from July 10 onwards.3. Owing to the strengthening of the southwest monsoon over the Arabian Sea, heavy rainfall is likely along the west coast from July 9 onwards.4. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is expected over Konkan, Goa, coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe in Puducherry from July 9 onwards.5. As southwest monsoon will be revived from July 8 onwards, rainfall and its distribution will very likely reduce over northeast Indian states, including Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Tripura from July 9 onwards.According to IMD’s mid-day bulletin, heavy rainfall was observed from 8.30pm on Monday to 8.30am on Tuesday in isolated places over Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, and coastal Karnataka. Besides these regions, rain and thundershowers were noticed in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep.Thundershowers were also observed during the same time period in Odisha, east Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, west Rajasthan, and Kerala, among others, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-monsoon-to-bring-heavy-rainfall-in-these-states-from-july-8-101625571587670.html
06-07-2021||India||Protests outside Parliament will start on July 22, say farm unions||Farmers protesting three agricultural laws say they would begin demonstrating outside Parliament on July 22, part of a new push to force the government to scrap a set of legislation enacted last year. Farm unions have been holding long meetings to work out logistics and finalise strategies to intensify their agitation and coordinate movement of farmers from various states. According to a plan announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests since November last year against the three laws, nearly 200 farmers will protest outside Parliament every day during the monsoon session. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha also said farm organisations and like-minded groups would also hold countrywide protests against rising fuel prices on July 8. Parliament is set to convene on July 19 for its upcoming monsoon session. Farm unions say they would soon dispatch a letter to all Opposition parties and lawmakers, urging them to raise the issue of the three farm laws during the entire session. Also Read | L-G, Delhi govt spar again, this time over advocates for Jan 26 casesFarmers on tractors are likely to file into the Capital on July 21 evening. Accommodation arrangements have been beefed up at all current protest sites. Thousands of farmers pitched tents at five sites near Delhi’s borders -- Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border) -- from where they have been carrying on their protests. The farmers have constructed a permanent weather-proof shelter for farmers arriving at the Tikri site, said Dharmendra Singh, a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. The farmers’ march towards Parliament is sure to be resisted by police, because demonstrations near Parliament are not allowed, setting the stage for a potential standoff. “It will be a peaceful protest. Nearly 200 protesters will demonstrate every day outside Parliament. The government is not interested in talking to farmers because the government isn’t being run by any party but by companies,” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said. Cultivators from various towns and villages in Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have joined those already protesting in many of sites. A large convoy arrived from Pilibhit inUttar Pradesh before moving to various sites on Monday, Singh said. “These farm laws are black laws. They must be taken back. Farmers will be very peaceful while protesting. The violence that broke out during the Republic Day in Delhi was a conspiracy to defame farmers,” said Joginder Singh Urgrahan of the BKU Ekta Ugrahan group, which represents a large section of farmers in Punjab. The farmers want three agricultural laws repealed, claiming that the legislation will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and jeopardise their livelihoods. The laws, broadly, seek to minimise regulations in trade of farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of commodities for future sales and set new national rules for contract farming. The government has said the laws would bring competition and widen farmers’ access to markets. Allowing firms to stock large quantities of food commodities will incentivise them to invest in supply and storage, the government has argued. Farmers say the laws will force them to sell to corporate giants with greater bargaining powers at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer assured prices for cereals. Unregulated markets will ultimately lead to a collapse of regulated markets that offer minimum support prices (MSPs), farmers say, although Prime Minister Narendra Modi has denied this will ever happen. MSPs are benchmark prices the government offers for farm produce, aimed at signalling a floor rate for private traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-outside-parliament-will-start-on-july-22-say-farm-unions-101625571255103.html
06-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi HC tells Centre that it is not protecting Twitter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘If they’re in defiance, you’re free to take action’: HC tells govt after giving Twitter new deadline for appointing RGOJustice Rekha Palli said that the court is not granting Twitter any protection. “I have already told them that they have to comply with the rules. I am not giving them any protection. If they are in defiance, you are free to take action. Read more here.The central hysteria behind Central VistaSafety and functionality dictate the need for a new Parliament building. It is simply de rigeur to oppose anything that Prime Minister (PM) Modi says or does, no matter what its merits, nor the logic or rationale behind it, and even if you have to contradict your own earlier stand on the subject. Read more here. Virus outbreak forces England to name 9 uncapped cricketers in ODI squad for Pakistan series, Ben Stokes to leadEngland's revised, hastily assembled ODI squad will be coached by Chris Silverwood, who had earlier decided to take some time off during the white-ball series but has been pressed back into action. Read more here. Filhaal 2 Mohabbat: Akshay Kumar and Nupur Sanon's doomed romance continues in tragic love story. WatchFilhaal 2: Mohabbat, the sequel to the hit music video starring Akshay Kumar and Nupur Sanon, has been released. Watch here.All-electric Rolls-Royce plane set to take flight, to get I-Pace ground supportRolls-Royce's electric aircraft will make a world-record attempt for the fastest all-electric plane with a target speed of 300+ mph. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-hc-tells-centre-that-it-is-not-protecting-twitter-and-all-the-latest-news-101625570129372.html
06-07-2021||India||Ramesh Bais replaces Jharkhand's 1st woman governor Draupadi Murmu||Ramesh Bais was on Tuesday appointed as the new governor of Jharkhand. Bais, who is currently the governor of Tripura will succeed Draupadi Murmu in Jharkhand. Murmu was distinguished not only because of being the first governor from the tribal community but also for being the first woman governor of Jharkhand since the birth of the state in 2000.Draupadi Murmu represented the Odisha legislative assembly as an MLA from Rairangpur. A native of Chhattisgarh, Murmu was appointed the governor of Jharkhand in May 2015. However, she began to lose her popularity among the top brass of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government after it lost the assembly election in 2019. She was also reported to be the probable face of the 2017 presidential election.Also read: Thawarchand Gehlot is new Karnataka Governor, says will live up to expectationsThe two-time member of the Odisha assembly, Murmu's political career began in 1997, when she was elected as a councilor and then became the vice chairperson of Rairangpur notified area council. In the same year, Murmu also became the vice president of BJP’s Odisha ST Morcha and later became its president. In 2013, Murmu became the national executive member of the party's ST Morcha. Murmu is also the recipient of the "Nilakantha Award" for the best MLA of the year in 2007 by the Odisha government. She has played an active role in the upliftment of the tribal community in Odisha during her political career.Bais, who is presently the governor of Tripura, will replace Murmu and become the 10th governor of the state. A native of Chhattisgarh, too, Bais has been a Lok Sabha member of Raipur and is known for creating a record of becoming an MP from the state for seven straight terms.Born on August 2, 1947, Bais has been the governor of the northeastern state since 2019 and was also part of the Union cabinet. He was the minister of state for environment and forests in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government.President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday appointed new governors in eight states of the country, ahead of the much-anticipated reshuffle of the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramesh-bais-replaces-jharkhand-s-1st-woman-governor-draupadi-murmu-101625563664963.html
06-07-2021||India||Kerala to ramp up Covid testing in 6 districts as positivity rate remains high||As Covid-19 test positivity rate (TPR) continues to remain high in six districts in Kerala despite the lockdown and other restrictions, the state government on Tuesday said that testing, quarantine and contact tracing would be increased in these districts, according to the state health minister Veena George. The districts where the TPR remains high are Thrissur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod.The government’s decision to increase testing in these districts follow an emergency meeting of health officials and the district collectors called by Veena George according to the instructions of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.In a Facebook post, the health minister said that all the six districts had achieved their Covid-19 testing targets. However, it will be maximised in these places where the number of infections is high to ensure stricter quarantine rules and contact tracing.Also read | India reports 34,703 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in nearly four monthsAccording to the state’s daily bulletin, on Monday, 922 new cases were reported in Thrissur, 894 cases in Malappuram, 758 cases in Kozhikode, 560 cases in Kannur, 360 cases in Kasargod and 138 cases in Wayanad. Also, Malappuram with 13,722 cases and Kozhikode with 13,112 cases remained the worst affected districts in the state in terms of active caseload. As many as 9,123 active cases are present in Thrissur and in Wayanad, the count is 3,191. Both Kannur (5,289) and Kasargod (5,713) have more than 5,000 active cases.Preparations for the third wave of infections were also mentioned in the meeting, the health minister said. Among the measures, spreading more awareness about the disease and strengthening the vaccination drive were discussed, as officials were instructed to increase the number of people given the jabs. State health secretary Rajan Khobragade and director of health department V Raju were among top officials who attended the meeting.On Monday, more than 8,000 people (8,037 exactly) tested positive for the disease in Kerala and 102 people succumbed to the infection. So far, 2,981,721 people have been infected in the state while the death toll stood at 13,818, as per latest data. As many as 100,626 active cases of the disease were reported in the state, as of 2pm on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-in-6-districts-as-positivity-rate-remains-high-101625566994067.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Finance ministry, Infosys resolving glitches’: Anurag Thakur on new tax portal||Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur on Tuesday said the Centre flagged concerns in the new income tax filing portal with officials of IT major Infosys and urged them to address the shortcomings.Thakur said that Union minister for finance Nirmala Sitharaman held a meeting with the officials of Infosys where she told them to repair the glitches with the new IT portal as soon as possible. “Income tax officials are in regular touch with the Infosys team to work on all shortcomings,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He further added that income tax officials have sat with the Infosys team to address the issues faced by the taxpayers.Thakur’s response comes after Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said that the government failed to achieve the objective of giving citizens a new income tax portal even after spending ₹4,200 crore. Tharoor took to Twitter and said that the new income tax portal is a ‘mess’ due to its glitches.The parliamentarian from Thiruvananthapuram said that the Chartered Accountants in All India Professionals Congress (AIPC) apprised him that due to the glitches they faced a ‘longer than usual login time’ and also called the portal ‘disastrous’.Sitharaman last month flagged concerns about the new IT portal to Infosys officials and told them to solve the issues as soon as possible asking them to make the portal ‘more humane and user-friendly.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-infosys-resolving-glitches-anurag-thakur-on-new-tax-portal-101625567134523.html
06-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle soon. Sonowal, Rane may get berths||Amid indications of the much-awaited cabinet expansion, several leaders from different political parties are travelling to Delhi. Among them are Sarbananda Sonowal of the BJP and leaders of the Janata Dal(United) RCP Singh and Lallan Singh. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi expands his cabinet for the first time in his second term, he is likely to factor in polls in five states next year, including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, and the general elections in 2024. West Bengal is also likely to get a greater representation. The Union cabinet, which can have 81 members, currently has 53 ministers.After a series of meetings between PM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda, the buzz around cabinet expansion has gathered steam in recent days. Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot's appointment is also being seen as another indication of the cabinet expansion. Thawarchand Gehlot was named as Karnataka Governor ahead of the cabinet reshuffle expected to take place soon.Also read | Thawarchand Gehlot is new Karnataka Governor, says will live up to expectationsHere are the leaders who could be accommodated in the cabinet expansion:1. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March 2020, said he will take a flight to Delhi this afternoon from Indore after offering morning prayers at Ujjain's famous Mahakal temple.2. Former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal arrived in the Capital on Tuesday ahead of the much-awaited cabinet expansion.3. RCP Singh and Lallan Singh of the JD (U), an ally of the BJP which did not have any representation in the Union council of ministers so far, are also expected to get berths in the cabinet reshuffle.Also read | President clears key appointments, 8 states get new governors4. Shantanu Thakur, from the Matua community that was wooed by the BJP ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections 2021, is also expected to be named as a minister in cabinet reshuffle. Thakur, a lawmaker from West Bengal, accompanied Narendra Modi on his Bangladesh visit ahead of the polls.5. Nisith Pramanik, another member of Parliament from West Bengal, is also expected to make it into the Union cabinet. Pramanik is from the Rajbanshi community and he figures in the Bharatiya Janata Party's scheme of things. He was a member of Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress before joining the BJP in March 2019.Also read | Eight states get new governors. Thawarchand Gehlot in the list6. Anupriya Patel, who has held the position of a Union minister before, comes from the Apna Dal an important ally of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, which is scheduled to hold assembly elections next year. The Apna Dal has considerable support among the Kurmis in Uttar Pradesh.7. Narayan Rane is also among the leaders likely to fly to Delhi ahead of cabinet expansion. He joined the BJP in October last year. Rane switched to the Congress after he was expelled from the Shiv Sena for anti-party activities. He then floated the Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-reshuffle-soon-sonowal-rane-may-get-berths-101625565281023.html
06-07-2021||India||Assam extends total lockdown to 4 more districts to contain Covid-19||Assam government on Tuesday imposed total lockdown in four districts, in addition to the three that were already under similar restrictions, to contain the second wave of Covid-19, which has, on an average, led to 2,500 new cases and 25-30 deaths daily since the past two weeks with the test positivity rate in some districts hovering between 5% and 10%, above the mark considered within control. Lakhimpur, Golaghat, Jorhat and Sonitpur join Biswanath, Goalpara and Morigaon districts that will remain under total lockdown from 5 am on July 7 until further orders, resulting in closure of offices, educational institutions, shops and business establishments except for grocery, fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy businesses that will be allowed to operate from 5 am till 5 pm daily. Delivery of essential goods through e-commerce and pharmacies, hospitals, animal care centres and veterinary clinics will be allowed to operate round the clock in the districts under total lockdown. “The state government has decided to put all 35 districts in three categories—those under total containment (lockdown), those with partial curfew and those with relaxed curfew,” said health minister Keshab Mahanta. Sixteen districts have been placed under partial curfew. Shops, business establishments, offices will have to shut down one hour prior to the curfew timings set between 2 pm and 5 am. Eleven districts including Kamrup (Metropolitan), which includes Guwahati, will have greater relaxation from curfew between 5 am and 5 pm daily. Shops, business establishments and offices in these districts will also have to shut down an hour prior to the start of curfew. “The cases in Kamrup (Metropolitan) had come down significantly in recent weeks, but saw a gradual increase in the district in the past few days. We request residents to continue maintaining the safety protocols so that we don’t have to enforce stricter measures,” said Mahanta. As per the new standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the state disaster management authority, odd-even formula for plying private vehicles and ban on inter-district movement will continue in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-extends-total-lockdown-to-4-more-districts-to-contain-covid19-101625566814824.html
06-07-2021||India||‘If they’re in defiance, you’re free to take action’: HC tells govt after giving Twitter new deadline for appointing RGO||The Delhi high court directed Twitter to inform the court by Thursday regarding the appointment of a resident grievance officer in compliance with the new IT rules -- Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 -- after the social media giant informed the court that it was in the process of doing so.The court took exception to the fact that the court was not informed that the resident grievance officer (RGO) appointed earlier was an interim one and he has already resigned. Justice Rekha Palli pointed out that only an interim RGO was appointed by Twitter and a wrong impression was given to the court on May 31 by not informing that it was an interim appointment.“If he went away on June 21, the least Twitter could do was to appoint another officer in these 15 days since you knew that this matter was coming up for hearing on July 6. If Twitter thinks it can take as long as it wants in my country, I will not allow that,” the judge pointed out.Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya who is representing the social media giant said that Twitter is still in the process of making the appointment. He said that it was true that there is no chief compliance officer, RGO and nodal contact person until now.“It is in the process of appointing the officer. When an intermediary is not in compliance with rules, it loses safe harbour protection. It is indeed that Twitter should and Twitter will comply with the rules. Please grant a reasonable time,” Poovayya said according to a report by news agency PTI.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma who represented the Centre said the rules were notified on February 25 and a three-month window was extended to the intermediaries to comply with the rules. The window expired on May 25.“It is a 42-day complete non-compliance. They are most welcome to do business in India. But this attitude cocks a snook at the digital sovereignty of this country,” additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma argued.Justice Rekha Palli said that the court is not granting Twitter any protection. “I have already told them that they have to comply with the rules. I am not giving them any protection. If they are in defiance, you are free to take action. I have already made it clear. If they want to work, they have to follow rules,” the judge said.During the hearing the court passed over the matter for a while and asked Twitter’s counsel to take instructions on the amount of time it will take to complete the appointment process. When the matter was called up again, Poovayya said it was due to the time difference between Delhi and San Francisco he was unable to take instructions and sought a short accommodation. Twitter’s main office is located in San Francisco in the US.After granting it time till July 8, the court said that on the next date of hearing Twitter is expected to be ready with its stand regarding compliance with all other requirements. “Come up with clear instructions, otherwise you will be in trouble. Let the government and everybody else know your stand,” the court told Twitter’s counsel. The court pointed out that on May 31 when the petition claiming non-compliance with the new IT rules laid out by the Centre by Twitter came up for hearing it was informed that Twitter already appointed a RGO on May 28.The court said that following the statement it was permitted to file a short reply. The court also said that after perusing the affidavit it became aware that on May 31 that Twitter appointed an interim grievance officer and this fact was not brought to the court’s notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-rules-if-you-want-to-work-delhi-hc-raps-twitter-over-non-compliance-if-they-re-in-defiance-you-re-free-to-take-action-hc-gives-twitter-new-deadline-over-rgo-appointment-101625566264024.html
06-07-2021||India||Tweeting against Rahul Gandhi only criterion for Cabinet berths: Congress||Amid reports of a reshuffle in the Union Cabinet, the Congress on Tuesday said the only criterion for allotting ministerial berths is the ability to tweet against Rahul Gandhi. “Ability to tweet against Rahul Gandhi is the only eligibility criterion for anyone to get a berth in the Union Cabinet. Nothing else matters,” said Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera. “It does not matter what they are doing for their country, for their government, or even their mandate.”Khera made the comments while addressing a press conference on Congress’s corruption allegations against a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader.The Congress last month presented video and audio recordings and claimed they show the involvement of Nimba Ram, the RSS leader, in Jaipur and Rajaram Gurjar, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, negotiating a commission with a company. The company was given the contract of waste management when the BJP ruled Rajasthan. Khera on Tuesday said after investigating the audio and video recordings, Rajasthan’s Anti-Corruption Bureau has lodged a case against Nimba Ram and Gurjar under the Prevention of Corruption and Indian Penal Code’s Section 120 B (conspiracy). Gurjar was arrested last week.Khera questioned RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat about what action will be taken against Ram. “The country is waiting and watching you.” Khera asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether the company involved in the case has done some work for his office or other offices of this government. He added whether the same kind of arm-twisting is done with other such companies to “enrich the pockets of the BJP”.Khera wondered whether all the offices of the BJP and RSS being built in different parts of the country are being funded by “corrupt money”.The RSS has denied any involvement of its leader in the alleged corruption case. “These kind of fake allegations are like an attempt of character assassination of a reputed person and all options are open to us to take legal action,” said RSS in a statement last week.Rajasthan BJP media-in-charge Vimal Katiyar last month accused Congress of making the allegations based on fake video and audio recordings to defame the BJP and its ideological fountainhead, the RSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tweeting-against-rahul-gandhi-only-criterion-for-cabinet-berthscongress-101625566454721.html
06-07-2021||India||Father Stan Swamy’s family to watch his funeral online||Father Stan Swamy’s family in Viragalur village in Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district will watch his funeral live on the YouTube page of St Peter’s Church Bandra at 4pm on Tuesday. The house where Father Swamy grew up was built in 1890. His 89-year-old older brother, Irudayaswamy, and his wife live there with their children and grandchildren now. Father Swamy’s 26-year-old grandnephew Benito Prabhu said that the family would watch his funeral at 4pm online. Following his funeral, the family will hold a special mass at the local church in the village in his memory. They were denied permission to hold a procession due to Covid-19 norms. Also Watch | Stan Swamy’s death: ‘Custodial murder’ alleges Opposition, Congress to protest“His wish was that his last rites should be in Ranchi,” said Prabhu. “He informed us so when he visited us in 2016. He wasn’t sure how long he would live because of his age and ill health. So, his ashes will go to Ranchi but his body will not be handed over to us due to the pandemic.” The family is coordinating with Joseph Xavier, the current director of Bengaluru-based Indian Social Institute, a Jesuit centre, for his last rites. They have been in touch with Xavier since Father Swamy’s arrest in October 2020 by the National Investigation Agency under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for his alleged role in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence. “We hope they allow for his things from his Ranchi home to be sent to us,” Prabhu said. “He didn’t have too many things anyway.”Swamy, 84, who had Parkinson’s, among other health issues, died at a hospital on Monday while waiting for bail. “One of our relatives saw Sun News (a Tamil news channel) and called us. That’s when we switched on the TV and found out before we received official information,” said Prabhu. Relatives and villagers have been coming to their ancestral home since the news of his death, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-stan-swamy-s-family-to-watch-his-funeral-online-101625565794694.html
06-07-2021||India||PM Modi wishes Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter on Tuesday to wish the Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday, with the public messaging being seen in some quarters as a signal to China amid the dragging standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life,” Modi tweeted. The Dalai Lama’s office confirmed the phone call but both sides didn’t offer details of the conversation. Several Union ministers, including Hardeep Singh Puri, Nitin Gadkari, and chief ministers, including Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu, tweeted birthday greetings to the Tibetan spiritual leader who lives in Dharamshala. Khandu, whose state is claimed by China, said in a tweet: On the joyous occasion of His Holiness the 14th #DalaiLama’s birthday, my warmest wishes to the apostle of peace, beacon of hope & light to the world. I pray with deepest reverence for your excellent health & long life. May we all continue to be blessed by your love & affection.”Also Read | President clears key appointments, 8 states get new governorsIn a video message issued to mark his birthday, the Dalai Lama acknowledged the love and genuine friendship shown towards him by many people. “I want to express my deep appreciation [to] all of my friends who have really shown me love, respect and trust...For myself, I can assure you that for the rest of my life, I’m committed to serving humanity and working to protect the climate condition,” he said. The Dalai Lama said that since he became a refugee and settled in India in 1959, he had “taken full advantage of India’s freedom and religious harmony”. He added, “I want to assure you that for the rest of my life, I’ll be fully committed to this work. I fully appreciate the Indian concept of secular values, not dependent on religion, such as honesty, karuna (compassion), and ahimsa (non-violence).” He also called on all people to make non-violence and compassion a part of their lives. Last year, when tensions between India and China were at an all-time high following the June 15 clash in Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops, there was no public messaging by the top Indian leadership on the Dalai Lama’s birthday. The standoff on the LAC, which emerged in the open in May last year, has continued for more than a year, taking bilateral ties to a fresh low. Though both sides carried out a limited withdrawal of troops and armoured formations from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February, they have been unable to make headway in diplomatic and military talks on disengagement at other friction points. The Chinese side usually bristles at any public acknowledgement of the Dalai Lama and his role as a Tibetan role by the Indian government, and has in the past even protested when the spiritual leader was allowed to travel to Arunachal Pradesh, a state with a sizeable Buddhist population. However, Modi has tweeted birthday greetings to the Tibetan leader in the past, including in 2015. India has linked the normalisation of overall ties with Chinas to the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas along the LAC. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has repeated said the mobilisation of Chinese troops on the LAC had violated several agreements between the two sides and Beijing’s actions had seriously disturbed the overall relationship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-wishes-dalai-lama-on-his-86th-birthday-101625565014573.html
06-07-2021||India||Morepen produces 1st test batch of Russia's Sputnik V Covid vaccine in Himachal Pradesh||Domestic drug manufacturer Morepen Laboratories began the production of the Russian vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-Sputnik V, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), responsible for international marketing of the vaccine said on Tuesday.The first test batch produced by the indigenous drug manufacturer in an exclusive facility in Himachal Pradesh will be shipped to Gamaleya, the Moscow institute, which developed the Russian vaccine, for quality controls, according to RDIF.Also read: Panacea Bio gets DCGI nod to make Sputnik V“We are delighted to partner with RDIF for the prestigious project of Sputnik V production in India. This would be our privilege to work jointly on expanding the production base in India," Sushil Suri, chairman and managing director of Morepen Laboratories Limited said on Tuesday.Sputnik V was granted emergency use authorisation in India on April 12 and the country is one of the leading production hubs of the Russian shot. RDIF has earlier reached deals with other leading pharmaceutical companies in India namely, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech.We take this partnership as the starting point for a long-term relationship with RDIF and its partner companies as we look forward to many more areas of common interest. Morepen’s commitment towards this project is a step forward towards entry into biosimilars and other biologicals," Suri added.RDIF and Morepen have signed a cooperation agreement in June 2021 and are actively implementing the technology transfer for the vaccine."As the pandemic is yet far from over and new, more dangerous variants of coronavirus are being detected in various regions of the world, RDIF is increasing capacities for production of Sputnik V in India, one of the key hubs. Agreement with Morepen Laboratories provides for a larger amount of Sputnik V to be available both for India and our partners globally to speed up the vaccination with one of the best vaccines in the world," Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of RDIF said on Tuesday.The agreements with partners in India provide for the production of more than 850 million doses of Sputnik V per year, according to an official statement. The vaccine has claimed to have an efficacy rate of 97.6% against coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/morepen-produces-1st-test-batch-of-russia-s-sputnik-v-covid-vaccine-in-himachal-pradesh-101625562008030.html
06-07-2021||India||Telangana plants 1 million saplings in Adilabad district, sets world record||In its attempt to make it to the Guinness Book of World Records, 'Green India Challenge' (GIC)-- one of the major green initiatives in the country, on Sunday organised a mammoth event by planting "one million saplings in one hour" in Adilabad district of Telangana, GIC organisers said.The event was organised to mark the 58th birthday of former minister and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Adilabad MLA Jogu Ramanna.Telangana Minister for Forests, Environment and Science and Technology Allola Indra Karan Reddy and TRS Rajya Sabha MP Joginipally Santosh Kumar, founder of GIC were among those who attended the event which saw active participation from public, TRS party members, MLAs, political leaders among others, a release said here.During the event, five lakh saplings were planted through the Miyawaki model (using the renowned Miyawaki afforestation method) in the degenerated forest area spreading over 200 acres in Durganagar of Adilabad rural region, it said.Similarly, two lakh plantations were done in Bela mandal, 1,80,000 saplings were planted in over 45,000 houses in the urban region.Volunteers ensured planting of 1,20,000 saplings on either side of R&B (Roads & Buildings) roads, the release said.The programme was planned and successfully executed by dividing the entire region into ten sectors where more than 30,000 TRS members and locals participated.The GIC organisers said with this new challenge GIC is all set to break the record of planting 3 lakh, 3 thousand saplings in Turkey in 2019 which found space in Guinness Book World Records.The event has been video recorded as per the norms and will be sent to Guinness Book of World Records, the organisers said.Indra Karan Reddy said that the pandemic made everyone realise the importance of safeguarding the environment and climate.Santosh Kumar urged everyone to take care of the saplings.Jogu Ramanna thanked everyone for taking part in Green India Challenge and donated two ambulances, the release added.Santosh Kumar had launched the Green India Challenge, a green campaign, which has now stepped into its fourth year and as part of it crores of saplings have been planted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-plants-1-million-saplings-in-adilabad-district-sets-world-record-101625562116654.html
06-07-2021||India||Union minister Thaawarchand Gehlot appointed Karnataka Governor, says will live up to expectations||Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot said on Tuesday he will try to resolve issues within constitutional limits and by discussing them soon after he was appointed as Karnataka Governor. "President Kovind and PM Modi have shown faith in me and have appointed me as the Karnataka Governor. I will live up to their expectation and do my job faithfully. I will try to resolve the issues within constitutional limits and with discussions," Thawarchand Gehlot said, according to ANI. "I will be submitting my resignation from all the three positions including as the Rajya Sabha MP and Union minister of social justice and empowerment tomorrow in person," Thawarchand Gehlot added.The 73-year-old Gehlot, a Rajya Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh, was among the eight new governors appointed by President Ram Nath Kovind, ahead of the much-anticipated cabinet reshuffle, an official release from Rashtrapati Bhavan said on Tuesday. Thawarchand Gehlot was on Tuesday appointed Governor of Karnataka in place of Vajubhai Vala.Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel, a BJP leader from Gujarat, will be the Governor of Madhya Pradesh, the release said. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel was holding an additional charge of Madhya Pradesh. President Ram Nath Kovind has also approved the appointments of Hari Babu Kambhampati and Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar as Governors of Mizoram and Himachal Pradesh respectively, it said.Also read | Amid cabinet expansion buzz, PM Modi holds meeting with Shah, SanthoshArlekar, BJP’s leader from Goa and former Speaker, replaces Bandaru Dattatraya who has been transferred and appointed as Haryana Governor, it said. Arlekar is the first Goan to be made a Governor. “Hearty congratulations to our senior leader, Ex Speaker of Goa Assembly & Ex Minister of Goa Government Rajendra Arlekar ji on being appointed as the Governor of Himachal Pradesh. It's a proud moment for all Goans as Arlekar ji is the first Goan to be appointed to this position,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted.Kambhampati, BJP leader from Andhra Pradesh, will take over from PS Sreedharan Pillai, who has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Goa, the communiqué said. Satyadev Narayan Arya, the Governor of Haryana, has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Tripura, the statement said.According to the communique, Tripura Governor Ramesh Bais has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Jharkhand, succeeding Droupadi Murmu.These appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thawarchand-gehlot-is-new-karnataka-governor-says-will-live-up-to-expectations-101625561722621.html
06-07-2021||India||New Himachal governor Rajendra Arlekar is 1st Goan to occupy the post||Former Goa assembly speaker and a member of the founding team of the state Bharatiya Janata Party, Rajendra Arlekar, has been appointed the governor of Himachal Pradesh, becoming the first Goan to occupy the constitutional post.Arlekar was with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) before he moved to the BJP and he was one of the contenders for the Goa chief minister’s post after late Manohar Parrikar moved to Delhi as Union defence minister, but the party ultimately opted for Laxmikant Parsekar.In the 2017 assembly polls, Arlekar was defeated by Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party candidate Manohar Ajgaonkar, who has since joined the BJP and is currently deputy chief minister to Pramod Sawant.“Hearty congratulations to our senior leader, ex-speaker of Goa assembly & ex-minister of Goa government, Rajendra Arlekar ji on being appointed the governor of Himachal Pradesh. It’s a proud moment for all Goans as Arlekar ji is the first Goan to be appointed to this position,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted soon after the news of his elevation emerged. Arlekar’s appointment is part of the Tuesday reshuffle involving eight gubernatorial positions.Among other things, the two time MLA is remembered for making the Goa assembly paperless and his calm demeanour in running the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-himachal-governor-rajendra-arlekar-is-1st-goan-to-occupy-the-post-101625562314406.html
06-07-2021||India||PDP to stay away from J&K’s delimitation exercise||People’s Democratic Party (PDP) led by Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said that they will stay away from the delimitation process as the Delimitation Commission arrives here on Tuesday on a four-day visit to talk to political parties and officials for chalking out new constituencies.The party has written to the head of the commission justice Ranjana Prakash Desai stating that they won’t be part of the exercise, which they believed was "pre-planned", aimed at disempowering the people of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and realising the "political vision of a particular political party".In the letter, PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said that with the abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A on August 5, 2019 "unconstitutionally" , the people of J&K were "humiliated and demeaned" by downgrading and bifurcation of an almost 200-year-old state."The Reorganisation Act being a product of the same process, we are of the considered opinion that the Delimitation Commission lacks legal and constitution mandate in the first place," he said.Also Read | Delimitation Commission to arrive in Srinagar todayThe Delimitation Commission for the UT was formed by the Union government on March 6 last year, just six months after special status of J&K under Article 370 was revoked and the region split into two Union Territories – J&K with a legislative assembly, and Ladakh without one. Earlier, the delimitation of the constituencies in J&K was scheduled to be held in 2026. However following the Central government’s changes in J&K after August 5, 2019, the J&K Reorganisation Act increased the number of voting constituencies for J&K from 87 to 90.The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir.The PDP letter said that there are apprehensions that the exercise is part of the overall process of the "political disempowerment" of the people of J&K that the government of India has embarked upon."There are apprehensions that the process is aimed at realizing the political vision of a particular political party in J&K wherein, like other things, the views and wishes of the people of J&K would be considered least. It is a widespread belief…the exercise is a mere formality. The very intent is under question," it said. The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The Centre has sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls are held there.The commission arrives in Srinagar a day after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of political major parties such as the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) formed to fight for J&K’s special status, said they were disappointed over the outcome of the all-party meeting with Modi. The grouping has demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections are held there.It also criticised the lack of "confidence building measures" after the meeting.The PDP said that they are disappointed to see that nothing has been done to "ease lives of the people" after suggesting specific confidence building measures at Modi’s all party meeting."…The government of India has continued with its daily dictates to the people of J&K including recent orders and amendments including those making every person a suspect (Govt employees antecedents verification order) and deepening the divide between two regions of the J&K (the order related to Darbar move)," Hanjura said.Other member parties of the PAGD like NC and CPI (M) will meet the commission. Besides, Jammu & Kashmir Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party are also scheduled to participate in the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-to-stay-away-from-j-k-s-delimitation-exercise-101625560694398.html
06-07-2021||India||Assam declares lockdown, round the clock curfew in 7 districts||Assam on Tuesday declared a complete lockdown in seven districts of the state from July 7, Wednesday, till further notice, as the government issued a revised and consolidated directive for both rural and urban areas, a report said. There will be around the clock curfew and commercial setups, restaurants, shops will remain shut in Goalpara, Golaghat, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur, Biswanath and Morigaon, according to news agency ANI. Public and private transport will not be allowed to ply and inter-state movement has also been suspended by the Assam government."There will be total containment in 7 districts showing high positivity rate in recent days and these are Goalpara, Golaghat, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur, Biswanath and Morignon district," ANI tweeted an Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) order as saying.Also read | Covid cases in Northeast declining but pockets of concern remain, says CentreOther restrictions, including the odd-even formula for plying of vehicles, declaration of containment zones etc, and exemptions as notified in the order of June 26 will continue to remain in force except those specifically modified by the Assam government order.Here's what you need to know:1. The curfew in these seven districts will be round the clock but Sivasagar, Dibrugarh, Kokrajhar, Barpeta. Nalbari, Baksa, Bajali, Kamrup, Darang, Nagaon, Hojai, Tinsukia, Dhemaji, Cachar, Karimganj and Karbi Anglong, which are showing moderate positivity rate, will be under from 2pm to 5pm.2. Dhubri, Kamrup (M), South Salmara, Majuli, Bongaigaon, Chirang, Udalguri. West Karbi Anglong. Dima Hasao, Charaidco and Hailakandi will be under from 5pm to 5am. The districts have been showing improvement in positivity caseload.3. Sivasagar and Dibrugarh districts will be kept under close watch for a week, the order said.4. All workplaces, business and commercial establishments, shops dealing with groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, animal fodder, restaurants, roadside eateries and other eateries, sale counters, showrooms etc of cold storages and warehouses will be closed till further order in districts showing high positivity rate.5. They will be open up to 1pm in districts showing moderate positivity rate and up to 4pm in districts showing improvement in positivity rate.6. The Assam government has imposed a total ban on the movement of all public and private transport in the total containment districts. However, the movement of goods shall continue, the order said.7. All public transport authorities will have to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and seating inside the vehicles, carrier containers etc in other districts.8. According to the order, all inter-district passenger transport services and movement of people to and from other districts will remain suspended.9 Public gathering is banned in total containment districts and up to 10 people can attend weddings and funerals in other districts.10. Wearing of face mask will remain compulsory in all public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-declares-lockdown-round-the-clock-curfew-in-7-districts-101625558644244.html
06-07-2021||India||'Wish him long, healthy life': PM Modi greets Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday||In a development with political and diplomatic ramifications, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the 14th Dalai Lama over phone and greeted him on his 86th birthday on Tuesday. He wished him long and healthy life.Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life.According to source in Dharamshala, the Prime Minister spoke to the 14th Dalai Lama for nearly 20 minutes this morning and His Holiness, who is right now in Dharamshala, was delighted to receive the call.On his birthday, the Tibetan spiritual leader said that he has taken full advantage of India's freedom and religious harmony and is committed to reviving ancient Indian knowledge.In a virtual address from his residence in Dharamshala, the Dalai Lama thanked people from across the globe who greeted him on his birthday and said he would continue to serve humanity and combat climate change.“Since I became a refugee and settled in India, I have taken full advantage of India's freedom and religious harmony. I want to assure you that for the rest of my life I am committed to reviving ancient Indian knowledge,” said the Dalai Lama, whose real name is Tenzin Gyatso.“I really appreciate the Indian concept of secular values, not dependent on religion, such as honesty, karuna (compassion) and ahimsa (non-violence),” he added.In exile now for 62 years, the 14th Dalai Lama has been a symbol of struggle for the Tibetan people to the entire world. Perhaps his only desire is to go on a pilgrimage to China to visit the Wutai Shan, the sacred five peak mountain in Shamxi province which is the earthly abode of the Bodhisatva Manjusri.In an interview with Hindustan Times at Bodh Gaya in 2018, he said: "Way back in 1954, I had expressed my desire to Chinese government to visit Wutai Shan but was told that there was no road. I still have that desire but it is upto the Chinese government. Historically, the Wutai Shan is seat of Deva of wisdom. Whether I am there or not, that wisdom of the Deva is already in my brain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-dalai-lama-speaks-on-his-86th-birthday-101625557411195.html
06-07-2021||India||President clears key appointments, 8 states get new governors||Union social justice minister Thawar Chand Gehlot, also a prominent Dalit face in the Narendra Modi government, has been appointed as the new governor of Karnataka in the latest reshuffle involving eight gubernatorial positions. Gehlot, 73, who had been the social justice minister since the beginning of the Narendra Modi government was also the leader of the House in Rajya Sabha. His new innings would also see a change of guard in the ruling bench of the Rajya Sabha days before the monsoon session. Gehlot’s transfer also comes ahead of the imminent reshuffle of the Union cabinet, which is expected to take place sometime this week. Also Read | Cabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi’s crucial meeting likely todayPresident of India Ram Nath Kovind has made these appointments. A Rashtrapati Bhavan communication added that the appointments “will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices.” Former Bharatiya Janata Party state president of Andhra Pradesh, Hari Babu Kambhampati, will be the new governor of Mizoram. Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel, a former minister in Gujarat, has been appointed as governor of Madhya Pradesh, while Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, former Speaker of the Goa assembly, will be the new governor of Himachal Pradesh. PS Sreedharan Pillai, governor of Mizoram, has been transferred and appointed as governor of Goa. Satyadev Narayan Arya, governor of Haryana, has been transferred and appointed as governor of Tripura. Ramesh Bais, governor of Tripura has been transferred and appointed as governor of Jharkhand. Bandaru Dattatraya, former Union labour minister and governor of Himachal Pradesh has now been transferred and appointed as governor of Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-clears-key-appointments-8-states-get-new-governors-101625557214511.html
06-07-2021||India||Germany to begin easing Covid-19 travel restrictions for India and 4 other countries||Germany has begun easing strict Covid-19-related restrictions on travellers from India, Nepal, Portugal, Russia and the UK after the country’s public health institute declared these five nations are no longer areas of “variant of concern”. The stiff restrictions had been imposed on the five countries because of the more infectious Delta variant of the Coronavirus. The Robert Koch Institute, responsible for monitoring the Covid-19 situation, announced on Monday that these five countries had been downgraded to “high incidence areas”. Reduced travel restrictions for travellers from India and the four other countries will be applicable from July 7, and their citizens can now travel to Germany and home quarantine on arrival for 10 days. Also Read | Germany suggests mix and match of Covid vaccines for better immune responseTravellers entering Germany by air must present a negative test result or proof of vaccination or proof of recovery to their carrier prior to departure, the Robert Koch Institute said. The quarantine period can be cut to five days if people test negative for Covid-19, or avoided altogether if travellers prove they have been fully vaccinated or have recovered from Covid-19. On Tuesday, German ambassador Walter Lindner tweeted about the changes in travel restrictions. “Promised to work hard on easing travel restrictions for travellers from [India] and update you immediately. And voila: from tomorrow on [Germany] is removing entry ban and easing travel rules for 5 countries where the Delta variant is widespread, including [India]! Details soon on website.....” A large number of Indian students and professionals are currently planning to travel to Germany to resume classes or work. The number of Indian students in Germany in 2020 increased by 20.85% over the past year and stood at more than 25,000.“High incidence areas” form the second highest risk category in the classification of the Robert Koch Institute. The institute said this classification is based on a two-step assessment – determining the countries where there were more than 200 new infections per 100,000 inhabitants in the previous seven days, and determining whether an especially high risk of infection exists, regardless of whether the incidence has been exceeded. India had been classified by Germany as an “area of variant of concern” from April 26 to July 6, before being downgraded to a “high incidence area”. There have been questions about the ability of Indian nationals to travel to European Union (EU) states following the implementation of the EU Digital Covid Certificate or “green pass” from July 1. The green pass framework only recognises four vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) but they don’t include Covishield or Covaxin, the two main doses being used for India’s immunisation programme. However, individual EU states have the option of recognising vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) or national authorities. India has asked EU states to exercise this option for Indian citizens travelling to Europe and said it will follow a policy of reciprocity in exempting EU nationals possessing the “green pass” from mandatory quarantine. India has also said it expects its vaccinated citizens to be treated at par with those inoculated in EU states, and the recognition of its digital CoWIN vaccination certificates by the 27-member bloc on a reciprocal basis. EU members Austria, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Slovenia and Spain, and Iceland and Switzerland, which aren’t in the bloc but are part of the Schengen visa regime, recognise Covishield for travel purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/germany-to-begin-easing-covid-19-travel-restrictions-for-india-and-4-other-countries-101625555863727.html
06-07-2021||India||Eight states get new governors. Thawarchand Gehlot in the list||Eight states, including Karnataka and Haryana among others, on Tuesday, got new governers as President Ram Nath Kovind made several appointments and changes. The appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices. Union minister and the BJP's Rajya Sabha leader Thawarchand Gehlot has been appointed as the Governor of Karnataka.These appointments and changes come amid buzz that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to cabinet his cabinet soon.Here is a list of new governors in eight states:1. PS Sreedharan Pillai, Governor of Mizoram, has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Goa.2. Satyadev Narayan Arya, Governor of Haryana, has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Tripura.3. Ramesh Bais, Governor of Tripura, has betransferred and appointed as Governor of Jharkhand.4. Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot has been appointed as the Governor of Karnataka.5. Bandaru Dattatraya, Governor of Himachal Pradesh, has been transferred and appointed as Governor of Haryana.6. Hari Babu Kambhampati has been appointed as the Governor of Mizoram.7. Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel has been appointed as the Governor of Madhya Pradesh.8. Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar is now the Governor of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-states-get-new-governors-thawarchand-gehlot-in-the-list-101625555386290.html
06-07-2021||NA||Highlights: New ministry carved out ahead of PM Modi's cabinet reshuffle||The national capital is abuzz with speculation of a reshuffle in the Union cabinet.On Tuesday, multiple media reports said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a crucial meeting at his residence, most likely to be related to the cabinet rejig. The meeting, however, has been cancelled.Several leaders, who are speculated to have been intimated about a possible berth in the council of ministers, have begun arriving in the national capital. Senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia will take a flight to Delhi this afternoon from Indore. Scindia, a former Union minister, is expected to be part of the council of ministers. He joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March 2020.Another key contender, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal is also arriving in the capital on Tuesday ahead of the much-awaited cabinet expansion. Janata Dal (United) or JD (U) leaders RCP Singh and Lallan Singh are also travelling to the capital. The JD (U), an ally of the BJP, did not have any representation in the Council of ministers so far.Follow all the updates here:Ministry of Cooperation carved outAhead of PM Modi's cabinet reshuffle a new ministry - Ministry of Cooperation - has been launched. Cabinet reshuffle likely on July 7 eveningPM Modi's much awaited cabinet reshuffle could happen tomorrow evening, news agency ANI reported. Manipur MP gets calls from BJP chief ahead of reshuffleRK Ranjan Singh, a BJP MP from Manipur, is likely to be another new entrant. HT has learnt that he has got a call from BJP President JP Nadda asking Singh to come to Delhi. Manipur is one of the states that will go to the polls next year. Singh, 69, is a retired government officer and is also a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee On Environment and Forests.Bengal MP who accompanied Modi to Bangladesh tour could be inductedShantanu Thakur, another MP from West Bengal, is also expected to be inducted. He belongs to the Matua community that was wooed by the BJP ahead of the assembly polls in the state. Thakur accompanied Narendra Modi on his Bangladesh visit ahead of the polls.Changes focus on Karnataka amid infighting in state unitA lot of changes appear specifically directed at Karnataka even though the elections there are at least two years away. Part of the reason is that the state has been tackling infighting with many MLAs and ministers speaking openly against Chief Minister BS Yeddyurappa. As Gehlot moves there to be governor, HT learns that the Prime Minister may induct the Chief Minister's son BY Raghevendra into his council of ministers. Raghvendra is currently an MP and said to be much more low profile than his brother, Vijayendra. The BJP knows that they have to settle matters in the state.Cabinet reshuffle likely to take place on July 8The announcement of Thawar Chand Gehlot being shifted out of the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry is another indication of the cabinet expansion. He was named as Karnataka governor ahead of the cabinet reshuffle that many expected to be on Wednesday but is now likely to take place a day later.Bengal MP Nisith Pramanik could be among new entrants in Union cabinetNisith Pramanik, a member of Parliament from West Bengal, is set to be one of the new entrants into the Union cabinet. HT has learnt that he has been sounded off and has been stationed in Delhi for the past few days awaiting the call for the swearing-in ceremony. According to a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, the ceremony is expected to be held tomorrow evening. But there is no confirmation from Rashtrapati Bhawan. Pramanik’s entry is said to signal the growing importance of the region to the BJP’s plans. Pramanik represents the Rajbanshi community.Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel expected to find place in Union council of ministersApna Dal, another ally of the BJP, is also expected to find a place in the Union council of ministers. Anupriya Patel of the Apna Dal was earlier a Union minister. The party is a crucial ally of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, where it holds sway over the Kurmis.Former Maharashtra CM Narayan Rane to fly to DelhiFormer Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane is also expected to fly to Delhi amid the expected expansion in the Union council of ministers. Rane, who was expelled for anti-party activities from the Shiv Sena, joined the Congress before floating the Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha. He joined the BJP in October last year.President approves appointments of new governors for Karnataka, MP, Haryana> PS Sreedharan Pillai, Governor of Mizoram is transferred and appointed as Governor of Goa.> Satyadev Narayan Arya, Governor of Haryana is transferred and appointed as Governor of Tripura.> Ramesh Bais, Governor of Tripura is transferred and appointed as Governor of Jharkhand.> Thaawarchand Gehlot as Governor of Karnataka.> Bandaru Dattatraya, Governor of Himachal Pradesh is transferred and appointed as Governor of Haryana.> Dr. Hari Babu Kambhampati as Governor of Mizoram.> Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel as Governor of Madhya Pradesh.> Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar as Governor of Himachal Pradesh.The above appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices.PM Modi to drop at least 3-4 leaders from the cabinetAmid the keenly awaited expansion of the Union council of ministers, at least one senior leader told HT that 3-4 ministers may be dropped. When reporters asked defence minister Rajnath Singha about it, he said that his lips were sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-cabinet-reshuffle-live-updates-july-6-2021-101625554917219.html
06-07-2021||India||Lost your PAN card? Here are 10 steps to follow to download an e-PAN instantly||Similar to the Aadhaar card, driving license, passport, and voter ID card, another vital document that every Indian citizen requires is a Permanent Account Number (PAN), which is a 10-character alphanumeric authentication number that every taxpayer in the country is allocated. A PAN card is a mandate when it comes to opening bank accounts, facilitating KYC, availing of provident fund schemes, and several other day-to-day services.However, what happens if one ends up losing their PAN card? Is there a way to get a new one?There is a way for Indian citizens to get a digital PAN card almost instantly by following a few simple steps laid down by the income tax department. This digital version of the PAN card holds is of equal importance, and can be used for official purposes.Here are the steps to download an e-PAN card:Step 1: Go to the official website of the Income Tax e-filing. It can be accessed from here.Step 2: Look for the section ‘Our Services’ where the option ‘Instant e-PAN’ will be available.Step 3: Since these steps are for those who have misplaced their original PAN card, and haven’t download an e-PAN in the past, they need to click on the ‘Get new e-PAN’ option. Those who did download the digital PAN card earlier, can, however, click on the ‘Check Status/Download PAN’ option.Step 4: Once clicking on the ‘Get new e-PAN’ option, select the fields as per the requirement and then click on continue.Step 5: A new page will open asking for the 12-digit Aadhaar number, which needs to be entered in the required field.Step 6: Once the Aadhaar number is entered, the page will display a new declaration that needs to be clicked to continue further.Step 7: Following this, a one-time password (OTP) will be sent to the registered mobile number or one that is linked to the Aadhaar card.Step 8: After this, the OTP that was sent to the registered mobile number has to be entered in the input field.Step 9: The page will then show all the details that have been put, and after checking the entered information carefully, the email address needs to be entered in the required field.Step 10: The e-PAN will soon be mailed, and it can also be printed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lost-your-pan-card-here-are-10-steps-to-follow-to-download-an-e-pan-instantly-101625554102393.html
06-07-2021||India||'Can't take as long as you want': Delhi HC slams Twitter over non compliance of IT rules||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday gave an earful to the social media giant Twitter over non-compliance with the new information and technology guidelines of the government. "If Twitter thinks that they can take as much time as it wants in our country, then I will not permit that. You should have taken some firm steps to appoint the officer," the high court said.Justice Rekha Palli said that Twitter, represented by senior counsel Sajjan Poovaya, has misled the court and given the wrong impression that it has appointed a resident grievance officer mandated under the new IT rules. "This is a very serious, interesting position. You did not tell the court that you appointed an interim officer. The rules are binding on you," the court said."You have misled the court and gave a wrong impression. Be that as it may, the least Twitter can do was appoint another officer after June 21. We are concerned with the compliance," it said.This came in response to the affidavit by Twitter which had said that it had appointed an interim Resident Grievance Officer on May 29, however, he resigned on June 21.The Centre on Monday accused Twitter of failing to comply with the IT rules, which it described as the "law of the land." "In spite of three months' time granted to all significant social media intermediaries to comply with the IT Rules, 2021, Twitter Inc has failed to comply with the same," the Centre said in its affidavit in the high court.During the proceedings, Sajjan Poovaya, a senior advocate appearing for Twitter, said that he could not contact the company's officials in San Francisco due to the difference in the time zone. Following this, the court gave Twitter time till Thursday to inform as to by when they can appoint the grievance officers.The judge also asked Twitter to take instructions on the compliance of the other guidelines of the IT rules saying that at least the progress and steps should be known to everyone. "Get clear instructions or you will be in trouble," she said.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma told the court that the attitude of Twitter in not complying with the IT rules cocks a snook in the digital sovereignty of the country. "Forty-two days and no compliance and we have done nothing. Facebook has removed three crore content. Twitter could have done better," Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-take-as-long-as-you-want-delhi-hc-slams-twitter-over-non-compliance-of-it-rules-101625552981375.html
06-07-2021||India||Dalai Lama turns 86, still longs for Wutai Shan pilgrimage in China||At the first India-China senior military commanders meeting after the Indian Army captured strategic heights on Rezang La-Rechin La on Kailash Range between August 29-31 last year on south banks of Pangong Tso, the PLA commander insisted that India removed the Special Frontier Forces (SFF) from the frontlines in East Ladakh. Comprising of Tibetan expats, the highly secretive SFF was deployed all along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) by the Modi government and its commandos played a special role in capturing the mountain heights dominating Chinese Moldo garrison next to Spanggur Tso in Chushul Sector. The fact is that one SFF JCO lost his life in the operation and was subsequently decorated posthumously by the government for his bravery.The Chinese army was most upset at the SFF deployment as they are seen to be supporters of the 14th Dalai Lama, who turned 86 today. While the Dalai Lama meditates in McLeodganj in Himachal Pradesh now, the Xi Jinping regime has already plotted the post-14th Dalai Lama scenario and will announce Chinese Communist Party (CCP) approved successor from Tibet once the biological life of the head of Gelugpa (Yellow Hat) sect of Tibetan Buddhism gets over. The 14th Dalai Lama, however, finds the Chinese interest in his reincarnation not only illogical till such time the CCP recognizes the reincarnation of its leaders Moa Zedong and Deng Xiaoping.Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the Dalai Lama on his birthday. "Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life," he said on Twitter.Spoke on phone to His Holiness the @DalaiLama to convey greetings on his 86th birthday. We wish him a long and healthy life.In exile now for 62 years, the 14th Dalai Lama has been a symbol of struggle for the Tibetan people to the entire world. Perhaps his only desire is to go on a pilgrimage to China to visit the Wutai Shan, the sacred five peak mountain in Shamxi province which is the earthly abode of the Bodhisatva Manjusri. In an interview to this author at Bodh Gaya in 2018, he said: "Way back in 1954, I had expressed my desire to Chinese government to visit Wutai Shan but was told that there was no road. I still have that desire but it is upto the Chinese government. Historically, the Wutai Shan is seat of Deva of wisdom. Whether I am there or not, that wisdom of the Deva is already in my brain.”But in his heart the Dalai Lama knows that he will never be able to return to Tibet with the Chinese calling him names like "splittist" or even a "terrorist". He is perhaps the only one who stands between President Xi Jinping and his dream of Sinicization of Tibet. Last August, President Xi spelt out his three-step plan for Fortress Tibet at a high-level meeting. Step one was to promote Sinicization of Tibetan Buddhism or what has been euphemistically called Buddhism with Chinese characterstics. Step two is to strengthen political and ideological education in Tibet or was is another word for re-education in communist parlance. Step three is building an impregnable fortress around Tibet by strengthening border defences and frontier security of Tibet.Fact is that the PLA has used the on-going military stand-off with India to bolster defences in both Tibet and Xinjiang, where the Muslim Uyghurs are at odds with Han China. The troop, rocket, missile and fighter deployment in Tibet and Xinjiang has been increased manifolds with blast pens being strengthened at airbases in Kashgar, Hotan, Gar-Gunsa, Lhasa and Nyingchi, all aimed at India, and Han consolidation of Tibet and Xinjiang.Xi Jinping’s Sinicization of Tibet plan was also reflected in his speech on July 1 to celebrate the 100 years of CCP. He said: “We have never bullied, oppressed, or subjugated the people of any country, and we never will. By the same token, we will never allow any foreign force to bully, oppress or subjugate us. Anyone who will attempt to do so will find themselves on a collision course with a great wall of steel forged by over 1.4 billion Chinese people.”Much as China tries to subjugate the Tibetans and Buddhism in the name of Middle Kingdom, the 14th Dalai Lama and 150,000 Tibetans in exile all over the world represent the aspirations of those who are not allowed to speak within Fortress Tibet. That is why the CCP hates the Dalai Lama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalai-lama-turns-86-still-longs-for-wutai-shan-pilgrimage-in-china-101625553246990.html
06-07-2021||India||Aadhaar update: How many times changes in details can be made? Explained||People can now easily change or update details of their Aadhaar card online through the official website of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI). Changes can be made with regard to name, address, date of birth, gender and language.Often, there are errors committed when people register themselves to get an Aadhaar Card. At times, the operators who are doing the registration tend to make errors in spellings, phone numbers etc, which creates further problems in future when people open bank accounts or avail any government or private sector service which requires Aadhaar as an identification proof.As the central government has made it mandatory to link Aadhaar with Pan Card, the deadline for which has been extended, a mismatch in the details of these two identification proofs leads to failure of linking them together.How many times can the changes be made?The UIDAI website shows that users can change their names twice in a lifetime. Their gender can only be changed once. The date of birth (DOB), can also be changed once in a lifetime subject to the condition that present status of the D0B is declared/approximate. (Change in Date of Birth can be updated only for unverified DoB.What documents will be required?According to the UIDAI website, in case of name, users will have to submit a scanned copy of the proof of identity (POI) documents which include Passport, Driving License, Voter ID card etc. In case of address, proof of address documents (POA) such as Bank statement/passbook, Ration Card, Water bill etc. However, no documents are needed in case of updating genderThe list of valid documents needed for name, address, date of birth can be found here. Here is how you can change or updates on your Aadhaar card online1. Visit the UIDAI website- https://uidai.gov.in/2. Choose My Aadhaar tab.3. From there, select Update Your Aadhaar section and click on Update demographics data online4. You will be led to a new page. Click on Proceed to Update Aadhaar.5. Here, users will have to feed in their Aadhaar number and the Captcha verification.6. Click on send OTP. A one time password (OTP) will be sent to your registered mobile number through SMS. Enter the OTP and login.7. From there, choose Update demographics data. Add all relevant details and upload the required documents.8. Once everything is done, users will be required to make a payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhar-update-how-many-times-changes-in-details-can-be-made-explained-101625552128299.html
06-07-2021||India||Fuel prices skyrocket in Chennai, petrol thieves have a field day||With fuel prices skyrocketing, residents of Chennai are now witnessing a worrying trend of fuel theft as miscreants siphoning off petrol from the parked vehicles, Tamil language newspaper Dina Thanthi reported on Tuesday. Petrol price has touched ₹100.75 and diesel was selling for ₹93.91 on Tuesday morning. Fuel prices were not revised on Tuesday, though petrol gained ₹35 paise on Monday while diesel price remained intact.With a hike almost every day to the already soaring fuel prices, petrol thieves are having a field day mainly targeting apartment buildings where many two-wheelers are parked at the same spot.Recently, residents of an apartment complex at Ambattur found that the fuel tanks of two-wheelers were empty all of a sudden. The residents association scanned CCTV footage and found a youngster stealing petrol from all the two-wheelers at the parking lot around 3am. However, the association has not filed any police complaint as yet.In most of these fuel theft cases, people avoid registering police complaints at nearby stations considering the lengthy legal procedures involved, the newspaper noted. With fuel thefts on the rise, people have urged the police to tighten their vigil and increase night patrol.Meanwhile, major political parties in the state are staging protests against the fuel price hike. Opposition parties condemned state and central government for not reducing their tax component on the fuel price, burdening the public who are already strained by the Covid-19 related economic slowdown. Dinamalar reported that DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakanth rode a bicycle in front of the Chennai collector's office in protest as the party organised demonstrations across the state on Sunday. Addressing the protest, Premalatha Vijayakanth said that the livelihood of people was at stake due to the phenomenal hike in petrol and diesel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-prices-skyrocket-in-chennai-petrol-thieves-have-a-field-day-101625550939852.html
06-07-2021||India||When a demolition drive destroys a village||When bulldozers roared into Khori village last September to raze a cluster of illegally built brick houses, 40-year-old Lakshmi Devi rushed to salvage her belongings. A few weeks later, thanks to some borrowed money, she got her house restored to nearly its original self.The story was similar for roughly 10,000 residents whose houses were demolished in that drive. The 30-year-old settlement built illegally on forest land at the Delhi-Haryana border had battled seven such drives before, and never been wiped out.But when the bulldozers returned on April 2, they not only reduced the houses to a pile of bricks again but also dashed Devi’s hopes of a recovery. She was already neck-deep in debt but the Supreme Court (SC) order last month to demolish the entire village has left her in despair.The court and the village On June 7, the apex court ordered all encroachment on forest land in the area to be cleared within six weeks. A week later, 3,000 policemen arrived at the village. By June 12, electricity connections were cut and water tankers stopped from entering the village. And finally, on June 17, the apex court refused to review its decision.Devi and her family of four now live in a tent next to their house. Some neighbours have tried to arrange bricks to build a semblance of a house. Only a handful are still trying to rebuild their homes. Most residents of Khori always knew they were residing illegally but, for the first time in three decades, there is a fear that their time is up.“When plots were being divided and sold all these years, no one came to tell us that our homes would be demolished one day. This is how we poor people settle down anywhere in India,” said Devi.Perched on the Aravalli hills on the southern fringes of the Capital, Khori is a village of dusty narrow streets sandwiched between upmarket neighbourhoods in Faridabad and the Okhla landfill. Similar unauthorised neighbourhoods of Sangam Vihar, Pul Prahladpur, Lal Kuan, Vishwakarma Colony and Prem Nagar ring the village where people started illegally clearing forest to settle down in the early 90s.There is no official estimate of Khori’s population. The Supreme Court case mentioned 10,000 houses. Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar studying the settlement, estimated 6,500 houses. Mohammad Mohsin, an active leader of the residents, pegged the population at 40,000.But Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner of Faridabad, dismissed those figures as “gross exaggeration”. “A precise survey by drones show there are 5,100 residential structures here. There are less than 10,000 residents in the village at any particular time,” he said.Since the apex court’s decision, most residents spend their days and evenings under the few remaining kikar, neem and sheesham trees. Most of the day goes in around arranging water. “People are willing to pay extra to buy water from me, but I am catering only to my regular customers,” said Kapil, a water supplier who managed to sneak in 4,000 litres of water for Khori village shops, which he sells to the parched residents.The snapped power supply meant that local shopkeepers aren’t ordering perishable items like dairy anymore. “I am selling goods at prices lower than MRP. I am trying to limit my damages,” said Lal Singh, a shopkeeper. His 20-year-old daughter, Sandhya, said she is on the verge of giving up on her medical education.Due to the uncertainty, many residents have stopped working. “What work? Saving our homes is our work right now,” said Irshad Ali, a painter.Hope and hopelessness Many residents of Khori are caught between hope and hopelessness. They believe that the government will not bulldoze thousands of homes, the SC order notwithstanding. “Who will snatch my home? Jaan jaaye, par ghar na jaaye (We may lose our lives, but not our homes),” said a resident, justifying his decision to buy a used refrigerator and some furniture at a time when power supply to the village is snapped and there is exodus from the village.Others are defiant.Kalpana Devi, a 32-year-old woman from Munger in Bihar, spent her life’s savings in buying a 30 square yard plot 12 years ago and constructed a one-room house four years ago. She doesn’t intend to leave. “My husband has not found work over the last year due to the pandemic. I have three young daughters. Where should I go? We are going nowhere. This uncertainty is like a death sentence, and I will die here,” said the woman.Rumours fly in the village that four residents have died by suicide in recent weeks. “We have heard of four suicides so far. People are panicking as the demolition appears a reality,” said Dinesh, who works as a supervisor at a Delhi hospital. But police confirm only one incident, a 70-year-old man who died on June 15. “We have booked a builder who sold him a piece of land for ₹ 3 lakh,” said Sube Singh, spokesperson for Faridabad Police.Another 22-year-old local woman fell to her death on June 16 from the second floor of a house in Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, a day after she moved from Khori with her husband under the shadow of the demolition.The woman’s death confirmed what the police and district administration have been insisting — that residents are slowly vacating their homes.Sube Singh said that by mid-June, 30-40% people left their homes. “The residents are going to lose their homes. We don’t want any confrontation, which only ends in injuries to the police and the public, and legal troubles for the public,” he added.The deputy commissioner pegged the number of those who have left the village at 40%. “Those living on rent have left,” said Yadav. Local residents acknowledged the phenomena, which indicates their resistance is weakening, but insisted it was mostly limited to the tenants. “It is the tenants who are leaving. Some others are only shifting their expensive belongings,” says Sailesh Kumar, a painter who hails from Gorakhpur.They also point out that moving out isn’t easy. “House owners in surrounding neighbourhoods know our desperation. Rooms worth ₹2,000 were being rented to me for ₹5,000. We are looked at with contempt,” said Lal Singh. A room in Khori village costs between ₹500 and 1,000 in rent.Going back to their native villages, in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or Bengal, is not an option because most families have sold their properties back home.The environment-community debate By various accounts, this portion of the Aravalli Range was the site for bauxite mining in the 1980s, and outstation labourers here first began occupying the land in the 1990s. According to government officials and activists, bauxite mining in the area stopped in the 1990s following court orders. According to Chatterjee, the village is spread over a 120-150 acre of forest land.“By late 1990s, there were already a few hundred homes constructed on the forest land. Local strongmen facilitated this illegal sale of land,” said Jitender Bhadana, who runs an NGO, Save Aravalli Trust.Sube Singh said that local property dealers were to blame for this illegal settlement. “They fooled people into buying the forest land. They handed the buyers some documents, making them believe they were buying legal property. More and more buyers followed after that and soon there was an entire settlement here,” said Singh.“I worked in the mines in the 1980s and 1990s. In those times, someone could simply throw a stone and own the land up to the point where the stone fell,” said Mohd Saleem Khan, a village leader who was among those jailed recently for his role in an alleged violent protest.Khan doesn’t believe that he hurt the environment by occupying the land but Bhadana contradicts him. “The extent of encroachment over the last 15 years can be seen by comparing the satellite images of the same place from the late 2000. The lungs of the national capital were being eaten day by day,” he said.Some residents here have voter identity, ration and aadhaar cards but few houses are registered. Many residents accused builders of lying to them that the plot fell on the Delhi side of the border, a major draw for buyers. Until the SC order, a single storey house constructed on a 50 square yard in Khori could cost as high as ₹20 lakh, without any official property documents. Sube Singh said that some buyers were lured in with the promise of land under the power of attorney, but none of these sales were legal.Few houses have a government electricity metre. Most are provided by private builders who usually charge upwards of ₹14 per unit.The future Mostly legally, and sometimes by their sheer population, villagers have been resisting the impending demolition since 2010. They have been petitioning the courts time and again, seeking repeated stay. While the first demolition happened in the 1990s itself because the authorities noticed forest being cleared to make residential plots, the villagers approached the court in 2010, igniting a 11-year legal battle.Since the SC order, villagers have held protests, some of which turned violent, and even a mahapanchayat, prompting multiple police cases. The police have gone on to book over 550 known and unknown persons and arrested about 20 of them.Many lawyers and activists have also reached the village. “We are not against the SC order. Our fight is for the rehabilitation of tens of thousands of people being displaced,” said Nirmal Gorana, general secretary of Bandhua Mukri Morcha.Under Haryana law, displaced people are eligible for rehabilitation, but there is a catch. “The cut-off year for those eligible for rehabilitation is 2003, thus making most residents ineligible,” said Anupradha Singh, an advocate working for the Khori villagers.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, who is representing the villagers in the SC, believes that the solution is “simple”. “These people are not squatters and land grabbers. Every resident paid for the land and they have no commercial gains from it. Every state has adequate urban land. The government can quickly solve the problem by identifying a land close by and settling these people,” said Gonsalves.The administration says demolition is only a matter of time. “The demolition is a SC order and it will certainly be carried out. We are just giving the villagers time to move out so that their damage is limited,” said Yashpal Yadav. He added that almost no resident had evidence of living here before 2003.Seema Trikha, the local MLA from Badhkal constituency, said that no one could interfere with the SC order. “Though the Khattar government is not responsible for the demolition exercise, we are forming committees to look into affordable housing for the displaced,” said Trikha.For weeks now, residents have keenly followed each scrap of news related to Khori, hoping to understand what the future may hold. “Has the government really announced the regularisation of 1,200 illegal colonies? Will our village also be spared?” said an anxious young man to his friend, sitting on a street darkened by lack of electricity. “Our village falls on forest land,” was the stark reminder from his friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-a-demolition-drive-destroys-a-village-101625550974095.html
06-07-2021||India||Bangladesh PM sends 300 kg of Haribhanga mangoes to Tripura CM||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Monday sent 300 kilogram of Haribhanga mangoes as a gift to Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, the country's assistant high commissioner in Agartala announced on Twitter. "The chief minister cordially thanked the Prime Minister for the gift," he further stated in the tweet.The Asst High Commissioner handed over 300 KGs of Haribhanga mangoes sent from the Hon’ble Prime Minister of Bangladesh for the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tripura to the latter at his office this afternoon. The Hon’ble CM cordially thanked the Hon’ble Prime Minister for the gift. pic.twitter.com/9q8wJZlb2nThis comes a day after the leader sent mangoes to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Bangladesh prime minister had also sent mangoes to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The Haribhanga variety of Mangoes were transported through the land border via the Benapole checkpoint. According to local media reports, the shipment arrived at the Benapole-Petrapole check post on the India-Bangladesh border last Sunday.The Haribhanga variety of mango is grown in Bangladesh's Rangpur district. The other notable varieties of Bangladesh mangoes include Gopalbogh, Khirsapat, Himsagar, Mohonbhog, Amropali.Reports in the Bangladeshi media said Hasina plans to send mangoes to the chief ministers of the northeastern states of Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura, all of which share borders with Bangladesh.Last year, Bangladesh had given its traders special permission to export nearly 1,500 tonnes of Hilsa fish, a favourite with people on both sides of the border, to India on the occasion of Durga Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-pm-sends-300-kg-of-haribhanga-mangoes-to-tripura-cm-101625549674501.html
06-07-2021||India||Jammu attack: Air Force plans to buy anti-drone systems with laser weapons||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has initiated a process of acquiring 10 anti-drone systems, news agency ANI reported. The IAF will deploy these systems at different airbases and has asked vendors to provide a multi-sensor, multi-kill solution to enforce effectively, the ANI report further said.The decision comes days after a drone attack on the IAF base in Jammu. Pakistan based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is believed to be behind the attack on June 27.The IAF has said in its Request for Information (RFI) that the indigenous anti-drone system should be Laser-based Directed Energy Weapon. The IAF further has mandated that all the 10 counter unmanned aircraft systems (CUAS) are required in mobile configuration mounted on indigenous vehicles with cross-country capability. They should be able to mount on rooftop/open ground.Hindustan Times had reported earlier this month that India needs to acquire latest anti-drone technologies as terrorists and Maoists have started using stand-off weapons.Since 2020, the Border Security Force (BSF) has recorded no less than 99 drone sightings on the western borders - from Jammu and Kashmir to Gujarat.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said last week that drones have emerged as clear and present danger. He said that easy availability of drones allowed both state and non-state actors to use them, increasing the challenges faced by the security forces.“Drones will increasingly be used in all sorts of combat in future by state and non-state actors. We will have to factor it in our future planning,” the army chief said at a seminar organised by the Global Counter Terrorism Council, a think tank.He said that building drones was akin to a “DIY project that could be tackled at home”.Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat also echoed similar sentiments. “You have to be prepared for all this and yet at the same time send a strong message that if anything of this nature, whether in grey zone or in the hybrid domain, damages our assets and affects our national security, we should reserve the right to respond at a place and time of our choosing and in a manner in which we wish to respond,” Rawat said at the same seminar.The Jammu attack was the first instance of a drone being used to carry out such an operation in the country by terrorists from across the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-attack-air-force-plans-to-buy-anti-drone-systems-with-laser-weapons-101625548788024.html
06-07-2021||India||Dalai Lama's birthday: Facts about the Tibetan spiritual leader||The Tibetan Buddhist community is celebrating the birthday of the Dalai Lama on Tuesday. The 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, turned 86 today.He was born on July 6, 1935, in Tibet and came to India in 1959. He calls himself the "son of India".Many leaders in India, including Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Madhya Pradesh counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan, have wished the Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday. Sand artist Sudarshan Pattnaik shared one of his arts on the occasion on Twitter.However, the Dalai Lama's coming to India was not taken well by leaders in China who frowned at India for giving him shelter.Why is the Dalai Lama so important to China?In 1950, the Chinese government invaded Tibet to peacefully liberate it. But the process was brutal and violent, after which there was an uprising of Tibetans in 1959 and the current Dalai Lama fled to India to set up a government in exile.Dalai Lama is a highly influential figure of Tibetan culture, and his escape to India sparked major outrage in the region. China wants to control the appointment of the next spiritual leader of Tibet in order to firm up its grip on the Tibetan monastic order and in turn, control the region.However, the Tibetans believe that China is attempting to manipulate the selection process as a way to strengthen its grip over Tibetan people.How do Tibetans identify the next Dalai Lama?Tibetans believe the Dalai Lama has control over his re-birth and he can choose the body into which he is reincarnated.There are usually predictions about where and when a Dalai Lama will be reborn, but further tests and signs are required to ensure the proper child is found.In the case of the 13th Dalai Lama, after his death, his body lay facing south. However, after a few days his head had tilted to the east and a fungus, viewed as unusual, appeared on the north-eastern side of the shrine, where his body was kept.This was interpreted to mean that the next Dalai Lama could have been born somewhere in the north-eastern part of Tibet, reported Asia Times.Disciples also checked Lhamo La-tso, a lake that is traditionally used to see visions of the location of the Dalai Lama's rebirth.The district of Dokham, which is in the northeast of Tibet, matched all of these signs. A 2-year-old boy named Lhamo Dhondup was found to be at the right age for a reincarnation of the 13th Dalai Lama, based on the time of his death. After further investigations, the search party identified the boy as the 14th Dalai Lama, who after taking over as the Tibetan spiritual leader changed his name to Tenzin Gyatso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalai-lama-s-birthday-facts-about-the-tibetan-spiritual-leader-101625546469956.html
06-07-2021||India||Odisha man held for killing woman before attempting to kill himself||A man has been arrested in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar for allegedly killing a 26-year-old woman before trying to kill himself by cutting his wrist, police said. The woman’s body was recovered from a rented house and the man was found lying unconscious next to her with injury marks on his wrist.Police said the two were in a relationship even as the woman got married to someone else in 2014 and had a three-year-old son. “We suspect the man killed the woman and later attempted suicide by consuming poison,” said Bhubaneswar’s deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Dash.Police have found a handwritten note allegedly written by the man saying he will kill the woman and her son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-held-for-killing-woman-before-attempting-to-kill-himself-101625545695280.html
06-07-2021||India||'His lofty ideals motivate millions': PM Modi pays tributes to Syama Prasad Mookerjee on birth anniversary||Paying tributes to Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who had founded the Bharatiya Jana Sangh in 1951, on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said he devoted his life to India's unity and progress, and his lofty ideals motivate millions across the nation.Mookerjee led a campaign against Article 370, which gave special powers to Jammu and Kashmir, and died under detention in the erstwhile state in 1953.He was born in Kolkata in 1901.The Jana Sangh was the progenitor of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which was founded in 1980.I bow to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Jayanti. His lofty ideals motivate millions across our nation. Dr. Mookerjee devoted his life towards India’s unity and progress. He also distinguished himself as a remarkable scholar and intellectual.The Modi government nullified Article 370 in 2019, fulfilling a foundational agenda of the BJP.In a tweet, Modi said, "I bow to Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on his Jayanti. His lofty ideals motivate millions across our nation. Dr. Mookerjee devoted his life towards India's unity and progress. He also distinguished himself as a remarkable scholar and intellectual."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-syama-prasad-mookerjee-on-birth-anniversary-101625545136028.html
06-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to meet Bihar Congress leaders tomorrow||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is expected to meet senior party leaders from Bihar in New Delhi on Wednesday, people aware of the matter said. The meet has been scheduled ahead of a likely reshuffle in the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC).BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha said all prominent leaders, including Members of Parliament and assembly, former presidents, and former legislature party leaders have been asked to be in New Delhi for the meeting.Earlier, the All-India Congress Committee in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das said the process for nomination of the new BPCC chief would be initiated after their meeting with Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-meet-bihar-congress-leaders-tomorrow-101625545453497.html
06-07-2021||India||Punjab Congress infighting: CM Amarinder Singh to meet Sonia Gandhi today||Punjab chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh will meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday amid efforts to end the factionalism within the party's state unit ahead of the assembly elections. This is the third time that Singh is travelling to the national capital over the crisis. Singh will likely leave for Delhi in the morning.Tuesday's meeting comes days after disgruntled ex-minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is at loggerheads with the chief minister, met Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi.The tug of war between the prominent leaders of the Punjab Congress became public after Sidhu resignaed from the cabinet in 2019. Since then, the two leaders have been trading barbs.In May, Sidhu called the Punjab chief minister a "liar" and accused him of not doing enough about issues like loan waivers.The flashpoint came when Singh gave government jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs -- Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey-- on "compassionate" grounds. It triggered a storm in the Punjab Congress, while Sidhu accused him of giving jobs to "elitist".Party president Sonia Gandhi has also set up a three-member panel to look at the crisis in Punjab. On June 22, Singh appeared before the three-member AICC panel headed by the leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, but did not get an audience with the Gandhis.He had sought time from the Congress president who has now called him for a discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-congress-infighting-cm-amarinder-singh-to-meet-sonia-gandhi-today-101625545354365.html
06-07-2021||India||Delimitation commission to arrive in Srinagar today||The Delimitation Commission will arrive in Jammu & Kashmir for a four-day visit on Tuesday for talks with political parties, district officials, and other stakeholders on the ongoing process of carving out new constituencies in the region.Former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir.Also Read | NCPCR asks J&K Police to file case against TwitterThe delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The Centre has sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls are held there.The commission will arrive in Srinagar a day after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of political major parties such as the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP), said they were disappointed over the outcome of an all-party meeting with Modi. The grouping has demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections are held there. It also criticised the lack of “confidence-building measures”.A five-member NC delegation will meet the commission, said the party Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi even as it earlier refused to engage with the panel.Jammu & Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir said Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah addressed their apprehensions about the delimitation. He will meet the commission along with leaders of other recognised parties. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti-led PDP remained tight-lipped whether it will be meeting the commission.On Wednesday, the commission will visit Pahalgam to hold meetings with officials and delegations from four districts of South Kashmir--Anantnag, Pulwama, Kulgam, and Shopian. In Srinagar, the panel will hold meetings related to Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Bandipore, Baramulla, and Kupwara districts.The commission will travel to Kishtwar to hold discussions with officials of the Doda, Kishtwar, and Ramban districts. On July 9, the commission will meet delegations from Jammu, Poonch, Rajouri, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba and Reasi districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-commission-to-arrive-in-srinagar-today-101625544673670.html
06-07-2021||India||Sensex opens 55 points higher to 52,935.46 in opening session; Nifty at 15,858||Equity benchmark Sensex inched higher by 55 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance and Infosys amid sustained foreign fund outflows.The 30-share BSE index was trading 55.46 points or 0.10 per cent higher at 52,935.46 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.05 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,858.40.UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 0.69 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Maruti, Tata Steel, Titan and Bajaj Auto, HDFC, M&M, L&T and Bajaj Finance. Infosys was up 0.06 per cent in early deals.On the other hand, Sun Pharma, TCS, HUL, and Reliance Industries were among the laggards.In the previous session, the BSE Sensex closed 395.33 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,880. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 112.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 15,834.35.Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth ₹338.43 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data."Domestic equities look to be muted as of now. Notably, sharp rise in crude prices and strengthening dollar index weighed on sentiments in the last couple of days. Further, expectations of further rise in crude prices with no agreement on ease of production in the OPEC meeting can weigh on sentiments further," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.However, we continue to believe any meaningful correction in the market should be offering opportunity to investors to get in quality stocks, Modi said.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 0.32 per cent to USD 77.41 per barrel.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo gained, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading in the red in mid-session deals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensex-opens-55-points-higher-to-52-935-46-in-opening-session-nifty-at-15858-101625544395714.html
06-07-2021||India||India reports 34,703 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in nearly four months; daily fatalities fall to 553||India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 30,619,932 on Tuesday, after 34,703 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8 am. Tuesday's cases have been the lowest since March 18 this year, when 35,781 infections were recorded.As many as 553 succumbed to the viral disease while 51,864 recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 403,281 and 29,752,294 respectively. This is the 54th consecutive day where the daily recoveries are greater than the new cases.The active cases in the country have further declined to 464,357 and constitute 1.58 per cent of the caseload.Tuesday’s Covid-19 tally is 5,093 less than that of Monday’s when 39,796 people were detected positive for the viral disease. On the other hand, the toll on Tuesday is 170 less than that of Monday’s when 723 deaths were reported.According to the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 421,424,881 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,647,424 were tested in the last 24 hours.As India continues to battle the second wave of the pandemic, which had taken its worst shape in April and early May this year, a report by the State Bank of India stated the third wave is expected to hit the country by August and it will reach its peak in September. The report named “Covid-19: the race to finishing line,” added its projections were based “historical trends.”The daily cases have not spiked since May 7 and many states and Union Territories (UTs) have started easing lockdown-like restrictions allowing a majority of commercial and economic activities to resume by following Covid appropriate behaviour.However, it has been observed that people are still flouting Covid-related protocols such as social distancing and wearing of masks which aggravates the risk of daily cases spiking again.In the national capital Delhi, as the unlock phase progressed, scores of customers have been rushing to prominent market areas for shopping, which prompted government authorities to order their temporary closure. Traders and shopkeepers have been urged to ensure all Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed. But the traders’ body has pointed out that it is impossible to control crowds outside shops and the responsibility of controlling them lies with the administration.Similar scenes were witnessed Himachal Pradesh’s tourist town Manali. Tourists, majority of them without masks, thronged Manali's streets with netizens pointing out on social media that the country might go back to the situation of “No beds available in hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-34-703-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-nearly-four-months-101625539154593.html
06-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking recognition of same-sex couples and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking legal recognition of same-sex couplesThe Delhi high court is scheduled to hear a batch of petitions on Tuesday seeking legal recognition of same-sex couples. Read MoreCabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi's crucial meeting likely todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold a crucial meeting at his residence on Tuesday amid reports of a cabinet reshuffle. Read More4% rain deficiency over northwest India, monsoon likely to revive soon: IMDMonsoon is likely to revive in northwest India around July 10, according to India Meteorological Department. There is 4% rain deficiency over northwest India and 0% excess over the country since June 1. Read MoreTanishaa Mukerji says she froze her eggs at 39, doctor advised it only when she has ‘no hope of conceiving a baby’Actor Tanishaa Mukerji revealed that she froze her eggs at the age of 39, in case she wants to have children someday. Read MoreFan asks about Dhoni's future if CSK don't retain him in IPL 2022, Brad Hogg makes huge predictionTwo names are synonymous in franchise cricket - MS Dhoni and Chennai Super Kings. In 2008, CSK bought Dhoni in the auctions and named him the captain of the side. Read MoreNora Fatehi pairs sexy neon yellow bodycon dress with ₹3 lakh bag for shootDancer turned actor Nora Fatehi may have made a name for herself in the industry with her bomb dance moves, but her sartorial choices also need an honourable mention. Read MoreInstagram working on ‘Exclusive Stories’ for subscribers, similar to Twitter’s Super Follow featureInstagram is reportedly working on the ability to allow creators to monetise their Instagram stories with ‘exclusive’ content, which could work in a similar way that Twitter’s Super Follow feature works. Read MoreWatch: Tourists celebrate birthday at ghat & misbehave with cops, arrested||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-high-court-to-hear-petitions-seeking-recognition-of-same-sex-couples-and-all-the-latest-news-101625542754482.html
06-07-2021||India||Maharashtra active Covid cases come down significantly, tally at 116,827||The number of active cases in Maharashtra has gone down significantly in the past two months. The state recorded 6,740 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally of active cases to 116,827. Just a month ago, on June 5, it was 188,027 and on May 5, it was 641,596.Pune continued to lead this month as well with 16,960 active cases, followed by Thane at 16,742. Kolhapur occupied the third spot with 12,716 active cases.In June also, Pune led with 22,280 cases, followed by Kolhapur with 18,130 and Mumbai with 18,118 cases.On May 5, which marked the peak of the Covid-19 second wave, the number of active cases was a whopping 641,596, and again, Pune led with 114,254 cases, followed by Nagpur with 58,944 and Mumbai with 56,153 cases.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said the decline was due to the proactive steps taken by the state government. “We ramped up the number of tests and isolated patients, thus limiting the spread. Lockdown played an important role in cutting down transmission rates and consequently interrupt the surge of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-active-covid-cases-tally-at-116827-101625542933697.html
06-07-2021||India||Father Stan Swamy’s death: Political leaders express outrage||The death of 84-year-old tribal activist Father Stan Swamy, an undertrial in the Bhima Koregaon case, has evoked outrage in the Indian public sphere. Cutting across party lines, political leaders condemned his death.Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were the among politicians and intellectuals to condole his death.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi offered his condolences, saying “he deserved justice and humaneness” in a tweet. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “A humble tribute to Father Stan Swamy. How unfortunate that a person who served the poor and tribals throughout his life and became the voice of human rights, he was denied justice and human rights even in the hour of death.”Also Read | ‘Stan Swamy’s death a custodial killing’, claims Goa Cong; to hold protest todayCongress MP and senior advocate Kapil Sibal said in a tweet that he passed away without getting bail and there was “little hope of early trial”. He said others were languishing in jail too. “...Lawyers, Academics, Social Activists....raise their voices for the voiceless They too are now ‘voiceless’. The State calls them ‘terrorists’,” he tweeted.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren in a tweet said that the Central government should be held accountable for the absolute apathy towards Fther Stan Swamy, adding he was shocked to learn of the priest’s demise.CPI (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said he was “deeply pained and outraged”. “...A jesuit priest & social activist he tirelessly helped the marginalised. Draconian UAPA custody, inhuman treatment since October 2020 with no charge established. Accountability must be fixed for this murder in custody,” he said in a tweet.Political leaders from Kerala also expressed their condolences over the death of Father Stan Swamy. While chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said such “travesty of justice should have no place in our democracy”, former chief minister and Congress leader Oommen Chandy said Swamy would remain a “painful memory” in the conscience of India, the largest democracy in the world.Congress leader and MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted, “Sad to learn of Fr #StanSwamy‘s passing. A humanitarian & man of God whom our government could not treat with humanity. Deeply saddened as an Indian. RIP”.Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti mourned the death of the late activist and said, “Deeply disturbed by the passing away of 84 year old tribal activist Stan Swamy. A ruthless & callous government that deprived him of dignity even while he was alive has blood on its hands. Absolutely shocked & appalled. May his soul rest in peace”.“Criminal charges should be filed against all responsible for Stan Swamy’s tragic and unfortunate death including the jail authorities for failure to provide proper medical support and against NIA officials for neglecting his deteriorating health,” Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi said in an interview on Monday.Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, died after suffering a cardiac arrest on Monday. His lawyers had moved the Bombay high court on Monday morning, seeking an urgent hearing on his medical bail plea, after his health deteriorated on Sunday and he was put on ventilator support after he had difficulty breathing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-stan-swamy-s-death-political-leaders-express-outrage-101625542753339.html
06-07-2021||India||AAI employees on nationwide protest today against reduced allowances||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) Employees Joint Forum Association and Unions is set to launch a nationwide protest today against the reduced allowance of the employees across the country. The forum served a notice to AAI management saying that if the board meeting scheduled for July 7 to defer perks and allowances of these employees is not cancelled, all the union employees will hold lunch hour demonstrations.Also Read | Cabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi’s crucial meeting likely today“Joint Forum of AAI shall refrain from holding lunch hour demonstrations if management defers the Board meeting which is going to be held on July 7, 2021, to take a decision on perks and allowances deferment,” Balraj Singh Ahlawat, general secretary of Airports Authority Employee Union, said.Nearly 17,000 employees across the country come under these associations and unions.ANI quoted an AAI human resource general manager as saying that it was “unfortunate to observe that the leadership of the joint forum has served upon AAI the notice” for “holding lunch hour demonstration”.The manager said the demands of employees are “already under consideration.”Meanwhile, the forum hit out at management earlier, saying what the management calls a “round of discussions” was “a session arranged to inform the intention of the management”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aai-employees-on-nationwide-protest-today-against-reduced-allowances-101625542213282.html
06-07-2021||India||4% rain deficiency over northwest India, monsoon likely to revive soon: IMD||Monsoon is likely to revive in northwest India around July 10, according to India Meteorological Department. There is 4% rain deficiency over northwest India and 0% excess over the country since June 1.Rainfall deficiency is likely to increase over northwest India before it’s met gradually after July 10.The northern limit of southwest monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar for over 15 days. According to latest numerical weather prediction model guidance, the southwest monsoon likely to revive gradually over the south peninsula, including the west coast and adjoining eastcentral India from July 8. A low pressure area is likely to form over westcentral and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 12.Also Read | Delhi weather: Mercury to soar this week as monsoon evades cityMoist easterly winds in the lower level from Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. They are likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 19. Accordingly, southwest monsoon likely to advance over remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10. The above weather systems are very likely to cause increased rainfall activity over northwest and central India from July 10.Fairly widespread rainfall activity is likely over east and northeast India during the next five days. Isolated heavy falls are likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand during next five days. Scattered to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls very likely over south peninsular India during next five days. Isolated very heavy rainfall is also likely over coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe on July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-rain-deficiency-over-northwest-india-monsoon-likely-to-revive-soon-imd-101625540593238.html
06-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi's crucial meeting likely today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold a crucial meeting at his residence on Tuesday amid reports of a cabinet reshuffle. The cabinet rejig is expected to take place later this week, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda and many other ministers are expected to attend the meeting, Live Hindustan reported.The meeting may take place at 5pm.At least 18 new ministers are expected to be inducted in the Union Cabinet, according to Live Hindustan report. The expansion will be done keeping in view the upcoming state elections next year.The expansion is expected to take place after July 7, according to Live Hindustan.This comes a day after PM Modi held meeting with Shah and BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh, news agency PTI reported. The Monday's marathon meeting was called to give final touches to the details of a likely expansion of the Union Cabinet, according to PTI.If the prime minister goes ahead with the exercise, he will be expanding his Council of Ministers for the first time since assuming the charge in May 2019 for his second innings.BJP leaders Sarbananda Sonowal, the former Assam chief minister who made way for Himanta Biswa Sarma in the state, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sushil Modi are seen as strong ministerial probables amid indications that some allies of the saffron party may also get berths.PM Modi met Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar last month where the two leaders believed to have discussed the accommodation of Janata Dal (United) leaders in the Union Cabinet. The JD(U) had rejected the "symbolic" representation in 2019, and has now expected to get a good bargain.PM Modi also met Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath a few weeks ago, giving rise to speculation that the state going to polls next year may figure high in the list of new inductees.The current strength of the Council of Ministers is 53, besides Modi, and its maximum number can be 79.There are many ministers, like Piyush Gyoal and Hardeep Puri, who are holding additional charges. The cabinet reshuffle is expected to take some load off these ministers. In 2019, there were 57 ministers - 24 cabinet rank, nine ministers of state with independent charge and 24 ministers of state. After Shiv Sena severed ties with the BJP and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder Ram Vilas Paswan passed away, the strength of cabinet ministers has been reduced to 21.PM Modi was expected to expand the cabinet earlier, but the exercise was postponed due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-reshuffle-expected-this-week-pm-modi-s-crucial-meeting-likely-today-101625538636398.html
06-07-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear petitions seeking legal recognition of same-sex couples||The Delhi high court is scheduled to hear a batch of petitions on Tuesday seeking legal recognition of same-sex couples. The matter was last heard in the court on May 24, when Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought an adjournment due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation at that time.A division Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice C Hari Shankar, who was hearing the case, adjourned the matter for July 6.The petitioners say that the LGBT community members are forced to suppress their feelings of getting married to the person of their own choice. In the pleas, they have also pointed out that denying the LGBT community the option to marry is discriminatory and creates them a second class of citizens.The Centre has been opposing the matter saying that petitions are unsustainable, untenable and misplaced, and sought their dismissal. The "marriage" is essentially a socially recognised union of two individuals which is governed either by uncodified personal laws or codified statutory laws, it has argued.The acceptance of the institution of marriage between two individuals of the same gender is neither recognised nor accepted in any uncodified personal laws or any codified statutory laws, it told the Delhi high court earlier in response to the petitions.The petitioners are seeking recognition under the Hindu Marriage Act, the Special Marriage Act and the Foreign Marriage Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-to-hear-petitions-seeking-legal-recognition-of-same-sex-couples-101625537580928.html
06-07-2021||India||Heat wave: 10 hottest places in India where sun gets scorching||July is turning out to be a scorcher, just like June. Not just India, the month is exceptionally hot for several other countries. A Pacific Northwest heat wave has killed at least 95 people in Oregon in the United States, a number that state's governor called “absolutely unacceptable."In India, hot weather conditions continued in the northern parts of the country. The temperatures are expected to further rise in the region during the next 2-3 days according to India meteorological department (IMD).The IMD has said that the southwest monsoon will reach Delhi around July 10, making it the most-delayed in the last 15 years.After hitting parts of Haryana and Punjab on June 13, the southwest monsoon has stopped its advance resulting in dry spells in many states across the region.The weather departmenr further said in its forecast on July 5 that heat wave conditions are expected in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and West Rajasthan on Tuesday.Here are the 10 hottest place in India according to IMD:Fatehgarh (Uttar Pradesh): 42.5 degrees CelsiusGurugram (Haryana): 41.8 degrees CelsiusGanganagar (Rajasthan): 41.8 degrees CelsiusHisar (Haryana): 41.7 degrees CelsiusSawai Madhopur (Rajasthan): 41.4 degrees CelsiusBathinda (Punjab): 40 degrees CelsiusDelhi: 39.5 degrees CelsiusUna (Himachal Pradesh): 39.4 degrees CelsiusChandigarh: 38.2 degrees CelsiusKathua (Jammu and Kashmir): 38 degrees Celsius||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-10-hottest-places-in-india-where-sun-gets-scorching-101625536010447.html
06-07-2021||India||Delimitation Commission to arrive in Jammu and Kashmir today, to meet leaders||The Delimitation Commission will arrive in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday to meet political parties, district officials and other stakeholders and gather “first-hand information” on the ongoing process of redrawing the boundaries there. The members will begin the four-day visit from Pahalgam, where they will meet officials of the four districts of South Kashmir -- Anantnag, Pulwama, Kulgam and Shopian.Later in the evening, the delegation will travel to Srinagar where they are scheduled to meet local officials and political leaders. The visit will conclude on July 9.Barring the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), all other major political parties including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the CPI(M) and the National Panthers Party (NPP) are indecisive about meeting the commission's members.On Monday, the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an alliance of six parties including the NC and the PDP, said no joint decision has been taken on taking part in the proceedings of the commission. The alliance also said that it was up to individual parties to decide whether they want to meet the delegation of the Delimitation Commission or not."As far as the PAGD is concerned, our stand is that these are autonomous bodies and the respective political parties will decide about it (participating in the commission's meeting). Whatever the parties think is suitable for them, they will take steps accordingly," PAGD spokesperson and CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami said in a statement.The visit comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an all-party meeting in the national capital to discuss the next course of action for the erstwhile state. It was the first high-level interaction between the central government and Kashmir's political leadership since 2019, when the former scrapped Article 370 and 35A, which gave special status to J&K and its people.During the June 24 meeting with 14 leaders from eight parties of J&K, PM Modi said the delimitation exercise has to happen quickly so that polls can be held to install an elected government in the union territory that will give strength to its development trajectory.The three-member commission was constituted in March last year by the Centre to carve out new constituencies in the union territory. Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir are expected to go up from 83 to 90. Twenty-four seats of the assembly continue to remain vacant as they fall under Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-commission-to-arrive-in-jammu-and-kashmir-today-to-meet-leaders-101625532762675.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Stan Swamy’s death a custodial killing’, claims Goa Cong; to hold protest today||The Goa unit of the Congress party on Monday alleged that the demise of activist and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy was a ‘custodial killing’ and said it will hold a protest at the Azad Maidan in the capital city of Panaji at 11am on Tuesday.Taking to Twitter, Goa Congress chief Girish Chodankar said that Swamy was imprisoned and deprived of basic amenities. “@INCGoa strongly condemns the custodial killing of Fr #StanSwamy the HR activist who worked for d rights of indigenous Ppl. 84y old Fr was imprisoned & deprived of basic amenities.This is a concrete eg of the brutality of this repressive govt. Will protest @11am,” Chodankar wrote on the microblogging site.Stan Swamy, one of the accused in the Elgar Parishad case, also referred to as the Bhima Koregaon violence, passed away on Monday. Swamy had suffered a cardiac arrest at 4am, Dr Ian D’souza of the Holy Family Hospital told the Bombay high court on Monday during a hearing on his bail plea, adding that he was declared dead at 1.30pm. “It is with a very heavy heart I have to inform you that father Stan Swamy has passed away,” Dr D’Souza said.The high court then instructed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and prison authorities to hand over Swamy’s body to Father Frazer Mascarenhes for his last rites.The Elgar Parishad case is related to the alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, which was held in Pune on December 31, 2017. The police claimed the speeches triggered violence the very next day near the Koregaon Bhima war memorial.The 84-year-old Swamy was arrested by the NIA on October 8 last year and was lodged at the Taloja jail. The central agency alleged he had links with Maoists and he was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.On May 29, Swamy was shifted to the Holy Family hospital in Mumbai after he had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was also suffering from Parkinson’s disease.Several prominent leaders of opposition parties on Monday condoled the death of Stan Swamy and said the central government should be held accountable for the “ruthless” and “inhuman treatment” meted out to him. The leaders also said the central government and the judges who, time and again, denied bail to Swamy had blood on their hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stan-swamy-s-death-a-custodial-killing-claims-goa-cong-to-hold-protest-today-101625532605263.html
06-07-2021||India||Indian student with kidney disorder airlifted from Melbourne, family thanks govt||In a humanitarian gesture, the Indian and Australian governments facilitated the repatriation of 25-year-old Arshdeep Singh, who is suffering from chronic renal failure, on Monday. Singh moved to Australia from India in 2018 for higher education.He landed at Delhi airport on Monday evening and taken to Gurugram's Medanta hospital. Flight no 111 from Darwin, used to airlift Singh, was operated by Qantas."I would like to thank Indian and Australian governments for bringing me back to my home country safely," Arshdeep told news agency ANI after landing at Delhi airport.The members of his family thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and minister of external affairs S Jaishankar for their efforts."I'm speechless, I want to thank the Indian government, Prime Minister Modi, the Australian government, Australian doctors who started the dialysis treatment. Almighty's grace was there. I'm thankful to all those who helped bring my child to me," Singh's mother Inderjeet Kaur was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Singh, who was studying in Melbourne, went to a local hospital on June 8 after which the family got to know that there was a renal failure, and his kidneys were not functioning, said Sikh leader Manjit Singh GK."His heart is only 20 per cent with an ejection fraction. The family were in a state of shock and we have no place to go because there was Covid going on. Hospital also suggested an organ transplant. This is a very serious case," he added.The video shared by Manjit Singh GK shows Arshdeep travelling alone in the flight along with his medical equipment.Glad to learn that Arshdeep 25Yr #Indian #student in #Australia diagnosed with chronic renal failure has been airlifted from #Melbourne & en route to #Delhi.Thanks to @dfat @MEAIndia & @PSCINDIAN for facilitating his repatriation thru a special flight of @Qantas dedicated for him pic.twitter.com/KfE1d3ito9"Our government was kind enough to approach the Australian Government, the mother was given a visa on June 17th, but there were no flights operating. Arshdeep's condition was deteriorating every day. Then we requested the Australian government to send Arshdeep back to India so that he can get the treatment," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-student-with-kidney-disorder-airlifted-from-melbourne-family-thanks-govt-101625530348965.html
06-07-2021||India||FIR filed by mining officer against 6 reporters after questions on illegal mining||Bhopal: A First Information Report (FIR) filed against six journalists in Madhya Pradesh’s Khargone was provoked by their insistence for a statement from the mining officer on illegal sand mining in the district, president of the district journalists association Sunil Sharma said on Monday after a video of the back-and-forth between the journalists and the officer emerged.The six journalists have been charged with rioting, use of obscene language, criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, criminal intimidation and the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Madhya Pradesh agriculture minister Kamal Patel, who is also the state’s minister incharge of Khargone, tweeted after the video was released that he had spoken to the district superintendent of police and told him to hold an impartial probe into the charges.The FIR was registered on July 2 afternoon by the Khargone police against Asif Khan, Praveen Pal, Wahid Khan, Pawan Kumar Solanki, Pradeep Gangle and Dharmendra Chouhan, who work for different national and local media outlets.Sunl Sharma said the video released on Monday shows that the FIR was based on a fake complaint from the mining officer Sawan Singh Chouhan. “In the video, the journalists were seen repeatedly seeking a statement from the district mining officer on violations of the NGT’s (National Green Tribunal) order banning sand mining. But they didn’t abuse him or stop him from doing his work. The officer was offended as he supports the illegal mining mafia and owners of two mining companies, who are involved in the illegal sand excavation.”In a video message that was retweeted by the Khargone administration’s public relations officer, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s Lok Sabha member Gajendra Singh Patel promised justice. “As the fourth pillar of democracy, it is the job of journalists to ask questions and the duty of the officers to respond to them. I assure you that I will discuss the case with senior officials in the administration and get justice for the journalists,” said Patel, who represents Khargone in the Lok Sabha.Khargone mining officer Sawan Singh Chouhan said the journalists kept arguing with him and created a ruckus. “I called the journalists to my office to answer their questions. But I received an email from the head office seeking some details on mining in the district. I had to reply within a few minutes. I asked them to wait for some time, but they kept arguing with me.” “Even in the video, I was seen asking them to wait outside for a few minutes. But they kept talking aggressively. Later, they stopped making the video and abused me. They also said that I became an officer due to reservation in government jobs and made a comment on my caste. Some outsiders and my staff members are eyewitnesses of this incident,” said Chouhan.“It was shocking for me. I discussed the matter with senior officers before filing the complaint,” he added.District superintendent of police Shailendra Singh Chouhan said the case was registered on the complaint of the officer. “Now, we are investigating the matter. Further action will be taken after investigation,” he said, declining to get into the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-filed-by-mp-s-khargone-mining-officer-against-6-reporters-after-questions-on-illegal-mining-101625516113828.html
06-07-2021||India||Return of India’s poverty challenge||When Narendra Modi guided the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to a parliamentary majority in 2014 – the first time a party received a majority in the Lok Sabha in 30 years – the word “aspiration” entered the political economy lexicon with a bang. The larger idea was simple. The first two decades of economic reforms delivered gains in terms of poverty reduction front. But the fruits of economic reforms had not been shared equally across class and region. The new regime believed that the time was ripe to improve living standards with a two-pronged policy approach: higher growth and enhanced welfare endowments. The idea could have worked if the first part of the plan had delivered. A pre-Covid slowdown followed by the pandemic’s economic shock is likely to have derailed even the gains on poverty front and triggered a sharp increase in inequality. Business as usual is not an option anymore. Here are three charts that explain this.1. Regional inequalities have worsened during the post-reform periodThe Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of Bihar was almost the same as that of Gujarat in 1990-91. By 2018-19, the latest period for which we have Gujarat data, the state’s GDP was two times the combined GSDP of Bihar and Jharkhand. This trend holds even when a larger comparison of India’s southern and western states’ GSDP is made with the traditional laggard states, often clubbed together as BIMARU (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh). The increasing divergence in GSDP has translated itself into diverging living standards as well. Per capita GSDP estimates capture this inequality well. Per capita GSDP of industrialised states such as Gujarat or Tamil Nadu is three to five times more than that of laggards such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.2. Growing demands on the budgets of the poorWhat the per capita GSDP type numbers do not capture well is the aspiration-driven sense of deprivation in the economy today. Thanks to the removal of restrictions on private production and consumption in the post-reform period, there are no limits to private consumption today. This was not the case before 1991. For example, foreign exchange restrictions put a limit on the number of foreign holidays even a rich family could take. Similarly, there was only a limited pool to choose from when it came to buying vehicles. None of that holds today. The ‘have-nots’ increasingly aspire to consume like the ‘haves’, thanks to what is termed as demonstration effect by economists. To be sure, liberalisation also has ushered in some sort of equality. Only a handful of Indians had telephones at the beginning of the 1990s. Today, even smartphones are hardly a preserve of the rich. While the rich spend more on procuring better gadgets, there is no class divide in the quality of service being provided. This also means that the budgetary burden could be disproportionately higher on the poor at times. Extra consumption of mobile data for home-based learning (more so when there is more than one child) is a good example of this. Official statistics of household expenditure, which are now a decade old, might not capture these realities and their implications for the poor. While the basic challenge of food, shelter and clothing still remain important for a lot of Indians, the ability or the lack of it, to partake in what can be referred to as the “aspiration economy” is bound to be an important driver of both consumer and political psychology going forward.3. Has India seen retrogression on poverty front?The first warning bell on this count came much before the Covid-19 pandemic. In November 2019, findings of the 2017-18 Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES), the first large sample round after 2011-12, were leaked in the media. Because official statistical agencies in India do not publish income data, CES is the basis of ascertaining poverty and inequality levels. The leaked findings suggested that average monthly per capita consumption expenditure (MPCE) levels had fallen between 2011-12 and 2017-18 in real terms, something which had never happened in four decades. The government scrapped the report citing data quality issues, also a first in the country’s history. A reduction in MPCE levels entailed a rise in poverty levels. The subsequent slowdown in the economy — GDP growth went down from 8.3% in 2016-17 to 4% in 2019-20 — even before the pandemic hit, is bound to have made matters worse. A report released by the Azim Premji University has estimated that the number of people who earned below .375 per day (one measure of poverty) increased by 231 million compared to the pre-pandemic period. While the official poverty numbers will only be available once a fresh CES is conducted, and that may not happen anytime soon, evidence from other sources confirms that things might have gone downhill. For example, the indicators of malnutrition worsened between the last two rounds of the National Family and Healthy Survey (NFHS) in several states/UTs. Out of the 22 state/UTs for which results have been published, the share of stunted children (low height for their age) increased in 13, the share of wasted children (low weight for their height) increased in 12, and the share of underweight children (low weight for their age) increased in 16. Growing aspirations at a time when a significant section of society has experienced deterioration in well-being levels is going to be a difficult challenge going forward.This is the second of a four-part data journalism series on three decades of economic reforms in India. The first part looked at the question of economic growth in the post reform period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/return-of-india-s-poverty-challenge-101625515742659.html
06-07-2021||India||Twitter has not complied with IT rules as of July 1: Govt to HC||The Union government informed the Delhi high court on Monday that Twitter has lost its immunity from criminal prosecution for content on its site due to the failure to appoint grievance redressal officers as required under the new Information Technology rules.Submitting an affidavit in response to a petition by a lawyer, the government said that Twitter and other social media intermediaries were given a “sufficient” period of three months from February 25, when the guidelines were announced (they came into effect on May 25) to comply with the due diligence norm in order to avail of protection from prosecutions in cases of obnoxious and offensive content posted by a third party.The Union government said Twitter has failed to comply with the IT Rules, 2021 as of July 1 for not appointing a Chief Compliance Officer, Resident Grievance Officer and a Nodal Contact Person (even on an interim basis).Also Read | 'Will pick officer, timeline not binding': Twitter to HC“….the IT Rules, 2021 are the law of the land and Respondent No 2 (Twitter) is mandatorily required to comply with the same. Any non-compliance amounts to breach of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021 thereby leading to Twitter losing its immunity conferred under section 79(1) of the IT Act, 2000,” the Information and Technology ministry said in an affidavit filed in the court.To be sure, this is the IT ministry’s perspective and it remains to be seen whether Twitter loses the so-called safe harbour or intermediary immunity for its failure to comply with the rules.Twitter told the high court on Saturday that the three months timeline fixed by the Centre to appoint such officers under the new IT Rules is “directory” but “not mandatory”. The social media intermediary also told the court that it is in the “final stage” of appointing officers for grievance redressal.On May 29, Twitter did announce the appointment of an officer but this person resigned on June 21. Subsequently, Twitter has made one of its US-based executives responsible for this.Separately, Twitter has been criticised by the BJP for labelling tweets by its leader “manipulated media” and has been questioned by the Delhi Police on the basis for doing so. The tweet in question pointed to a media outreach and social campaign document (a toolkit) that was purportedly put together by the Congress to target the government for its handling of Covid and the Central Vista project. The Congress claimed the toolkit was forged.Twitter has also been summoned by the Ghaziabad police over its role in amplifying a video that allegedly misrepresented an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime. Under the new digital rules introduced on February 25, social media companies such as Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter have been asked to place a three-tier grievance redressal system and appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer by May 25.The new rules also require these companies to identify within 36 hours the originator of a flagged message , appoint grievance officers , and adopt measures such as tracing of individual messages and voluntary user verification.“...a sufficient period of three months from Feb 26 was granted to all Significant Social Media Intermediaries (SSMIs) to comply with the additional due diligence set out under Rule 4 of the IT Rules, 2021. Thus, from May 26 onwards, all SSMIs are mandatorily required to comply with the obligations set out in Rule 4 of the IT Rules, 2021,” the Centre said.Under section 79(1) of the IT Rules, all intermediaries are protected from any criminal prosecution for the content uploaded by the third party. However, Rule 7 states that when an intermediary fails to observe the IT Rules, the provisions of section 79 (1) will not be available and it shall be liable for any punishment under any law for the time being in force in respect of the offending content.The Centre told the HC that the immunity conferred on intermediaries under section 79(1) is a “conditional immunity” subject to them satisfying the other conditions. “In spite of the three months’ time granted to all (SSMIs)... having expired on May 26, Respondent No 2 (Twitter) has failed to comply with the same,” it added The matter will be heard on July 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-has-not-complied-with-it-rules-as-of-july-1-govt-to-hc-101625514416832.html
06-07-2021||India||Ration scheme in all states soon: Centre||The Union government’s One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) digital platform that allows mobility of in-kind benefits, such as subsidised food, will “very soon” be implemented in the whole of the country, including in Delhi, Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Monday.West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Assam are yet to implement the programme now active in 32 states and Union territories while Delhi has implemented it partially.The ONORC programme is a digitised version of the country’s public distribution system (PDS) through which cheap grains are offered to about 739 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act, 2013.The digitisation of the PDS, which is a network of nearly 500,000 fair-price shops, allows a beneficiary, such as a migrant worker, to access his/her share of subsidised ration from anywhere in the country regardless of the place where the ration card is registered to. In other words, it allows full mobility of food entitlements.“Delhi will start the scheme very soon. Trials and testing are currently on,” Pandey said.A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment.The state government on June 11 informed the Supreme Court it commenced implementing the scheme.West Bengal will soon complete the installation of necessary infrastructure to roll out the platform, an official said. Chhattisgarh, too, will complete the purchase of 4,000 e-PoS machines for its PDS system in July when it will be in a position to start the ONORC system. Assam has finished seeding 60% of Aadhaar information of beneficiaries for the rollout.Experts say a digitised PDS system, while improving accountability, has been found wanting on many counts. “Data connectivity issues often lead to failures in authenticating biometrics,” said Dipa Sinha, who teaches in Ambedkar University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ration-scheme-in-all-states-soon-centre-101625512887251.html
06-07-2021||India||‘Shoot criminals in leg if they try to escape from custody’: Assam CM to police||Guwahati: Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday asked the state police to take tough action against criminals, telling police personnel to shoot criminals in the leg if they try to escape from custody.“Someone asked me today if police shooting at persons who try to escape from custody has become a pattern. This should be the pattern if someone who is a rapist tries to flee after snatching arms from police or someone who tries to escape while recreating a scene of crime,” Sarma said amid an increase in incidents of police shooting suspects while allegedly trying to escape from custody.“Police shouldn’t shoot them in the chest, but law permits shooting them in the leg. The police in Assam shouldn’t be scared of taking such action (against criminals) but no such action should be taken against innocent persons,” the chief minister, who holds the portfolio for the state’s home department, said at an interaction with officers in-charge of police stations across the state.According to police records, 10 persons have been injured in firing by the police since 1 June. While 3 alleged cattle thieves sustained injuries in a police shootout, seven others - two men accused of rape, a man arrested for drug peddling and two men arrested for abduction - were injured when police fired at them for allegedly trying to escape from custody. “If the police don’t retaliate, then they themselves would die. But before we take such action, which is permitted by law, our conscience should be clear that whatever tough action we are taking, it is for the public good and not for our own interest,” chief minister Sarma said.The chief minister’s comments provoked sharp reactions from the opposition and human rights activists who said that it might encourage police personnel to shoot alleged criminals instead of conducting proper investigations to solve cases. They also underlined that the court, and not the police, could sit in judgment of the crimes the suspects are accused of committing.“It seems the police have become trigger happy. We condemn the chief minister’s comments. How can the police say a person is criminal or not?... It is for the court to decide. If criminals try to escape from police custody, it shows laxity on the part of police,” said leader of Congress legislature party Debabrata Saikia. Noted human rights activist Dibyajyoti Saikia wondered how a chief minister could tell police how to shoot at alleged criminals. “Tough action against criminals is needed, but shooting at accused persons is not the solution to control crime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shoot-criminals-in-leg-if-they-try-to-escape-from-custody-assam-cm-to-police-101625511251430.html
06-07-2021||India||No place for those who kill kin for choosing partner: Allahabad HC||While refusing bail to a Mainpuri man for his role in an alleged hate crime, the Allahabad high court observed that there is no place in society for citizens that murder a family member for choosing a life partner against their choice.“There is no place for citizens in our society who act in derogation of the much cherished constitutional values of individual liberty, and, instead, repose faith in archaic social values of family honour to an extent that they would go to eliminate a family member choosing a life partner for herself,” the court observed.Justice J J Munir on July 2 was hearing a bail plea of the applicant, Gulshan, who along with his family, allegedly killed his sister Jyoti for marrying a man belonging to another caste and also shot her husband to “punish” him.Taking note of the case, the court said, prima facie, if these allegations were established at the time of trial, there is no place for such citizens in the society.The prosecution called it a case of hate crime even though the defence pleaded that the role assigned to the applicant was of assaulting one of the witnesses and that the couple was killed by another co-accused.“The assault, as a whole, was a brazen act of honour killing and the woman’s family, going by the eyewitness’ account, had eliminated her to redeem their false notions of family honour and shot her husband to punish him,” the government’s counsel argued. After hearing both parties, the court concluded: “Prima facie, it is a brazen case of honour killing where family members, including the deceased’s father, uncle, cousin and her brother have all participated to put an end to a young life on account of a false sense of family pride, which they have prima facie sought to redeem through this crime.”While denying the bail to the applicant, the court observed, “He was certainly an active participant in the entire episode, though he may not have wielded the gun or inflicted the fatal injury.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-place-for-those-who-kill-kin-for-choosing-partner-allahabad-hc-101625510832987.html
06-07-2021||India||CM Amarinder to meet Sonia today amid Punjab infighting||Chandigarh: Punjab chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is to meet Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday amid efforts by the party’s central leadership to resolve factionalism in the party’s state unit ahead of the assembly polls due early next year. Singh is to leave for Delhi from Chandigarh in the morning and call on the Congress president late in the afternoon, people familiar with the matter said. The chief minister was in Delhi twice last month to meet the three-member central panel constituted under Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge to review at the crisis in Punjab, but did not get to meet any of the Gandhis. He had sought time from the Congress president who has now called him for a discussion, according to the people cited above. The panel met lawmakers from Punjab, including the chief minister’s bete noire Navjot Singh Sindhu, who resigned as minister in Singh’s cabinet in XXXXXX and has since emerged a vocal critic of the chief minister. The CM’s meeting with Sonia comes days after Sidhu, who has been openly critical and dismissive of Singh, met former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Sidhu has been counting on the two Gandhis for support in his standoff with the two-time chief minister. The fact that Sidhu got to meet the Gandhis raised some eyebrows; the three-member panel is believed to have given Singh a to-do list, which includes implementing poll promises from 2017. “Tuesday’s meeting is an indication that discussions on resolving the rift in Punjab Congress have entered the phase of final decision-making on how to accommodate Sidhu,” said a senior state leader who did not want to be identified. While Sidhu wants to head the Punjab Congress, the chief minister is opposed to having him in that role. Sidhu resigned from the BJP in 2016 and after almost joining the Aam Aadmi Party, moved to the Congress. He is believed to be close to Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi, a proximity he has not been shy about advertising. All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, on June 24, stated that the Congress president would take a decision on the issues by July 8-10. While Sidhu is back in Patiala, his continued attacks on the chief minister and the state government on the ongoing power crisis and power purchase agreements (PPAs) have left some of his party colleagues confounded and some of them are apprehensive about the rift worsening in case there is no quick decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-amarinder-to-meet-sonia-today-amid-punjab-infighting-101625510830680.html
06-07-2021||India||Govt paves way for ecotourism in forest areas; experts remain wary||The National Board for Wildlife has approved ‘Guidelines on Ecotourism in Forest and Wildlife Areas 2021’ in its latest meeting held on June 11 making way for ecotourism projects inside notified forest areas.Minutes of the NBWL meeting published on the union environment ministry’s Parivesh website last week stated that the ministry had held all consultations regarding the guidelines following which it had been finalised. A list of protected areas where ecotourism can be developed has also been appended to the guidelines. The guidelines are however not in public domain yet.After listening to the salient features of the ecotourism guidelines, NBWL approved them. In a NBWL meeting dated March 8, 2021 the ministry had briefed NBWL that these guidelines are aimed at promoting better understanding of nature and wildlife conservation while generating income and opportunities for the local communities in an “ecologically, culturally and economically sustainable manner.”The objectives of the guidelines include promotion of low impact nature tourism, traditional ecological knowledge and heritage values of India’s wilderness, engagement of local communities in nature tourism, partnerships amongst various stakeholders and finally enhancing the potential of India as a “global eco-tourism destination.”The environment ministry’s forest advisory committee during one of its meetings in February eased norms for ecotourism projects by allowing them to build “non-permanent” structures in protected areas without permission from the central government. This was also to facilitate eco-tourism opportunities in notified forest and wildlife reserves. The FAC had decided that only construction of permanent structures will be considered to be “non-forestry” activity and require prior approval of the central government but no central government approval is required for other ecotourism activities involving non-permanent constructions.Environmental and wildlife experts had raised several concerns with a boost to ecotourism in sensitive forest areas. Ecotourism activities can include creation of temporary or permanent infrastructure which can cause fragmentation of forest areas as well as can disturb both livelihood use and areas important for wildlife, they had said. There has been no public consultation on these guidelines yet.“These guidelines have been in the pipeline for three years now. What has come out after consulting various legal and wildlife experts is not as radical as we had expected. But what we can say for now is that the guidelines are to benefit locals. There is likely to be some provisions of benefit sharing with forest management committees. It will help their economic condition and generate revenue as well,” said a senior environment ministry official who declined to be quoted.Meanwhile the Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change have jointly decided to give more powers to the tribal communities in managing the forest resources, a statement from MoEFCC said. A joint statement to this effect will be released on Tuesday. Tribal Affairs minister, Arjun Munda and environment minister, Prakash Javadekar will make the statement on effective implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006.An ecotourism policy should not create the justification to fragment ecologically sensitive habitats and extinguish existing use rights. It also cannot be designed to merely monetise nature for exclusionary, extractive and elite tourism. We live in a post covid, climate change compromised world, which no policy affecting natural resource use, including for tourism and recreation, can ignore,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-paves-way-for-ecotourism-in-forest-areas-experts-remain-wary-101625510770660.html
06-07-2021||India||Afghanistan to top agenda as Jaishankar visits Moscow||The rapidly deteriorating situation in Afghanistan and several upcoming high-level meetings, including the annual India-Russia Summit, are expected to top the agenda when external affairs minister S Jaishankar visits Moscow this week. Russia sees India as an important player for formulating a coordinated response to the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban have significantly stepped up attacks in recent weeks and captured key districts in different parts of the country. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Though there has been no formal announcement about Jaishankar’s visit, he is expected to be in Moscow later this week, the people said. Jaishankar had visited Russia in September last year to attend a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). In addition to the fast-paced developments in Afghanistan, Jaishankar’s meetings with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov and other interlocutors are expected to focus on upcoming meetings between the two sides, including the annual India-Russia Summit, a meeting of the bilateral inter-governmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation in Delhi in August, and a meeting of the inter-governmental commission on military and military-technical cooperation in Moscow in November. Jaishankar’s visit to Moscow is a follow-up to the trip by Lavrov to New Delhi in April. The two sides are also expected to discuss cooperation in areas such as trade, defence, hydrocarbons, nuclear energy and India’s participation in the development of Russia’s Far East region.The annual summit, which couldn’t be held last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to be held in the second half of 2021, the people said. “The two sides will discuss all bilateral and international developments, including the most vital and current issues such as Afghanistan. The developments in Afghanistan are being seen as huge concerns,” said one of the people cited above. “There is scope for India and Russia to cooperate both bilaterally and through multilateral platforms. The situation in Afghanistan is a concern for everyone and Russia sees India as an important partner on the Afghan issue,” the person added. Russia is particularly concerned about an increase in instability in Afghanistan and the fallout on the Central Asian states, especially Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, which share borders with the war-torn country. “Instability in Afghanistan would be dangerous for the region and there is also the fear of a surge in refugees. This would pose an immediate security challenge to the Central Asian countries,” the person cited above said. Amid reports on Monday of more than 1,000 Afghan troops fleeing into Tajikistan following clashes with the Taliban, Russia is also looking at mounting a coordinated and joint response with the Central Asian states through the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), a collective security arrangement that includes Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. The Taliban have stepped up violence and targeted attacks against the backdrop of the withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan. India has repeatedly expressed concern at the surge in violence and called for a comprehensive ceasefire and the preservation of the democratic system built up in Afghanistan over the past two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-to-top-agenda-as-jaishankar-visits-moscow-101625510710654.html
06-07-2021||India||SC expresses anguish over failure to follow disability law||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed its “anguish” over what it called attempts by “all governments and institutions” to deprive people with disabilities of their rights under the disability law.“This has been our experience for decades as judges. Irrespective of dispensation, all governments, and all authorities have always tried their best to defeat the objective of the disability law. Nobody wants to make ways for the disabled,” regretted the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta.The bench was hearing an appeal by a consortium of Catholic school management and Catholic institutions of higher education in Kerala against the high court decision to appoint disabled candidates as teachers in their schools under the disability law.In February this year, the high court told the management to calculate posts for the disabled candidates since 1996 and earmark four posts for each year.The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 provides that all government educational institutions and other educational institutions receiving aid from the government shall reserve at least 3% seats for persons with disabilities.Senior advocate V Giri, appearing for a group of Catholic educational institutions, expressed “practical” difficulties in complying with the judgment of the high court and said that apart from the fiscal liability, the creation of these many posts was also not possible.But the bench was unmoved by these submissions. “We are anguished by your submissions. You are an educational institution and you are still doing this. Don’t you receive funds from the government? The government must stop giving you money if you cannot comply with the law,” it retorted.The court added: “First, the Centre and states tried to defeat the law by saying there are no promotional posts. Then they create some posts in grade 3 and grade 4 and argue there are no posts in the upper grades. Now, even in teaching jobs, you don’t want to accommodate them. This is very unfair. Why it is so much difficult to accommodate people with disabilities?”On his part, Giri reiterated that the high court’s direction was to fill up the vacancies since 1996. “We don’t have these many posts. There have to be four posts for each year as per the high court order. We have also moved our representation with the state government,” the senior counsel said.The bench, however, told Giri that had the management been complying with the requirement of the disabilities law from the beginning, such a situation could have been averted. “This is all your mistake. You did not want to accommodate them. We are not going to interfere with the high court order. We are going to pass a detailed order rejecting your petition,” it said.With the writing on the wall, Giri opted to withdraw the petition, saying the consortium would rather approach the state government.At this, the bench recorded in its order that it was “disappointed and anguished” at the appeal filed by the petitioner, who has chosen to withdraw the appeal since the Supreme Court was not inclined to entertain the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-expresses-anguish-over-failure-to-follow-disability-law-101625510651335.html
06-07-2021||India||‘If you don’t like toolkit, ignore it’: SC junks plea for probe||ReutersThe Supreme Court on Monday rejected a demand for a probe into the alleged “toolkit”, labelling such material as propaganda by a political party that can be ignored by those who disagree with it.“This is part of political chaff, the political propaganda of a political party. If you do not like the toolkit, ignore it,” observed a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah, declining to entertain a petition filed by a lawyer, Shashank Shekhar Jha.The controversy over a toolkit, essentially a media outreach and social campaign document, erupted in May when Bharatiya Janata Party leaders tweeted a copy of the document, which the party said, was prepared by the Congress to build a biased narrative against the Narendra Modi government for its handling of Covid and the Central Vista project. The Congress claimed the toolkit was forged.Jha wanted a federal investigating agency such as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe the role of the Congress and ascertain whether offences under sedition, criminal conspiracy or offences under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act were made out by the release of the alleged toolkit. If the charges were established, the petition wanted the Election Commission to suspend Congress’ registration.In his public interest litigation (PIL), Jha also wanted the top court to restrain political parties from putting up hoardings that show the country or the government in poor light, ban the use of images of funerals, dead bodies and calling out one religion for the spread of the coronavirus disease in the country.The bench found the petition to be vague and the prayers in it “frivolous”.“India is a democracy. Such kind of general orders cannot be passed. People who are aggrieved have other remedies (to lodge criminal cases) under law,” observed the bench. Jha eventually withdrew the petition.“These are general directions you are seeking. The time of the Supreme Court is taken away by these frivolous petitions. You come with some specific case,” the bench said, referring to Jha’s request to pass a general order that barred hoardings that affect the image of India or the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-don-t-like-toolkit-ignore-it-sc-junks-plea-for-probe-101625510650698.html
06-07-2021||India||Stan Swamy: Champion of tribal rights who spent his last months in prison||Stan Swamy was born in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirapalli town in 1937 and travelled the world as a Jesuit priest before settling down and building a centre outside Ranchi to work for tribal rights.Swamy, 84, first travelled to Jharkhand in 1956 as a trainee cleric but got more involved in working with the local tribespeople in 1991. He helped tribal people fight illegal capture of their lands, filing claims and records and worked for the release of young tribal people from prison.“Stan worked to light the world and do away with injustice,” Jerome Stanislaus D’souza, the president of Jesuits in India, said in a statement.The 84-year-old Swamy died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in an early morning raid at his non-governmental organisation (NGO) Bagaicha, on the outskirts of Ranchi, on October 9 last year.He was charged with being a member of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and being involved in a conspiracy to instigate caste violence in the Bhima Koregaon village near Pune in 2018. Swamy denied the charges.“Father Stan was a silent campaigner for poor tribals,” recalled his old associate and human right activist Xavier Dias. His close friend and colleague PM Tony said, “I know he was a very strong man from within and would have lived for another 15 years had he not been arrested.”Bagaicha was established by Swamy in 2006 to conduct research to improve tribal lives and ensure welfare of the youth.“His idea of life was so inspirational. He has worked tirelessly for tribals and youths in Jharkhand for several decades. I have come across very few people like him,” said Siraj Dutta, an activist who worked with Swamy.“Bagaicha transformed into an institution of research for the causes of tribals and youth. His study on undertrials in jails of Jharkhand was one of the major highlights,” added Siraj. The study, a 2016 publication, showed that the percentage of tribals in jail was far higher than their share of the population.Former chief information commissioner of India, Wajahat Habibullah, condoled Swamy.“He was a man, who was simple and without ambition. Perhaps, it is liberation as he has to suffer travails of indignity and humiliation. All of this he stood up to.”Noted economist Jean Dreze, who worked in close association with Swamy, said it was a sad day. “He was a symbol of injustice being done to undertrials in the country. Sadly, he himself become an under trial,” Dreze said. “Stan was a wonderful human being and an exemplary citizen. His death is the culmination of a series of acts of abominable cruelty,” he added.Political leaders paid tribute to the activist. “Shocked to learn about the demise of father Stan Swamy. He dedicated his life working for tribal rights. I had strongly opposed his arrest & incarceration,” Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren tweeted.“I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights,” said European Union special representative for human rights, Eamon Gilmore.“Heartbreaking: Death of Indian prisoner Father Stan Swamy after he got COVID,” said Nadine Maenza, chair of US Commission on International Religious Freedom.“The news from India today is devastating. Human rights defender & Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy has died in custody,” said Mary Lawlor, United Nations special rapporteur for human rights defenders.(With inputs from New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stan-swamy-champion-of-tribal-rights-who-spent-his-last-months-in-prison-101625510590691.html
06-07-2021||India||18 children die of post-Covid complications in Rajasthan in 2 months||Jaipur: Eighteen children have died in the past two months because of post-Covid complications in Rajasthan because of a rare inflammatory disease whose cause is not yet very clear, doctors have said.Seventeen of these deaths occurred at J K Lone hospital in Jaipur due to multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). The hospital, which is the biggest in Rajasthan for children, received 155 such cases.Dr Ashok Gupta, in charge of the Centre of Rare Disease, Department of Pediatrics, SMS Medical College, Jaipur, said MIS-C is a rare complication characterised by fever, inflammation, and multi-organ dysfunction that typically manifests two weeks after a child has been cured of Covid-19.He said in the second wave, many children got exposed to Covid-19 and all were mostly asymptomatic. “The parents aren’t aware of this disease and delay in timely treatment intensifies it,” he said.According to the US’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the cause of MIS-C is not known but it is believed to be an excessive immune response to Covid-19. “However, we know that many children with MIS-C had the virus that causes Covid-19, or had been around someone with Covid-19. MIS-C can be serious, even deadly, but most children who were diagnosed with this condition have gotten better with medical care,” a CDC advisory to parents read.Gupta said the symptoms include high fever for over 24 hours, skin rashes, stomachache, faster heart rate, breathing difficulty, and swelling on hands, lips, and face, etc.He also said that most of those affected by MIS-C had Covid antibodies, which meant that the children were Covid-19 infected. The disease is diagnosed through antibody tests, inflammatory markers, and clinical presentation. “Early diagnosis and treatment are the only cure of MIS-C,” Gupta added.At AIIMS, Jodhpur, around two dozen cases of MIS-C and a death have been reported.Dr Kuldeep Singh, the head of the paediatric department at Jodhpur Medical College, said MIS-C is happening in the age-group of 1-18 years. “When the immunity level increases, the antibodies that develop after Covid-19 infection start attacking blood vessels and tissues,” Singh said, adding that the impact of MIS-C is seen after three to six weeks.Pointing out similarities between MIS-C and Kawasaki, another inflammatory disease in children that attacks coronary arteries, Singh said it is easily treatable if diagnosed early.Other experts say that the probability of children getting MIS-C in the second wave of the pandemic is higher.According to a sero survey conducted in Pune, 70% of the children in the age-group of 6-12 years had Covid antibodies, which showed that they had been infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-children-die-of-post-covid-complications-in-raj-in-2-months-101625510533853.html
06-07-2021||India||Several examples of 66(A) being used despite being struck down||In 2013, Mohd Sakir was booked under section 66(A) of the Information Technology Act, which states that electronically sent offensive messages may be punished with upto three years in jail. Two years later, the Supreme Court struck down the section for being “draconian” but Sakir’s case continued to be heard in the Tis Hazari court in Delhi. He would go on to deposit ₹2,000 against the cancellation of a non-bailable warrant, even as the law he was booked under was deemed unconstitutional.In Karnataka, an even more interesting case was unfolding. Not only was Dilip Shetty charged under 66(A), he was also acquitted. The final order was issued in February this year, six years after the trial began. “As a result, the accused, though enlarged on bail and ultimately acquitted, underwent a trial for over six years, at a significant personal cost to their liberty and cost to the state in terms of judicial time and resources,” a petition by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), a human rights and civil liberties organisation along with digital rights advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation notes.For Shekhar Rahul Nikam in Nashik Maharashtra, section 66(A) was invoked for “offensive messages” sent in 2010. The charges were framed in 2020. The case is at the evidence stage.Sakir’s case is pending before the Tis Hazari court, even though the state appellant submitted that the provision has been struck down. “More shockingly, it is clear from order dated 03.09.2019 that the Ld. APP for the State himself submitted that such provision had been struck down by this Hon’ble Court. However, the Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate nevertheless issued a nonbailable warrant against the accused on the basis that it appeared that the accused was deliberately not appearing before the Court,” the PUCL petition adds. The case was listed for hearing as recently as January 28.Even six years after it was scrapped by the apex court for being “draconian and unconstitutional”, section 66(A) of the information technology continues to be used by law enforcement agencies to charge people for “offensive messages”, data collated by digital rights advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation and Civic Data Labs shows.The most number of cases under it were registered in Maharashtra (381), followed by Jharkhand (291), Uttar Pradesh (245) and Rajasthan (192). A total of 1307 cases have been registered under the section since 2015 , despite it being declared void. The data has been gathered using the online E-Courts portal alone, as no government agency such as the National Crime Records Bureau collects data in this regard, according to IFF. Section 66(A) criminalized messages sent in form of text, audio, video, images or any other electronic record that were considered “grossly offensive” or had a “menacing character”. It was punishable with up to three years imprisonment.Even though the section was struck down in March 2015, 332 cases were filed the same year. In 2016, 216 cases were registered. This became 290 in 2017, 318 in 2018, 253 in 2019 and 34 until February 2020. The data has been collected for Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal .A Supreme Court bench comprising of Justice RF Nariman, Justice KM Joseph and Justice BR Gavai on Monday came down heavily on the Centre for allowing cases be filed under the section. Appearing for the union government attorney general KK Venugopal sought to explain why Section 66A is still being used. “On perusal of the IT act, it can be seen that Section 66A features in it but in the footnote, it is written that the section has been scrapped. So, now when a police officer has to register a case, he sees the section and registers the case without going through the footnote,” he explained. The government has been given two weeks to respond.Tanmay Singh, Associate Litigation Counsel at the Internet Freedom Foundation said that the problem is fairly widespread. “It has been suggested that the section can be deleted entirely, to reinforce (the fact) in the minds of the police and prosecuting authority,” Singh said. “Another way to ensure the section is not used is to reach out to the last authority. It is clear is that is a widespread problem. The data gathering exercise was expensive and time consuming.”He added that even after the 2015 judgment, the number of cases has soared. “The data gathering exercise was conducted for only 11 states. We have also asked for data.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3several-examples-of-66-a-being-used-despite-being-struck-down-101625510533292.html
06-07-2021||India||CBI files fresh case in project started by SP govt, raids 40 places||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday carried out raids at 40 locations in Uttar Pradesh after registering its second case to probe alleged irregularities in Lucknow’s Gomti riverfront development project initiated in 2015 by the then Samajwadi Party (SP) government led by Akhilesh Yadav, people familiar with the development said.The fresh First Information Report (FIR) named 16 public servants, including former chief engineers, superintending engineers, and other public servants of UP’s irrigation department, and 173 private persons and companies.A CBI official said searches were carried out at 40 locations across 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh including Lucknow, Agra, Ghaziabad apart from one place each in Rajasthan’s Alwar and West Bengal capital Kolkata after registering the FIR on 2 July.The project involved the construction of a rubber dam to maintain its water level, a stadium, an amphitheatre for 2,000 people, cycle and jogging tracks, a play area for children, and a musical fountain.Once completed, the SP government promised that the project with its 33-acre green belt on both banks would place the Gomti riverfront on par with River Singapore. The project, counted by Akhilesh Yadav as one of the big-ticket projects of his administration back then, also envisaged a light-water-sound show, like the one outside Bellagio in Las Vegas.To be sure, CBI has not named former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav or any other politician in the FIR.Akhilesh Yadav has not reacted to the second FIR.But his party questioned the timing of the FIR, describing the investigation “as a facade to malign the image of the previous SP government” ahead of the assembly elections early next year.“...the question remains why this hullabaloo when UP Vidhan Sabha elections are fast approaching. Investigation cannot be used as a political ploy to divert the attention of people from pressing issues. We want free and fair investigation but this government is only interested in political vendetta,” said SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi.UP minister and government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said the CBI searches indicate “misdeeds” of the previous Samajwadi Party government. “We requested CBI earlier to speed up its probe in such scams. CBI is a central agency and works in its style,” the minister said, according to the news agency PTI.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath first recommended the CBI probe in July 2017 after a three-member panel headed by retired high court judge Alok Kumar Singh appointed soon after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s spectacular win in March 2017 detected several alleged irregularities. This panel found that only 60% of work had been carried out despite an expenditure of ₹1,435 crore (95% of project cost) on the project.The first case was registered by the central agency in November 2017, in which a charge sheet was filed in February this year. In this, the agency probed 12 works worth ₹1,031 crore.The new FIR filed by CBI focuses on a total of 661 works/contracts worth ₹407 crore awarded under the development project. The Enforcement Directorate too is investigating money laundering charges in the project.“Maximum expenditure i.e. ₹1,350 crore out of ₹1,437 (spent so far) have been incurred on works awarded against the tenders issued by superintending engineer level and executive engineer level. These works include 208 agreements/works against 37 Notice Inviting Tenders (NITs). Out of these 37 NITs, the payment for agreements against 2 NITs was not made from the Gomti riverfront project and no agreement was done,” the FIR said, citing findings of its preliminary inquiry.HT has reviewed the FIR.According to the FIR, there were 25 instances where irrigation department officials forged documentation in the files to claim that the notice inviting tenders (NIT) were published in newspapers and that bids were received. CBI found that firms that were, according to the records, supposed to have sent their bids, insisted they did not send any.“In 5 NITs, which were published in newspapers, alleged competitive bidders L2/L3 have denied purchase/submission of tender documents. In 27 direct supply orders and 2 selection bonds, the tender norms were not followed and supply orders/selection bonds were issued to suspect beneficiary firms/companies,” the FIR said.Among those named by CBI in the FIR are former executive engineer Roop Singh Yadav, former superintending Engineer Mangal Yadav, ex-chief engineers Siddh Narayan Sharma and Om Verma, and then executive engineer Arvind Singh Yadav.The new FIR also names a French company based in Strasbourg, which was given the contract for supply and design of an international standard musical fountain water show at the riverfront in Lucknow. The FIR says the contract was given on a quotation basis though documents were forged in the department’s records to claim that a tender was floated. Officials also issued the supply order without getting the requisite approvals. The FIR says the firm has already been paid 5.59 lakh Euros ( ₹4.62 crore).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-fresh-case-in-project-started-by-sp-govt-raids-40-places-101625510410653.html
06-07-2021||India||TMC team meets President seeking S-G’s removal||A two-member Trinamool Congress (TMC) delegation met President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday in New Delhi and sought the removal of solicitor general Tushar Mehta for alleged misconduct and impropriety, the party announced at a press conference. TMC had earlier sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the same reason in which it had alleged that Mehta, the Union government’s second highest law officer, met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Nandigram in West Bengal, Suvendu Adhikari, who is also an accused in the 2016 Narada sting tapes case that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has been investigating. Mehta is representing CBI in the case in Calcutta high court and the Supreme Court. “The meeting was not only biased and there was a conflict of interest, but the SG also allowed an accused to come to his residence and have a meeting. The TMC has demanded the immediate resignation of the SG on grounds of gross misconduct and impropriety, failing which we hope the President will investigate and take action,” said Mahua Moitra, TMC’s Lok Sabha MP who was part of the delegation that also had MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. They presented a memorandum to the President demanding Mehta’s removal. While both Mehta and Adhikari have denied meeting each other at the SG’s residence in Delhi on July 1, TMC upped the ante on Monday and said that the SG should reveal CCTV footage to support his claim. “Even after 72 hours, Mr Tushar Mehta, Hon’ble SG of India, has failed to release the 20 mins of CCTV footage of his OWN HOUSE to corroborate his OWN STATEMENT. Mr SG, with such weak defence you can continue serving as @BJP4India’s SECRET GENERAL, not INDIA’S SOLICITOR GENERAL,” tweeted Abhishek Banerjee, TMC’s national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. Mehta had said on Friday that Adhikari, the leader of opposition in West Bengal, came to his residence-cum-office in Delhi at 3pm on July 1, but left without meeting him as he was preoccupied. “The SG in his statements said he was busy and hence could not meet Adhikari. Adhikari went there without prior appointment. How did he enter the SG’s house and sit there for 30 minutes without the SG’s approval? This means any accused in a CBI case can enter the SG’s residence unannounced and have tea for 30 minutes,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, TMC’s chief whip in Rajya Sabha. BJP hit back at TMC, saying that chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not reading the people’s verdict right. The party’s West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh said the people of the state want Banerjee to be removed. “TMC’s slogan in the assembly election was ‘Bengal wants its own daughter’. But Mamata Banerjee lost the polls, and it is now proved that Bengal doesn’t want her. But she still became the CM through the back door,” Ghosh said, adding that the state government should instead talk about holding civic elections that are pending. The solicitor general is appointed for a period of three years by the Appointment Committee of Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister. SG’s office and duties are governed by Law Officers (Conditions of Service) Rules, 1987, and it is thus a statutory post. An SG can resign before the end of tenure and upon acceptance of his/her resignation, the ACC can appoint a new SG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-team-meets-president-seeking-s-g-s-removal-101625510292002.html
06-07-2021||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s son joins TMC, lauds Mamata for ‘stopping BJP’||Abhijit Mukherjee, a former Congress Lok Sabha member from West Bengal and son of late President Pranab Mukherjee, joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Kolkata on Monday. “Mamata Banerjee stopped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bengal. I feel that under her leadership this may become possible in India. I am joining the TMC as a primary member. Had I done so earlier (before state assembly polls), people would have thought that I have an eye on some prime position. They cannot do so now. Let the TMC utilise me in whatever way it wants. I am still active,” Mukherjee, 61, said at the TMC headquarters after joining the party on Monday afternoon. He was welcomed into the TMC by state minister Partha Chatterjee and party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandopadhyay. Chatterjee said Mukherjee had approached the chief minister through her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee. “I am grateful to Mamata Didi and Abhishek Babu for letting me in,” said Mukherjee. Though Mukherjee was not a leader of high stature in the Congress, his leaving was seen as a blow to the party. However, Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “It is not a question about the Congress getting strong or weak. He is the son of the great Pranab Mukherjee. He must have thought that joining another party is the right thing to do. I don’t want to comment on his decision.” Mukherjee said, “I left my job and joined the Congress in 2011. My father never asked me to join politics. He left the decision to me. I was not holding any post in the Congress. I don’t even know whether my membership in the party has been renewed.” Before 2011, Mukherjee worked for Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Maruti Udyog Limited and the Steel Authority of India as a corporate executive. He became an MLA from Nalhati in Birbhum district in 2011 when the TMC came to power by ending the Left Front’s 34-year-long regime. The TMC and Congress had contested the elections as allies. “My victory from Nalhati became possible entirely because of the anti-Left storm Mamata Banerjee raised in 2011. I had no role to play in that,” said Mukherjee. He subsequently won the Jangipur Lok Sabha seat in Murshidabad district in the 2012 by-poll after his father vacated the seat. He won the seat again in 2014 general elections. Mukherjee lost the Jangipur seat in 2019 to TMC’s Khalilur Rahaman. On Monday, he thanked some TMC leaders in Murshidabad for inspiring him to join the ruling party. Mukherjee’s sister, Sharmistha, is a Congress leader in Delhi. He did not want to comment on her.Sharmistha, however, expressed her disapproval by tweeting one word, “SAD!!!” at 4.34 pm. The siblings made their differences public in December last year when publishing house Rupa wanted to publish the late President’s final volume of memoirs. While Abhijit Mukherjee demanded that the publication be stopped until he approves the final manuscript, his sister took to Twitter to declare that not only was the book approved by their father but also that Abhijeet should refrain from “cheap publicity”. Pranab Mukherjee was admitted to a hospital on August 10 last year for a surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he fell down at his Rajaji Marg residence in Delhi. The senior Congress leader, who served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017, also tested positive for Covid-19 at the same time. Mukherjee died on August 31 at the age of 84.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-son-joins-tmc-lauds-mamata-for-stopping-bjp-101625510230662.html
06-07-2021||India||Govt procures record 43.3mn tonne of wheat in a year||The Union government has procured a record 43.3 million tonne of winter-sown wheat this year, the highest ever, compared to 38.9 million tonne in the previous season, covering 4.5 million farmers, food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Monday.Procurement refers to the government’s buying of farm produce at minimum support prices, or MSP, from growers. Procured grains are then held as federally owned stocks before being distributed through the public distribution system to beneficiaries of subsidised food under the National Food Security Act, 2013.In all, farmers were paid a total MSP of ₹84,369 crore, the top official said, adding that both the quantity procured and MSP paid stood at an all-time highs.MSP is a federally determined floor price aimed at avoiding distress sale and signalling a benchmark price for private traders. MSPs are mostly effective in the case of rice and wheat crops as these commodities are procured by the government in sufficiently large quantities.According to data from food ministry, higher quantities were bought from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and hill states such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand in the current season.Farmers in Punjab gained the most, having been paid ₹26,103 crore, followed by Madhya Pradesh at ₹25,205 crore and Haryana at ₹16,706 crore.The previous record in wheat procurement was 38.9 million tonne during the 2020-21 procurement season that runs from April to March.Procurement of paddy also stood at a record 86.2 million tonne. “Total paddy procurement should reach 90 million tonne,’’ said Food Corporation of India chairman Atish Chandra.The 70th round of National Sample Survey 2012-13 had showed that only 32.2% of paddy farmers and 39.2% of wheat growers in the country were aware of MSPs. The survey also showed that only 13.5% of paddy farmers actually benefited from MSP, while only 16.2% growers sold their produce to government procurement agencies at MSP prices.“Procurement and the reach of procurement drives have surely gone up since the 2012-13 survey. However, in many states, procurement is still not robust. The government should expand to areas where it traditionally doesn’t procure much to benefit more and more farmers,” said economist RS Mani, who was formerly with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.According to latest available agriculture ministry data reviewed by HT, the progress in kharif sowing till June 25 lags last year’s levels. On June 25 this year, the total summer-sown area stood at 20.2 million hectares. This is 21% lower than last year’s 25.8 million hectare during the corresponding period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-procures-record-43-3mn-tonne-of-wheat-in-a-year-101625510111284.html
06-07-2021||India||NCPCR asks J&K Police to file case against Twitter||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Monday asked Jammu and Kashmir director general of police Dilbag Singh to file a case against Twitter on charges of “encouraging people to involve children into terrorism”, citing a video on the micro-blogging platform that shows a child firing in the air.In a letter, the commission also asked the police to identify the 4-5 men seen encouraging the child to use the gun in the video and trace its origin. The panel alleged the video was posted by “terrorist supporters”.NCPCR chief Priyank Kanoongo’s letter said such videos were designed “to instigate and encourage people to involve children in terrorist activities and make them child soldiers”.It added that the commission has been informed that Twitter is allowing organizations like Ansar Ghazwat-Ul-Hind, a militant group operating in Kashmir, to operate against India and “carry out recruitment activities by using children”.HT has reviewed Priyank Kanoongo’s letter.“The posting of such videos on Twitter is also a matter of concern due to the fact that Twitter’s policy permits children … to use and access Twitter and the commission is under the apprehension that such posts would have an adverse impact on children,” the NCPCR chief said, seeking strict action against the company. Twitter requires people using the service to be at least 13 years of age.Twitter did not respond to a request for its reaction to the letter.Kanoongo said Twitter’s “tolerance to such content” is in violation of the rules and asked for an FIR to be registered against the company’s top executives including Manish Maheshwari.There was no word from the J&K Police on its next steps in this case.Twitter has already been summoned by the Ghaziabad police over its role in amplifying a video that allegedly misrepresented an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime, and faces a bunch of police complaints about a wrong map of India on its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-asks-j-k-police-to-file-case-against-twitter-101625510050619.html
06-07-2021||India||Six-year-old girl raped, killed by minor in MP: Police||A six-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed by a minor boy in Ambha town of Morena district, 440 km north of Bhopal, police said on Monday.Police are trying to apprehend the 16-year-old boy, a Class 10 student, said Lalit Shakywar, superintendent of police, Morena.“On Monday afternoon, the girl’s family filed a complaint with police that she went to purchase bread from a nearby shop and had not returned till afternoon. Police checked CCTV cameras installed near the shop. In one of the footage, the girl was seen going to the house of the accused, where he used to live alone,” the SP added.“In the CCTV footage, the accused was seen going out on a bicycle. When (the girl’s) family members and police reached the home of the accused, they found it locked. Police called the accused’s grandfather, who lives in a nearby village. The grandfather opened the lock with a duplicate key. The girl was found wrapped in a piece of cloth,” Shakywar said.A team of forensic experts and doctors confirmed that the girl was raped, the SP added.Heavy police force has been deployed in the area as family members of the girl along with people from their community were staging protests, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sixyearold-girl-raped-killed-by-minor-in-mp-police-101625509992211.html
06-07-2021||India||Acts of indiscipline inside Parliament, state assemblies can’t be condoned: SC||New Delhi: Acts of indiscipline inside Parliament and the state assemblies cannot be condoned, the Supreme Court on Monday said, taking a strict view of a March 2015 incident in which four former and two current members of the Kerala legislative assembly created a ruckus while protesting the presentation of the annual finance budget.“This kind of behaviour is unacceptable,” said a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah, pointing to the unruly behaviour by the legislators, including climbing on to the Speaker’s dais, throwing microphones, and destroying public property worth over ₹2.2 lakh. “Such kinds of incidents are increasing, and they are happening even in Parliament. We can’t condone the behaviour of MLAs who disrupt the House by throwing the mic and destroying public property,” the bench observed.The court was hearing separate appeals filed by the six current and former legislators and the state against a Match 12 order of the Kerala high Court, which refused to go with the decision taken by the public prosecutor to withdraw the cases against the six current and former MLAs – KT Jaleel, V Sivankutty, CK Sadasivan, EP Jayarajan, K Ajith and Kunjammadu Master, all members of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) alliance.The comments by the top court could lead to trouble for Jaleel and Sivankutty, who are members of the Kerala assembly, and Sivankutty is also the state’s Education Minister. The case against them was lodged under sections 447 (criminal trespass) and 427 (causing mischief) of the Indian Penal Code. They were also booked under Section 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984which is punishable with a maximum sentence of five years. If they are convicted, and the sentence awarded is more than two years, the MLAs would have to undergo disqualification proceedings under the Representation of Peoples Act.Holding a prima facie view in favour of the high court, the top court said, “We must ensure some modicum of decorum is maintained in legislative bodies. These are sentinels of democracy. They are MLAs, and they represent the people. What is the message being given that my MLA is behaving in this manner? They have to face trial. There cannot be any deference to such kind of behaviour.”The incident in question took place on March 13, 2015. The case was investigated by Kerala Police, and a report submitted to the chief judicial magistrate, Thiruvananthapuram. After the trial court took cognisance of the charges, in 2019, Left Front government sought withdrawal of cases through the public prosecutor under Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The chief judicial magistrate refused the withdrawal, a view that the Kerala high court later concurred with.The Kerala government, through senior advocate Ranjit Kumar relied on the privileges of MLAs and the immunity granted against criminal prosecution, for proceedings inside the House. “The MLAs in question were suspended for seven days. They have a right to protest and they protested against the tabling of Budget by the then finance Minister, who was corrupt,” said Kumar.The finance minister at the time was KM Mani, whose party, Kerala Congress (Mani), is a part of the present Left Democratic Front (LDF) government led by Pinarayi Vijayan.The Supreme Court bench asked the state: “What is the larger public interest in shielding MLAs who have disrupted the House proceedings and avoided presentation of Budget by the finance minister? Budget presentation is of utmost importance irrespective of the personality who is submitting it.” On the right to protest, the court refused to approve such manner of protest as it said, “Prima facie, we have to take a strict view of this kind of behaviour.” The matter has been posted to July 15 as the state requested for time to provide case laws in support of its arguments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acts-of-indiscipline-inside-parliament-state-assemblies-can-t-be-condoned-sc-101625509930613.html
06-07-2021||India||Opposition to take up fuel prices, Rafale in upcoming monsoon session||The Congress-led Opposition parties have identified a host of issues, including the economic situation and spiraling fuel prices, to demand debates in the upcoming Parliament session — the first full session since the 2019 Winter Session in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Senior leaders from the Congress and the Trinamool Congress, two key Opposition parties, told HT that the latest developments on Rafale deal, the government’s pandemic management including the vaccination strategy, and the role of Governors with an oblique reference to West Bengal, are other subjects on the Opposition list.The monsoon session, from July 19 to August 13, will function over 19 working days after previous three sessions were curtailed, and last year’s Winter session got scrapped. A vaccination drive that has covered most MPs and Parliament support staff, amid a slump in Covid cases, has raised hopes for a normal schedule.The Opposition expects two Short Duration discussions and as many Calling Attention debates. The Congress leader told HT: “Our priority would be the economic situation, job losses, price rise, and the government’s Covid management.” Another party leader added that with new developments in the Rafale deal, the Congress might be aggressive during the session to demand a Joint Parliamentary Committee inquiry.French online journal Mediapart reported on July 5 that a judge has been appointed to head a probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the ₹59,000 crore government-to-government Rafale deal with India for 36 fighter jets.For the Trinamool, a debate on the role of the Governor is a key priority in the context of the friction and uneasiness between its government led by Mamata Banerjee and the governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, said a senior party leader said.The Union government, too, has indicated that it will soon finalise its legislative agenda out of the 40 pending pieces of legislation and four ordinances that are in place now.Replacing the ordinances will be the top priority, but the government managers have indicated to some opposition leaders that The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) may be sent to a parliamentary panel for further review. Another ordinance, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, has already lapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-take-up-fuel-prices-rafale-in-upcoming-monsoon-session-101625509751683.html
06-07-2021||India||Delhi govt makes excise policy 2021-22 public||The state government on Monday made the city’s new excise policy public after the Delhi high court heard a petition over the government floating tenders to appoint new liquor retail licensees in the city without informing stakeholders or the general public about the details of the rules.The policy, however, made no mention about reducing the legal drinking age from 25 years to 21 years, one of the key changes that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia flagged when he announced the policy on March 22. Senior government officials said the matter, including reducing slashing the number of dry days, will be taken up separately in a special session of the Delhi Assembly.The Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22 was made public on the government’s website on Monday evening, even as the city’s liquor traders’ association, which filed the petition in the HC, questioned the delay in uploading the document.“The tenders for new retail licenses were floated on June 28 without making the excise policy public. The pre-bid meeting for all tenders was scheduled at 4pm today (Monday) and the document was still not uploaded till then. As a result, many stakeholders who were interested in bidding remained unaware of the finer details of the new policy. It was uploaded only after 6pm. The policy was ready and approved in May this year and yet the tenders were floated without letting people know of it. It took a HC hearing for them to finally upload it,” said Naresh Goyal, a retailer licensee and president of Delhi liquor traders association.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests seeking comment.The new excise policy aims to introduce sweeping changes in the city’s liquor business, clean up malpractices, and improve user experience.It, among other things, envisages five new super-premium liquor shops for high-value products. It includes a rule that will need any liquor shop in the city to be at least 500 square feet in size. It gets rid of the iron grilles at the front of most liquor vends in the Capital, and allows buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice. For this, the shops have to be spacious, well lit and air-conditioned to allow customers a walk-in experience and must be under camera surveillance. Shop owners will have to ensure that liquor sale and pick-up takes place properly inside the shop premises and there is a proper order outside. It also allows home delivery of liquor in the Capital through websites and apps.As HT reported on July 1, the new rules will allow liquor shops in the Capital to offer discounts, enabling festive season offers of the kind that are usually seen around Diwali on vehicles, electronics, and gift items. HT reported this on July 1.In another first, the policy also introduces a new annual licence system enabling banquet halls, farmhouses, motels and other such party venues to serve liquor at events, like it is done in hotels. Also, the one-time P10 licence has now been revised from ₹5,000 to ₹10,000 for hosting in-house parties — a permit which is extensively applied for by the general public to serve alcohol in private parties hosted at home or any other non-licenced premise. HT reported this on March 24.On May 27, HT reported that the Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal cleared the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, and the draft Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, with some suggested tweaks. One of the amendments, suggested by the L-G and later approved by the Cabinet, included strengthening clauses aimed at preventing brand pushing and cartelisation by tightening checks not just on wholesalers, but also on retailers.Delhi currently has 849 liquor shops. These, however, are not equitably distributed across the city. The government, through the changes in the excise system, plans to keep the total number of vends intact, reshuffling them into 32 zones to ensure a more equitable distribution across 272 municipal wards in the city, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area and the airport.By exiting the retail liquor business and opening up the market, the Delhi government is hoping to increase its annual revenue by ₹1,500-2,000 crore from the existing ₹6,500 crore earned annually as excise income, a government spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-makes-excise-policy-2021-22-public-101625508851110.html
06-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines could be 8 times less effective against Delta variant: Study||Delta variant of the coronavirus is eight times less sensitive to antibodies generated by vaccines against Covid-19 as compared to the original strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which was first detected in China's Wuhan, a study has found. This could mean the Covid-19 vaccines are eight times less effective on the Delta variant, or the B.1.617.2 strain which was first found in India, as compared to their effect on the original virus strain.According to news agency PTI, the study was conducted on more than 100 healthcare workers at three centres in India, including Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. The joint research, SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617.2 Delta Variant Emergence and Vaccine Breakthrough: Collective Study, was conducted by scientists from India and their counterparts from the Cambridge Institute of Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Disease. "Across all scenarios considered, our results suggest the Delta variant is both more transmissible and better able to evade prior immunity elicited by the previous infection as compared to previously circulating lineages," it said, according to PTI.The study said that a combination of evasion of neutralising antibodies in previously infected people, and increased virus infectivity resulting in the second wave is behind the dominance of the Delta variant in India, PTI reported. It also found that severe Covid-19 infection in fully vaccinated HCWs is "rare." However, the study termed as "concerning" cases of breakthrough transmission clusters in hospitals associated with the Delta variant. This, it said, means infection control measures need to stay even in a post-vaccination era.Analysing the recent data and the dominance of fresh infections due to this variant, the study concluded that the B.1.617.2 strain "appears to be more transmissible" than the B.1.617.1 found in the United Kingdom.The paper, however, also assured large-scale vaccination will likely protect against moderate to severe disease, and also reduce hospitalisations due to the Delta variant. Giving an example, it said the progression to severe disease and death was found to be "low" even in studies concerning the B.1351 strain, which, it said, is the variant with the least sensitivity to neutralising antibodies. Also known as the Beta variant, it has demonstrated lower protection for at least three Covid-19 vaccines, the paper said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccines-could-be-8-times-less-effective-against-delta-variant-study-101625502029670.html
06-07-2021||India||CoWIN to go global, app will help fight virus: PM||on Monday offered India’s CoWIN app for Covid-19 vaccinations to countries around the world, saying technology is integral to the global fight against the pandemic. Addressing the CoWIN global conclave, during which India opened the platform to the world as a digital public good to combat Covid-19, Modi said there was no parallel to the pandemic in a hundred years, and experience had shown that no nation, no matter how powerful, could tackle a challenge such as this in isolation. “That’s why, our technology platform for Covid vaccination – the platform we call CoWIN – is being prepared to be made open source. Soon, it will be available to any and all countries,” he said. “Today’s conclave is the first step to introduce this platform to all of you. This is the platform through which India has administered 350 million doses of Covid vaccines,” he said, adding people no longer need to carry “fragile pieces of paper” as proof of vaccination. “It is all available in digital format. But best of all, the software can be customised to any country as per their local requirements,” he said. The external affairs ministry facilitated the participation of some 400 delegates from more than 140 countries in the virtual conclave. The participants included representatives from the European Commission and UN offices in India. Ministers from five countries – Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Afghanistan and Guyana – addressed the conclave, and senior international participants spoke during technical sessions. The ministers said this initiative could be useful for addressing health-related challenges in their countries and expressed interest in collaborating with India to use the CoWIN platform. Modi said the biggest lesson from the pandemic for humanity is that people have to “work together and move ahead together”, while learning from each other and guiding each other on best practices. “Right from the beginning of this pandemic, India has been committed to sharing all our experiences, expertise and resources with the global community in this battle. Despite all our constraints, we have tried to share as much as possible with the world,” he said. At the same time, India is eager to learn from global practices and “technology is integral to our fight against Covid-19”, Modi said. Software is an area in which there are no resource constraints and that is why India made Aarogya Setu, its Covid-19 tracing and tracking mobile app, open source as soon as it was technically feasible, he added. “With nearly 200 million users, this Aarogya Setu app is a readily available package for developers. Having been used in India, you can be sure that it has been tested in the real world for speed and scale,” he said. Modi described vaccination as the “best hope for humanity to emerge successfully from the pandemic”, and said India had adopted a completely digital approach while planning its vaccination strategy. “In today’s globalised world, if the post-pandemic world has to return to normalcy, such a digital approach is essential. After all, people must be able to prove that they have been vaccinated. Such proof must be safe, secure and trustworthy. People must also have a record of when, where and by whom they have been vaccinated,” he said. Governments are concerned about making sure that each dose of Covid-19 vaccines is tracked and wastage minimised, and all of this wouldn’t be possible without an “end-to-end digital approach”, he added. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, who also addressed the conclave, said the CoWIN platform can be adapted and scaled up for health interventions across the globe. “We stand ready to make the CoWIN platform available to our partner countries,” he said.RS Sharma, CEO, National Health Authority said, “With an interoperable design, CoWIN has been designed as an amalgamation of open APIs. This allows private and public organizations to build on top of the CoWIN platform, while all systems continue to talk to each other and maintain that single source.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-offers-cowin-platform-to-world-community-101625485329306.html
06-07-2021||India||Disappointed at outcome of Delhi meet, says PAGD||An alliance of mainstream political parties in Kashmir on Monday expressed disappointment at the outcome of a landmark all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi two weeks ago, and demanded that the Union government restore the region’s statehood before calling fresh elections. The five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) also criticised the lack of “confidence building measures” (CBM) by the Centre in its first reaction since the June 24 meeting in Delhi, where the Union government appeared to favour holding elections before granting statehood to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). The crucial meeting was the first outreach by the Union government since it controversially scrapped the region’s special status on August 5, 2019, bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union Territories (UT), detained mainstream political leaders for months and clamped a communications blackout. “All the members of PAGD expressed their disappointed at the outcome of the Delhi meeting, especially with the lack in CBMs, such as releasing political and other prisoners from jails, and taking steps to end the atmosphere of suppression. This would have initiated the much needed process of reaching out to the people of J&K who are the biggest stakeholders,” said PAGD spokesperson Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami in a statement. Tarigami, who attended the meeting as a representative of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) must honour its commitment -- made on the floor of Parliament on August 6 -- on granting statehood to J&K. “Any assembly election must be held only after restoration of full statehood for J&K. To this end, the PAGD has decided to reach out to other political parties in J&K with a view to take a common position on the issue,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party state spokesperson Altaf Thakur said the PAGD has been changing its stand to keep themselves relevant in public. “Earlier, they said that unless Article 370 is restored, they won’t contest any election but they still contested the DDC polls. So this is also a ploy to keep themselves relevant after they realised that Article 370 isn’t coming back. They are now crying for statehood that has already been promised by Home Minister Amit Shah on the floor of Parliament.”The PAGD – which seeks the restoration of Article 370, which bestowed special status to J&K before being voided by the Centre -- said it will fight using constitutional, legal and political means to reverse the Centre’s decision.“The PAGD reiterated its commitment to fight together to reverse the unconstitutional and unacceptable changes foisted on the people of J&K on 5th August 2019 using all constitutional, legal and political means at its disposal. “The PAGD’s struggle for undoing these changes will continue as long as it takes while striving to achieve this objective as early as possible,” Tarigami said.The PAGD statement came after a late Sunday meeting at the residence of National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah, and attended by Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, Tarigami, PDP lawmaker Hasnain Masoodi, J&K Peoples Movement chairman Javed Mustafa Mir andAwami National Conference vice-president Muzaffar Ahmed Shah. Abdullah, Mufti, Tarigami, Masoodi were among the 14 people who attended the June 24 meeting.At the three-hour event, Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah stressed on grassroots democracy and the importance of conducting elections in J&K, stating their commitment to restoring the region’s statehood, and urging mainstream leaders to participate in the ongoing delimitation exercise, a contentious process of redrawing poll constituencies. The all-party meeting – which happened after weeks of backchannel talks by national security adviser Ajit Doval and the home ministry -- represented a sharp change in the central government’s policy and was seen as an effort to break the ice with the regional parties and reset political process in the UT.But PAGD politicians indicated that crucial disagreements remained, especially on reinstating Article 370 and returning statehood before conducting assembly elections, which were last held in 2014. At the meeting, the Centre assured that the demand for full statehood will be met but Kashmiri politicians pushed for its restoration before new elections are held, said a person aware of developments. But the J&K leaders were told that elections could not precede the delimitation exercise as the 2019 Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act laid down the condition of carving out new constituencies for polls, said the person quoted above.Despite the overtures, NC and PDP were both non-committal on meeting the delimitation commission, which lands in Kashmir for a three-day visit on Wednesday. Both mainstream parties have boycotted the commission’s meetings so far. Three MPs from the region, NC’s Abdullah, PDP’s Masoodi and Akbar Lone, are members of the commission along with two BJP MPs from Jammu. The panel has until March 2022 to finish the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-happy-with-outcome-of-pm-s-all-party-meeting-on-j-k-pagd-101625470689438.html
