07-07-2021||India||Doctors raise demand for Protection Act in meeting with union DGHS||The union Director General of Health Services (DGHS) met with representatives of doctors’ associations to come up with measures to prevent persistent violence against healthcare providers.A central act making violence against healthcare worker punishable was suggested by the doctors and nurses present in the meeting.A previous attempt in 2019 to draft a similar law that made violence against doctors punishable by up to 10 years imprisonment was stalled after home ministry said a special law was not feasible as health is a state subject.Dr Sunil Kumar, the director general of health services, stressed on preventing overcrowding of patients and relatives, filling up of vacancies, and allowing nurses to optimise their work, according to the representatives of Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA) present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-raise-demand-for-protection-act-in-meeting-with-union-dghs-101625682397656.html
07-07-2021||India||Take quick decision on appeal by life convicts: SC to UP, Bihar and Chhattisgarh||Governments in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh will have to decide applications for the premature release of life convicts who have served 14 years within eight months of the requests being filed, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday, ordering the three states to implement a scheme drafted by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) on an experimental basis.The top court involved NASLA in January this year after a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta came across a case in Chhattisgarh where a convict who completed 14 years imprisonment had to wait another three years for his remission plea to be decided.NALSA got back to the top court in February this year, telling the bench that there were 1,649 prisoners languishing in prisons awaiting a decision on their requests. Besides, it said, there were 431 prisoners who were eligible to file a request but hadn’t applied, 83 prisoners sought legal aid to apply and 752 prisoners had their applications rejected. The findings convinced the bench to ask NALSA to study state policies and come up with a uniform scheme to deal with remission applications.Advocate Gaurav Agrawal, who appeared for NALSA informed the court that a uniform scheme would be problematic since states had different policies, criteria on the eligibility of prisoners and the period that life convicts need to serve. Even the authority empowered to approve remission requests were different. In some states, the jail officials are empowered while some others require a recommendation of an advisory committee.One common factor, NALSA’s analysis concluded, was that there were no deadlines for the authorities. The NALSA scheme approved by the top court involves three steps. It gives states three months for identification and collection of data about eligible prisoners by prison authorities, three months for a recommendation by Sentence Review Board (SRB), and two more months to state government for missing final orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-quick-decision-on-appeal-by-life-convicts-sc-to-up-bihar-and-chhattisgarh-101625682185602.html
07-07-2021||India||Delhiwale: His handmade summer accessory||These days you rarely see hand fans. Most of them, anyway, tend to be of plastic. But this hand fan is so distinct that you might like to have it as drawing room decoration. It’s entirely made of cloth. The fabric is square, pinkish, and enhanced by a red border. Little patches of pink and red are arranged alternately around the fan. In the centre is tucked a tiny swirl of yellow.Sadly, the fan is not for sale.“I made it myself,” says Liyakat Ali in a tone without ego. An elderly beggar in a central Delhi locality, he is sitting this evening on the street-side, perched on an empty rice sack laid on the dusty ground. It’s hot, there’s no breeze, and he’s fanning himself with this very fan. “I made the punkah during the pehla (first) lockdown.”Mr Ali had then gone back to his UP village in Ferozabad, “the district famous for making glass bangles”. While working on the punkah at home, he didn’t benefit from any relative’s help, simply because “I’ve lost my home.” His wife died 40 years ago, he says.At this point, Mr Ali’s long-time friend Om Veer, who earns his living by measuring bodyweight of passersby, and who always sits beside him with his weighing machine, joins the conversation and says, “My wife, too, is dead.”Fanning towards his friend, Mr Ali casually narrates that “my home was over after I married off my three daughters. One died soon after, but two are alive.” In the next sentence, he returns to the fan, saying that “I used bits of clothes lying here and there in the house to sew the punkah.”The finished work looks as neat as if it had been made by the rehearsed hands of a tailor. Was Mr Ali one at some stage of his life? He shakes his head.Meanwhile, Om Veer, the man with the weighing machine, is looking at the fan with renewed admiration. Mr Ali tells him reassuringly, “If you want, I’ll make one for you in the agla (next) lockdown.”Soon it will be dark. Mr Ali will head for dinner in an eatery, after which he will settle down at his regular night-time spot on another footpath, nearby. There he will fan himself to sleep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-his-handmade-summer-accessory-101625681987843.html
07-07-2021||India||‘Wish them best for their ministerial tenure’: PM Modi congratulates new cabinet colleagues||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted the new ministers who were administered their oath of office on the day. Modi’s message to the ministers came following a reshuffle of the cabinet earlier in the day.“I congratulate all the colleagues who have taken oath today and wish them the very best for their ministerial tenure. We will continue working to fulfil aspirations of the people and build a strong and prosperous India,” Modi tweeted.I congratulate all the colleagues who have taken oath today and wish them the very best for their ministerial tenure. We will continue working to fulfil aspirations of the people and build a strong and prosperous India. #Govt4Growth pic.twitter.com/AVz9vL77bOFollowing the expansion of the Union cabinet announced by the PM, 43 new ministers, including 15 cabinet ministers and 28 ministers of state, were appointed as members of the Council of Ministers. President Ram Nath Kovind administered the oath of office to the new ministers in a ceremony held at the Rashtrapati Bhavan earlier in the day.Also, on Tuesday, the Union government carved out a new ministry called the ministry of cooperation, aimed at providing a separate, administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in the country. “The Ministry will work to streamline processes for ‘Ease of doing business’ for co-operatives and enable development of Multi-State Co-operatives (MSCS),” the cabinet secretariat said in a statement released previously on Tuesday.The cabinet expansion is the first since the Modi-led government came back to power in the 2019 parliamentary elections. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the BJP from Congress last year, Rajya Sabha MP and former bureaucrat Ashwini Vaishnaw, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal were among the new entrants in the cabinet.Also read | Cabinet reshuffle: Meet the new brigade of Modi's ministersMeanwhile, former Union ministers Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Sadananda Gowda and Prakash Javadekar, tendered their resignations before the expansion was announced.New portfolios have also been allocated to the ministers on the day, according to which, Mansukh Mandaviya took charge as the minister of health and family welfare and also as the minister of chemicals and fertilizers. Scindia was allotted the ministry of civil aviation while Vaishnaw got the ministry of railways, ministry of communications and the ministry of electronics and information technology.Union home minister Amit Shah took additional charge of the new ministry of cooperation along with the home affairs ministry. Also, Rajnath Singh and Nirmala Sitharaman too retained their respective ministries of defence and finance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wish-them-best-for-their-ministerial-tenure-pm-modi-congratulates-new-cabinet-colleagues-101625680581527.html
07-07-2021||India||AIADMK tries to mollify BJP after ex-minister blames ally for losing Tamil Nadu||Chennai: A video clip of former minister CV Shunmugam’s speech at an event threatened to sour the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) relationship with the Bharatiya Janata Party, forcing the AIADMK’s joint leadership to issue a joint statement asserting that there were no two opinions in the party about the AIADMK-BJP alliance.In the video clip, the AIADMK’s former law minister is heard blaming the BJP for the Tamil Nadu election results.“Since we had an alliance with BJP, we entirely lost the minority votes...The most important reason for loss is our alliance with the BJP. Minorities don’t have any issues with our party and governance. But due to ideological differences they have with the BJP, they didn’t vote for us,” said Shunmugam who lost his seat in Villupuram.to the DMK’s R Lakshmanan by a margin of 22,291 votes.His party, the AIADMK, won just 66 seats in the election, less than half of the 133 seats won by the rival Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK, while the BJP netted four seats. The combined alliance with other regional parties won a total of 75 of the assembly’s 234 seats.The video clip upset many BJP leaders.“Even some of our cadre think that we lost in a few places because we allied with the AIADMK and due to certain decisions they took while they were governing in the last four years,” said BJP’s general secretary KT Raghavan said, asserting that minorities across the country did vote for the party.“But we have to see if CV Shunmugam’s statement is the party’s opinion.”BJP’s Khushbu Sundar shared a Tamil newspaper report of his speech and tweeted, “Actually it’s the other way around.”The AIADMK tried to mollify the BJP, underlining that Shunmugam’s statement wasn’t a formal statement. “It was an internal party meeting. Several party members can share their opinions. That’s off-the-record,” AIADMK’s former minister and spokesperson D Jayakumar said. “He spoke among the party cadre internally so I cannot give my opinion on his statement.”AIADMK’s coordinator and deputy opposition leader O Panneerselvam went into damage control mode and first tweeted a statement that the AIADMK has full faith in the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Considering the interests of the nation and also the welfare of Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK-BJP alliance will continue and there is no second opinion on this,” he said.Later, Panneerselvam and former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami issued a joint statement to underline that there were no two opinions in the AIADMK about its pre-poll alliances. Without naming the BJP, the statement by the AIADMK’s joint leadership said the alliance formed ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-tries-to-mollify-bjp-after-ex-minister-blames-ally-for-losing-tamil-nadu-101625681241510.html
07-07-2021||India||Former bureaucrat Ashwini Vaishnaw to head railway ministry as Goyal moves out||50-year-old Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament from Odisha Ashwini Vaishnaw on Wednesday took oath as a cabinet minister in a major reshuffle by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The bureaucrat turned politician, who has been given the charge of the railway ministry, was elected to the Upper House as a BJP candidate two years ago.A 1994 batch IAS officer, Vaishnaw was particularly known for his involvement in the Public Private Policy framework in infrastructure projects.An IIT (Indian Institute of Technology) graduate, Vaishnaw quit government service in 2008 and went to Wharton University in the United States to pursue MBA. On his return, after working for top firms, he set up his own automotive components manufacturing units in Gujarat. He then held leadership roles across major global companies such as General Electric and Siemens.Vaishnaw’s entry into the railway ministry comes at a time when the national carrier has been mulling ways of generating revenue through different streams, including the non-fare revenue segment, leasing out its vast pool of vacant land and, most importantly, opening doors for Public Private Partnership (PPP) for its trains and stations. It has felt the need to bring in private investment to upgrade its facilities and infrastructure, while keeping an eye on the competition as domestic airlines take away its AC class passengers and passengers increasingly opt to travel by road for shorter distances.The Indian Railways plans to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen to be introduced in the 2023-24 financial year and 151 such trains by 2027. In its pre-bid meeting, Bombardier Transportation India, Siemens Limited, Alstom Transport India Ltd were among the initial 23 firms that evinced interest in running private trains in India.During his tenure as an IAS officer, Vaishnaw worked as the district magistrate-cum collector of Balasore and Cuttack districts. He was also involved in the rescue efforts when the super cyclone hit Odisha in 1999, killing at least 10,000 people.Vaishnaw worked in Odisha till 2003 before being appointed as deputy secretary in the office of former Prime Minister A B Vajpayee. He was later appointed as Vajpayee’s private secretary after the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) lost the election in 2004.Interestingly, in April, Vaishnaw was also nominated as a member of the Press Council of India, for three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bureaucrat-ashwini-vaishnaw-to-head-railway-ministry-as-goyal-moves-out-101625680444561.html
07-07-2021||India||PTI files suit against Centre’s new IT rules, says it impinges on freedom of speech and violates right to privacy||Press Trust of India (PTI), one of India’s largest news agencies has challenged the guidelines of the new Information Technology (IT) rules and has argued that it infringes the right to freedom of speech and expression and violates the right to privacy of the users as well.The news agency has challenged parts of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which seek to supervise the regulation of digital news media publishers. It has called the Code of Ethics "draconian" and said that the Rules "usher in an era of surveillance and fear” that will lead to "self-censorship" and violation of fundamental rights, according to a Forbes India report.Also read: Centre asks SC to transfer petitions against new IT rules from 5 high courtsThis the ninth lawsuit filed by a news organisation against the Centre's Digital Media Code of Ethics and the second by a legacy media company. Filed on behalf of the chief administrative officer Mohini Ranjan Mishra, the petition states that its editor-in-chief and CEO, Vijay Joshi, is involved in the matter, as per the report.The petition, however, stated that it is challenging the Rules only concerned with news publishers and not OTT platforms or intermediaries.On impinging the freedom of speech and expression, PTI argued that the three-tier grievance redressal mechanism, which is headed by an inter-ministerial committee has also been granted emergency blocking powers, which will "inexorably" result in the adjudication of news by the executives. In the new rules the blocking powers have “travelled beyond the scope and mandate of Section 69A(2)”, which allowed the use of blocking powers only against intermediaries. PTI has called the mechanism an "eye wash" as it claimed that publishers of news will be subjected to government diktat at every stage and said that allowing the State to regulate news is "against public interest".The news agency also argued that the Part II of the Rules, under which entities like Jio, Facebook, Twitter, Google, etc. are regulated is “antithetical to fundamental rights” and give “private intermediaries with excessive powers in shaping the disclosure of free speech in the country," reported Forbes. It also said that Rule 7, under which the intermediaries will lose immunity from liability for third party content on non-compliance, will have "chilling effect of the intermediaries" on free speech as they will be over compliant.The news agency also submitted that the Rules aid in the creation of the surveillance state as it requires a publisher to furnish information to the ministry of information and broadcasting in a way for the government to get access to the list of subscribers and users of publishers. The government in this way is "effectively seeking circumvention of industry standard encryption tools and creating a backdoor entry for themselves to monitor online activity of users”, PTI said, arguing that it violates the right to privacy, according to the report.As per a Forbes India previous report, this means that the digital publishers not only have to submit the names of the Twitter handles and Facebook pages but also the details of their telecom service provider, cloud service provider, email service provider, payment service provider, hosting service provider etc. Nikhil Narendran, partner at Trilegal called this "excessive", reported Forbes India and said it is a “symptom of the government trying to exert excessive control over free speech itself”.This is scared to pose a huge cybersecurity risk according to the report as it will create a single database within the ministry that will bare the technical structure of all digital news publishers across the country.PTI also said that the rules have not been consulted by the stakeholders and “it is an abuse of plenary powers enjoyed by the executive with the clear intent of choking the media, which is an anti-theses to the principles of democracy,” said the report.Also read | ‘Follow rules if you want to work’: Delhi HC raps Twitter over non-complianceThe news agency also contested the constitutional validity of the rules. “Given the unconstitutional nature of the Rules, we decided that we would challenge them straightaway," Wasim Beg, partner at L&L Partners that is representing PTI, told Forbes India.The lawsuit differs from that of the Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA), whose members include the digital wings of publishers and news channels such like the Times Group, India Today Group, NDTV as it argues that digital media as a concept has not been defined under the IT. “If the parent act has not defined digital media, the delegated legislation can’t look to govern it,” Forbes India quoted Beg as saying.Earlier in the day, the Delhi high court refused to grant interim protection to PTI against coercive action by the government but issued notice to the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), and the ministry of information and broadcasting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pti-files-suit-against-centre-s-new-it-rules-says-it-impinges-on-freedom-of-speech-and-violates-right-to-privacy-101625672098137.html
07-07-2021||India||Inclusion of 4 Bengal BJP MPs in union govt seen as part of bigger 2024 plan||Induction of four Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha members from West Bengal as union ministers of state on Wednesday evening-- hours after two junior ministers from the state resigned-- was seen in political circles as a ‘reward’ for regions where the saffron camp has gained dividends in the Bengal assembly polls.BJP leaders, such as Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh, said John Barla from Alipurduar, Nisith Pramanik from Cooch Behar, Shantanu Thakur from Bongaon and Dr Subhas Sarkar from Bankura were rewarded for their “performance” and the move was part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constant efforts to give “opportunity” to everybody.Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and Industry minister Partha Chatterjee said Barla was indeed rewarded but for raising the demand for a state or Union territory comprising the north Bengal districts. “This shows that the Centre encourages those who want to divide people and split states,” he said.After Barla, a tribal leader, raised the demand a fortnight ago, several Gorkha groups from the Darjeeling hills as well as the Dalit Rajbanshis in the plains of north Bengal have started talking about their age-old demands for statehood. Armed movements carried out by some of these outfits claimed numerous lives in the past, posing a problem for Marxist chief ministers Jyoti Basu and Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and their successor Mamata Banerjee.The BJP has officially maintained that Barla has expressed his personal opinion and the party has nothing to do with it.For the record, north Bengal, which comprises eight districts, is where the saffron camp outdid the ruling party in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as well as in the recent assembly election. Two TMC ministers were defeated in the region in the assembly polls. Pramanik defeated a former minister but resigned from the assembly to retain his Lok Sabha constituency. Barla did not contest the assembly polls.All the four MPs who got promoted on Wednesday represent regions and communities that backed the BJP in the last two elections.In the assembly polls, the TMC won by securing 213 of the 294 seats against the BJP’s 77 seats. The results showed that TMC managed to regain the trust of many Hindu, tribal and Dalit voters who backed the saffron camp in 2019 in the south Bengal region which comprises 240 assembly segments.In north Bengal, on the other hand, BJP candidates stood their ground at 30 of the region’s 54 assembly segments where identity politics played a key role. Even in south Bengal, the BJP bagged sizeable votes in constituencies located close to the Indo-Bangladesh border where Hindus migrated from East Pakistan either after 1947 or the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War.The BJP’s success in 2019 was credited largely to its ability to reach out to upper caste Hindus, tribal people and Hindu Dalit or Namasudra voters. To secure the votes of citizens representing various castes, sub-castes, religions and linguistic groups in assembly polls, the TMC and BJP banked on strategic campaigns.Dr Sarkar, a physician, represents a region with sizeable backward caste and tribal population where the BJP made maximum inroad in 2019.The state’s scheduled tribe (ST) population stood at 5.29 million during the 2011 census, accounting for about 5.8% of the whole population. Despite the welfare schemes launched by Mamata Banerjee, the BJP won the Bankura and Bishnupur Lok Sabha seats as well as the Midnapore, Jhargram and Purulia seats.In the assembly polls, the BJP won seven of the 12 seats in Bankura district. The competition was so close that in the Bankura assembly seat the BJP defeated TMC’s Sayantika Banerjee, a young actor, by less than one per cent votes.“Seeing Dr Sarkar as a union minister will elevate the morale of local voters. The same applies to the other MPs. This will help the BJP consolidate its position before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Modi and Amit Shah have specific plans for these regions,” a senior state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.Caste politics also became an important factor in large parts of North 24 Parganas and Nadia districts in south Bengal where the Hindu Dalit community has a sizeable presence. In 2019, BJP wrested the Ranaghat and Bongaon Lok Sabha seats in Nadia and North 24 Parganas respectively, largely because of the support from this community.To attract Dalit voters, the saffron camp promised to enforce the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in Bengal so that the Matua community, which is a part of the larger Namasudra community and who came from Bangladesh as refugees, could be granted citizenship.Shantanu Thakur is the head of the Matua community. On March 27, when Bengal voted for the first phase of assembly elections, the chief minister accused Modi of violating the model code of conduct by trying to “woo” the Matua community during his Bangladesh visit on that day. The PM paid a visit to Thakurbari, which is the most sacred pilgrimage site for the Matuas across the world. Modi was accompanied by Thakur who has demanded immediate implementation of CAA.Thakur is the grandson of Binapani Devi, the Matua community’s head who died in 2019, a month after Modi’s visit to the Matua headquarters at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas district.CAA promises citizenship to Hindus, Sikhs, Parsis, Buddhists and Jains coming from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The TMC is opposed to it.Union ministers Babul Supriyo, the MP from Asanol in West Burdwan, and Debasree Chaudhuri from Raigunj in north Bengal resigned from the government on Wednesday. While Chaudhuri did not react in public, Supriyo, who unsuccessfully contested the Tollygunge assembly seat in Kolkata, did not hide his feelings.“Yes, I have resigned from the Council Of Ministers. As I had framed it earlier, “Asked to resign” may not be the right way to put it. I thank Hon’ble Prime Minister @narendramodi for giving me the privilege to serve my country as a Member of his Council of Ministers..” Supriyo tweeted with a smiley.“I am extremely happy that I go today without a spot of corruption on me, having served my constituency with all my might & having enjoyed their confidence when Asansol voted me back as their MP once again, with triple the Margin in 2019,” he said in a second tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inclusion-of-4-bengal-bjp-mps-in-union-govt-seen-as-part-of-bigger-plan-before-2024-101625678961251.html
07-07-2021||India||These MPs from UP, Bihar sworn in as ministers in Modi cabinet. Check list||Prime Minister Narendra Modi revamped his Union cabinet on Wednesday as part of the first expansion of the Union council of ministers in the second term of the central government.Various leaders from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were inducted into the new Union cabinet on Wednesday, which is reported to be representative of the backward communities. Of the several leaders from Bihar and UP, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Pashupati Kumar Paras hogged the spotlight. Earlier this month, he, the younger brother of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, was recognised as the party chief in place of Chirag Paswan after five or six of its MPs gave a letter in support of Paras. Subsequently, he was listed as the Lok Sabha LJP leader. Paswan contested his selection as the party leader.Also read| Cabinet reshuffle: Meet the new brigade of Modi's cabinet ministersParas is a Lok Sabha MP from Hajipur constituency in Bihar and has been a seven-time MLA and one-time MLC. He also served as a minister in the Bihar government. He has been appointed as a cabinet minister by the Prime Minister.Here's a list of leaders from Bihar and UP, who took oath as ministers:Ramchandra Prasad Singh is a Rajya Sabha MP for Bihar. He is serving his second term as MP and is a retired IAS officer from the 1984 batch. He has also been inducted in the Union cabinet.Pankaj Choudhary, the Lok Sabha MP from Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh took oath as a minister on Wednesday. He is serving his sixth term as MP and has held the post of deputy mayor of Gorakhpur in the past.Anupriya Singh Patel, MP for Mirzapur in UP, is serving her second term as the Lok Sabha representative. She has also served as the Union minister of state for health under PM Modi.Satya Pal Singh Baghel, MP for Agra is serving his fifth term. Prior to taking oath on Wednesday, he has served as a cabinet minister for animal husbandry, fisheries and minor irrigation in the UP government.Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma, the Lok Sabha MP from UP’s Jalaun took oath on Wednesday. Singh was also an MLA in Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly and is currently serving his fifth term as MP.Kaushal Kishore, who is serving the second term as MP, is the Lok Sabha representative from Mohanlalganj in Uttar Pradesh. In the past, he has been a minister of state in the UP government.BL Verma is the Rajya Sabha MP for Uttar Pradesh, he is the first time MP from the state.Ajay Kumar, a Lok Sabha MP from Kheri in UP is serving his second term as MP. He has also been an MLA in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly and a member in Kheri Zila Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-mps-from-up-bihar-sworn-in-as-ministers-in-modi-cabinet-check-list-101625665715094.html
07-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle: Meet the new brigade of Modi's cabinet ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday allocated portfolios to the newly-inducted lawmakers shortly after their oath-taking ceremony. A total of 15 ministers were inducted on Wednesday evening to the cabinet while 28 lawmakers were given Union minister of state berths.The Union ministry of health will be led by Mansukh Mandaviya, who will also be the in-charge of chemicals and fertilisers ministry.Former Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur will head the Union ministry of information and broadcasting. Check the full list:Prime minister and also in-charge of: Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions; Department of Atomic Energy; Department of Space; All important policy issues; and All other portfolios not allocated to any Union ministerHere is the list of newly inducted Union ministers of state:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-reshuffle-meet-the-new-brigade-of-modi-s-cabinet-ministers-101625676620921.html
07-07-2021||India||‘Very good selection’: Yediyurappa on induction of 4 Karnataka MPs in PM’s team||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inducted four Karnataka Parliamentarians including Shobha Karandlaje, A Narayana Swamy, Bhagwanth Khuba and Rajeev Chandrashekar- a Rajya Sabha MP, as ministers of state into his government at the Centre.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a higher priority to Karnataka and inducted four ministers from the state. On behalf of the people of the state, I thank the prime minister. He has done a very good selection. All four are influential, work impactfully and this will also give the state more strength,” BS Yediyurappa, the Karnataka chief minister said on Wednesday.Senior party leader from the state, DV Sadananda Gowda was dropped as the Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers.However, analysts and observers said that the induction of Karandlaje, the firebrand member of parliament from Udupi-Chikmagalur, raises several possibilities and has a bearing on the power struggle going on in the Karnataka BJP.“The induction of Shobha Karandlaje you can read in one of two ways. One is it can be seen as Yediyurappa is secure or as a kind of prelude to attacking Yediyurappa,” said one Bengaluru-based political analyst, requesting not to be named.Karandlaje, a Yediyurappa loyalist, had left the saffron outfit in 2012 following Yeddiyurappa’s exit from the party due to differences with the party high command following his removal as Karnataka chief minister after he was indicted in the Lokayukta report for illegal mining in the state.BY Raghavendra, the member of parliament from Shivamogga and Yediyurappa’s son, was among the probables but did not make it to the union cabinet.The analyst cited above said that Raghavendra’s induction would have been a clear sign that Yediyurappa was to be replaced in line with the unwritten rule in the saffron party that only allows one person per family to hold an administrative post.“The current selection is not going to give any political dividends to the BJP in Karnataka,” A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University said.Induction of Karandlaje, a Vokkaliga; Khuba, a Lingayat; and Narayana Swamy, a scheduled caste is being seen as giving representation to all the major communities in Karnataka. Chandrashekar, a Brahmin, is likely to have been drafted in as a technocrat, analysts indicate.Karandlaje has long held a reputation of making provocative and communally charged statements, courting controversies, as seen in the run up to the 2018 assembly elections.Analysts said that the BJP ignored Yediyurappa’s choices and selected its own candidates like done in the past for Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha and even the legislative council, suggesting his powers had waned over the years.Barring Chandrashekar, the other three candidates are proficient only in Kannada, which puts them at a disadvantage in corridors of power in Delhi, analysts said. They added that the reshuffle continued the consolidation of powers with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).The BJP is yet to come to an agreement with Yediyurappa, who hopes to not just continue in the top chair for the remainder of the two-year term but also place his sons within the party and government, people aware of the developments said.The 78-year-old Yediyurappa is facing attack from all quarters, including from within his own government and party over alleged corruption, non-performance, Covid mismanagement and charges that his other son, BY Vijayendra is running a parallel administration under the aegis of his father.His past cases have also returned to haunt him, making the negotiations harder between the party and the chief minister over a possible replacement, analysts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-good-selection-yediyurappa-on-induction-of-4-karnataka-mps-in-pm-s-team-101625677041065.html
07-07-2021||India||Telangana’s Reddy elevated to Cabinet, four MPs of Karnataka get MoS berth||Six lawmakers from Karnataka, Telangana and Tamil Nadu were inducted to the Union Cabinet on Wednesday.Four cabinet ministers were inducted to the Union cabinet on Wednesday from Karnataka after Prime Minister Narendra Modi rejigged his Union Cabinet. The Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje, Chitradurga MP A Narayanaswamy, Rajya Sabha MP from Bengaluru Rajeev Chandrasekhar and Bidar MP Bhagwanth Khuba were inducted into the Cabinet. Khubha, Karandlaje and Narayanaswamy have been inducted as ministers of state.Former Tamil Nadu chief Dr L. Murugan was also inducted into the Cabinet. He will also serve as a minister of state. Murugan also served as a vice chairman of the National Commission of Scheduled Castes.Secunderabad MP Gangapuram Kishan Reddy was elevated to the position of cabinet minister. The Telangana lawmaker served as Union minister of state for home affairs and also the party’s floor leader in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh legislative assemblies.After his swearing-in Reddy thanked the Prime Minister via a series of tweets. “I express my deep sense of gratitude to the Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the trust reposed in me. I will sincerely make an endeavour to live up to his expectations and that of my people,” Reddy said.He said that he will work hard to ensure that PM Modi’s vision of new India is fulfilled. He also said he will pay equal attention to development and growth of his home state Telangana.“I will now have a two-fold strategy -- to strengthen the hands of PM Narendra Modi to contribute to his dream of building a new India. I shall actively contribute to the development of Telangana in a manner that the aspirations, vision and dreams of our martyrs are realised,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telanganas-reddy-elevated-to-cabinet-four-mps-of-karnataka-get-mos-berth-101625674437951.html
07-07-2021||India||Chirag Paswan to move court against uncle Paras’s induction in Union cabinet||Lok Janshakti Party’s Member of Parliament from Jamui, Chirag Paswan said on Wednesday that a case will be filed in Delhi High Court on Thursday against the induction of his uncle and LJP MP from Hajipur, Pashupati Paras, into the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Chirag, who is locked in a power tussle with the Paras-led faction, ever since the party split on June 17, said on Wednesday that his party continued to be with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre. In the 2019 elections, LJP won six seats as an NDA member. Five of these MPs led by Paras Paswan have rebelled against Chirag and have been recognised by the Lok Sabha speaker. Chirag has not only sought a review of the speaker’s preliminary decision to recognise Paras as the leader of the LJP in the Lok Sabha but had also indicated on Tuesday that he would go to court if his uncle was inducted as a union minister on the party quota.“A case is to be filed against Paras’s induction in the union cabinet in Delhi high court on Thursday,” said party leader Javed Ashraf.A few hours before the expansion of the cabinet, he tweeted, “Pashupati Kumar Paras from Lok Janshakti Party has already been expelled from the party for betraying the party and top leadership and now on inducting him in the Union Cabinet... the party lodges strong objections.”Paswan has said that while it was the PM’s prerogative to appoint ministers in his cabinet, Paras can not be given a ministerial berth on LJP quota since he had been expelled by the party’s highest decision making body led by Paswan himself. “LJP has nothing to do with him if he is made a minister, from his faction,” Chirag Paswan said.The Jamui MP said that the LJP considered Pashupati Paras ji to be the leader of the House among the MPs expelled from the party. “The LJP had again given a review petition before the Lok Sabha Speaker on his decision, which is still under consideration. The LJP has filed a petition in the Delhi High Court against the decision of the Lok Sabha Speaker’s preliminary decision in which expelled MP Pashupati Paras from the party was considered as the leader of the LJP.Chirag claims that 66 out of the 75 members in the LJP national executive are with him and Pashupati Kumar Paras claim of becoming the national president will not stand before the Election Commission or in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-to-move-court-against-uncle-paras-s-induction-in-union-cabinet-101625673680680.html
07-07-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Welfare schemes get lion’s share in Mamata govt’s budget and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Welfare schemes get lion’s share in Mamata govt’s Bengal budgetWelfare schemes, infrastructure, special rebate on stamp duty and amendments in road tax were the highlights of the ₹3,08,727 crore budget for 2021-22 that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government placed before the West Bengal assembly on Wednesday, around two months after being sworn in for the third time since 2011. Read moreSC asks Centre to submit panel report on aircraft fumigation to prevent mosquitoThe Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to submit the report of an expert committee tasked at finding out if spraying of insecticides or fumigating aircraft as a solution to mosquito menace was harmful for passengers. Read moreSchools in Andhra Pradesh to reopen on August 16, online classes from July 12The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to reopen schools in the state from August 16, as the number of infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to see a downward trend in the state. Read moreWHO recommends tocilizumab, sarilumab for critically ill Covid-19 patientsThe World Health Organization (WHO) has recommended interleukin-6 receptor blockers for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients who are severely or critically ill. Read more'Dilip Kumar couldn't recognise anyone in last few years,' says Lata Mangeshkar in a heartbreaking notePlayback singer Lata Mangeshkar shared a heartbreaking note on Instagram following the death of Dilip Kumar. The actor, aged 98, died on Wednesday morning. Lata shared a gallery of pictures, one from a different era, and remembered her 'older brother'. Read moreDevdutt Padikkal wishes MS Dhoni before cutting cake as Team India celebrates birthdays of a legend and a youngsterOn July 7th, 2021, former India cricket captain MS Dhoni celebrated his 40th birthday. On the same day, a youngster Devdutt Padikkal also celebrated his 21st birthday. Read moreHow to turn on dark mode on YouTube on desktop, Android and iOSYouTube is possibly one of the first widely used platforms that offered dark mode. As YouTube explains it, “Dark theme allows you to tone down your screen’s glare and experience YouTube with a dark background.” Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-welfare-schemes-get-lion-s-share-in-mamata-govt-s-bengal-budget-and-all-the-latest-news-101625669003467.html
07-07-2021||India||Congress’ P Chidambaram attacks Modi govt over resignation of Harsh Vardhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal||Following the resignations of former Union health minister, Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP P Chidambaram took a swipe at the Modi government for its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. He also pointed to the resignations of the Union education minister and the minister of state, education, and said that the national education policy (NEP) “should be shown the exit door.”Chidambaram made his remarks in a series of tweets during the reshuffle of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet on the day. Former ministers Harsh Vardhan (health) and Ramesh Pokhriyal (education) had submitted their resignations ahead of the revamp, which were then accepted by the President of India.“The resignations of the Union Health Minister and the MoS Health is a candid confession that the Modi government has utterly failed in managing the pandemic,” Chidambaram said.There is a lesson for ministers in these resignations. If things go right the credit will go to the PM, if things go wrong the Minister will be the fall guy.That is the price a Minister pays for implicit obedience and unquestioning subservience.“There is a lesson for ministers in these resignations. If things go right the credit will go to the PM, if things go wrong the Minister will be the fall guy. That is the price a Minister pays for implicit obedience and unquestioning subservience.”In a similar comment about Pokhriyal, Chidambaram questioned the NEP and mentioned that the policy was criticised by “states, political parties, educationists, teachers, academics and scholars.” He also said that the “NEP too should be shown the Exit door.”“We need an NEP that recognises States’ rights, the primacy of science, the importance of liberal arts and the centrality of regional languages. We need an NEP that lays stress on measurable outcomes,” he further tweeted.The NEP too should be shown the Exit doorWe need an NEP that recognises States’ rights, the primacy of science, the importance of liberal arts and the centrality of regional languages. We need an NEP that lays stress on measurable outcomesAlso read | 'Poor Dr Harsh Vardhan': Jairam Ramesh on health minister's resignationResignation of Dr Harsh Vardhan, especially among other ministers, garnered many comments from the opposition Congress leaders. Party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala also criticised Modi for “mismanagement of Covid-19.”“National Disaster Management Authority is responsible for criminal mis-management of #COVID19.It is headed by the Prime Minister. Will the PM take responsibility for his failures? Or will the PM only make Dr. Harshvardhan the scapegoat for PM’s failures?” Surjewala asked, in a tweet.Meanwhile, another Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh tweeted “Poor Dr. Harsh Vardhan, a good man has been made a scapegoat for monumental failures at the highest level — nowhere else.”Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Sadananda Gowda and Babul Supriyo were among some of the ministers who resigned before the cabinet reshuffle. As many as 43 new ministers were appointed on Wednesday as members of the Council of Ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-p-chidambaram-attacks-modi-govt-over-resignation-of-harsh-vardhan-ramesh-pokhriyal-101625671179053.html
07-07-2021||India||Contact tracing in Delta variants a challenge: Karnataka||When Bengaluru reported its first Covid-19 case on March 8, 2020, the health department along with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) made a list of 2,666 primary and secondary contacts of the 40-year-old techie who was diagnosed with the infection after arrival from the United States. In the following months, BBMP ensured that most of the contacts were traced and tested. This was one of the reasons why Bengaluru had only 385 cases on June 1, 2020, while Chennai, Mumbai and New Delhi had reported 15,770; 40,877 and 20,834 cases respectively on the same day. More than a year later, during the peak of second wave of Covid cases, authorities were tracing only four contacts, while government guidelines required 20 contacts per patient to be traced. The failure of contact tracing was one of the biggest reasons attributed to the spike in Covid cases in the state, among others. With the cases coming down and the new Delta variant posing a threat, authorities are now looking to revive the contact tracing efforts, at least in the case of patients infected with the Delta variants. So far, the state has recorded 725 cases of the Delta variants and two cases of Delta plus. As per BBMP records, out of the 725 cases of patients infecting with the Delta variant, 525 are from Bengaluru, followed by 77 from Vijayapura and 40 from Udupi. Two labs in Bengaluru — Nimhans and National Centre for Biological Sciences are involved in genomic sequences of samples. A day after the second Delta Plus variant case was detected in Karnataka, on June 23, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the state was monitoring the emergence of new variants and announced six labs for genome sequencing. “Wherever we have a suspicion, we are doing genomic sequencing. We are doing random checks of 5% of the total samples checked,” Sudhakar had said. The Delta variant was the most predominant variant circulating in May and June in Karnataka. Nearly 3,000 samples have been processed at the two labs and Nimhans has done more than 1,000 of them. However, health department sources said the samples are almost a month old and results are coming now. The increased genome sequencing comes with a challenge and also an opportunity for the health department officials. Since the new variants are considered a bigger concern, the health department is now focussing on increasing contact tracing in these cases. “We want to trace as many contacts as possible in these cases,” said a senior health department official, who didn’t want to be named. He, however, added that the department is facing a big challenge in contact tracing since it takes at least 15 days for genomic sequencing of samples. “Since it takes time for these sequencing results to come, most of the patients have left the hospitals after recovering or it has been a considerable amount of time before we can go back to them,” he said. He added that contact tracing in normal cases has been affected in recent times because of the spike in cases during the second wave. “In most of the cases, we have to go back to ensure in-depth tracing is done in case of Delta variants. It is a difficult task,” the officials added. Experts, however, said there is no need to panic over the new variants. “Whether it is more infectious, there is no evidence to show that. They are tracking the patients to find if the virus spreads faster. We will know this soon,” said Dr Ravi, former head of the neurovirology department at NIMHANS and member of Karnataka’s TAC on Covid-19. He added that it doesn’t seem that the Delta Plus variant is more virulent. “The pattern of disease in Delta Plus is no different from what is seen in the Delta variant. Most of the Delta Plus cases are from samples collected more than a month ago. My reading is that if it was collected one month back, had it (the Delta plus variant) been so deadly, there would have been a higher number of cases and deaths. In fact, the numbers are low now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contact-tracing-in-delta-variants-a-challengekarnataka-101625671400443.html
07-07-2021||India||Pratima Bhowmik 1st permanent resident of Tripura to get union cabinet berth||Two years after she was elected to the Parliament in 2019 on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket, 52-year old Pratima Bhowmik took oath as a Union minister on Wednesday, becoming the first permanent resident of the small northeastern state to do so. “A moment of immense pride for #Tripura that Pratima Bhoumik ji, a foremost representative of #NariShakti of the state, has joined PM Shri Narendra Modi ji led Union Council of Ministers,” Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb wrote on his Facebook and wished Bhowmik success. A graduate in science, Bhowmik has been with the BJP since 1991. A year after joining the party, Bhowmik became a member of the BJP state committee and was made chief of the party’s Dhanpur Mandal the subsequent year. Pratima also served as the vice president of the party’s youth and women wing. Later, in 2016, she was made the general secretary of the party. She twice challenged Tripura’s longest serving chief minister Manik Sarkar in assembly polls in 1998 and 2018 but lost.Later, she defeated the then sitting MP Shankar Prasad Datta in 2019 Lok Sabha polls by a huge margin of 305,689 votes.Born of a school teacher father, Pratima has three siblings. In her earlier days, Pratima used to play Kho-kho and Kabaddi at block, district and state-level events. She also used to practise farming in her native place at Baranarayan in Sonamura. Prior to her, Dr Triguna Sen from West Bengal represented Tripura in the Rajya Sabha and became education and petroleum minister in former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s cabinet. Santosh Mohan Dev, a resident of Assam, contested the Lok Sabha polls in 1989 from West Tripura constituency and became a minister in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s cabinet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inducted 36 new faces into his council of ministers, promoted seven junior ministers, and dropped 12 ministers in his biggest reshuffle since the beginning of his first term in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pratima-bhaumik-1st-permanent-resident-of-tripura-to-get-union-cabinet-berth-101625667801213.html
07-07-2021||India||SC asks Centre to submit panel report on aircraft fumigation to prevent mosquito||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to submit the report of an expert committee tasked at finding out if spraying of insecticides or fumigating aircraft as a solution to mosquito menace was harmful for passengers. The apex court’s order came after additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati informed the bench that owing to the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, the committee was unable to submit the report. It had to be submitted in pursuance of the November 29, 2019, and February 7, 2020 orders.The Centre has now taken time till September 7, 2021 to complete the exercise, the top court bench stated. “The Union of India shall apprise the Court of the report of the expert committee in the meantime,” the bench added.The Supreme Court was hearing pleas against the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) ban of spraying disinfectants and pesticides in aircraft. The NGT had initiated proceedings based on an e-mail by US-based neurologist Dr Jai Kumar, who said that fumigation on planes with chemicals like phenothrin, an organo-phosphorus neurotoxin, was harmful for human beings. He claimed that these chemicals pose the risk of causing cancer and auto-immune diseases, including lupus, Parkinson’s disease and memory loss. Kumar further claimed that this practice solely exists in Indian airlines, and that all other airlines have ceased doing it.Notably, the apex court had earlier said that it was not in favour of imposing a blanket ban and may permit it on certain routes where mosquito problem was prevalent to follow the practice, after the committee submits its report.IndiGo Airlines, which moved the Supreme Court against the NGT ban, stated that several Indian airports are faced with mosquito menace, including in Kolkata, Patna, Delhi, Jaipur, Chennai, Raipur, Guwahati, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar, Dehradun, Lucknow and Pune.The airlines also said that the blanket ban was keeping them from taking steps towards safety and protection of passengers, especially in monsoon season when vector-borne diseases like malaria and dengue are abundant.IndiGo further claimed that they have already received several complaints due to the issue, with some even filing cases against the company.The apex court has directed the expert committee to find out if fumigation is injurious to human health, and what are the best practices followed by foreign airlines.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-to-submit-panel-report-on-aircraft-fumigation-to-prevent-mosquito-101625666641589.html
07-07-2021||India||Schools in Andhra Pradesh to reopen on August 16, online classes from July 12||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to reopen schools in the state from August 16, as the number of infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to see a downward trend in the state.Audimulapu Suresh, the state education minister, also said that online classes would commence from July 12, news agency ANI reported.The announcement from the state education minister followed a discussion with chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy.In a tweet, Suresh said,“CM Jagan’s actions are aimed at providing quality education in schools,” and stressed that the key decisions regarding reopening of the schools have been taken following a meeting with the chief minister. Already, teachers in the state have been asked to visit the schools on alternate days beginning from July, 2021. It was also said that students would be allowed to go to their schools and visit their teachers to clarify any doubts.Earlier on Monday, CM Jagan Mohan Reddy had also announced a few relaxations to the Covid-19 curfew in the state that would come into effect from Thursday (July 8). According to the new rules, curfew would be relaxed between 6am and 10pm except in east and west Godavari districts, where it would end by 7pm. All theatres, restaurants, gyms and function halls would be allowed to operate with alternate seating arrangement and half their capacity.Following the first wave of Covid-19 infections in the state, schools were gradually reopened in Andhra Pradesh in a phased manner from November 2020. While only classes 9 and 10 were initially commenced, other classes were reopened a few months later between January and February 2021. However, due to the increase in the number of cases during the second wave of infections, the government again ordered that the schools would remain shut.According to a bulletin from the state health department on Wednesday, 3,166 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,911,231 people have tested positive for the disease while the death toll stood at 12,919.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-andhra-pradesh-to-reopen-on-august-16-online-classes-from-july-12-101625665664434.html
07-07-2021||India||7 women MPs who got inducted into PM Modi's new council of ministers||Seven women MPs took oath on Wednesday to be inducted into Prime Minister Narendra Modi's new council of ministers aimed to serve new India. Sources have emphasised that the new inductions have been done keeping diversity in mind with a special focus on the representation of all sections of the society including gender, caste etc.Follow live updates of PM Modi's Cabinet reshuffleWhen the Modi cabinet took oath in 2019, it was criticised for scanty representation of women with only three cabinet ministers and 3 ministers of state. With Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigning, the number of cabinet ministers came down to two -- Nirmala Sitharaman and Smriti Irani. The seven women MPs who were sworn in on Wednesday are likely to get ministers of state with the number of cabinet ministers remaining two. Niranjan Jyoti, Renuka Singh, and Debasree Chaudhury were the ministers of state. Among them, Debasree Chaudhury has been dropped in this reshuffle.Here is all you need to know about them:Anupriya Singh Patel (40)A Lok Sabha MP from Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh, Anupriya Singh Patel is serving her second term as the MP. She has served as Union minister of state for health under PM Narendra Modi. She has also been an MLA in Uttar Pradesh. She has an MBA degree from Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj University. Before joining politics, she worked as a professor at Amity University.Prakash Javadekar, Ravi Shankar Prasad quit ahead of PM Modi's Cabinet shuffleSushri Shobha Karandlaje (54)﻿A Lok Sabha MP for Udupi, Chikmagalur in Karnataka, the former state minister is now serving her second term as an MP. She has also been 1-time MLA and 1-time MLC in Karnataka. She was state minister before and held several portfolios including food and civil supplies, power, rural development and panchayati raj System. She has an MA degree in Sociology from Mangalore University.Darshana Vikram Jardosh (60)﻿A Lok Sabha MP for Surat serving her 3rd term in the office, Darshana Vikram Jardosh has been a corporator of Surat Municipal Corporation and a member of Gujarat Social Welfare Board in the past. She is the director of Sanskruti, an art and cultural organisation. She has studied BCom from K P Commerce College, Surat.Meenakshi Lekhi (54)﻿Prominent Delhi BJP leader, serving her 2nd term as the MP, Meenakshi Lekhi has been a member of the New Delhi Municipal Corporation. By profession, she is a Supreme Court lawyer. She has studied LLB at Delhi University.Annpurna Devi (51)﻿A Lok Sabha MP for Kodarma in Jharkhand, serving her 1st term as the MP, Annpurna Devi has been a four-time MLA from Jharkhand and Bihar. She has served as minister in Jharkhand holding portfolios like irrigation, women and child welfare, registration. She also served as minister of state for mines and geology in the Bihar government when she was only 30. She has an MA in History from Ranchi University.Sushri Pratima Bhoumik (52)﻿A Lok Sabha MP from Tripura West, serving her first term as the MP, Sushri Pratima Bhoumik comes from a farming family. She holds a graduate degree in Bio-Science from Women's College, Tripura University.Bharati Pravin Pawar (42)﻿﻿A Lok Sabha MP for Dindori in Maharashtra serving her first term as an MP, Bharati has served as a member of Nashik Zila Parishad. By profession, she is a doctor and holds an MBBS degree in surgery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-women-mps-who-got-inducted-into-pm-modi-s-new-council-of-ministers-101625664080388.html
07-07-2021||India||PM Modi’s Cabinet reshuffle: Scindia, Puri, Sonowal among bigwigs inducted||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the expansion of his cabinet on Wednesday. The carefully calibrated exercise was undertaken keeping in view the assembly elections scheduled next year in several states and to balance the alliance arithmetic. As many as 43 new ministers have been inducted into the cabinet and a new ministry -- ministry of cooperation -- was carved out before the reshuffle.Full list of new entrants: Scindia, Sonowal and Lekhi make it to the cabinet7 women MPs who got inducted into PM Modi's new council of ministersThe most notable inclusion has been Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March last year. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh in July last year. Sarbananda Sonowal and Narayan Rane, two former chief ministers, have been inducted into the Union cabinet, too. Meanwhile, Hardeep Singh Puri, Kiren Rijiju and Mansukh Mandaviya also took oath as cabinet ministers. The Cabinet reshuffle threw several shockers, too. Former Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was dropped from the cabinet, along with Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar. First time MPLIVE: Bharati Pravin Pawar, Bishweswar Tudu and Shantanu Thakur take oath as ministersApna Dal leader Anupriya Patel has been inducted from Uttar Pradesh, which is among the states going to polls in 2022. Patel had earlier met BJP chief JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah last month. Patel made a re-entry to the Cabinet as she was a minister in the Union cabinet during PM Modi’s first five years.PM Modi also accommodated BJP’s ally and Bihar's ruling party Janata Dal (United). JD(U) chief RCP Singh is among the new entrants. His induction followed the visit of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to the national capital last week. Lok Janshakti Party leader Pashupati Nath Paras was also inducted on Wednesday.PM Modi held a series of meetings in the last few weeks with various chief ministers and Union ministers ahead of the cabinet reshuffle. The council of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi will now have 77 ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-cabinet-reshuffle-scindia-puri-sonowal-among-bigwigs-take-oath-101625663836585.html
07-07-2021||India||Assam’s cow protection law move raises concerns in Meghalaya||Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled Assam’s plans to enact a cow protection law has raised concerns in neighbouring Meghalaya, which has a largely beef consuming population. In May, Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi announced the introduction of the legislation in the assembly session this month. The proposed law also envisages a complete ban on the transportation of cattle from other parts of the country.Assam is the only source of the transportation of cattle and almost all goods from the rest of the country to the northeast. Though the legislation is yet to be enacted, the Assam government has stopped the entry of cattle into the state.Most of the cattle that enter Assam gets supplied to other states in the region, where beef is consumed. Meghalaya’s Khasi Jaiñtia Butchers Association general secretary Generous Warlarpih said their friends, who sell beef in Guwahati and Shillong, are complaining about the shortage of meat. “In fact, it is slowly becoming a rare commodity in Guwahati especially.”Also Read | Total Covid lockdown in 7 districts of Assam from today: Check guidelines hereHe added Meghalaya, a Christian-dominated state, imports 90% of meat from other states via Assam. Warlarpih added the proposed legislation there will affect both supplies and lead to a steep rise in the price of beef.“We hope the Meghalaya government foresees this problem and puts in place measures to ensure safe and smooth transportation of our cattle through Assam,” Warlarpih said. “We are already facing so many problems in bringing cattle to the state and cattle smuggling is also a major hurdle. If this law is going to be another burden, then it will be the people who will suffer.”Meghalaya’s principal secretary (animal husbandry) GHP Raju said they are aware of Assam’s plan. “The laws by other states shall not create any inconvenience to the poor farmers of our state.” He added it was too premature to comment on a law yet to be enacted. Raju said the government will not allow such a law to impede meat consumption and will ensure smooth transportation of cattle via Assam. He added it is entirely up to Assam to enact legislation on cow protection since it is a state subject, “The Assam government, or for that matter any government, can create a mechanism to verify if the cattle have been brought from outside Assam and if their destination is Meghalaya. “If it is prohibited, then there has to be a mechanism to facilitate the transportation of cattle from other places to Meghalaya through Assam.”Meghalaya chief secretary MS Rao said the citizens should not be unduly worried about this. “It is a non-issue, and we will handle it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assams-cow-protection-law-move-raises-concerns-in-meghalaya-101625663000012.html
07-07-2021||India||75-yr-old homeopathy doctor succumbs to Covid-19 in Assam’s Cachar||A 75-year-old homeopathy doctor succumbed to Covid-19 in Cachar district of Assam on Tuesday. His family said Ranjit Sen lost the will to live ever since he was declared a foreigner by the foreigners’ tribunal in 2018. He was arrested and put in a detention centre meant for suspected foreigners inside Silchar Central Jail. He didn’t challenge the tribunal’s order to prove his citizenship. He was released only last year following a Supreme Court directive ordering release of those who have been in detention for over two years. His grandon Hrithik said, “He regularly voted in elections. But he wasn’t the same ever since his arrest and detention. He didn’t want to live anymore because he felt insulted.” Also Read | Total Covid lockdown in 7 districts of Assam from today: Check guidelines hereSen was declared positive for Covid-19 virus last week when his family took him to a local hospital for regular health checkup. He was admitted in the hospital but falling oxygen level made his condition critical. On Tuesday afternoon he breathed his last at the hospital. A special team of Cachar district administration cremated him in accordance with the Covid protocol. Sen is the second declared foreigner in Barak Valley part of Assam to die after being declared a foreigner. In December last year, 104-year-old Chandradhar Das died at his home at Amraghat area in Cachar. His was an ex parte judgment by the foreigners’ tribunal after he missed its notices and didn’t appear for the hearing. He was taken to Silchar detention centre but released on medical grounds after two months. All the declared foreigners in Barak Valley have been released on bail after the Supreme Court guideline, and they are fighting their cases in tribunal courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-75-yr-old-homeopathy-doctor-declared-foreigner-succumbs-to-covid19-101625662520038.html
07-07-2021||India||Doing it for polls to distract people: Kharge on increased representation of SC, OBC communities in new cabinet||Congress MP and leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Wednesday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's new cabinet. On the news of record induction of members from the OBC and the Scheduled Caste communities, Kharge said the Centre is doing it for polls and to distract people. He added that this is not being done for the welfare of communities but out of compulsion, according to news agency ANI."Several Dalits, backward caste members are being made ministers. They are doing it from the point of polls. This is being done to distract people. They are not doing this for the welfare of communities but because of their compulsion," ANI quoted Kharge as saying.HT has learned that the new council of ministers is expected to see greater representation from the SC, ST, OBC communities.The cabinet expansion and reshuffle of the Union council of ministers, the first in the second term of PM Modi, is scheduled to take place on Wednesday evening. The council of ministers may see 15 to 20 members from the SC and OBC communities, "and members from non-dominant smaller communities are also likely to find a place", according to people aware of the developments, reported ANI.The new council of ministers is also likely to see greater representation of women and of sub-regions of states with an idea to empower the smallest regions of the country, ANI reported citing the people aware of the developments.At least 43 new ministers are reported to be sworn in on Wednesday evening in the new Union cabinet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Jyotiraditya Scindia, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Delhi's Meenakshi Lekhi, Anurag Thakur, Ajay Bhatt, Anupriya Patel among others will take oath this evening, according to a list released by the news agency.Several ministers stepped down from their offices ahead of the cabinet rejig. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was one of them. Other Union ministers resigning from their posts included Babul Supriyo, Santosh Gangwar, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Sadananda Gowda etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doing-it-for-polls-to-distract-people-kharge-on-increased-representation-of-sc-obc-communities-in-new-cabinet-101625656252781.html
07-07-2021||India||Madras HC grants conditional bail to former AIADMK minister||The Madras high court on Wednesday granted conditional bail to former AIADMK minister M Manikandan who was arrested for allegedly raping and cheating a Malayasian citizen, who had acted in Tamil and Malayalam movies, by falsely promising to marry her. Justice M Nirmal Kumar ordered for the petitioner to be released on bail after he surrendered his passport and deposited two sureties of ₹10,000 each on the condition that he will appear before the investigating officer daily for two weeks and thereafter whenever called.The minister and the Malayasia women had been living together though Manikandan was married. According to the complainant, the accused had established sexual relations with her on the false pretext of marriage after divorcing his wife. She also alleged that she was thrice forced to abort her pregnancy by the minister. Manikandan’s counsel pointed out that a substantial portion of the investigation was over and assured the court that the former minister will “not evade from justice and shall abide by any condition”. He stated that the case was filed out of political vendetta. Earlier, the court had granted Manikandan interim protection till June 9 before dismissing his anticipatory bail plea on June 16, following which he was arrested from Bengaluru on June 20. Upon his arrest, police recorded his confession and took him to Madurai where the duo often stayed in an apartment.In his bail petition, Manikandan argued that the complainant was a well-educated and employed girl and could not have been waylaid by the leader. After hearing both sides of the argument, the court noted that they were in a relationship from May 2017 to April 2021 and the complainant had the intelligence to understand what she was consenting to.“The defacto complainant was well aware of the consequence that the marriage between her and the petitioner would not take place,” the court said in its order.“Thus leading to the inference that she freely, voluntarily and consciously consented to have sexual intercourse with the petitioner and her consent was not in consequence of any misconception of fact and they were living together as man and wife. Thus, there is a clear distinction between rape and consensual sex.”The Malayasian woman’s counsel did not immediately respond to the court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-grants-conditional-bail-to-former-aiadmk-minister-101625662339873.html
07-07-2021||India||Hizbul Mujahideen commander killed hours after his capture in Srinagar||A Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) commander was killed on Wednesday hours after he was captured at Handwara in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Police said Mehrajuddin Halwai was killed in an exchange of fire when he was taken to locate weapons at a hideout. They added Halwai allegedly picked up his rifle and started firing at security forces.Since June 3, this is the third such killing. “One of the oldest and top commanders of HM terror outfit...got neutralised in the Handwara encounter. He was involved in several terror crimes. A big success,” said inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar.Police said Halwai was a contemporary of HM commander Burhan Wani, who was killed in 2016.“Upon reaching the disclosed hideout location, the said terrorist picked up his hidden AK-47 rifle and started firing indiscriminately upon the joint search party which led to an encounter. In the ensuing firefight the said terrorist got killed,” police said in a statement.Police said they have recovered arms and ammunition, including one AK-47 and four magazines, from the hideout. They added Halwai was a categorized A++ militant and was the group commander of HM. A diploma holder in computer applications, Halwai was responsible for “misusing social media and new methods of communication” for militancy, police said.Also Read | Srinagar police, IB quiz vehicle thieves nabbed in Delhi last week“He was active since 2012 and was involved in several killings in north Kashmir. He had a long terror crime history including attacks on police, other security forces, and civilian atrocities,” the statement said. It listed a series of attacks in which Halwai and his associates were involved. The statement added the attacks led to the killings of 10 persons including five policemen. “The killed terrorist was well acquainted with modern means of communication by which he would communicate with other terrorists and plan & execute different terror activities on the ground. He was instrumental in motivating and recruitment of youth into terrorist ranks besides raising funds for the promotion of terrorist activities.”On June 29, a day after the arrest of Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat, police said he was killed in an exchange of fire on Srinagar’s outskirts.On June 3, police said Amin Malik, a resident of south Kashmir’s Tral, was killed in an overnight joint operation after his arrest on May 30. Police claimed he got hold of the service rifle of a constable and fired indiscriminately, critically wounding the constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-mujahideen-commander-killed-hours-after-his-capture-in-srinagar-101625661560052.html
07-07-2021||India||Gupkar alliance says ED summon to Mehbooba Mufti’s mother is humiliating||Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has condemned the Enforcement Directorate’s summon to Mehbooba Mufti’s mother Gulshan Nazir as “highly humiliating” and a “coercive act”.“The summoning of widow of former Union home minister, late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is highly humiliating and there are not enough words to condemn such coercive acts. She is an old and frail lady and summoning her is nothing but pressure tactics of the government. Irony is that the summon was issued just hours after the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) declined to meet the visiting Delimitation Commission,” PAGD spokesman Mohamed Yusuf Tarigami said in a statement.Nazir, in her 70s, has been asked to be present before the ED zonal office in Srinagar on July 14. According to news agency PTI, the case filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries following raids on an alleged associate of Mehbooba. The diaries contain details of some purported payments made from the chief minister’s discretionary fund in alleged contravention of rules. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the PDP rule in the erstwhile state. A few lakh rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the accounts of Nazir and some others, officials told the news agency.Mehbooba was also questioned by the central agency in March this year in connection with a separate money laundering case. She had then alleged that those speaking against the Central government were being hounded by National investigation agencies such as ED. On Wednesday, she said summons to her mother was another attempt by the Centre to “intimidate” political opponents.“On the day PDP chose not to meet [the] Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents, GOI [Government of India] doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores,” mufti wrote on social media.Gulshan Nazir, wife of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and PDP founder Mufti Mohammad Sayeed was served the summon on Tuesday, the day PDP said it will stay away from the delimitation exercise ahead of election in Jammu and Kashmir calling it a “pre-planned” process aimed at disempowering people and for realising a particular political party’s “political vision”.The PAGD said the summon was aimed to “silence the genuine demand for the reversal of unilateral and unconstitutional decisions of August 5, 2019”, referring to the day when Parliament scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status by abrogating Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union Territories.The Bharatiya Janata Party state spokesman Altaf Thakur however refuted the allegation of misuse of probe agency and said that the ED must be doing investigation on some basis. “If they are clean they shouldn’t worry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-says-ed-summon-to-mehbooba-mufti-s-mother-gulshan-nazir-is-humiliating-101625661440187.html
07-07-2021||India||Prakash Javadekar, Ravi Shankar Prasad quit ahead of PM Modi's Cabinet shuffle||Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday resigned from their posts ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's major cabinet reshuffle, which indicated that the post-pandemic, pre-state elections shake-up was going to be a major one. Ravi Shankar Prasad was the minister of law and information technology while Prakash Javadekar was the environment minister. Both these big-ticket resignations came to much surprise as Ravi Shankar Prasad was at the forefront of the government's new IT rules for which the government is at loggerheads with Twitter. Prakash Javadekar's exit from this ministry has also been surprising as he was also the spokesperson of the government.Follow all updates from PM Modi's Cabinet reshufleAhead of the Cabinet reshuffle scheduled to begin at 6pm on Wednesday, health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, chemicals and fertilisers minister DV Sadananda Gowda, labour minister Santosh Gangwar, education minister of state Sanjay Dhotre, minister of state for women and child development Debasree Chaudhuri, minister of state for jal shakti Rattan Lal Kataria and minister of state for environment Babul Supriyo stepped down from their posts.Thaawarchand Gehlot who was in charge of the social justice and empowerment ministry had resigned on Tuesday and was made the Governor of Karnataka.In a major reshuffle that will bring focus on equal representation of gender, caste and community, 36 new ministers on Wednesday took oath and seven ministers of state are being promoted.Both Javadekar and RS Prasad announced the new IT rules for social media and digital media in February following which they issued regular statements regarding the IT rules. Under RS Prasad, Twitter lost its status of an intermediary in India as it failed to comply with the new I-T rules. Reports said there might be some organisational role inside the BJP for RS Prasad as several states will be going to the elections next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-ravi-shankar-prasad-quit-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-cabinet-shuffle-101625659429944.html
07-07-2021||India||Monsoon likely to gradually revive from Thursday||After a hiatus of around 10 days, the monsoon is likely to revive gradually from Thursday onwards and spread across northwest India over the weekend, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. There has been a 5% deficiency in the rain in the country since June 1. Central India is 7% rain deficient, northwest India 13%, and east and northeast 2%.IMD scientists are expecting active monsoon conditions in northwest India around July 16-17 when a low-pressure system is expected to move there. Moist easterly winds in the lower levels from the Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. They are likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. Accordingly, the southwest monsoon is likely to advance into the remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, more parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Delhi around July 10, IMD said in its bulletin on Wednesday.Also Read | Arctic sea ice loss triggering extreme Sept rains in India: StudyA deviation in the predicted weather pattern has led to delayed and scanty rainfall in most parts of the country. The subdued monsoon has coincided with the critical period of sowing and paddy transplantation. It is likely to impact agricultural activities such as sowing and transplantation of crops, irrigation scheduling, and power requirements.A western disturbance is also likely to impact the Western Himalayas and parts of northwest India around July 10. “There will be rain over northwest India on July 10 and 11 and then an active spell of monsoon is likely around July 16. This is because a low-pressure system is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal on July 11 which will travel north-westwards covering central India and move towards Rajasthan. It is likely to bring a lot of rain in its path,” said DS Pai, who heads IMD’s climate research and services. “A western disturbance is also likely to affect the region around July 10, but it may not weaken the monsoon winds. Sometimes monsoon winds interact with westerlies to bring heavy rain.”RMSI, a global disaster risk management firm, said on Tuesday that the mid-latitude westerly winds and westerly trough approaching northwest India would hold back the rapid monsoon advancement during the next week. So, Delhi and other north-western areas would not get much rain as should normally be the case after the arrival of the monsoon. Also Read | Govt paves way for ecotourism in forest areas; experts remain waryMahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather, said western disturbances have been forming one after the other but they are feeble. “The Madden Julian Oscillation (characterised by a band of rain clouds moving across the tropics) is likely to be in the Indian Ocean in the next couple of days which will enhance monsoon flow. So, we do not expect the monsoon to weaken.”IMD said scattered to widespread rainfall was very likely in Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh from July 8 onwards. Isolated very heavy rainfall was also very likely in Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on April 8, West Madhya Pradesh on April 11, and East Madhya Pradesh on July 10. IMD said scattered to widespread rainfall was also very likely in northwest India from July 9 onwards. It added isolated heavy rainfall was also very likely in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh from July 9 and in East Rajasthan from July 10 onwards. IMD said due to the strengthening of monsoon over the Arabian Sea and likely formation of a low-pressure area over the west-central Bay of Bengal around July 11, enhanced rainfall activity was very likely along the west coast from July 9 onwards.Due to the revival of monsoon from July 8, rainfall intensity and distribution is very likely to decrease over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, and Tripura from July 9 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-gradually-revive-from-thursday-101625657419581.html
07-07-2021||India||'Poor Dr Harsh Vardhan': Jairam Ramesh on health minister's resignation||Amid speculations ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Cabinet reshuffle, health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan's resignation came as a surprise to many as PM Modi had praised the health ministry for its quick decisions regarding the management of the pandemic. While the resignation was being interpreted by observers as an admission that the pandemic could have been managed well, Congress leaders said Harsh Vardhan was made into a scapegoat.Congress leader Jairam Ramesh took to Twitter and said Harsh Vardhan has been made a scapegoat for "monumental failures at the highest level -- nowhere else". The Congress leader also said the former health minister is a good man.National Disaster Management Authority is responsible for criminal mis-management of #COVID19.It is headed by the Prime Minister.Will PM take responsibility for his failures?Or will PM only make Dr. Harshvardhan the scapegoat for PM’s failures?#CabinetExpansion2021Congress leader Randeep Surjewala too extended defence for Dr Harsh Vardhan and said the National Disaster Management Authority, headed by PM Modi, is responsible for the criminal mismanagement of Covid-19. "Will PM take responsibility for his failures? Or, will PM only make Dr Harshvardhan the scapegoat for PM’s failures?" Surjewala tweeted.The Covid-19 pandemic was the biggest challenge for Dr Harsh Vardhan as the health minister. Apart from health, he also had two portfolios-- science and technology and earth sciences.Follow live updates of PM Modi's Cabinet reshuffleThe Covid-19 pandemic has proved to be tumultuous for health ministers of several countries. For example, Brazil has seen four health ministers since the beginning of the pandemic. The Czech Republic has got five health ministers since the beginning of Covid-19. The United Kingdom too saw its health minister resigning after being embroiled in a controversy where he flouted social distancing norms.While these have been direct casualties of the pandemic, Dr Hrsh Vardhan's role in managing the pandemic has always been highly praised by PM Modi. In his second stint as the health minister, Dr Harsh Vardhan, who is an ENT surgeon, also became a member of the World Health Organization executive board.The pandemic brought Dr Harsh Vardhan to prominence as he was at the frontline shielding the government's Covid-19 management and Covid-19 vaccination policy. "History shall be kinder to you Dr Manmohan Singh ji if your offer of ‘constructive cooperation and valuable advice was followed by your leaders as well in such extraordinary times," Dr Harsh Vardhan wrote to former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poor-dr-harsh-vardhan-jairam-ramesh-on-health-minister-s-resignation-101625656026150.html
07-07-2021||India||INSACOG and India's strategy for Covid-19 surveillance, sequencing. All you need to know||The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) is a national multi-agency consortium of Genome Sequencing Laboratories (RGSLs), established by the Centre on December 30 last year for sequencing and analysis of genome data.All you need to know about INSACOG:The scope of laboratories under INSACOG has been expanded from the initial 10 labs in the country to 28 at present. RGSLs are responsible for genome sequencing and identification of variants of concern/variants of interest, potential variants of interest, and other mutations.Also read | Covaxin booster dose: What is it? What does govt say about this?The consortium was established to expand whole genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 virus, commonly known as Covid-19, across the nation to aid the understanding of how the virus spreads and evolves.The objective of the consortium is to ascertain the status of variants of interest (VOI) and variants of concern (VOC) in the country and to establish sentinel surveillance and surge surveillance mechanisms for the early detection of genomic variants.So far, VOC has been found in 174 districts in 35 states of the country. The highest number of VOCs have been detected from districts in Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Gujarat. Variants of Concern of public health importance detected in community samples in India are, Alpha (B.1.1.7), Beta (B.1.351), Gamma (P.1) and Delta, stated ministry of health and family welfare."The B.1.617 lineage, first observed in Maharashtra, was associated with the unusual rise observed in several districts of the state. It is now found in many states in India," the ministry said.B.1.617.2.1 (AY.1) or commonly known as Delta Plus variant signifies Delta variant with an additional mutation, according to the ministry.Initially, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) sequenced samples of international passengers who arrived in India from the UK, Brazil or South Africa or travelled through these countries, as these countries reported a surge in Covid cases.RT-PCR positive test samples from states reporting sudden hikes in cases were sequenced in priority, this was further expanded by efforts of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), as well as individual institutions.The country first focussed on controlling the spread of global variants in the country with a high transmissibility rate. Subsequently, Delta and Delta Plus variants were also identified based on genome sequencing analysis conducted by the consortium laboratories.Also read | 'Lambda variant of coronavirus deadlier than delta': Malaysian health ministryIndia's strategy for Covid surveillance:Earlier genomic surveillance was focussed on the variants carried by international travelers and their contacts through sequencing 3-5% of the total positive samples.Sentinel surveillance strategy was subsequently communicated to states and Union territories in April 2021. Under the strategy, multiple sentinel sites were identified to adequately represent the geographic spread of a region, and RTPCR positive samples are sent from each site for sequencing.Surge surveillance strategy for districts with Covid-19 clusters or those reporting surge in cases was also undertaken under which a representative number of samples are collected and sent to RGSLs.The detailed SOPs for sending samples from identified sentinel sites regularly to the designated Regional Genome Sequencing Laboratories (RGSLs) were shared with states/UTs, the ministry said.The SOPs for sending samples for sequencing are:The Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) machinery coordinates sample collection and transportation from the districts/sentinel sites to RGSLs.The information obtained on VOCs and VOIs is submitted to Central Surveillance Unit, IDSP for establishing a clinico-epidemiological correlation in coordination with state surveillance officers.Upon identification of a genomic mutation of public health relevance, RGSL is required to submit the same to the Scientific and Clinical Advisory Group (SCAG). After discussion, The SCAG, if felt appropriate, recommends VOIs and other potential mutations to the Central Surveillance Unit for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insacog-and-india-s-strategy-for-covid-19-surveillance-sequencing-all-you-need-to-know-101625648572527.html
07-07-2021||India||Protests erupt over relocation of Bangladesh Liberation War memorial in Agartala||Relocation of a 40-foot memorial of the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War from the heart of Agartala to a memorial park built on the city outskirts has led to widespread protests in Tripura and neighbouring Bangladesh, with political parties, cultural organizations, intellectuals and many others demanding the memorial’s restoration as a symbol of bond between the two countries and Tripura’s role in Bangladesh’s war of independence. “We are deeply saddened after the war memorial that stands as a bond between two countries was removed. We appeal to the Indian authorities to restore the memorial in its original place to preserve the relationship between people of the two countries”, a group of Bangladeshi artists, historians and freedom fighters stated in a joint statement released recently. The war memorial at Post Office Chowmuhani including a tank, an artillery gun and some other war materials captured during the 1971 war from erstwhile East Pakistan is being relocated to the Albert Ekka Memorial Park, built in 2018, as part of Smart City Mission project and following the Indian armed forces’ demand to move the old Chowmuhani war memorial alongside the new one at the memorial park. A replica of the 40 feet victory pillar already exists at Albert Ekka Memorial Park, named after Lance Naik Albert Ekka, who died fighting to save Agartala from the Pakistani forces and was awarded Param Veer Chakra, which is the highest war time military honour, for his valour shown in the battle at Gangasagar (now in Bangladesh) during the 1971 war. Shifting of the war memorials from Post Office Chowmuhani began last November and the then West District magistrate Shailesh Kumar Yadav said it was partly being done following the Indian Army’s long standing demand to bring both memorials together after Biplab Kumar Deb became Tripura chief minister in 2018. “Army & Sainik board raised this issue in front of chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb after he came to power in 2018. The project was taken up under Smart City Mission after floating an open tender at a cost of ₹4.83 crore and it was done following written permission from Sainik Board and consultation with the Indian Army authorities,” a statement signed by Yadav had said. However, political parties and other social organisations in Tripura are against the move. “We demand the war memorial to be restored. We are hopeful that the government will take a positive approach in this regard,” a member of Tripura Cultural Coordination Centre, a CPM-backed organisation, said. Left Front convener Bijan Dhar said, “We condemn the act of the government. The memorial [represents] a historical sentiment. Without consulting with any political party, the memorial was removed. We protest against this.” Congress vice president Tapas De said it was “an insult” to people of Tripura and the freedom fighters. “India and especially Tripura had played a vital role in the Bangladesh Liberation movement. By removing the memorial, they have insulted the martyrs and Tripura,” he said. BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “Our government is trying to protect the memorial and that’s why, all the memorials are being shifted to Albert Ekka Memorial Park that has larger space. We can maintain the memorials properly there.”Under the Smart City Mission, the diameter of Post Office Chowmuhani will be reduced to 18 metres from 28 metres after relocation of the memorial, allowing space for traffic movement. The square will then be rebuilt with the Tree of Life theme under the Smart City project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-erupt-over-relocation-of-bangladesh-liberation-war-memorial-in-agartala-101625655199537.html
07-07-2021||India||Full list of new entrants: Scindia, Sonowal and Lekhi make it to the cabinet||Ahead of the Union cabinet reshuffle, news agency ANI has shared the list of ministers who will take oath on Wednesday. Among the new entrants Lok Sabha MP from Delhi Meenakshi Lekhi, former Assam chief minister Sarabananda Sonowal and Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia have made it to the cabinet with 40 others.Among other new faces are Delhi BJP leader Bhupender Yadav, Narayan Rane, Tripura Lok Sabha MP Pratima Bhowmik, Maharashtra BJP leader Shobha Karandlaje and Apna Dal leader Anupriya Patel. Here is the list of new entrants:1. Narayan Tatu Rane2. Sarbananda Sonowal3. Dr. Virendra Kumar4. Jyotiraditya M Scindia5. Ramchandra Prasad Singh6. Ashwini Vaishnaw7. Pashu Pati Kumar Paras8. Kiren Rijiju9. Raj Kumar Singh10. Hardeep Singh Puri11. Mansukh Mandaviya12. Bhupender Yadav13. Parshottam Rupala14. G. Kishan Reddy15. Anurag Singh Thakur16. Pankaj Choudhary17. Anupriya Singh Patel18. Dr. Satya Pal Singh Baghel19. Rajeev Chandrasekhar20. Shobha Karandlaje43 leaders to take oath today in the Union Cabinet expansion. Jyotiraditya Scindia, Pashupati Kumar Paras, Bhupender Yadav, Anupriya Patel, Shobha Karandlaje, Meenakshi Lekhi, Ajay Bhatt, Anurag Thakur to also take the oath. pic.twitter.com/pprtmDu4ko21. Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma22. Darshana Vikram Jardosh23. Meenakashi Lekhi24. Annpurna Devi25. A. Narayanaswamy26. Kaushal Kishore27. Ajay Bhatt28. BL Verma29. Ajay Kumar30. Chauhan Devusinh31. Bhagwanth Khuba32. Kapil Moreshwar Patil33. Pratima Bhoumik34. Dr. Subhas Sarkar35. Dr. Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad36. Dr. Rajkumar Ranjan Singh37. Dr. Bharati Pravin Pawar38. Bishweswar Tudu39. Shantanu Thakur40. Dr. Munjapara Mahendrabhai41. John Barla42. Dr. L. Murugan43. Nisith Pramanik||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-list-of-ministers-scindia-sonowal-and-lekhi-make-it-to-the-cabinet-101625654343578.html
07-07-2021||India||Azim Premji voices concerns against idea of promoting students to next class||Azim Premji, the founder-chairman of IT major Wipro voiced his concern against the idea of promoting school students to the next class and stressed the need for adequate attention towards lost schooling days owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic."The worst thing that we could do is to ignore the past one and a half years and just keep promoting children to the next class without helping them to learn what they should have learnt. We can create an enormous deficit which can never be filled up otherwise," he said while speaking at the foundation day event of the Bombay Chartered Accountants' Society, according to news agency PTI.The Wipro chairman said a graded approach such as the one that involves conducting classes in open areas in neighbourhoods, vaccinating teachers against Covid-19 and re-engineering education programmes is the need of the hour to ensure that the lost schooling time over the past one and half years is covered.Wipro's philanthropic arm has committed an additional ₹1,000 crore of grants over and above the ₹1,125-crore support it had announced in the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. Premji said that the additional grant will be directed primarily on universal vaccination.He termed the Covid-19 pandemic as a once-a-century event which led the people and the institutions to take it as a challenge and fight it with all the resources. “A comprehensive set of plans was drawn up in the early days itself to tackle both the humanitarian and health aspects,” Premji said.He said close to 83 lakh people in rural communities and vulnerable areas revived their livelihoods through field interventions like seed and fertiliser supply for farmers and working capital for poultry farmers and handicraft industry through the help of its foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/azim-premji-voices-concerns-against-idea-of-promoting-students-to-next-class-101625649461059.html
07-07-2021||India||'Without a spot of corruption': Babul Supriyo says he is sad but he was 'not asked to quit'||Union minister Babul Supriyo on Wednesday resigned from the council of ministers and took to Facebook to clarify that he has resigned from the post and so to frame it like he has been asked to resign might not be proper. The BJP minister of state for environment, forest and climate change was considered as BJP's strong leader in Bengal before the union minister lost in the state assembly election from Kolkata's Tollyganj Assembly seat against Aroop Biswas, who was the incumbent MLA of the seat. Since then, the singer-turned-politician was found missing from the central leadership and his political presence appeared confined only in the criticism of the TMC leadership in the state. Just a day before his resignation, however, Babul Supriyo was present at an event in which his ministry signed a joint communication with the ministry of tribal affairs.Full list of ministers: Scindia, Sonowal and Lekhi make it to the cabinet"I am extremely happy that I go today without a spot of corruption on me, having served my constituency with all my might and having enjoyed their coincidence when Asansol voted me back as their MP once again, with triple the margin in 2019 again," he wrote in a long Facebook post."Yes, when there is smoke there must be a fire somewhere. Not being able to take phone calls of my friends in the media who care for me hence let me spell it out myself..Yes, I have resigned from the Council Of Ministers !! (As I had framed it earlier, “Asked to resign” may not be the right way to put it)" Babul wrote with many smileys."My bestest of wishes to my colleagues, whose names I can’t spell out but by now everyone is aware, will be sworn in as Hon’ble Ministers from Bengal. I am surely SAD for myself but very HAPPY for them. More power to all of them," he wrote.From 2019's Jadavpur University incident to the recent controversy over his tweets 'Beti paraya dhan hoti hai', Babul Supriyo has remained the centre of several controversies. But what apparently put a quick full stop to his ministership is the poor show in the West Bengal assembly election which, as state BJP leaders have acknowledged, was not predicted. On the personal front, the former minister had suffered from Covid and also lost his mother in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/without-a-spot-of-corruption-babul-supriyo-says-he-is-sad-but-he-was-not-asked-to-quit-101625652893062.html
07-07-2021||India||PM Modi's cabinet reshuffle: List of ministers who resigned||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet reshuffle some of the big names on Wednesday resigned, the biggest surprise among them being Union minister for health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal.People familiar with the developments told news agencies that at least 43 new ministers will be inducted to the revamped Union cabinet. Here is the list of ministers who have tendered their resignation:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-cabinet-reshuffle-list-of-ministers-who-resigned-101625652699375.html
07-07-2021||India||India has administered over 360 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 360 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, July 6, even as the Centre flagged “revenge travel” since lifting of Covid curbs. The health ministry briefing saw images from various tourist destinations to point out “gross violations” of Covid-appropriate behavior. Delhi recorded the grim milestone of over 25,000 Covid deaths since the outbreak of the infection in March last year as the city added another four deaths to its total toll on Tuesday.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 360,956,621 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many 3,240,007 doses were administered on the day.Also Read | Health minister Harsh Vardhan resigns ahead of Cabinet reshuffleIn the 18-45 age group, 1,600,825 were given the first dose while 109,913 doses were given as the second dose. Cumulatively, 104,524,240 persons across the country have received their first dose and 3,042,302 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states: Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 5 million first doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the 18-45 age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.Meanwhile, India reported 43,733 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The country’s active caseload declined to 459,920. So far, 29,799,534 patients have recovered across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-360-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101625651479452.html
07-07-2021||India||Health minister Harsh Vardhan resigns ahead of Cabinet reshuffle||Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday resigned from the post of health minister ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's big Cabinet reshuffle. Harsh Vardhan's resignation comes soon after education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and labour minister Santosh Gangwar stepped down from their posts, making way for some big-ticket announcements as both education and health are crucial and challenging departments to fill in amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Pokhriyal, however, has cited ill health as the reason behind his resignation.Follow live updates from PM Modi's Cabinet reshuffleThis was Dr Harsh Vardhan's second stint as the health minister as he was in the post for seven months in 2014, after the PM Modi government came to power. From November 2014 to the end of the first term of the Modi government, JP Nadda was the health minister. In 2019, as the PM Modi government came back to power for the second time, Harsh Vardhan was given the responsibility of this department again.During the pandemic, which proved to be a major challenge in Dr Harsh Vardhan's term as the health minister, he was also handling the responsibility of the science and technology and the earth sciences departments.Harsh Vardhan, associated with RSS since childhood, completed his medical education from Kanpur University's Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College and from the same college, he got his master of surgery in Otorhinolaryngology. After completing his studies, he set up his practice as an ENT surgeon in Delhi and held several organisational posts in the Indian Medical Association.Harsh Vardhan was Delhi's health minister in the '90s and played a crucial role in the Pulse Polio programme.Harsh Vardhan's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic has been criticised by the opposition, though on several occasions PM Modi praised his proactive role in fighting the pandemic. The health minister, who was also elected in WHO's executive board, was at loggerheads with states and state ministers who criticised the government's vaccine policy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-resigns-ahead-of-cabinet-reshuffle-101625650188177.html
07-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle: Union council design with an eye on social engineering, polls||The Union council of ministers, which will be expanded with the swearing-in of new entrants this evening, is expected to have more representation from socially and economically backward communities, of women and people with administrative and legislative experience, people aware of the matter said.At 6pm, the expansion will take place at the Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The new team is being built in the run-up to the state elections early next year including in Uttar Pradesh. It will be in line with the ruling party’s outreach to the socially and economically deprived sections. The sections are the key to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s social engineering strategy.As the government is keen to walk the talk on inclusivity, the council is likely to have 12 ministers from Scheduled Caste communities from states such as Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal. Two of them are likely to be Cabinet ministers.From the Scheduled Tribe communities, eight representatives from Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Assam, and Madhya Pradesh are likely to be inducted. Three of these are likely to be Cabinet ministers. Also, 19 members from Other Backward Class (OBC) communities will be sworn in too. Five of these OBC members are expected to be Cabinet ministers.The council is also likely to have five members representing the minority community from five states. Of these, one each is likely to be from the Muslim, Sikh, and Christian communities. Two ministers are expected to be Buddhists. Three of the ministers from minority communities are likely to get Cabinet berths.The new council of ministers is also expected to have 11 women of which two will be Cabinet ministers. At present, Nirmala Sitharaman and Smriti Irani are Cabinet ministers.In line with the BJP’s effort to promote younger people, the council will have an average age of 58 against the current 61. Fourteen ministers are expected to be below 50 which includes six Cabinet ministers.According to people aware of the details, the selection of ministers has also been done with the intent of bringing on-board people with administrative experience as the government has faced criticism including over the state of the economy, job crisis, rising prices, and the response to the second Covid-19 wave.Consequently, 46 ministers with experience of being in the central or state governments will be included. People aware of the details said 23 ministers have been Members of Parliament for three or more terms, bringing in over a decade of legislative experience. The new council is also expected to have four former chief ministers and 18 former state ministers. It will have expertise from across professional sectors. On-board will be 13 lawyers, six doctors, five engineers, seven civil servants, three with MBA degrees, and seven with PhDs.Among the states going to the polls next year, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, and Manipur will have representation in the expanded council of ministers. From Uttar Pradesh, , which sends the highest number of lawmakers to the Lok Sabha, the representation will be from regions including Poorvanchal, Awadh and Bundelkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-council-of-ministers-to-have-more-representation-from-backward-communities-101625650399031.html
07-07-2021||India||Doctor recalls how Dilip Kumar used to recite Urdu shayaris||Legendary actor Dilip Kumar breathed his last at Mumbai’s Hinduja Hospital after suffering a cardio-respiratory arrest around 7.30 am on Wednesday. The 98-year-old veteran actor was diagnosed with an advanced stage of prostate cancer apart from age-related illnesses.Kumar had been in and out of hospitals recently due to his deteriorating health condition. “He had developed an advanced stage of prostate cancer. Along with it, he also suffered from kidney failure,” said a doctor from the hospital.He was hospitalised in the first week of June after he complained of breathlessness and was diagnosed with bilateral pleural effusion which is accumulation of fluids between the layers of pleura outside the lungs.Within two weeks of getting discharged, he was once again admitted at the hospital on June 29 with the same complaints. Just like earlier that month, doctors treated Kumar and he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) where water was pumped out of his lungs.“On June 30, he also underwent blood transfusion but it didn’t help him much,” said the doctor. As per the doctors, the cancer had spread to other body parts and it was extremely “challenging” to treat. He also used to undergo dialysis for his failing kidney. “He was 98 years old, so he already had several health issues and was completely bed ridden. He had a medical set up in his house for his daily treatment. But the advanced cancer further deteriorated his health,” said another doctor. “At the end, he got cardio-respiratory arrest.”He was being treated by cardiologist Dr Nitin Gokhale, pulmonologist Dr Jalil Parker, pulmonologist and urologist Dr Anita Patel. Dr Parker was only in his 20s when he first saw the veteran actor on a podium while studying medicine at Grant Medical College, also known as JJ hospital. He was the chief guest of the college’s annual programme—August Melodies. But never did he know that one day he would have to treat him and also declare his death.“I remember the first time I saw him. He was so dignified and had an aura around him. As soon as he walked up to the podium, there was pin drop silence on the ground as we were all glued to his speech,” he recollected. Infact, Dilip Kumar discussed politics and general affairs with Dr Parker while undergoing treatment. “He had respect for all the political parties, be it the Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Shiv Sena or others. He believed in the development of the underprivileged citizens. It was really an honour to treat him,” he said. Dilip Kumar was known for his command of Urdu language and love for ‘shayaris’ (a type of poetry). He often recited Urdu ‘shayaris’ to the medical staffers. “He was an ardent reader. When I was younger, I had seen him reading books in his car under a reading light. In fact, in hospitals, he would read books while lying on the bed,” Dr Parker said while remembering the first superstar of the Hindi film industry. Last year, the iconic actor lost his two younger brothers—Aslam Khan, 88, and Ehsan Khan, 90, due to Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-recalls-how-dilip-kumar-used-to-recite-urdu-shayaris-101625650279075.html
07-07-2021||India||PM Modi's new council of ministers for new India will be youngest: Govt sources||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's new cabinet will represent the lives, hopes and aspirations of 130 crore Indians and will be the youngest cabinet, sources in the know of the things said on Wednesday, ahead of the much-discussed cabinet reshuffle, which will be announced at 6pm. Explaining the behind-the-scene view of the principles and priorities driving the new Council of Ministers, a source said that the new Council of Ministers will be a Rainbow council, bringing out the vibrancy and colours across all communities and regions.The new Cabinet is likely to have a record 12 SC ministers having representation from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. About 12 backward communities including Chamar-Ramdassia, Khatik, Pasi, Kori, Madiga, Mahar, Arundathiyar, Meghwal, Rajbonshi, Matua-Namashudra, Dhangar, Dusadh are likely to be represented.Follow live updates of PM Modi's cabinet expansionHighlighting over 10 points like equal representation of all communities, a wide range of states and castes, an official explained that the new cabinet is likely to have 8 ST and 27 OBC ministers representing Gond, Santal, Miji, Munda, Tea tribe, Konkana, Sonowal–Kachari, Yadav, Kurmi, Jat, Gurjar, Khandayat, Bhandari, Bairagi, Tea Tribe, Thakor, Koli, Vokkaliga Tulu Gowda, Ezhava, Lodh, Agri, Vanjari, Meitei, Nat, Mallah–Nishad, Modh Teli, Darzi etc. Some tribes will be getting representation in the Cabinet for the first time, sources said.Brahmin, Kshatriya, Baniya, Bhumihar, Kayasth, Lingayat, Khatri, Kadva and Leuva Patel, Maratha, Reddy all communities will have representation in the new council of ministers.As far as women empowerment is concerned, there will be 11 women ministers from across nine states and nine communities while there will be 2 women cabinet ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-youngest-ever-new-cabinet-will-be-for-new-india-govt-sources-101625648085978.html
07-07-2021||India||Union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal, Santosh Gangwar quit hours ahead of cabinet rejig||The political turmoil in Delhi continues ahead of a major change in the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union cabinet, which is slated to take place at 6pm on Wednesday. While a few veteran leaders bid farewell to the cabinet, new leaders are likely to step in to take their places. Hours ahead of the cabinet rejig, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank stepped down from the cabinet, citing health reasons.Ramesh Pokhriyal officially cited his ill health as the reason behind his resignation from the Union cabinet. The minister had recently taken ill of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Cabinet reshuffle soon. Sonowal, Rane may get berthsNot just Ramesh Pokhriyal, Union labour minister Santosh Gangwar also confirmed to Hindustan Times that he has resigned from the cabinet. He, however, told HT that he cannot discuss the reason behind his resignation.Follow our live updates on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet expansion here.Moreover, reports said that Union ministers Debashree Chaudhuri and Sadananda Gowda are also likely to resign from the cabinet ahead of the cabinet reshuffle, the first one since Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed his charges for the second term.The much-awaited expansion comes close on the heels of the completion of the Modi government’s seven years in office. According to officials familiar with the development, as many as 43 leaders may take their oaths as ministers on Wednesday. Several BJP leaders, such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, Parshottam Rupala, and Anupriya Patel were on this day seen leaving 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, along with Union home ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Kiren Rijiju and BJP president JP Nadda, with several others.Also Read | Union cabinet reshuffle may lead to crucial changes in Team Yogi: ReportThe initial speculation has predicted the changes in the Union cabinet as a "major shakeup" in the government as the prime minister looks to make it more representative with on political and governance challenges. The council is expected to have more representation of women and those from the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Other Backward Classes (OBC), and the Dalit communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-ramesh-pokhriyal-santosh-gangwar-quit-ahead-of-cabinet-rejig-101625645328348.html
07-07-2021||India||4 years after losing arm, para-athlete hopes to win another medal at Paralympics||Ajeet Singh Yadav’s life turned upside down when he fell from a moving train near Madhya Pradesh’s Satna in December 2017 while trying to save a friend. He suffered several fractures, right hip dislocation, bruises all over the body, and lost his left hand and a part of arm. Yadav, 27, could not think of anything positive after the tragedy. But his mentor and coach VK Dabas would motivate him. Dabas not only helped him overcome the mental agony and trauma but also become a para-athlete of international standing.Yadav won a gold medal in the javelin throw at a championship in 2019 in China and a bronze medal at the World Para Athletics Championship in Dubai the same year. Yadav won the gold medal at the Para Athletics Grand Prix 2021 in Dubai in February. Now he hopes to win a gold medal at the Tokyo Paralympics starting next month.Also Read | PCI picks 24 para athletes for Tokyo ParalympicsYadav said his success in China and later in Dubai did wonders for his confidence. But it was not easy, to begin with. His first big challenge was the National Para Athletics Championship at Panchkula (Haryana) in March 2018. “I threw the javelin standing and still won fourth place in this important championship. More than winning the medal, the main object of participating in the national championship was to learn and know about para-athletics and para javelin.” Yadav credits his family for encouraging him to pursue a para-sporting career after the accident. “They stood by me, and it was my coaches and mentors at the Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education in Gwalior, who kept guiding me towards my mission--Paralympics.”Yadav, who wanted to be a sports teacher or a professor, is from Nagla Bidhi village in Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah and is also pursuing a PhD in physical education and sports. He is currently undergoing training at Sonipat.Yadav will compete against fellow Indians Devendra and Sundar Singh Gujar for the gold medal in Tokyo. “My mission will be to do better than those two and finish at the top that too with a world record.” He said the Dubai event prepared him well for the Paralympics. “During the pandemic, it was really difficult to train and prepare well. But I managed by working out in the gym,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-years-after-losing-arm-para-athlete-hopes-to-win-another-medal-at-paralympics-101625646318921.html
07-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams govt over petrol price hike, calls it tax extortionist||Congress on Monday slammed the government over petrol prices crossing ₹100 per litre in the national Capital, alleging that the Modi government runs of the notion of “tax extortion”. Congress added that when “looters” govern a country, the masses have to suffer from inflation.“Your car may run on petrol or diesel, the Modi government runs on tax extortion,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.“From January 1 to July 7, the Modi government increased the prices of petrol 69 times. From April 2014 to June 2021, petrol and diesel witnessed an increase of excise duty from which the government shockingly looted ₹25 lakh crore from Indian people,” national spokesperson of the Congress Randeep Surjewala said at a press conference.He said that the “shameless” Modi government has been feeding its rich friends by “looting” from the pockets of the common masses.Also Read | Modi govt promotes ministers for attacking Rahul Gandhi: Cong spokesperson KheraWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “substantially reduce” taxes charged by the Central government on petrol and diesel to “check the overall inflationary trend” in the country. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Partha Chatterjee on Monday announced that the party will stage a sit-in protest against the hike in fuel prices in every block and town of the state on July 10 and 11, following all Covid-19 protocols.On Saturday, opposition leaders, including Congress’ Shashi Tharoor, TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Aam Aadmi Party’s Somnath Bharti took a dig at the government over the rising fuel prices. The leaders posted video footage from 1973 in which Jan Sangh leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee was seen arriving in Parliament in a bullock cart to “protest an increase in 7 paise in petrol prices”.As fuel prices rise, several BJP leaders have tried to justify the increase.Madhya Pradesh energy minister Pradhuman Singh Tomar advised people to cycle to the vegetable market as it will keep them healthy and end pollution. Talking to the media last week, Tomar asked, “Who uses petrol and diesel? Do we go to the vegetable market by cycle? It will keep us healthy and will end pollution. Is petrol and diesel necessary for our health?”Last month, Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that though high fuel prices were a problem, government expenses were up due to Covid-19 relief measures, and “the Centre is saving money to spend on welfare schemes”.He also said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi must answer why fuel prices are high in Congress-ruled states like Punjab, Rajasthan and Maharashtra.Delhi is the new entrant in the list of cities where petrol prices crossed the ₹100-a-litre mark. As of July 7, the fuel pump rate has crossed the ₹100-a-litre mark in at least 16 states and Union Territories. These states and Union Territories include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab, Ladakh, Sikkim, Jammu and Kashmir and Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-over-petrol-price-hike-calls-it-tax-extortionist-101625646019793.html
07-07-2021||India||'Can never forget his generosity': Pak PM condoles demise of Dilip Kumar||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday expressed grief over the demise of veteran actor Dilip Kumar. Writing on Twitter, Khan said he is "saddened to learn" about the passing of Dilip Kumar, who was born in the Peshawar city of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.The Pakistan prime minister also wrote "I can never forget his generosity in giving his time to help raise funds for SKMTH when the project launched. This is the most difficult time - to raise first 10% of the funds and his appearance in Pak and London helped raise huge amounts."Khan also called the legendary actor "the greatest and most versatile actor" of his time.After prolonged hospitalisation, Kumar died at Mumbai's PD Hinduja Hospital on Wednesday morning. He was 98 and survived by his wife Saira Bano, also a great actress of her time.He was born as Mohammed Yusuf Khan in the Qissa Khawani Bazaar area of Peshawar, Pakistan. Later he changed his name to Dilip Kumar before he started working in the Indian film industry.The Pakistan government has already declared his ancestral house in Peshawar as a national heritage and completed all formalities to convert it into a museum in his name.Kumar visited Peshawar in the early 90's, where he received a grand welcome from the people of Peshawar.Earlier in the day. Pakistan's Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa provincial government also condoled the death of a legendary actor, saying Dilip Kumar will always be remembered for the love and affection he had for the people of his ancestral home town here.The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government spokesman said he was saddened to know about the death of Kumar. "Late Dilip had great regard and respect for the people of his birth place Peshawar. He will always be remembered for his services, love and affection he had for the people of Peshawar," the statement said.In 1944, Dilip Kumar did his first film, 'Jwar Bhata.' His last film was 'Qila' which was released in 1998, 54 years later. The five-decade career of the actor includes 'Mughal-e-Azam', 'Devdas', 'Naya Daur', and 'Ram Aur Shyam', and later, as he graduated to character roles, 'Shakti' and 'Karma'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-never-forget-his-generosity-pak-pm-condoles-demise-of-dilip-kumar-101625645617724.html
07-07-2021||India||Covaxin booster dose: What is it? What does govt say about this?||How long will two doses of vaccines protect you from Covid-19? There is no exact answer to this question as the jury is still out on this. Breakthrough infections or infections after one or two doses of vaccines have also been reported from several parts of the country. While a third booster shot may be the answer to the situation, the government on Tuesday said it will take time to come to a concrete conclusion about the requirement of booster dose while Bharat Biotech is carrying out the trial of its booster shot, which will be the third shot after the two-dose vaccination."Booster dose is in the stage of scientific ideation," Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, the Indian Council of Medical Research, said.What is the Covaxin booster dose?In April, Bharat Biotech, the makers of India's Covaxin, got permission from the Drug Controller General of India to conduct trials for a third shot which will be administered as a booster shot. The trial is going on and the first trial result is likely to come in August. The final results are expected by November 2021, reports said. The booster shot might become a yearly thing to keep the immune system to the optimum level.Also Read: List of European countries which recognise Covishield and CovaxinWhy might a booster shot become crucial?A booster shot might become crucial in the coming days to fight Covid-19 because emerging variants of the virus are likely to become dominant.Natural immunity versus vaccine immunityDr Bhargava on Tuesday explained that the timeline of vaccine efficacy is yet to be ascertained, while those who have been infected once by SARS-CoV-2 have antibodies for 7 to 12 months. "The application of the booster shot will depend on the knowledge of the efficacy of the vaccine. It is well known that natural antibodies after infection remain for 7-12 months. But the jury is still out to decide how long vaccine-generated antibodies remain effective. Then we can talk about booster shot," Dr Bhargava said. Covaxin's phase 3 trial results are out, which needs to be followed up by probing how long the effect stays, Dr Bhargava said.Will it be only for people who took the 1st and the 2nd dose of Covaxin?This is not yet known but in general, booster shots are standalone shots. Sputnik V too has also said it will offer a booster shot to fight against variants.What has govt said on the booster shot?Joint secretary of the Union health minister Lav Agarwal said the immediate challenge is to ve vaccinate priority groups at the earliest. "The immediate challenge is to vaccinate the priority age groups; to address vaccine hesitancy. A booster shot is more in a research state. Based on further research, if it comes to a state where booster shots need to be administered in a form of a programme, we will bring that to your notice," Lav Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-booster-dose-what-is-it-what-does-govt-say-about-this-101625644184446.html
07-07-2021||India||UIDAI suspends these services related to Aadhaar Card: Check details||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), the controlling authority for Aadhaar card, has suspended two services related to the address validation and reprinting of the documents, HT's sister website Live Hindustan reported.According to the report, UIDAI has stopped the facility of updating addresses in the Aadhaar Card through the validation letter. As per the information given by UIDAI, the facility of address validation letter has been discontinued till further orders.However, one can still update the address by producing a document proof listed on its portal. The cardholder can the list here: https://uidai.gov.in/images/commdoc/valid_documents_list.pdfThe closure of this service of UIDAI is expected to affect those people who do not have any other documents available to change the address.Another service that the UIDAI has suspended is the reprinting of the old card. Earlier cardholders were allowed to reprint an old Aadhaar card in case they lost the original one. The services seem to be suspended now, according to Live Hindustan.Recently, a person on Twitter asked the Aadhar card helpline about reprinting the letter. To this, the help centre replied saying that the service is unavailable now.On the other hand, if you want to keep the Aadhaar inflexible paper format, then you can get the printout of e-Aadhaar.Aadhaar card has an easily verifiable 12 digit unique that works as the identity proof in the country. It is mandatory for almost all official work like buying a new number, claiming government benefits, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uidai-suspends-these-services-related-to-aadhaar-card-check-details-101625643629078.html
07-07-2021||India||No case of lambda Covid-19 variant detected in India so far||India has so far not recorded any Covid-19 infection due to the lambda variant of the coronavirus, news agency ANI reported quoting government officials. The new strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus has been detected in 30 countries till now.The variant is reported to have originated from Peru where it is the dominant strain, according the local media reports. Peru, along with other South American countries Chile and Uruguay, has started giving Pfizer shots to some disabled people as young as 12.Peru is the country which has the highest number of deaths compared to its population, with 587 fatalities per 100,000 inhabitants.According to the country's health authorities, lamba variant has been found in 81 per cent of the samples tested for Covid-19. The World Health Organization (WHO) has already declared lambda as a 'variant of interest' and is monitoring its spread. The United States, meanwhile, has still not designated it as the variant of interest.Lambda is believed to spread faster than the original variants of Covid-19, but researchers have said that further studies are needed to firmly establish the fact. The efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines is also reported to be reduced against the lambda variant, but researchers demand more studies.India saw a devastating wave of the coronavirus disease in March and April which was led by the delta variant, which is about 60 per cent faster than the original alpha strain. The daily caseload, which had crossed 400,000 during the peak, has now gone down to below 40,000 mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-case-of-lambda-covid-19-variant-detected-in-india-so-far-101625643328386.html
07-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Manipur Cabinet gives nod to livelihood scheme for Covid-19 affected and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Manipur Cabinet okays livelihood scheme for Covid-19-affectedThe Manipur Cabinet approved the chief minister’s Covid-19 Affected Livelihood Support Scheme which aims to provide direct transfer of ₹5,000 in two equal instalments ( ₹2,500 per instalment) to every identified family whose livelihood has been directly affected by Covid-19. Read moreKerala HC orders setting up of medical board to examine child with rare diseaseThe Kerala high court on Tuesday asked the state government to set up a medical board to examine a six-month-old baby suffering from spinal muscular atrophy after his father sought support for his son’s costly treatment. Read moreDeepika Padukone dances with Ranveer Singh in velvet hoodie and joggers worth ₹3kDeepika Padukone celebrated Ranveer Singh's birthday by sharing a hilarious video of her dancing with the Rocky Aur Rani Ki Prem Kahani actor. The couple danced to Yashraj Mukhate's viral mashup 'Tuada Kutta Tommy'. Deepika wore an affordable velvet crop hoodie and joggers set worth ₹3k from the fast-fashion brand Zara for the video. Read moreTata Motors launches Dark Range Altroz, Nexon and Nexon EV. Full price list hereTata Motors on Wednesday launched the Dark Range of its Altroz, Nexon and Nexon EV and informed that bookings for these models are now open and that these are available at dealerships across the country. Read moreDilip Kumar passes away at 98; PM Modi remembers ‘cinematic legend’Bollywood legend Dilip Kumar passed away at the age of 98 in Mumbai's Hinduja Hospital on July 7. He was admitted to hospital after experiencing breathlessness on June 30. Read moreSaira Banu's first words after Dilip Kumar's death: 'God snatched away my reason for living'Dilip Kumar's wife, Saira Banu, on Wednesday said that her 'reason for living' has been 'snatched away' after the veteran actor's death. Dilip died on Wednesday morning at the PD Hinduja hospital in Mumbai at the age of 98, after a prolonged illness. The couple had no children. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-manipur-cabinet-gives-nod-to-livelihood-scheme-for-covid-19-affected-and-all-the-latest-news-101625641151069.html
07-07-2021||India||Darkest site in the country Palamu Tiger Reserve set to begin astrophotography||The Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR) is all set to hold a workshop for astrophotography next month--the reserve on the western and south-western margin of Jharkhand is classified as one of the “darkest sites” in the country. “We are planning the workshop of astrophotographers on August 8 which would be a new moon day, considered ideal for photography due to least amount of light. Currently, we are identifying specific location in the reserve that has least obstacles such as tree leaves where it would be held,” said Manoj Kumar, deputy director, PTR.According to forest department officials, PTR has found mention on darksitesfinder.com, an open online global platform that identifies dark sites on the planet which are considered ideal for the photography of celestial bodies due to less light pollution at such spots.Also Read | Tiger T-65 found dead at Rajasthan’s Ranthambore reserve“The dark sites hold significance as the visibility of the sky from such locations is better than other places during the night, largely because they are away from the cities where the glow of the lights, reduces sky visibility. These dark sites are ideal for astrophotographers to click pictures. The darksitesfinder website uses satellite images to identify dark sites. In India, PTR and Indravati area in Maharashtra have been identified as the darkest sites,” said Kumar.The PTR forest in Latehar district is spread over1129.93 square kilometres including 414.8 sqkm of core area and 715.85 sqkm of buffer area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darkest-site-in-the-country-palamu-tiger-reserve-set-to-begin-astrophotography-101625642358870.html
07-07-2021||India||Union cabinet reshuffle may lead to crucial changes in Team Yogi: Report||The reshuffle of Union Cabinet, expected to take place on Wednesday, is likely to lead to some crucial changes to Yogi Adityanath cabinet in Uttar Pradesh, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. The chief minister can expand his cabinet to accommodate allies, balance the caste equation and stem the reported discontent among some leaders, according to Live Hindustan.Catch the latest on Union Cabinet reshuffleSome new faces are expected to join the Uttar Pradesh cabinet, and the Yogi government can use the Legislative Council route to induct them in the government, according to Live Hindustan. Four seats are vacant in the upper house of state legislature.The Council of Ministers in Uttar Pradesh can have a strength of 60. After the demise of Chetan Chauhan, Kamal Rani Varun and Vijay Kashyap, there are six vacancies in the state cabinet.The Modi government will expand its cabinet today evening. And if a leader from Uttar Pradesh can't find a place in the Union Cabinet, he/she is likely to be accommodated in the state cabinet, according to Live Hindustan. Anupriya Patel, the chief of BJP ally Apna Dal, is widely tipped to be accommodated in the Union Cabinet. If that doesn't happen, her husband Ashish Patel could find a place in Yogi cabinet, reported Live Hindustan. Sanjay Nishad, who founded the Nishad Party, may also be given a cabinet berth in UP.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is very keen to balance the cabinet in Uttar Pradesh, where elections are due next year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi met chief minister Yogi Adityanath last month where discussion about cabinet expansion is believed to have taken place.The Wednesday's expansion of Union Cabinet will be the first one by PM Modi since taking office in second term in 2019. The buzz around cabinet reshuffle intensified after a series of meetings between PM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda in the national capital on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-reshuffle-may-lead-to-crucial-changes-in-team-yogi-report-101625640338085.html
07-07-2021||India||Centre brings Department of Public Enterprises under Union Finance Ministry||Amid the buzz of an imminent reshuffle in the Union Cabinet, the Finance Ministry has been expanded with the addition of the Department of Public Enterprises, the nodal entity for policy formulation for all central public sector units (PSU), informed the gazette notification issued by Union Cabinet Secretariat on Tuesday."Subsequently, as a result of the reorganization of the Ministries/Departments of the Union Government in September 1985, BPE was made part of the Ministry of Industry. In May, 1990, BPE was made a full-fledged Department known as the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE)," the website of the department said.As per the department website, it was set up as the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) in 1965 in the Ministry of Finance.Till now, the Department of Public Enterprises was part of the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises.The Central government on Tuesday also created a new 'Ministry of Co-operation' to provide a separate administrative, legal, and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement and to realise the vision of 'Sahkar se Samriddhi'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-brings-department-of-public-enterprises-under-union-finance-ministry-101625640299321.html
07-07-2021||India||'Not a challenge': Govt reacts to SBI's August prediction of Covid-19 3rd wave||Reacting to the SBI research report that the Covid-19 third wave will arrive in August and peak in the month of September, joint secretary of the Union health department Lav Agarwal has said waves are not the challenge. "Waves are more of a post-facto analysis of what is happening in the system. Waves are the interaction between the virus and the human, Waves will come, the virus will be mutated, people will develop immunity and the impact of a wave will depend on all these factors," Agarwal said on Tuesday."The first challenge is that we have not yet closed the second wave. And the next challenge is human behaviour -- by the time a possible future wave comes at all, how much we can mitigate the impact of it through our behaviour, by maintaining social distancing, by adhering to containment rules etc., is the challenge," Agarwal said, adding that instead of looking at a possible wave, more focus should be on immediate local-level action. "If we see Covid-19 cases are increasing at any particular area, we should be able to contain the spread of the infection by imposing immediate restrictions," the secretary said."Instead of saying X study told this, Y study told this, what is critical is containing the infection whenever there is any surge in any part of the country," Agarwal said.Though the Covid-19 situation has improved across the country with daily Covid-19 cases falling sharply, northeast states are reporting a higher number of infections. At present, there are 73 districts in the country which are reporting more than a 10 per cent test positivity rate.Director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava said, "Close watch on the test positivity rate should be maintained. This helped us during the second wave as well. The moment the case positivity rate reaches beyond 10 per cent, those places need to be investigated and contained."The threat of a third wave of Covid-19 is looming large in India as several other countries are under the grip of a resurging third wave. Respiratory infections come in waves and that is why the scientific community in India is also certain that the advent of the third wave is just a matter of time. While a Reuters poll predicted that the third wave of the pandemic will come by October, SBI Research has claimed that the cases will start rising by August. However, the impact of the third wave will be lesser as many Indians will be protected by vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-challenge-govt-reacts-to-sbi-s-august-prediction-of-covid-19-3rd-wave-101625639956144.html
07-07-2021||India||Swamy family remembers him as fearless man dedicated to tribal rights||Jesuit priest and activist Stanislaus Lourduswamy, 84, popularly known as Stan Swamy, would visit his family in his native Virugallur village in Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district once every three years carrying only a bag with not more than three sets of clothes. Swamy’s last visited the village in December 2019. His family said they wanted him to return home permanently or live in one of the nearby guest houses for Jesuit priests considering his old age and ill-health. They were scared about his safety amid arrests of human rights activists. “But, he (Swamy) was fearless,” said the activist’s grandnephew Benito Prabhu, who was the last family member to meet Swamy in February 2020.Swamy, who worked for tribal rights in Jharkhand for five decades, was awaiting trial when he died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. He was 84. Swamy was shifted to a private hospital in Mumbai in May after his health started deteriorating. He was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit, where he tested positive for Covid-19 on May 30. On Sunday, he developed breathing difficulties and was put on a ventilator before he died.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Swamy under an anti-terror law in October 2020 for allegedly conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018. The village was rocked by caste clashes during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war by Dalits.Prabhu said Swamy told him as long as he is alive, he will continue to fight. “He also did tell me that the authorities were somehow trying to frame him after police raided his house in Ranchi in 2018.” Prabhu said during Swamy’s last trip to the village in December 2019, the activist told him he was neither connected to the case nor linked with the 15 activists arrested for allegedly fomenting the violence including Sudha Bharadwaj. “He met Bharadwaj once,” said Prabhu.The family hoped Swamy would get bail after his arrest given his health condition. “As far back as I can remember, he had Parkinson’s disease,” said Prabhu. “He could only drink with his sipper or with someone’s help by using a straw in a tumbler. He struggled a lot while eating...”In November, Swamy, who also suffered several other ailments, asked NIA to provide him with a sipper and straw, saying he cannot hold a glass as his hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s. The NIA asked for four weeks to respond to the request.Prabhu said they learnt about Swamy’s passing on TV before receiving official confirmation. Relatives and villagers have been thronging his ancestral home since the news of his death broke. Not many knew of Swamy’s family. “Even my friends and colleagues have been posting on Twitter that he has no family,” said Prabhu.Many in his villager did not know much about a quiet Swamy until his arrest. After graduating from a Trichy college, Swamy left India to complete his study to become a priest in the Philippines. He returned to India in 1971 and the villagers welcomed him in a procession as per the custom for new priests.Born on April 26, 1937, Swamy had five other siblings, two of whom have also died. He lost his father at a very young age. Swamy’s older brother, TPL Irudayaswamy, 89, looked after the family as he took up farming after their father’s death. “He (Swamy) was self-reliant and reserved since he was a child,” said Irudayaswamy. “He spoke very less. He was devoted to the church and his studies. Later, he was completely devoted to the struggles of the tribals. He felt so much pain for them...,” said Irudayaswamy, who lives in their ancestral house built in 1890 with his wife, their children, and grandchildren.The family said wherever Swamy spoke, at the local church during mass or at family gatherings, he only spoke of tribals to whom he had dedicated his life’s work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swamy-family-remembers-him-as-fearless-man-dedicated-to-tribal-rights-101625639659490.html
07-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh to allow Kanwar Yatra 2021, detailed guidelines soon||Uttar Pradesh government has decided to allow the annual Kanwar Yatra from July 25, news agency PTI reported quoting government officials. The Yogi Adityanath government has directed officials to coordinate with neighbouring states in wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols in place.The Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage carried out by the devotees of Lord Shiva who collect water from River Ganga (usually at Haridwar in Uttarakhand) and offer that at Shiva temples in their respective states. These Kanwariyas come from far-off places, covering hundreds of kilometres on foot.Uttar Pradesh Additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal said that detailed guidelines regarding the Yatra will be issued soon. "Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked to coordinate with neighbouring Bihar and Uttarakhand and ensure Covid guidelines are following during the yatra," he added.The Kanwariyas visit many places along the path of River Ganga to take the holy water to the temples. Last year, the pilgrimage was not held in Uttar Pradesh due to Covid-19 restrictions.Uttarakhand has cancelled the yatra this year citing the pandemic. It has appealed to officers of neighbouring states to ask devotees not to come to Haridwar this month for the annual pilgrimage to collect water from the Ganga.Uttarakhand government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said that the state administration decided to cancel the Kanwar Yatra as a precautionary measure.The yatra was cancelled last year too in the state due to Covid-19 outbreak.Apart form Haridwar, Kanwariyar visit Gaumukh, and Gangotri in Uttarakhand and Sultanganj in Bihar to fetch the waters of river Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-to-allow-kanwar-yatra-2021-detailed-guidelines-soon-101625638472340.html
07-07-2021||India||Gold prices today: Rising trend firm, rates jump 0.08% to ₹47,730 per 10 gram||India gold prices were trading firm on Wednesday, marking a positive trend where the international spot prices were near a three-week high. On the Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX), gold futures in India witnessed a jump of 0.08 per cent to ₹47,730 per 10 gram. In the previous session, gold was up 0.27 per cent or about ₹38.2 per 10 gram.Silver futures on MCX rose nearly 0.05 per cent or ₹34.8 per kilogram to the price level of ₹69,655 per kilogram. Moreover, the gold spot price today stood at ₹47,760, up by ₹38.2 from Tuesday’s ₹47,750. This is along with the growth of $2.31 in global spot prices to 1800.2 value today.A similar growth trend was also noticed in MCX future price with a surge of ₹38.2 and value of ₹47,730 as of today. Furthermore, the price of 24k gold in the Indian spot market was seen at ₹47,760.In the global market, the yellow metal’s spot prices continued its growth today as well. In the latest close, gold was clocked at $1800.2 per Troy ounce – witnessing a rise of 0.13 per cent over yesterday. Notably, this price level is 3.36 per cent higher than average gold price observed in the past 30 days (($1739.7).As far as other significant metals are concerned, silver prices edged higher today. The metal gained 0.16 per cent to $26.2 per Troy ounce. However, the precious platinum has suffered a decline of 0.14 per cent to $1092.0 per Troy ounce.Why are gold prices increasing?Following today’s jump, gold futures on MCX extended gains to ₹1,500 in five days, Live Mint reported. In the previous session, the yellow metal prices had witnessed a hike of 0.9 per cent.Margaret Yang, a strategist at DailyFx told Reuters that a “weakening US dollar” is primarily contributing towards the increasing gold prices. “Gold was sold down heavily after June FOMC meeting and now that expectations have been priced in, buyers are back to the market," Yang was quoted as saying.Senior commodities manager at Phillip Futures, Avtar Sandu, said in a note that gold prices may be able to “hold onto recent gains” but remaining above the $1,800 resistance may not be in the traders' radar until the release of the Fed’s latest minutes meeting, Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-prices-today-rising-trend-firm-rates-jump-0-08-to-rs-47-730-per-10-gram-101625636308099.html
07-07-2021||India||Manipur Cabinet okays livelihood scheme for Covid-19-affected||The Manipur Cabinet approved the chief minister’s Covid-19 Affected Livelihood Support Scheme which aims to provide direct transfer of ₹5,000 in two equal instalments ( ₹2,500 per instalment) to every identified family whose livelihood has been directly affected by Covid-19.It was introduced by the government considering economic dislocations, which have severely affected the livelihood of a large percentage of the population leading to an inability to maintain a basic minimum standard of living, according to a press release from chief minister’s Secretariat here. “Eligible occupations include street vendors, farmers, daily wage workers, construction site workers, public transport drivers, school van drivers, shop assistants, artisans, weavers, performing artists, home-based business, etc,” the release said. “The scheme, which will be run under the State Social Welfare Department, will avail benefit to only one beneficiary per family.”Also Read | Manipur enters India’s railway map as first passenger train reaches the stateThe Cabinet meeting, which was chaired by chief minister N Biren Singh on Tuesday,also approved guidelines for Chief Minister Angangi Tengbang (Chief Minister Bal Seva) scheme, which had already been announced earlier. The scheme will provide welfare measures for children orphaned due to Covid-19. In order to focus on skill development and entrepreneurship for unemployed youths, the state Cabinet has given its nod to restructure the Labour and Employment Department and for Amendment of Business of the Government of Manipur (Allocation) Rules, 2009 accordingly. The Cabinet also accorded approval to the rationalisation of recruitment in government departments. The Cabinet also resolved to engage one consultant in the Directorate of Relief and Disaster Management under the Centrally sponsored scheme for strengthening the District Disaster Management authorities of hazard-prone districts. It also approved the engagement of one senior consultant/DM professional and one data entry operator in the same directorate under the Centrally sponsored Ssheme for implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. The state Cabinet also approved the creation of five posts of male nurse in Manipur Central Jail, Sajiwa. The Cabinet also approved the upgradation of Forensic Science Laboratory, Manipur, into a full-fledged department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cabinet-okays-livelihood-scheme-for-covid19affected-101625637558376.html
07-07-2021||India||Indians open to work from anywhere, want to travel in non-peak season: Survey||A survey by homestays company Airbnb in April-May found that 43% of 1,023 respondents in India expect or plan to travel during the next five months and 66% would consider trips possible within driving distance. Over one-third of respondents (36%) would like to travel and explore new places with family and friends and about eight in 10 (78%) said they would like to be closer to their family to receive or provide support.The survey conducted in association with YouGov, a research company, found about two-thirds (62%) of the respondents said they would opt for non-peak times of the year to travel. A third of respondents (33%) would like to spend time travelling and working anywhere in different locations in a post-pandemic world.Amanpreet Bajaj, general manager, Airbnb (India, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong, and Taiwan), said, they expect a travel rebound, unlike anything they have seen before. “We have made it easy for anyone who wants to host and take advantage of the coming travel surge. Half of the new listings globally that were both activated and booked in early 2021 got a reservation request within four days, and for the year ending April 30, the average annual earnings per homes host who has welcomed at least one guest on Airbnb was about US$9,600.”Bajaj added in India and around the world, Airbnb launched over 100 upgrades that include new ways for customers to discover unique nearby destinations and easier ways to sign up to be a host on Airbnb.Indians were eager to travel around the New Year. Despite the pandemic, Sterling Holiday Resorts reported a revenue of ₹97 crore from January to March, an increase of 58% as compared to ₹61 crores during the same period in 2020. Ramesh Ramanathan, the company’s chairman and managing director, said Sterling offers exclusive holiday insurance that covers guests for up to Rs. 3,00,000 per person in case of cancellations, medical emergencies, etc. “Sterling has revised its hygiene protocols including vaccination of all staff at the resorts, to provide an enhanced level of protection to its guests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-open-to-work-from-anywhere-want-to-travel-in-non-peak-season-survey-101625636958432.html
07-07-2021||India||Study links Ayurvedic herb Giloy to liver disease, Centre calls it 'misleading'||The Union ministry of Ayush, tasked with the purpose of researching indigenous alternative medicine systems in India, on Wednesday took note of a media report linking the Gilroy herb to liver damage and debunked it as "completely misleading". This comes after several media publications published a study which said patients who took ayurvedic medications -- especially the herbal immunity booster imbued with Giloy (Tinospora Cordifolia) -- reported liver injuries last year.The study was published in the Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hepatology, a peer-reviewed journal of the Indian National Association for the study of the liver. It mentioned that the use of the herb Tinospora Cordifolia (TC), commonly known as Giloy or Guduchi, resulted in liver failure in six patients in Mumbai.Debunking the study as "completely misleading", the central government on Wednesday said that its authors "failed in placing all needful details of the cases in a systematic format." Relating Giloy or TC to liver damage, the government said, would be "misleading" and "disastrous" indigenous medicinal system of India. Pointing out that the herb Guduchi or Giloy has been used in Ayurveda for a long time, the Union ministry of Ayush said that the efficacy of TC in managing various disorders is "well-established".The Ayush ministry in India deals with seven traditional medicinal systems in India, marked in its moniker 'AYUSH' - Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homoeopathy. The ministry said that it went through the aforementioned study and found out that the authors of the study had not analysed the contents of the herb that was consumed by the patients. It would have been better, the ministry said in an official release, if the authors had consulted the opinion of a botanist or Ayurveda expert before penning the study. This is because the accountability lies with the authors to ascertain that the herb consumed by the patients is TC and not any other herb, it said."In fact, there are many studies that point out that identifying the herb not correctly could lead to wrong results. A similar-looking herb Tinospora Crispa might have a negative effect on the liver. So, before labeling a herb such as Giloy, with such toxic nature, the authors should have tried to correctly identify the plants, following the standard guidelines, which they did not," the ministry said.The Ayush ministry also pointed out several other "flaws" in the study. Neither does the study make it clear what dosage the patients had taken, nor does it shed any light on whether they took this herb with other medicines. All of these could theoretically lead to medical complications due to a wrong dosage and not for some inherent fault of the herb, the ministry indicated. The study did not take into account the past or present medical records of the patients as well, it said, adding that such publications based on "incomplete information" will open only serve to defame and misinform the public regarding the "age-old practice" of Ayurveda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-links-ayurvedic-herb-giloy-to-liver-disease-centre-calls-it-misleading-101625634527007.html
07-07-2021||India||Explained: What is avascular necrosis or bone death, a new post-Covid complication?||Many patients recovering from Covid-19 have complained of joint pain which has started worrying doctors that this bone death, medically known as avascular necrosis, could be another devastating post-covid complication like mucormycosis. There has been no government data regarding this as an emerging trend, but hospitals in Mumbai and Delhi have confirmed such cases.What is bone death or avascular necrosis?As suggested by the name, this condition denotes the death of the bone tissue due to lack of blood supply. If there is a dislocated joint or a broken bone, it can interrupt the blood flow.Watch: Senior doctor explains new post-Covid complicationWhat is the cause of bone death?According to doctors the overuse of steroids during the treatment of Covid-19 is the suspect behind this unnatural bone damage. Steroidsmmake bones soft and then cartilage reduced blood supply. While avascular necrosis might have many reasons, the cases being reported now are induced by steroids.SymptomsPersistent hip pain, joint pain.When can it happen?It will not happen immediately, as doctors have said. It may take 3 months to one year time. But if you have not been treated with steroids during your Covid-19 treatment, then you may not have any reason to worry. Also, a very high dose of steroids may lead to this malfunction.TreatmentMedical treatment for three to six weeks is recommended. If the pain persists, then patients are advised to undergo an MRI which will detect whether it is a case of bone death or not. Surgery is required at a very advanced stage, doctors have said.Dr Ishwar Bohra, Senior consultant, Joint replacement Surgeon, Centre for orthopaedics, BLK institute for Bone, joint replacement told ANI, "Bone death is not new, but now is being seen as a post-Covid-19 effect. Like other post-Covid sufferings, recently we are seeing in the bone and joint segment avascular necrosis of the femoral head because lots of steroids use in the Covid treatment. The hip and shoulder are the areas which should not be ignored, if there is pain."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-what-is-avascular-necrosis-or-bone-death-a-new-post-covid-complication-101625635599078.html
07-07-2021||India||US leaders join global community in wishing Dalai Lama on 86th birthday||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama celebrated his 86th birthday on Tuesday, and wishes poured in from leaders across the world. A day after the occasion, the Dalai Lama thanked all those who extended their wishes.Among the people who sent Dalai Lama their greetings on the occasion was US House speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Secretary of State Antony Blinken.In a video message on Twitter, Pelosi said, "It is an honor to join the Tibetan people and so many friends of Tibet to send warm birthday wishes to His Holiness The Dalai Lama." She also recommitted to the cause of Tibet freedom on behalf of the United States. "It is an opportunity for all people to recommit to ensuring the Tibetan people can practice their religion, speak their language and celebrate their culture freely without interference or intimidation from Beijing. May his birthday bring happiness, health and security to all," Pelosi said.Blinken wrote the Dalai Lama "inspires us all to live each day with humility, compassion, and understanding. Here’s to many more years," in his wishes on Twitter.Ned Price, the official spokesperson of the US State Department, also joined Tibetans to wish the Dalai Lama and wrote, "His messages of peace, equality, and compassion serve as an inspiration to us all."In India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent his greetings as he spoke on the call with the Dalai Lama. He wished him a long and healthy life. Various Union ministers and chief ministers including Pema Khandu (Arunachal Pradesh), Prem Singh Tamang (Sikkim) and Arvind Kejriwal (Delhi) also sent their greetings.The festivities for the 14th Dalai Lama's birthday had to be curtailed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Otherwise, Tibetans from around the world come to Tsuglagkhang, also known as the Dalai Lama monastery, in McLeodganj, Dharamshala, to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-leaders-join-global-community-in-wishing-dalai-lama-on-86th-birthday-101625635883923.html
07-07-2021||India||Jaishankar leaves for Russia via Tehran, agenda is Taliban in Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will reshuffle his Cabinet today but it is business as usual for the government with External Affairs Minister (EAS Jaishankar leaving for a bilateral visit to Moscow via Tehran with developments in Afghanistan top of the agenda. The EAM will be making a fuel stop in Iran on the sidelines of which there could be an official meeting with the government in Tehran.According to sources based in Moscow, the EAM will be holding a bilateral meeting with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov to cement ties as well as prepare for President Vladimir Putin’s forthcoming visit to India for the annual summit. While the EAM will have a first hand account of the Biden-Putin June 16 meeting in Geneva, the topic of concern will be the rise of Taliban in Afghanistan and its impact on the Indian sub-continent and volatile Central Asia. The EAM will also be co-chairing a joint commission meeting with Russian Deputy PM to deepen economic cooperation.The EAM, who returned from the G-20 foreign ministers meeting in Italy on July 2, found India’s G-20 partners keenly interested in economic recovery of the country post second wave of Covid-19. They, however, were confident that India will be able to overcome the pandemic through rapid vaccination of the masses. Fact is that EAM Jaishankar found the mood of G-20 partners towards India under Modi was far more positive than the doomsday predictors within the country.The G-20 ministerial was preceded by the EAM paying a bilateral visit to Greece, which has always supported India in the UN and has been a close ally. Jaishankar’s visit coincided with bilateral naval exercises in Mediterranean between Indian and Greek Navy. While Jaishankar made it a point to visit Greece for its support, there was a subtle message for Turkey from India that the two can play. Turkey under Erdogan has joined hands with Pakistan by conjuring up past memories of Ottoman revival and has taken position against India.The EAM’s visit to Moscow will also be constructive as India and Russia are both for stabilisation of Afghanistan, after the withdrawal of US-NATO forces. While the Taliban have launched an offensive against Ashraf Ghani government in Kabul, India will neither evacuate its citizens or its diplomats from the country which is hurtling towards civil war. Moscow too is concerned about the rise of Taliban as it directly impacts the security of Central Asia and beyond. This is one area where even Tehran is on the same page as rise in Taliban atrocities could mean a flood of Afghan refugees in Zahedan region of Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-leaves-for-russia-via-tehran-agenda-is-taliban-in-afghanistan-101625633349076.html
07-07-2021||India||Lambda variant: All you need to know about fast spreading strain||The lambda variant of the coronavirus is emerging as one of leading cases of the spread of the infection. According to Malaysian health ministry, it has spread to 30 countries so far, including the UK.The World Health Organization (WHO) has designated lambda as 'variant of interest'.Six cases of Lambda have been identified in the UK till date, and all have been linked to overseas travel. The earliest documented sample was reported in Peru.Tracking coronavirus variantsAccording to WHO, the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has changed over time. Some of these changes impact the virus' properties, such as how easily it spreads, the associated disease severity, or the performance of vaccines and therapeutic medicines, the global health body said.WHO has formed a network of health experts across the world to monitor and assess the evolution of Sars-CoV-2. Significant amino acid substitutions are identified and countries informed about changes that may be needed to respond to the variant to prevent its spread.The lambda variantThe strain was first identified in Peru in December last year. Lambda is the dominant variant in the South American country with 81 per cent samples found to be carrying it.The lambda variant is usually associated with higher transmissibility and resistance to antibodies, but health experts have said that more data is needed to firmly establish this fact.In case of vaccines too, an early study in Peru claim that the lambda variant is able to easily escape the antibodies generated by CoronaVac vaccine developed by China. However, the study is yet to be peer reviewed.Lambda was designated as "variant of interest" by the WHO on June 14.Is lambda the only variant of interest?No. The WHO website has also listed Eta (B.1.525), Iota (B.1.526) and Kappa (B.1.617.1) as other variants of interest.Despite emerging in South America and spreading across 30 countries, lambda has not been declared a variant of interest by US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lambda-variant-all-you-need-to-know-about-fast-spreading-strain-101625633364773.html
07-07-2021||India||'To be remembered for generations': Political fraternity mourns Dilip Kumar's death||Veteran actor Dilip Kumar breathed his last on Wednesday after prolonged hospitalisation at Mumbai's PD Hinduja Hospital. The 98-year-old actor was suffering from various age-related ailments.Several political leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh took to Twitter to mourn the loss of the actor.Expressing the grief, Union home minister Amit Shah called Dilip Kumar "a veritable legend of the silver screen". Shah also said that the Indian film industry has lost one of the greatest actors.Also Read | Dilip Kumar's smouldering intensity was felt over 6 decades; a list of top filmsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi also expressed his "heartfelt" condolences to Dilip Kumar's family and friends. "His extraordinary contribution to Indian cinema will be remembered for generations to come," he also said.Calling the actor's passing as an "end of era", Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also paid tributes to Dilip Kumar. "Yusuf Sahab's brilliant acting was like a university in the art world. He will live on in the hearts of all of us. May God place the departed soul at his feet. Humble tribute," he wrote on the micro-blogging site.The actor's screen name was Dilip Kumar, while he was born as Mohammed Yusuf Khan. He was also known as the "first khan" of Bollywood.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar also said that he was saddened to hear about the demise of the veteran actor Dilip Kumar. "We have lost a legend. Deep condolences to the grieving family and fans," he also said."Supremely talented and popular, the thespian set the gold standard for the silver screen. Indian cinema has lost an institution of acting. Dilip Saab will continue to live in the hearts of his fans and admirers. Heartfelt condolences to Saira Banu Ji." wrote aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri.Union minister Jitendra Singh also remembered the Bollywood veteran and said, "We grew up watching his acting, learning his histrionics, emulating his voice modulation." "An era closes and so also closes a lasting influence that eternally impacted our boyhood, youth and later years. School of Acting left poorer forever without its greatest maestro," he also said.The multiple-award-winning actor's career spanned over more than six decades and during the golden era of Hindi cinema, Dilip Kumar charmed millions of hearts with his performance in more than 65 films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-be-remembered-for-generations-political-fraternity-mourns-dilip-kumar-s-death-101625631944661.html
07-07-2021||India||IRCTC update: Railways to operate special trains for Char Dham yatra. Details here||Amid declining cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the nation, the Indian Railways has decided to operate a special train in September covering several top tourist destinations, including Char Dham - Badrinath, Jagannath Puri, Rameshwaram and Dwarkadhish, reports news agency ANI.After the success of the "Shri Ramayana Yatra" train operated on the Ramayana circuit, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has now launched another very popular pilgrimage circuit "Chardham Yatra" by "Dekho Apna Desh" Deluxe AC Tourist Train.According to a press release, the 16-day tour will start from Delhi's Safdarjung Railway Station on September 18, this year and cover the visit of Badrinath including Mana Village (near China border), Narsingha Temple (Joshimath), Rishikesh, Jagannath Puri including Golden beach of Puri, Konark Sun Temple, Chandrabhaga beach, Rameshwaram including Dhanushkodi, Dwarkadhish including Nageshwar Jyotirlinga, Shivrajpur beach, and Bet Dwarka.Know key features of the special train:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-update-railways-to-operate-special-trains-for-char-dham-yatra-details-here-101625631254526.html
07-07-2021||India||Magnitude 5.2 earthquake hits Goalpara in Assam||An earthquake, measuring a magnitude of 5.2 on the Richter scale, struck Goalpara in Assam on Wednesday morning, the National Center for Seismology (NCS) confirmed in an official alert. The epicenter of the quake was located 71km north of Tura in Meghalaya, the government agency monitoring seismic activity said, adding further details.The earthquake in Assam's Goalpara was located at 26.15 latitude and 90.28 longitude on the seismic activity map provided by the institution."Earthquake of Magnitude:5.2, Occurred on 07-07-2021, 08:45:25 IST, Lat: 26.15 & Long: 90.28, Depth: 14 Km , Location: 71km N of Tura, Meghalaya, India," the National Center for Seismology tweeted.Earthquake of Magnitude:5.2, Occurred on 07-07-2021, 08:45:25 IST, Lat: 26.15 & Long: 90.28, Depth: 14 Km ,Location: 71km N of Tura, Meghalaya, India for more information Download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/A7YPlKiPob @ndmaindia @Indiametdept pic.twitter.com/BX4I1zOBzeThe NCS categorises the area as seismically 'very active', associated with Hazard zone V with collisional tectonics where the Indian plate subducts beneath the Eurasian Plate.According to initial reports, tremors of the earthquake were felt as far as Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, and both North and South Dinajpur in West Bengal, said locals. Tremors were reportedly felt in Bangladesh as well.However, no reports of casualties have been reported yet. The exact extent of damages in the Assam earthquake is not clear, wither.More details to follow soon...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-5-2-earthquake-hits-goalpara-in-assam-101625630774317.html
07-07-2021||India||India registers 43,733 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, fatality count rises from 553 to 930||India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 3,06,63,665 on Wednesday, after 43,733 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am.As many as 930 people succumbed to the viral disease while 47,240 recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 404,211 and 29,799,534 respectively. The recovery rate is 97.18 per centThe Covid-19 active cases in the country have further declined to 4,59,920 and constitute 1.52 per cent of the caseload.The testing capacity also has substantially been ramped up and 42. crore total tests have been conducted so far. According to the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 42,33,32,097 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 19,07,216 were tested in the last 24 hours.India commenced its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 this year. Till date, 35.75 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under nationwide vaccination drive.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-43-733-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-down-to-4-59-920-recovery-rate-increases-to-9718-101625625638356.html
07-07-2021||India||Two doses of vaccine give 95% protection against Covid death: ICMR study||Two doses of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines provide as high as 95% protection against deaths due to Covid-19, and a single dose is 82% effective in preventing deaths, shows the latest study from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The study that has been published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) was conducted among 117,524 police personnel from the Tamil Nadu police department who either received no shot or at least one Covid-19 vaccine shot.“In conclusion, our analysis indicated Covid-19 vaccination, even with single dose, was effective in preventing deaths. It is necessary to increase coverage of Covid-19 vaccines, regardless of the type of vaccines, to reduce mortality in current as well as future waves of Covid-19 epidemic,” said researchers in the study paper.Tamil Nadu Police department has been documenting vaccination of its members, and Covid-19 deaths during the second wave along with details of the date of hospitalization and vaccination.Also Read | Centre to review Covid-19 situation in meet with northeast states todayThe data was used to estimate the incidence of deaths due to Covid-19 among vaccinated and unvaccinated police personnel for the study. The incidence of mortality among vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals was compared to calculate the relative risk of mortality associated with Covid-19 vaccination, according to the study.There are 117,524 police personnel working with department of police in Tamil Nadu. Between February 1 and May 14 this year, 32,792 received one dose, 67,673 received two doses while 17,059 did not receive any Covid-19 vaccine doses.The study finds that 31 Covid-19 deaths were reported among these police personnel between April 13 and May 14, of which four had taken two doses of the vaccine, seven had taken one dose and the rest 20 were unvaccinated.The incidence of Covid-19 deaths among the vaccinated with zero, one and two doses was 1.17, 0.21 and 0.06 per 1,000 police personnel respectively.Compared to unvaccinated individuals, the relative risk of death due to Covid-19 among those receiving one and two doses was 0.18 and 0.05 respectively. The vaccine effectiveness in preventing deaths with one and two doses was 82% and 95% respectively.The Centre also released data of a similar study done by PGI Chandigarh on protection that vaccines have provided in vaccinated police personnel in Punjab.“It was a simple study that showed in 4,868 police personnel when no vaccine dose was given, 15 deaths took place, and incidence was three per 1,000. In 35,856 police personnel, who took one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, there were nine deaths, and incidence was 0.25 per 1,000. About 42,720 police personnel who took two vaccine doses, two deaths happened and the incidence was 0.05 per 1000,”said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, during the health ministry briefing on Covid updates on July 2.“Vaccine protection from death due to Covid-19, when we do the math, comes to about 92% after one dose, and 98% in those who took two doses. Therefore, it is clearly shown that progression to severe disease is reduced, and serious disease gets almost eliminated and risk of death is also significantly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-doses-of-vaccine-give-95-protection-against-covid-death-icmr-study-101625628257936.html
07-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: India mourns demise of veteran actor Dilip Kumar and all the latest news and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Cinematic legend': PM Modi condoles Dilip Kumar's deathPrime Minister Narendra Modi called Dilip Kumar a "cinematic legend" as he condoled the demise of the veteran actor. Read MoreCabinet reshuffle expected today: Probable names and other developmentsThe Narendra Modi government is expected to reshuffle the Union Cabinet on Wednesday, bringing in some fresh faces and accommodating allies of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Read More‘A legend and an Inspiration’: Raina, Pandya, BCCI & others lead wishes as MS Dhoni turns 40Twitter cannot keep calm because India's 'Captain Cool', Chennai Super Kings' (CSK) 'Thala' and the country's very own superstar Mahendra Singh Dhoni has turned 40 on Wednesday. Read MoreDilip Kumar dies at the age of 98, family announces with 'profound grief'Veteran actor Dilip Kumar has died at the age of 98, Dr Jalil Parkar, the pulmonologist treating the actor at Mumbai's PD Hinduja Hospital has confirmed to news agency ANI. Read More'Lambda variant of coronavirus deadlier than delta': Malaysian health ministryThe lambda variant of the coronavirus is turning out to be deadlier than Delta, which was first discovered in India, according to health ministry of Malaysia. Read MoreApple’s digital car keys might be coming your way soon, patent grantedAt the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) last year, Apple had showcased keyless entry into a BMW 5 Series vehicle, which is going to be the first car to come with this feature. Read MoreWatch: 'Will accept whatever Sonia Gandhi decides': Amarinder amid rift with Sidhu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-mourns-demise-of-veteran-actor-dilip-kumar-and-all-the-latest-news-101625626889341.html
07-07-2021||India||'Cinematic legend': PM Modi condoles Dilip Kumar's death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Dilip Kumar a "cinematic legend" as he condoled the demise of the veteran actor. The 98-year-old passed away in Mumbai early on Wednesday, as confirmed by his family."Dilip Kumar Ji will be remembered as a cinematic legend. He was blessed with unparalleled brilliance, due to which audiences across generations were enthralled. His passing away is a loss to our cultural world. Condolences to his family, friends and innumerable admirers. RIP," PM Modi said on Twitter.Dilip Kumar Ji will be remembered as a cinematic legend. He was blessed with unparalleled brilliance, due to which audiences across generations were enthralled. His passing away is a loss to our cultural world. Condolences to his family, friends and innumerable admirers. RIP.Union minister Smriti Irani said Dilip Kumar's death marks the end of an era.Also Read: Leaders pay tribute to Dilip KumarPiyush Goyal also paid tributes to the veteran actor, saying he will always remain immortal as an artist."I am deeply anguished by the demise of Dilip Kumar ji who held a unique place in the field of acting. He gave a new dimension to Indian cinema through his acting. He will remain immortal as an actor, and always find a place in his fans' hearts," he said in a tweet posted in Hindi.The multiple-award-winning actor's career spanned over more than six decades and during the golden era of Hindi cinema, Dilip Kumar charmed millions of hearts with his performance in more than 65 films.Born as Muhammad Yusuf Khan in Peshawar, Pakistan, he began his acting career with the screen name, Dilip Kumar.Dilip Kumar holds the record for winning the maximum number of Filmfare awards. He was the inaugural recipient of the award and won the best actor Filmfare Award eight times. In his long career, he contributed to Hindi cinema in different ways, including the introduction of the method acting technique.Born on December 11, 1922, Dilip Kumar was one among 12 siblings. The yesteryear actor completed his schooling from the Barnes School, Deolali, Nashik, where he grew up in a mixed neighbourhood. His childhood friend Raj Kapoor, too, later became his colleague in the film industry.Dilip Kumar is known for his iconic roles in movies like 'Devdas '(1955), 'Naya Daur' (1957), 'Mughal-e-Azam' (1960), 'Ganga Jamuna' (1961), 'Kranti' (1981), and 'Karma' (1986). He was last seen in 'Qila' in 1998.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cinematic-legend-pm-modi-condoles-dilip-kumar-s-death-101625627567840.html
07-07-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over NW India from July 9: IMD||Widespread rain in many parts of northwest India is likely to begin from July 9, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Moist easterly winds in lower level from Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. They are likely to spread to northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. Accordingly, the southwest monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10.Under the influence of these conditions, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Central India (Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh) from July 8 onwards and isolated very heavy rainfall is also very likely over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on July 8.Also Read | Arctic sea ice loss triggering extreme Sept rains in India: StudyWidespread rainfall is very likely over northwest India from July 9 onwards and isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand from July 8; over Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh from July 9; over East Rajasthan from July 10. Due to strengthening of monsoon over Arabian Sea, enhanced rainfall activity is very likely along the west coast from July 9 onwards. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Konkan, Goa, Coastal Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe from July 9 onwards.Rainfall intensity and distribution is very likely to decrease over northeast India from July 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-nw-india-from-july-9imd-101625626278508.html
07-07-2021||India||'Monumental loss': Leaders pay tribute to Dilip Kumar||Union ministers and leaders cutting across political lines paid tribute to veteran actor Dilip Kumar who passed away on Wednesday morning at the age of 98. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was first to condole Dilip Kumar's death, saying his performance will be remembered for generations to come."My heartfelt condolences to the family, friends & fans of Dilip Kumar ji. His extraordinary contribution to Indian cinema will be remembered for generations to come," Gandhi tweeted.My heartfelt condolences to the family, friends & fans of Dilip Kumar ji. His extraordinary contribution to Indian cinema will be remembered for generations to come. pic.twitter.com/H8NDxLU630Union defence minister Rajnath Singh called Kumar a true thespian and said he is deeply anguished by the actor's demise."Shri Dilip Kumar ji was an outstanding actor, a true thespian who was well regarded by everyone for his exemplary contribution to the Indian film industry. His performances in films like Ganga Jamuna touched a chord in millions of cinegoers. I’m Deeply anguished by his demise," Singh said on Twitter.Shri Dilip Kumar ji was an outstanding actor, a true thespian who was well regarded by everyone for his exemplary contribution to the Indian film industry. His performances in films like Ganga Jamuna touched a chord in millions of cinegoers. I’m Deeply anguished by his demise.The defence minister added that Dilip Kumar's demise is monumental loss to the Indian cinema.A tweet posted on the actor's official handle informed about his demise on Wednesday morning."With a heavy heart and profound grief, I announce the passing away of our beloved Dilip Saab, few minutes ago. We are from God and to Him we return," said the tweet posted by Faisal Farooqui, who manages the handle.The actor was admitted to Hinduja Hospital on Sunday after complaining of breathlessness. This was the second time in a month that Dilip Kumar was taken to the hospital.On June 6, Dilip Kumar was hospitalised after a similar complaint.Kumar was diagnosed with bilateral pleural effusion - a build-up of excess fluid between the layers of the pleura outside the lungs - two weeks ago and underwent a successful pleural aspiration procedure. He was discharged after five days.The veteran actor's career spanned over six decades.He has acted in over 65 films in his career and is known for his iconic roles in movies like 'Devdas '(1955), 'Naya Daur' (1957), 'Mughal-e-Azam' (1960), 'Ganga Jamuna' (1961), 'Kranti' (1981), and 'Karma' (1986). He was last seen in 'Qila' in 1998.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dilip-kumar-s-contribution-will-be-remembered-for-generations-to-come-rahul-101625625965260.html
07-07-2021||India||More Covid-19 curbs in Kerala with high positivity rate areas from today||The Kerala government has decided to impose more Covid-19 restrictions based on Test Positivity Rate (TPR), at the same time allow relaxation where it is low. This will come into effect from Wednesday.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, after a Covid-19 review meeting on Tuesday, decided to impose Covid-19 restrictions based on local bodies on the basis of TPR. "Areas below TPR 5 are included in category A, areas 5 to 10 are included in category B and areas 10 to 15 are included in category C. Areas with a TPR above 15 will be in category D," said a release issued by the Kerala CMO.Kerala on Tuesday reported14,373 new Covid-19 cases and 142 deaths taking the total death toll to 13,960. When 10,751 recovered as many as 1,04,105 in treatment; The total number of those recovered is 28,77,557. The overall test positivity rate is 10.9 per cent.Check out the latest guidelines here:5.The chief minister directed the Medical Education Department to intervene and ensure an inspection system to ensure that the medical colleges are open and the food outlets there are compliant with the Covid-19 standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-covid-19-curbs-in-kerala-with-high-positivity-rate-areas-from-today-101625624911885.html
07-07-2021||India||Germany lifts travel ban from India; fully vaccinated people won't be quarantine||Germany has lifted ban on most travellers coming from India, that was hit by the severe wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), led by the delta variant. The changes in the travel advisory come into effect starting Wednesday, German ambassador to India, Walter J Lindner, announced on Tuesday.Indians who are fully vaccinated, meaning they have been administered with both doses of the jab, or who can demonstrate they have recovered from the Covid-19, will not need to quarantine on their return or arrival, according to the revised guidelines. "From tomorrow, Germany is removing the entry ban and easing travel rules for five countries where Delta variant is widespread, including India," Lindner said in his tweet.The changes were done after Germany reclassified India as "high-incidence areas," downgraded from the 'virus variant countries' listing.India saw an explosion in daily Covid-19 cases as it battled the second Covid-19 wave in April-May. Following the surge, Germany banned entry for travellers from India under preventive measures.India was classified as a virus variant area at the end of April, followed by Nepal and the UK in May. The EU country Portugal, as well as Russia, were added to the list on June 29.The changes to the travel rules come as the fall academic session is set to commence in Germany and many Indian students are pursuing their education there. However, due to the major backlog in visa application, it is likely that the process may take longer than before.The country also lifted the ban from Nepal, Russia, Portugal and the United Kingdom||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/germany-lifts-travel-ban-from-india-fully-vaccinated-people-won-t-be-quarantine-101625624227469.html
07-07-2021||India||Lessons from Uttarakhand crisis? Bengal set to revive legislative council||The West Bengal assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution supporting an ad hoc committee report that favoured creation of a legislative council. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has slammed the move calling it "backdoor politics" to help party leaders get elected as lawmakers despite having lost the assembly polls.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee lost the recently-held assembly election against Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram and has to get elected to the state legislature in order to retain the post.The development in being viewed as a bid by the Bengal government to prevent an Uttarakhand like situation in the state where Tirath Singh Rawat had to resign as chief minister, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan.Banerjee has six months to get elected. She lost by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes in Nandigram and is likely to contest the by-election from Bhowanipore. But there are concerns that the Election Commission may refuse to hold the by-election due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, according to Live Hindustan. It had deferred the by-polls after the April-May elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry.Meanwhile, the resolution on creation of a legislative council in West Bengal was moved by state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee under Rule 169 of the Procedures of Conduct of Business of the House. Voting was duly held, with 196 of the 265 members present in the house supporting the council's creation and 69 opposing it.Opposing the move, the BJP argued that the move would put pressure on the state exchequer. "Most of the states either don't have an upper house or have already abolished it. The real reason behind the TMC planning is to ensure backdoor entry for those leaders who failed to win assembly elections," leader of the opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari was quoted as saying by news agency PTI."The state, on the one hand, is saying it doesn't have funds, but the creation of this Legislative council will put additional pressure of ₹90-100 crores every year," he further said.Adhikari added that the the resolution won't be passed in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha where the BJP has the majority.Opposing the resolution, lone Indian Secular Front (ISF) MLA Naushad Siddiqui also echoed similar sentiments citing "pressure" on the exchequer of the state.West Bengal Legislative Council was set up in 1952 and abolished in 1969 during the time of the United Front government.The resolution would need a nod from the Governor, and after that, a bill has to be passed in Parliament. If passed, the bill will be sent for President's assent so that a Legislative Council can be created. Presently, six states - Maharashtra, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Bihar - have a Legislative Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lessons-from-uttarakhand-crisis-bengal-set-to-revive-legislative-council-101625623730582.html
07-07-2021||India||Total Covid-19 lockdown in 7 districts of Assam from today: Check guidelines here||The Assam government has announced a complete lockdown in seven districts where the positivity rates of Covid-19 cases are high. The lockdown will come into effect from Wednesday and will remain in place until further orders, as per state government order.The government on Tuesday imposed a round-the-clock curfew in Goalpara, Golaghat, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur, Biswanath and Morigaon as the number of coronavirus cases in these districts continued to increase despite imposition of certain restrictions earlier, state health and family welfare minister Keshab Mahanta said.These districts have been brought under the containment zones. Rural and tea garden areas in these districts have been reporting a substantial number of Covid-19 cases, the minister said at a press conference, reports news agency PTI.According to him, the positivity rates in the seven districts were recorded between 2.68 per cent and 5.64 per cent in the last few days.Here are the latest guidelines issued by the Assam government:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-covid-19-lockdown-in-7-districts-of-assam-from-today-check-guidelines-here-101625622262045.html
07-07-2021||India||Centre to review Covid-19 situation in meet with northeast states today||Days after sending coronavirus disease (Covid-19) control teams to northeast India, the central government is ready to review the ground situation regarding the pandemic management in the region. The Union ministry of home affairs called a virtual meeting on Wednesday, according to officials familiar with the development, where home secretary Ajay Bhalla will be discussing the Covid-19 situation with officials from Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, and Manipur.Responsible for more than 62% of the country's 77 districts with high Covid-19 case positivity rates, the northeast region is now at the focus of the central government's attempts to tackle the coronavirus disease pandemic. Central teams, based on whose assessment the government will suggest remedial measures, were earlier sent to those states showing an increasing trend in infection. The two-member high-level team to these states consisted of a clinician and a public health expert.The teams were dispatched to six states on an immediate basis. They were expected to monitor the overall implementation of Covid-19 management, especially in testing, surveillance, and containment operations. Among these six states were Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, and Manipur -- all of which have shown a recent uptick in coronavirus cases.It is likely that the home ministry meet today will focus on the assessment conducted by these central teams and suggest remedial measures for the issues in pandemic management that the states are facing -- especially in the availability of hospital beds, ambulances, ventilators, and medical oxygen, as well as Covid-19 vaccination progress.As an ongoing effort to strengthen the efforts of various state governments in dealing with Covid-19 cases, the central government has in the past deputed control teams from time to time to visit various states and Union territories. These teams interact with the local authorities and get a "first-hand understanding" of the challenges and issues being faced by the administration, said an official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-meet-with-northeast-states-today-101625620355665.html
07-07-2021||India||Monsoon to begin reviving from July 8, will reach Delhi by Saturday: IMD||After a brief break amid heatwave conditions, the southwest monsoon is again set to enter an active phase from June 8, as per the forecast by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD said that the country as a whole will witness good rainfall this month.The monsoon has not advanced further since June 19, after a good spell of rains in the first two and half weeks of the previous month. Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, west Rajasthan have been facing scorching Sun as heat wave conditions prevailed.As per the IMD forecast, the process will begin from the southwest over the south peninsula including the west coast and adjoining east-central India from July 8.By July 11, a low-pressure area is likely to form over west-central and adjoining the northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 11, the weather department also said in the forecast.The moist easterly winds in lower level from Bay of Bengal is likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. It is likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. "Accordingly, the southwest monsoon (is) likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan and Delhi around 10th July," the IMD said."This is very likely to cause increased rainfall activity over northwest and central India from July 10,” the IMD also said.The Northern Limit of the southwest monsoon (NLM) is currently passing through Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-begin-reviving-from-july-8-will-reach-delhi-by-saturday-imd-101625620158205.html
07-07-2021||NA||LIVE: Sarbananda Sonowal gets ministry of ports, shipping, waterways and AYUSH||Prime Minister Narendra Modi revamped his council of ministers on Wednesday in a first since assuming charges for a second term. The Union council of ministers, which will be expanded with the swearing-in of new entrants this evening, is expected to have more representation from socially and economically backward communities, of women and people with administrative and legislative experience, people aware of the matter said.As many as 43 new ministers were sworn in Wednesday evening in the Prime Minister's new cabinet. In another pointer to the imminent Cabinet reshuffle, social justice and empowerment minister Thaawarchand Gehlot’s appointment as Karnataka governor caused another ministerial vacancy.Ahead of the rejig, several ministers resigned from their posts, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan was one of them. Union ministers Babul Supriyo, Santosh Gangwar, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Sadananda Gowda among others stepped down from their office on Wednesday.The much-awaited expansion came on the heels of the completion of the Modi’s government’s seven years in office. Currently, there are 21 cabinet ministers, nine ministers with independent charge, and 23 ministers of state in the union council of ministers. According to people aware of the details since the council can have up to 81 ministers, at least a dozen inclusions are expected.Follow all the updates here:Meet the new brigade of Modi's ministersPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday revealed which portfolios will be allocated to the newly inducted lawmakers shortly after their oathtaking ceremony. Check the full list hereSarbananda Sonowal gets ministry of ports, shipping, waterways and AYUSHFormer Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal was allocated Union ministry of ports, shipping and waterways and ministry of AYUSH.G Kishan Reddy moves up as culture minister, MHA gets 3 MoSWith G Kishan Reddy moving up as Union minister for culture, the ministry of home affairs now has three ministers of state - Nityanand Rai, Ajay Kumar and Nishit Pramanik.Aviation ministery gets MoS, retired general VK Singh to take postThe aviation ministry also got a minister of state on Wednesday, as Gen VK Singh (retd) joined the post.Anurag Thakur gets Union ministry of information and broadcasting, LJP's Pashupati Paras gets food ministryAnurag Thakur got Union ministry of information and broadcasting, along with youth affairs. LJP leader Pashupati Paras will take charge of food ministry.Ashwini Vaishnaw gets Railways and ITAshwini Vaishnaw, the Rajya Sabha MP from Odisha will be the new minister of Railways as well minister of IT and communication.Mansukh Mandaviya inducted as new Union health ministerMansukh Mandaviya inducted as new Union health minister on Wednesday.Union ministry of housing clubbed with ministry of petroleum, Puri to take chargeMinistry of health, & chemicals and fertilizers will be clubbed. Hardeep Puri got urban development, housing ministry clubbed with petroleum. Jyotiraditya Scindia gets Civil Aviation ministryJyotiraditya Scindia appointed Union minister for civil aviation.PM Modi takes ministry of science and technology, Shah to monitor ministry of cooperationPrime Minister Narendra Modi took charge of ministry of science and technology, while, home minister Amit Shah will monitor ministry of cooperation.'All possible efforts will be made to fulfil the duties': Anurag ThakurUnion cabinet minister Anurag Thakur thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for the opportunity in the cabinet. "I am thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah for giving me this chance. All possible efforts will be made to fulfil the duties," ANI quoted Thakur as saying.PM Modi congratulates ministers who took oath todayI congratulate all the colleagues who have taken oath today and wish them the very best for their ministerial tenure. We will continue working to fulfil aspirations of the people and build a strong and prosperous India. #Govt4Growth pic.twitter.com/AVz9vL77bOUnion cabinet, council of ministers meetings to likely take place tomorrowThe Union cabinet is scheduled to meet tentatively on Thursday at 5pm, while the council of ministers are scheduled to meet on the same day at 7pm.28 ministers inducted as ministers of state28 ministers inducted as ministers of state including Meenakshi Lekhi, Pankaj Choudhary, Anupriya Patel, Shobha Karandlaje on Wednesday.15 ministers inducted into Union cabinet15 Ministers inducted into the Union Cabinet including Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sarbananda Sonowal, Anurag Thakur, Kiren Rijiju, Hardeep Puri. pic.twitter.com/rO6WK02Vh2Munjapara Mahendrabhai, John Barla, L Murugan, Nisith Pramanik take oath#CabinetExpansion2021 | Munjapara Mahendrabhai, John Barla, L Murugan, Nisith Pramanik, take oath as ministers. pic.twitter.com/ZHXVipufSSBharati Pravin Pawar, Bishweswar Tudu and Shantanu Thakur take oathBharati Pravin Pawar, Bishweswar Tudu and Shantanu Thakur took oath as ministers.Subhas Sarkar, Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad, Rajkumar Ranjan Singh take oathSubhas Sarkar, Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad, Rajkumar Ranjan Singh took oath as ministers on Wednesday.Pratima Bhoumik, first-time MP, takes oath as ministerBL Verma, Ajay Kumar, Chauhan Devusinh take oath#CabinetExpansion2021 | BL Verma, Ajay Kumar, Chauhan Devusinh, take oath as ministers. pic.twitter.com/tVsNIbJM9XA Narayanaswamy, Kaushal Kishore and Ajay Bhatt take oathA Narayanaswamy, Kaushal Kishore and Ajay Bhatt took oath as ministers on Wednesday.Meenakshi Lekhi, Darshana Vikram Jardosh, Annpurna Devi take oath as ministersBJP leaders Meenakshi Lekhi, Darshana Vikram Jardosh, Annpurna Devi took oath as ministers on Wednesday.Karnataka BJP leaders Rajeev Chandrashekhar, Shobha Karandlaje take oathPankaj Choudhary, Anupriya Singh Patel, Satya Pal Singh Baghel take oath#CabinetExpansion2021 | Pankaj Choudhary, Anupriya Singh Patel, and Satya Pal Singh Baghel take oath as ministers. pic.twitter.com/LCBnWLf6pnParshottam Rupala, G Kishan Reddy, Anurag Thakur take oathHardeep Singh Puri, Kiren Rijiju, Mansukh Mandaviya elevated in cabinet reshuffleLJP leader Pashupati Nath Paras, Delhi BJP leader Bhupender Yadav and JD(U) leader RCP Singh take oath#CabinetExpansion2021 | Pashupati Kumar Paras, Kiren Rijiju and Raj Kumar Singh take oath as ministers. pic.twitter.com/XzpZ1ejxdxBJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia takes oathBJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia also took oath as Union minister on Wednesday.Former chief ministers Narayan Rane, Sarabananda Sonowal take oathFormer chief minister of Maharashtra Narayan Rane and former chief minister of Assam Sarabananda Sonowal took oath as ministers on Wednesday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi reaches Rashtrapati Bhavan ahead of reshufflePrime Minister Narendra Modi reached Rashtrapati Bhavan Wednesday evening ahead of cabinet reshuffle.Prakash Javadekar, RS Prasad resign ahead of cabinet reshuffleUnion ministers Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad also stepped down from their posts on Wednesday, ahead of cabinet reshuffle.BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia leaves from residenceBJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia left from his residence, ahead of the Union cabinet expansion.Former Assam CM and BJP leader Sarbananda Sonowal leaves from residenceDelhi | Former Assam CM and BJP leader Sarbananda Sonowal leaves from his residenceThe Union Cabinet expansion will take place this evening pic.twitter.com/N7cidr3SY9Scindia, Sonowal, Lekhi and 40 others to join cabinet43 leaders to take oath today in the Union Cabinet expansion. Jyotiraditya Scindia, Pashupati Kumar Paras, Bhupender Yadav, Anupriya Patel, Shobha Karandlaje, Meenakshi Lekhi, Ajay Bhatt, Anurag Thakur to also take the oath. pic.twitter.com/pprtmDu4koUnion minister Babul Supriyo resigns from the CabinetUnion minister Babul Supriyo stepped down from the Union cabinet on Wednesday.Union ministers Sanjay Shamrao Dhotre, Raosaheb Danve Patil resignUnion minister Sanjay Shamrao Dhotre and minister of state for consumer affairs Raosaheb Danve Patil resigned from the Union cabinet, ahead of the reshuffle.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan steps downUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan also resigned from his post on Wednesday ahead of the cabinet reshuffle.'Will go to President's House today': BJP MP Nisith Pramanik ahead of cabinet rejigBJP MP Nisith Pramanik ahead of the Union cabinet reshuffle said he will visit President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday and added that he is hopeful of inclusion. "Will go to President's House today. I am hopeful," ANI quoted Pramanik as saying.Another representative of Karnataka is Rajeev ChandrasekharAnother representative of Karnataka is Rajeev Chandrasekhar who makes an entry to council of ministers. He recently was part of the team which delivered a BJP alliance government in Puducherry.43 leaders are expected to be sworn-in as Union Ministers43 leaders will take oath as Union Ministers in the Union Cabinet expansion, to be held later today.Ramesh Pokhriyal also steps downEducation minister Ramesh Pokhriyal also confirms that he has stepped down; cites health reasons.Ministers leave from 7, Lok Kalyan MargHome Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, BJP President JP Nadda, Sarbananda Sonowal, GK Reddy, Kiren Rijiju, Jyotiraditya Scindia, Parshottam Rupala and Anupriya Patel leave from 7, Lok Kalyan Marg.Santosh Gangwar says he has resigned from Union CabinetLabour minister Santosh Gangwar says he has resigned from Union Cabinet.Santosh Gangwar to Hindustan Times: I have resigned. I can't discuss reason for resignations but can confirm.Council is expected to have more representation of womenAs the council is expected to have more representation of women, BJP Vice President Sobha Karandlaje, MP from Beed in Maharashtra Pritam Munde and Heena Gavit MP from Maharashtra’s Nandurbar were also seen entering the PM’s residence.Council is expected to have greater representation from SC, ST, OBC communitiesAs per party sources, the council is expected to have greater representation from SC, ST, OBC communities.List of ministers present at 7, Lok Kalyan MargJyotiraditya Scindia, Sarbananda Sonowal, Bhupender Yadav, Anurag Thakur, Meenakshi Lekhi, Anupriya Patel, Ajay Bhatt, Shobha Karandjale, Sunita Dugga, Pritam Munde, Santanu Thakur and Kapil Patil.Several minister present at 7, Lok Kalyan MargHome Minister Amit Shah, BJP President JP Nadda, Meenakshi Lekhi, Sarbananda Sonowal, Purshottam Rupala, Nisith Pramanik, RCP Singh, Pashupati Paras, present at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, ahead of Union Cabinet reshuffle.JP Nadda leaves from his residenceBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) National President JP Nadda leaves from this residence.Amit Shah arrives at 7, Lok Kalyan MargUnion Minister Amit Shah arrives at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, ahead of Union Cabinet reshuffle.4 ministers hold additional charges of five ministriesCurrently, four ministers hold additional charges of five ministries.More allies in NDA governmentThe much-anticipated reshuffle is also expected to see more allies being accommodated in the NDA governmentJD (U), LJP and Apna Dal are expected to be part of CabinetJanata Dal (United), Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and Apna Dal are expected to find a place in the Union Cabinet.Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sarbananda Sonowal, Narayan Rane are among likely new ministersRajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and former Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane are among the likely new ministers.Several positions in the Cabinet are vacantSeveral positions in the Cabinet are vacant due to the exit of Shiv Sena and Shiromani Akali Dal and the demise of Ramvilas Paswan of Jan Lokshakti Party.The exercise was set in motion with appointment of 4 new governorsThe exercise was set in motion with the appointment of four new governors and shifting of four others on Tuesday.Swearing-in ceremony may take place at 6pm todayThe swearing-in ceremony of new ministers may take place at 6pm today.Modi government currently has 53 ministersThe Modi government currently has 53 ministers and its strength can go up to 81.Reshuffle being done in view of next year's assembly pollsThe reshuffle is being done with an eye on next year's assembly polls in various states.CCEA, Cabinet meetings have been cancelledCCEA and Cabinet meetings that were scheduled today have been cancelled.First overhaul of the cabinet since 2019This will be the first overhaul of the cabinet since the Modi government came to power in 2019.Several BJP leaders and allies have come to DelhiSeveral BJP leaders and allies have come to Delhi, giving a hint about their possible inclusion in the cabinet. Among these leaders are Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and former Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane.Cabinet reshuffle triggered after meetings between PM Modi, Amit Shah and JP NaddaThe speculation about a cabinet reshuffle was triggered by meetings between Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday.Cabinet expansion buzz as key leaders arrive in CapitalThe Union cabinet expansion is expected to bring in fresh faces that will help the BJP address the criticism it faced for the systemic deficiencies that were exposed during the second wave of the corona pandemic, prepare for the upcoming set of assembly elections and the 2024 Lok Sabha battle, and address the charge that it is not good with allies. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-cabinet-reshuffle-july-7-2021-101625619156170.html
07-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle expected today: Probable names and other developments||The Narendra Modi government is expected to reshuffle the Union Cabinet on Wednesday, bringing in some fresh faces and accommodating allies of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The swearing-in ceremony of new ministers may take place at 6pm today.Speculation about a cabinet reshuffle was triggered by meetings between Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday.Also Watch: What will new Team Modi look like after cabinet reshuffle?A clutch of BJP leaders and allies flew to Delhi, giving a hint about their possible inclusion in the cabinet. Among these leaders are Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and former Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane.Scindia, who left Congress and joined the BJP in March last year, was seen offering prayers at Ujjain's famous Mahakal temple before leaving for Delhi.Among the allies, the Janata Dal (United), Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and Apna Dal are expected to find a place in the Union Cabinet. Though Bihar chief minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar is mum on number of berths his party will get, there are reports that JD(U) chief RCP Singh is headed to Delhi. LJP leader Chirag Paswan, who is fighting his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras over the control of the party, has said that he will move court if the latter is accommodated.The exercise was set in motion with the appointment of four new governors and shifting of four others on Tuesday. This will be the first overhaul of the cabinet since the Modi government came to power in 2019.The reshuffle is being done with an eye on next year's assembly polls in various states; the BJP also wants to shrug off the image that it is not being able to work with the allies. PM Modi held several meetings in the past few weeks with his ministers and chief ministers of poll-bound states like Uttar Pradesh's Yogi Adityanath.The Modi government currently has 53 ministers and its strength can go up to 81, or 15% of the total number of members of the Lok Sabha, which stands at 545.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-reshuffle-expected-today-probable-names-and-other-developments-101625616948476.html
07-07-2021||India||Centre to restore dearness allowance benefit for govt employees? Decision likely soon||Amid talks of a likely cabinet expansion of the Narendra Modi-led central government, a major decision regarding the Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) benefits of government employees as per the seventh pay commission guidelines may also be on its way soon, said officials familiar with the development. The Union cabinet meeting slated for 11am on Wednesday was expected to take the final call on restoring the DA and the DR benefits for central government employees and pensioners, respectively, reports indicated. However, the meeting was later cancelled by the government.Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) and Cabinet meetings that were scheduled today have been cancelled, the central government informed early on Wednesday morning. No written agenda was, however, set for the cabinet meeting, which was to be conducted virtually, via video-conferencing.Earlier, the administration had decided to restore the DA benefits for the central government employees and DR benefits for the central government pensioners following a meeting between the Union ministry of finance and the department of personnel and training (DoPT) on June 26. It was said that the DA and the DR benefits of the central government employees and pensioners, respectively, will be restored from September later this year. However, it was also said that the final call regarding the matter will reserve with the Union cabinet, which might make a decision soon in this regard in its next meeting.The Congress party, in the meanwhile, has urged the central government to hasten up its decision-making process and immediately restore the DA and the DR benefits. The grand old party has even accused the Modi government of being unfair towards government employees and pensioners, including armed forces personnel, regarding the payment of their due DA and DR benefits. Rahul Gandhi alleged that the government took to "looting" ₹37,500 crore from soldiers, government employees, and pensioners, adding that it is a "crime" amid such times of decreasing salaries and rising inflation.The dearness allowance benefits of the central government employees and the additional installment of the dearness relief benefits for central government pensioners were withheld by the finance ministry last year in January in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country. However, now that the second wave of the pandemic is gradually receding, it is believed that the government may make the major decision to restore the DA and the DR benefits soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-restore-dearness-allowance-da-benefit-for-govt-employees-decision-likely-today-101625615140548.html
07-07-2021||India||Centre begins big reshuffle with Governors||The President named four new governors, including one of the NDA’s senior-most ministers Thaawarchand Gehlot, and shifted four others on Tuesday amid speculation of an imminent Cabinet reshuffle, setting in motion the Union government’s first major overhaul since it returned to power two years ago.The appointments came as senior leaders of the Bharatya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies flew into the Capital ahead of a possible Cabinet reshuffle, the first since Narendra Modi swept back to power with an increased majority in 2019.A Cabinet meeting is likely to be held at 11am on Wednesday and the swearing-in ceremony of new ministers may take place at 6pm, said people aware of developments.President Ram Nath Kovind appointed Union social justice minister Gehlot as the governor of Karnataka, former Gujarat minister Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel as the governor of Madhya Pradesh, BJP MP Hari Babu Kambhampati as the governor of Mizoram, and former Goa minister Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar as the governor of Himachal Pradesh.Also read: Cabinet expansion buzz as key leaders arrive in CapitalA communiqué from Rashtrapati Bhavan also said that Mizoram governor PS Sreedharan Pillai was transferred to Goa, Haryana governor Satyadev Narayan Arya to Tripura, Tripura governor Ramesh Bais to Jharkhand, and Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatraya to Haryana.“The above appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices,” said the statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan.Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala, and Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu were not given new roles.The changes indicated that the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government was set to enter a new phase in its second stint, said people aware of developments, hinting that more restructuring may be seen in the party organisation and parliamentary board ahead of high-stakes election in five states next year.The much-anticipated reshuffle is also expected to see more allies being accommodated in the NDA government; currently, only the Republican Party of India is, and the BJP is keen to shrug of the image of not being able to work with allies. The parliamentary board has five vacancies with the exit of Gehlot.The Narendra Modi government currently has 21 Cabinet ministers, nine ministers of state with independent charge and 23 ministers of state.It can accommodate a total of 81 members in the council of ministers, which cannot exceed 15% of the total number of members of the Lok Sabha, which stands at 545.Currently, four ministers hold additional charges of five ministries.After the NDA returned to power in 2019 with 324 seats, the Prime Minister appointed 53 ministers from the BJP and four from allies, including Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Ramvilas Paswan and Anant Geete.But over the last two years, at least four positions in the council of ministers fell vacant due to the exit of the Shiv Sena and Akali Dal, the demise of ministers Ram Vilas Paswan and Suresh Angadi, and now the appointment of Gehlot as governor.Gehlot, 73, was the government’s top Dalit leader and held the social justice portfolio since the NDA came to power in 2014. Gehlot’s elevation also means that the BJP will have to name a new leader in the Rajya Sabha.Observers underlined that Gehlot’s new role could possibly see him as a candidate for the Vice President’s election next year.Gehlot’s move to the Karnataka Raj Bhavan also created the fifth vacancy in the BJP’s highest decision-making body, the parliamentary board.Currently, the seats earlier filled by former Union ministers Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj and Ananth Kumar lie vacant. One other vacancy arose when M Venkaiah Naidu became the Vice President in 2017.Speculation about a cabinet reshuffle was first triggered by meetings between Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda on Tuesday.Prominent among leaders who flew into the Capital on Tuesday were Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and former Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane.Also read: Cabinet reshuffle soon. Sonowal, Rane may get berthsScindia was seen offering prayers at Ujjain’s famous Mahakal temple on Tuesday morning.“I was on a visit to Ujjain. After completing my visit here, I’m going to Delhi,” he told reporters.Janata Dal (United) leaders RCP Singh was also on his way to Delhi, said people aware of developments. The JD(U) didn’t find a place in the Cabinet in 2019.Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Pashupati Paras, brother of late Ram Vilas Paswan who is currently fighting over the control of the party with his nephew Chirag Paswan, is expected to find a place in the Cabinet.The newly appointed governors said they were looking forward to the responsibility.“President Kovind and PM Modi have shown faith in me and have appointed me as the Karnataka governor. I will live up to their expectation and do my job faithfully. I will try to resolve the issues within constitutional limits and with discussions,” Gehlot told news agency ANI.The Karnataka government has been roiled by infighting in recent weeks with many BJP leaders calling for the resignation of chief minister BS Yediyurappa. There have been reports that a change in the state’s leadership may be imminent, with one of Yediyurappa’s sons being accommodated at the Centre.Patel said he will try his best to fulfil his new role. “The BJP is a party which believes in taking along all communities. I thank President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other leaders for giving me this new responsibility,” Patel told reporters at his residence in Navsari.Arlekar said that Prime Minister Modi informed him about the new responsibility on Monday. “On Tuesday, I was informed about my appointment as Himachal Pradesh governor by President Ram Nath Kovind. A notification has been issued,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-begins-big-reshuffle-with-governors-101625613763225.html
07-07-2021||India||PDP says it won’t meet Jammu-Kashmir delimitation panel||The Mehbooba Mufti-led Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) declined to meet the Delimitation Commission on Tuesday, even as leaders of other mainstream political parties in Kashmir met the members of the Centre’s panel hours after they arrived in Srinagar for a four-day tour.The commission – led by justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai – is in Jammu & Kashmir to interact with political parties and officials for “first hand” inputs on an exercise to carve out new constituencies in the Union Territory.The PDP said it decided to stay away from the exercise as it felt that the outcome of the process was already decided, aimed to take the power away from the people of J&K, and to realise the “political vision of a particular party”.Several parties, including the National Conference (NC), the People’s Conference (PC), the Congress, and the CPI(M) submitted separate memorandums to the visiting delegation, and urged it to allay apprehensions over the exercise by conducting it in a free and fair manner.“On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents, GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores,” Mufti tweeted on Tuesday. Her remarks came hours the Enforcement Directorate served a notice on Mufti’s mother, Gulshan Nazeer, asking her to appear at the agency’s office on July 14 in connection with a money laundering case.At a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the national capital on June 24, J&K leaders were told that elections could not precede the delimitation exercise as the 2019 Jammu & Kashmir Reorganisation Act laid down the condition of carving out new constituencies for the polls.Besides leaders of political parties, the commission will hold talks with district officials and other stakeholders on the ongoing process of carving out the new constituencies. The leaders of CPI, Panthers Party, Bharatiya Janata Party, Apni Party and Bhajun Samaj Party also met the Delimitation Commission on Tuesday.Former Supreme Court judge Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of J&K, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir.The commission arrived in Srinagar a day after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of political major parties such as the NC and the PDP, said it was disappointed over the outcome of the all-party meeting with the Prime Minister.The alliance demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections were held there. It also criticised the lack of “confidence-building measures”. The Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state as it effectively nullified Article 370 in August, 2019.A five-member NC delegation that met the commission told it that the exercise should have been done after the assembly elections, and termed it as an “unconstitutional exercise” based on the Reorganisation Act, which has been challenged in the Supreme Court.“We told them the entire Reorganisational Act is unconstitutional that has been already challenged in the Supreme Court. We also told them that people in J&K have lost faith on institutions so this should be done on transparent basis as people have lot of apprehensions and the craving out of the new constituencies should be done on the basis of population and nothing else,” said NC provisional president Nasir Aslam Wani, who was part of the delegation.The BJP delegation held a 30-minute interaction with the commission. “We told them the delimitation of assembly segments should be done on merit and due to huge population of Schedule Tribes, 9 to 10 assembly segments should be kept reserved for them. Also, we told them the previous delimitation had helped few political families of J&K which shouldn’t happen this time and villages of one district shouldn’t be put in another district during the process of redrawing the boundaries,” Sofi Yusuf, who led the delegation, said.On Wednesday, the commission will visit Pahalgam to hold meetings with officials and delegations from four districts of South Kashmir – Anantnag, Pulwama, Kulgam, and Shopian. In Srinagar, the panel will hold meetings related to Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Bandipore, Baramulla, and Kupwara districts.The commission will later travel to Kishtwar to hold discussions with officials of the Doda, Kishtwar, and Ramban districts. On July 9, the commission will meet delegations from Jammu, Poonch, Rajouri, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba and Reasi districts.Jammu & Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir, who led the Congress delegation, said that they asked the Delimitation Commission about their plan on redrawing of boundaries for creating new assembly segments. “The commission members told us that the process will be transparent based on the suggestions of different political parties. However, our view is that the process should have been done in 2026 along with the entire country with a new Census.”Peoples Conference spokesperson Adnan Ashraf said the party’s delegation told the commission that there were rumours that the aim of the delimitation exercise was to take away the power of the people in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-says-it-won-t-meet-jammu-kashmir-delimitation-panel-101625613336259.html
07-07-2021||India||Arctic sea ice loss triggering extreme Sept rains in India: Study||Summer sea ice loss in the Kara Sea region of the Arctic may be triggering extreme monsoon rainfall events in central India in the month of September, a new paper has suggested.The research, led by the National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research under the ministry of earth sciences, has found that the frequency of extreme rainfall events (daily rainfall >150 mm) in central India in September displayed a consistently increasing trend with declining summer sea ice extent during the Early Twentieth Century Warming (ETCW, 1920–1940) period and recent warming since the 1980s.The trend was found to be stronger in the recent warming period after the 1980s, the paper, ‘A possible relation between Arctic sea ice and late season Indian Summer Monsoon Rainfall extremes’, said.Since the beginning of the satellite records in 1979, the Arctic Sea Ice Extent (SIE) has been declining at a rate of about 4.4% per decade in annual mean, the paper published in the journal Nature on June 22 said.While it is still unclear if this rapid sea ice decline can influence extreme weather events in the tropics, or the extreme rainfall events during monsoon in India, scientists from NCPOR have proposed that it may be causing a high-pressure area over Northwest Europe. The scientists have found that extreme rainfall events in late monsoon can be induced by the sea ice decline.The authors said that the upper level atmospheric circulation changes due to Arctic sea ice loss and very warm sea surface temperatures over the Arabian Sea could together contribute to increase in extreme monsoon rain in central India, particularly in the month of September.“As the sea ice reduces in the Barents-Kara Sea region of the Arctic Ocean, it allows more convection and upward air motion over the open ocean during summer. This air then descends at a further south location over northwest Europe and intensifies a deep anticyclonic atmospheric circulation. The associated meandering of the jet stream also contributes to it. This abnormal upper atmospheric disturbance is then further propagated towards subtropical Asia extending over the Indian landmass. The upper-level atmospheric circulation change along with an above-normal Arabian Sea surface temperature help in enhanced convection and moisture supply - resulting in extreme rainfall events during August-September,” said Sourav Chatterjee, lead author from NCPOR.In 2015, a paper by meteorologist TN Krishnamurti of Florida State University, proposed that the heat released in the atmosphere during extreme rainfall events over northwest India ultimately travels to the Canadian Arctic region causing significant sea ice loss in the Arctic.The effects of Arctic Sea ice changes on the mid-latitudes are still debated but it is often proposed that increase in mid-latitude extreme weather events is associated with Arctic Amplification induced loss in sea ice. Over the past 30 years, the Arctic has warmed at twice the rate as the entire globe — this phenomenon is known as Arctic Amplification, according to the US’s National Snow and Ice Data Center.“We started by looking at over 100 years of observational records of summer monsoon rainfall and sea ice in the Arctic. During the two episodes of rapid sea ice decline in the Arctic Ocean (1920-1940 and 1980-present) the frequency of extreme rainfall events consistently increase. This motivated us to look at the relationship between extreme rainfall and sea ice in the Arctic. Earlier studies had shown the potential mid-latitude influences on the monsoon. We further investigated the possible impact of sea ice loss in this mid-latitude influence on the monsoon extremes,” Chatterjee said, underlining that impacts of such atmospheric circulation changes are most prominent over the west and central India, and parts of the west coast.“In summary, our results indicate since the 1980s, rapidly declining summer sea ice extent in the Kara Sea region exhibits a more robust relationship with the frequency of Indian Summer Monsoon Rainfall extremes, compared to mean ISMR intensity; extreme precipitation events in central India during the late phase of ISMR season can be explained by the combined effect of the upper atmospheric circulation anomalies resulting from reduced sea ice extent and low-level circulation anomalies over west-central India supported by warm sea surface temperature anomalies in the north-western Arabian Sea,” the paper said.“Changes in sea-ice extent in the Arctic influences large-scale atmospheric patterns, and it is possible that there is an impact on the monsoon too. While the causative mechanisms are not that clear, there is one factor that is definitive—the extreme rainfall events during the monsoon have increased three-fold in the recent decades. Since these extreme rains happen over a short spell of a few hours to few days over a large area, chances of floods are high—which means that we need to work on flood warning systems across the country,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, India Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM). Roxy’s paper published in Nature journal in 2017 concluded that there was a threefold rise in extreme rain along the west coast and central India during 1950 to 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arctic-sea-ice-loss-triggering-extreme-sept-rains-in-india-study-101625612783763.html
07-07-2021||India||Srinagar police, IB quiz vehicle thieves nabbed in Delhi last week||A team of Intelligence Bureau(IB) officials and the CID unit of Srinagar police on Monday reached Delhi to interrogate two men who were arrested last week for stealing vehicles and selling them in Kashmir. The two agencies questioned the suspects to get information about their contacts in Kashmir to whom they sold the vehicles.Officers privy to the development, however, said there was no evidence so far to suggest that the suspects were involved in terror activities.On Sunday, Delhi police said they busted an organised gang of vehicle thieves, and arrested Showkat Ahmad Malla, 25, a resident of Baramulla, Kashmir and Mohammed Juber, 22, a resident of Shamli, Uttar Pradesh. The two were arrested from central’s Delhi’s Paharganj area. Police said that the gang, to which the two men belonged, has sold more than 100 vehicles to buyers in the Kashmir valley.Explaining their operation, Delhi police officers said Showkat flew to Delhi and drove the vehicles to Sopore town in Kashmir’s Baramulla district, from where they were sent to other places.“A team of CID officers from DIG CID unit of J&K police came yesterday. Separately, the IB officials also came and interrogated them. Some photographs found on the phones of the two men aroused suspicion so they had to be interrogated. Though one cannot say it is linked to terror activities. They questioned the two men for their contacts. They will verify the information shared by the two men. There are some members of the gang, who are still believed to be hiding in the valley,” an officer, who asked not to be named, said.To be sure 90-100 vehicles are stolen across the city every day. Between January 1 and June 15, 2021, police registered 15,667 cases of motor vehicle thefts in Delhi. Police have in the past busted vehicle thieves, who took stolen cars to states as far as those in the Northeast. But this is the first major case of organised theft racket spread from western Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to the Kashmir valley, the officer said.As part of the probe, a Delhi police team is also going to Kashmir to find the associates of the two suspects. Police are on the lookout for a man named, Wasim Sheikh, a resident of Baramulla. “Wasim is our main link in the case. He has come to Delhi on several occasions and has taken cars to Kashmir. Showkat learnt the trade from him. We will seek the assistance of J&K police to trace him,” added a second police officer, who asked not to be named.Police said Shaukat also works as a civil contractor for the state government in Kashmir. Police said Shaukat and his accomplice Juber, received the stolen vehicles from one Rinku.Rinku tampered with the chassis and engine numbers, changed the registration plate of the vehicle before handing it to Shaukat. Police have recovered at least 100 registration number plates and 150 duplicate car keys from the two suspects, investigators said.When contacted, Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police(central), whose team arrested the two alleged vehicle thieves, said, “The investigation in the case is on. There are some missing links that we are trying to establish. We are probing who bought the stolen vehicles in Kashmir.”Singh did not comment on the joint interrogation of the two men by the IB and the J&K police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-police-ib-quiz-vehicle-thieves-nabbed-in-delhi-last-week-101625610414556.html
07-07-2021||India||CBSE may allow its schools to adopt other boards too||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is considering allowing affiliated schools to also be affiliated with other boards of education in the same campus, in an attempt to benefit students as well as schools, officials familiar with the matter said.Under the current by-laws of CBSE, schools affiliated with it cannot have any other affiliations in the same campus.If implemented, this means CBSE schools will be able to offer more options to students. The Council for The Indian School Certificate Examiniations or CISCE already allows this, with some popular CISCE affiliated schools offering popular IB (International Baccalaureate) or the International General Certificate of Secondary Education options.A proposal to the effect was presented during a meeting held on June 30, the officials cited in the first instance said on condition of anonymity. One official who attended the meeting, said: “It has been proposed that the schools will have to take a no-objection certificate from CBSE for obtaining the affiliation from other education boards in addition to their existing affiliation with CBSE.”Another official, who also attended the meeting, added: “If implemented, separate faculty for teaching students from different boards will be arranged by the schools. The management and the principal can be common for the students enrolled under multiple boards.”CBSE is yet to release any official notification in this regard.According to CBSE affiliation by-laws 2018, a school affiliated with the board “is not allowed to have dual affiliation” i.e simultaneous affiliation with two boards “with the same set of infrastructure and land”. This effectively rules out doing this on the same campus -- and schools that wish to do so need to invest in a completely different campus.The principals of several CBSE schools in Delhi said that having dual affiliation would be an “advantage”. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, said: “With two education boards allowed in one school, students and staff can benefit from shared learnings, collaborative practices, and professional development. Also, it will create more opportunities and options for students and parents. Schools and stakeholders will ultimately benefit from knowledge and innovation spillover.”Terming the idea of having multiple boards “exciting”, Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said: “However, it is yet to see how practical it would be for a school to have multiple boards. If the staff, students, and administration would be able to adjust… But it will help students who switch between the boards after class 10. They will not have to change their school if it offers more than one board.”The move may be crucial for public schools in the Capital since the Delhi government is soon going to launch its own education board. However, several principals of government schools said it may also create confusion. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, school head of the Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini’s Sector 8, said: “It will definitely give more opportunities to students but managing it will be a big challenge for schools.”CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi did not respond to requests for comment.A senior CBSE official who asked not to be named, said the idea was floated after requests from schools across the country. “We are yet to discuss several aspects and all the pros and cons before implementing this. The discussion around it has been started,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-may-allow-its-schools-to-adopt-other-boards-too-101625609462479.html
07-07-2021||India||Inoculate inmates with mental illness first: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Union government to consider vaccinating mental health establishment inmates against Covid-19 on priority, stressing how vulnerable this section of the population was because it could neither visit a hospital nor be transported to a medical facility.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah told the Centre to chalk out a plan for all states and Union territories to ensure all persons institutionalised in mental health establishments are vaccinated. “Vaccination drive (for Covid-19) must extend to inmates of all mental health establishments as they cannot go to hospitals or be transported. Else, there will be large number of deaths in these institutions,” the bench said.The court directed the department of social justice to take up this concern immediately with the ministry of health and family welfare so that “suitable instructions are given, and a plan is chalked out” to enable vaccination of all inmates of mental health establishments across the country.The order came on a contempt petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, pointing to the death of three inmates at a Maharashtra mental health facility and the urgent need of vaccinating the inmates. He also requested that the plan to be chalked out by the Centre should cover testing, tracing and vaccinating the inmates. There are roughly 13,000 inmates in 43 state-run mental health asylums and hospitals, Bansal said, adding that the number of such patients in private establishments is not known.On the death of three inmates, Bansal pointed out that it was due to a “blunder” by Maharashtra government to shift the mental asylum inmates, who had recovered, to beggar homes and old age homes (for inmates aged above 60). Maharashtra counsel Sachin Patil sought time to take instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inoculate-inmates-with-mental-illness-first-supreme-court-101625608985950.html
07-07-2021||India||Will follow any decision by Sonia Gandhi, says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Congress president Sonia Gandhi met with Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday to resolve the crisis facing the party in the state ahead of next year’s assembly elections. After the meeting, also attended by Congress Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge, the head of a three-member committee that looked at dissent and differences in the Punjab unit of the party, and presented the chief minister with a 18-point to-do list, Singh said they discussed the development of Punjab and “internal matters of the party” and that he would follow any decision taken by Gandhi.He also avoided commenting on Navjot Sidhu, the cricketer and TV personality who is his biggest detractor with the party, and who seemingly enjoys the patronage of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, both of whom separately met Gandhi ahead of her meeting with Singh. “I do not know anything about Sidhu,” Singh told reporters.His comments seemed to suggest that Gandhi will take a final call on what is to be done in Punjab, including on a possible position for Sidhu who is keen on becoming the chief of the local unit of the party ahead of next year’s elections, something Singh is opposed to.HT learns that an 18-point list was discussed at the hour-long meeting, and that Singh was told the party has to be united ahead of the election, and to be accessible to his party colleagues.The latest round of troubles for the CM started in April with the Punjab & Haryana high court quashing reports submitted by the Punjab Police in connection with the Kotkapura firing incidents dating back to 2015, and asking for the constitution of a new special investigation team to look into the issue. The firing, which resulted in the deaths of two people protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs, is being investigated, and the new SIT has questioned then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal and his son and then home minister Sukhbir Badal in connection with the case.The chief minister’s detractors allege that he has been soft on the Badals, slow to implement the party’s poll promises, and too reliant on powerful bureaucrats.As the voices of dissent grew with some lawmakers joining the chorus, the Congress’s central leadership set up a three-member committee headed by Kharge to settle the discord. The committee met all the MLAs, Sidhu and the CM. Last week, Sidhu also met with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.According to a person aware of developments, while the Captain’s leadership was not challenged, Gandhi told him ”to take Sidhu into confidence’.’ The party is keen that they go into polls next year with both the CM and Sidhu having made peace and exhibiting “a united face’’.It isn’t clear whether Sidhu, who has openly called Singh a “liar” and also targeted him over the power situation in the state and power supply agreements signed with private firms when the Akalis were in power, will be ready to go along.Sidhu was not available for a comment.It is also not clear whether Gandhi made any commitments to Singh on him being the party’s chief ministerial candidate in the elections. Sidhu left the BJP in 2016, almost joined the Aam Aadmi Party, then joined the Congress. Ahead of the latest controversy, the Congress seemed set to retain Punjab, although the damaging internal fight may have changed the equation now.“The Captain’s position has been deliberately undermined whereas Sidhu has been given such a long rope. The right way should have been to ask captain to take immediate actions to try to fulfill some promises like power sector reforms, employment generation. Sidhu gets unnecessary focus. AAP would not take him. So the only way for him to float his own party and then make alliances,’’ said Ashutosh Kumar, professor of political science in Panjab University.A senior Congressman seemed to think the meeting had achieved enough.“With this, we hope to have partially defused the situation,” he said.There was no official comment from the Congress Party on the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-follow-any-decision-by-sonia-gandhi-says-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-101625608013327.html
07-07-2021||India||Common exams for central govt jobs deferred over Covid-19||The first-ever common eligibility test (CET), which was to be held by the newly constituted National Recruitment Agency (NRA) by the end of this year, has been delayed due to the pandemic, Union minister for personnel, pensions, and grievances Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday.The test is to select candidates for non-gazetted posts in the central government and public sector banks, which is at present being done through separate examinations conducted by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS).“This unique initiative undertaken with the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to screen and shortlist candidates for recruitment to central government jobs was scheduled to take off with the first such test before the end of this year but is likely to get delayed on account of the Covid pandemic,” Singh said at the launch of an e-book, Civil List-2021 of IAS officers. He, however, didn’t specify a date for the exam.He added that CET would bring “ease of recruitment” to young job aspirants and be a “great boon” to those who live in remote areas. “The NRA will be a multi-agency body which will conduct the common test to screen and shortlist candidates for Group B and C (non-technical) posts,” Singh said. “The most significant feature of this reform is that every district in the country will have at least one examination centre which would greatly enhance access to the candidates living in far-flung areas.”The minister also highlighted the bureaucratic reforms undertaken by the government since 2014, such as the decision to do away with the age-old practice of getting documents attested by a gazetted officer and replacing it with self-attestation and three-month central government stint as assistant secretaries for IAS officers at the beginning of their career.The government has also launched mission Karamyogi to help streamline the training and competence building of civil servants. At the apex of the scheme will be the Prime Minister’s HR Council that will consist of select Union ministers, chief ministers, international leaders, and civil servants. The council will determine the “right person for the right role” and decide assignments accordingly, the minister informed.It is a major transition for the bureaucracy, as civil servants’ training will now become a “continuous process”. A dashboard will also monitor and audit the capacity building scheme, and a report will be submitted annually to ascertain its success, the department of personnel and training had said while announcing the scheme last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/common-exams-for-central-govt-jobs-deferred-over-covid19-101625607419581.html
07-07-2021||India||ED summons Mehbooba Mufti’s mother in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday issued summons to Gulshan Nazir, mother of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti, to appear before the agency on July 14 in connection with a money laundering case.The notice came hours after the PDP announced its decision to stay away from the proceedings of the Delimitation Commission in Jammu and Kashmir.Sharing a copy of the ED summon on Twitter, Mufti said: “On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents, GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores.”Nazir, who is in her 70s, is the wife of late former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed. She has been asked to visit the ED zonal office in Srinagar on July 14 for the probe.According to news agency PTI, the case filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the central agency following raids on an alleged associate of Mehbooba.The diaries contain details of some purported payments made from the chief minister’s discretionary fund in alleged contravention of rules. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the PDP rule in the erstwhile state.A few lakh rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the accounts of Nazir and some others, officials told the news agency.Mehbooba was questioned by the central agency in March this year in connection with a separate money laundering case.The Delimitation Commission headed by Ranjana Prakash Desai, retired judge of Supreme Court, is on a four-day visit to the UT to meet political leaders and officials to chalk out new voting constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-mehbooba-mufti-s-mother-in-pmla-case-101625607292850.html
07-07-2021||India||Home secy chairs meet to review Jammu and Kashmir security||Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Tuesday held a high-level security meeting to review the security situation in the wake of the first-ever drone attack at an Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu and Kashmir last month, people familiar with the development said. Tuesday’s meeting, aimed at firming up the counter-measures needed to neutralise the threat posed by small drones, or quadcopters, comes a day after the Union government sent a multi-agency team to Bengaluru for a special demonstration of the available anti-drone technology in the public and private sector, a government official said on condition of anonymity.The Union home ministry hasn’t put out a statement on Bhalla’s meeting on Tuesday, which one official said, was part of the continuing effort by the security establishment to minimise the risk posed by the use of commercially available drones.Among those who were part of Tuesday’s crucial meeting were J&K police chief Dilbag Singh, additional director general J&K police Mukesh Singh, Intelligence Bureau director Aravind Kumar and Central Industrial Security Force director general Sudhir Saxena.Initial probe into the June 27 incident, in which two drones flew over the IAF base and dropped explosives, have led security agencies to suspect the role of the Lashkar-e-Taiba. A second official familiar with the matter said the two drones came from a village in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-secy-chairs-meet-to-review-jammu-and-kashmir-security-101625605530964.html
07-07-2021||India||Centre sets up separate ministry of cooperation||The Union government created a new ministry of cooperation on Tuesday to provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in India.The announcement came a day before a possible cabinet expansion, the first since Prime Minister Narendra Modi returned to power in 2019 with an increased majority.“In a historic move, a separate ‘ministry of co-operation’ has been created by the Modi government for realizing the vision of ‘Sahkar se Samriddhi’…it will help deepen co-operatives as a true people based movement reaching up to the grassroots,” said a statement by the cabinet secretariat.The new ministry will work to streamline processes for ‘ease of doing business’ for cooperatives and enable development of multi-state co-operatives (MSCS), added the statement.“The central government has signaled its deep commitment to community based developmental partnership. Creation of a separate ministry for cooperation also fulfils the budget announcement made by the finance minister,” said the statement.In the past, the government has renamed several ministries to expand their work profile. In 2014, the ministry of environment was named as the ministry of environment, forests and climate change. Similarly the ambit of the ministry of animal husbandry was expanded to include fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying. Last year, the ministry of human resource development was renamed as the ministry of education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sets-up-separate-ministry-of-cooperation-101625605211458.html
07-07-2021||India||India’s Morepen Labs begin manufacturing test batches of Sputnik V||India’s pharma major Morepen Laboratories has begun manufacturing test batches of the Russian-made anti coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V in India as part of efforts to enhance its production capacity in the country, the company said in a statement on Tuesday.Morepen and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that is marketing Sputnik V globally, announced the production of the test batch of the vaccine in an exclusive facility in the state of Himachal Pradesh.“The first batch will be shipped to the Gamaleya Center for quality control. RDIF and Morepen Laboratories signed a cooperation agreement in June 2021 and are actively implementing the technology transfer,” said Morepen Laboratories in a statement issued on Tuesday.Sputnik V was the third vaccine to be granted an emergency use authorization in India on April 12, 2021 after indigenously developed Covaxin and Covishield. US based pharma company Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine is the fourth vaccine that has been granted restricted emergency use permission in India.India is the leading production hub for Sputnik V with RDIF having signed agreements with other Indian pharmaceutical companies such as Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech for the production of the Covid-19 vaccine locally.In total, agreements with partners in India provide for production of more than 850 million doses of Sputnik V per year.“As the pandemic is yet far from over and new, more dangerous variants of coronavirus are being detected in various regions of the world, RDIF is increasing capacities for production of Sputnik V in India, one of the key hubs. Agreement with Morepen Laboratories provides for a larger amount of Sputnik V to be available both for India and our partners globally to speed up the vaccination with one of the best vaccines in the world,” said Kirill Dmitriev, ceo, RDIF, in a statement.To date, Sputnik V has been registered in 67 countries accounting for over 3.5 billion people. The data obtained by a number of regulators including in Argentina, Serbia, Bahrain, Hungary and Mexico demonstrates that Sputnik V is one of the safest and most effective vaccines against coronavirus.Sputnik V is based on the human adenoviral vectors platform, and uses two different vectors for the two shots in course of vaccination, and claims to provide immunity for longer duration than the vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots.“We are delighted to partner with RDIF for the prestigious project of Sputnik V production in India. This would be our privilege to work jointly on expanding the production base in India. We take this partnership as [a] starting point for a long term relationship with RDIF and its partner companies as we look forward to many more areas of common interest. Morepen’s commitment towards this project is [a] step forward towards entry into biosimilars and other biologics,” said Sushil Suri, chairman and managing director, Morepen Laboratories Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-morepen-labs-begin-manufacturing-test-batches-of-sputnik-v-101625605071644.html
07-07-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses nod for rath yatra outside Puri||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to allow rath yatras in cities other than Jagannath Puri in Odisha, observing that people should rather worship at home in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“You want to pray to the God. You can do it at home. I also wanted to go to Puri, but I have not been able to go in the last one-and-half years because of the pandemic. This is not the time. I pray at home,” remarked chief justice of India NV Ramana, while dismissing a clutch of applications to permit rath yatras at Baripada, Sasang, Nilagiri and Kendrapara in the state.The bench, headed by the CJI and also including justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, was categorical that the state government took a “considered decision” by not allowing rath yatras at any place other than Puri in order to ward off the spread of infection.“We will watch it (rath yatra) on television only. We also feel bad, but we cannot do anything in this situation. We can only hope and trust God will allow us these rituals next year,” said justice Ramana. The rath yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri is an annual ritual scheduled for July 12.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Union government, earlier suggested to the bench that symbolic yatras with limited number of participants could be permitted by the top court because some of the applicants were performing the rituals for centuries.“Yatra was allowed last year by this court for Lord Jagannath at Puri after putting certain conditions. Appropriate conditions can be imposed for this year too to ensure there are no public gatherings. This way, religious sentiments can be protected along with health of the people,” he said.But Odisha’s advocate general Ashok Parija resisted this suggestion, pointing out that the state administration will not be in a position to manage rath yatras across the state while imposing all restrictions and safeguards.“There are no questions of faith of people being affected in these times. Puri was under curfew last year when yatra was conducted after limiting the number of people who could pull the chariots. All those involved had to get their RT-PCR tests done. How will the state ensure all these conditions at several places? Puri is different from other places and that is why the state has allowed the yatra only for Puri this year,” said Parija.The bench found force in Parija’s arguments, as it asked the lawyers appearing for the applicants to refrain from pressing their applications. When some of the lawyers contended that the Covid situation at some places was better than Puri, and that they will take all precautions, the bench retorted: “You and I are not the people who can predict the Covid-19 situation. Please do not poke your knowledge into such matters. Let the government decide.”The bench then dismissed all the applications, upholding the Odisha government’s decision to allow rath yatra only at Puri.On June 10, the state government announced that the annual rath yatra in Puri will begin on July 12 and will take place without devotees. The government added that only fully vaccinated temple officials, or those who test negative for the coronavirus disease 48 hours before the festival will be allowed to pull the chariots.In June last year, the top court allowed the rath yatra after initially stopping it in view of the surge in coronavirus cases. Lifting the stay order, the court had permitted the ritual with stringent conditions, including curfew in the city and no public attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-nod-for-rath-yatra-outside-puri-101625604907789.html
07-07-2021||India||Gehlot’s exit leads to fifth vacancy in BJP parliamentary board||Union social justice and empowerment minister Thawarchand Gehlot’s elevation as Karnataka governor on Tuesday will create another vacancy in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s highest decision-making body, the parliamentary board.Gehlot, 73, who is also the leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, has been a member of the parliamentary board since 2006. The board currently has seven members, four short of its full strength of 11 members. Gehlot’s exit leads to the fifth vacancy.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was the last BJP leader to be inducted into the party’s top decision-making body in August 2014 when the then president, Amit Shah reconstituted the parliamentary board.Chouhan’s induction in 2014 retained the parliamentary board’s strength at 11 members till 2017 when parliamentary board member M Venkaiah Naidu went on to become the country’s Vice President. The board continued to function with 10 members, but more vacancies arose due to the passing away of three key party leaders over the following two years: Ananth Kumar in 2018, and Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj in 2019.Over the past year, there has been speculation that party president JP Nadda will reconfigure the board that has seven members including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party chief JP Nadda. The other members of the top panel are Union home Minister Amit Shah, Union defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan.In addition, BL Santhosh is also a member of the top panel because he is the BJP general secretary (organisation), a post reserved for pracharaks of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological fount of the BJP.This is probably the first time that the board has had so many vacancies for so long, said a BJP functionary familiar with the matter. “Apart from the national office bearers who were appointed in September 2020, the party is yet to form the national executive and the central election committee,” the party functionary said on condition of anonymity.The constitution also stipulates that one of the members will be the leader of the party in Parliament - Gehlot was named leader of the House in Rajya Sabha after Jaitley’s death - and another should be a general secretary in the party.The board has the power to supervise and regulate activities of the legislative and Parliamentary units of the party and guide in the formation of ministries. It also has the powers to take note of any breach of discipline by members, office bearers of state units and take necessary action. The board also has the authority to guide and regulate all organisational units below the national executive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlots-exit-leads-to-fifth-vacancy-in-bjp-parliamentary-board-101625604656149.html
07-07-2021||India||As people flock to hills, govt warns against ‘revenge travellers’||A spurt in travel after lifting of Covid-19 restrictions — the government termed it “revenge travel” — has led to “frightening” scenes of overcrowding in hill stations that could lead to increased outbreaks of the infectious disease, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.At the ministry’s briefing on the status of the Covid-19 situation, officials shared a series of images from tourists destinations and key cities to point out “gross violations” of Covid-appropriate behaviour, saying that this could potentially nullify the progress made so far.“Covid-appropriate behaviour is absolutely essential; the pictures that we have seen today are frightening, and we have to be very careful, responsible and cautious,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Some of the places that were highlighted in the briefing were Manali and Shimla in Himachal Pradesh; Laxmi Nagar and Sadar Bazar in Delhi; Dadar market in Mumbai (Maharashtra); and Mussoorie in Uttarakhand.“What we are seeing is called revenge travel after travel-related restrictions were relaxed. You can spot tourists without wearing a mask, not following the physical distancing rule even in overcrowded marketplaces, and all these leniencies will create an environment that will nullify all gains made so far in managing the viral disease in the country,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, health ministry. He warned that the challenge posed by the pandemic could be stiffer if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed.Aggarwal said people must keep in mind that the easing of restrictions did not mean that the virus vanished. “The disease is very much there so it is important to adhere strictly to Covid-appropriate behaviour, as we did earlier, to avoid experiencing another wave,” Aggarwal said.Quoting from a survey of over 30,000 respondents, Aggarwal said close to 24% of those surveyed did not wear a mask; in 45% of the people, there was limited compliance wherein the mask was not worn properly, and barely 29% complied with the rules.With regard to social distancing norms, 63% did not follow them at all, while 25% didn’t follow safety measures while travelling. According to the survey, even in Covid-19 vaccination centres, about 6% of the attendees did not follow the necessary Covid-appropriate behaviour, Aggarwal said.“As long as we don’t fully comply, there will always be the fear of seeing a comeback of new cases in large numbers in future,” he said.On the rise in cases in the North-east, Bhargava said: “We are encouraging the northeastern states to do more testing... there is heavy testing going on there...” The northeastern states are reporting increased Covid-19 caseloads, with 47 of the 73 worst-affected districts in the country belonging to the region, according to government data. Arunachal Pradesh alone has high case positivity in 18 districts, followed by Rajasthan in 10, Manipur in nine, Kerala in seven and Meghalaya in six.Experts say that following Covid-appropriate behaviour is the only way to curb disease transmission in the long run. “Vaccinating the entire population will take a long time; therefore, people will have to make behavioural changes that have been laid out by experts to prevent the disease from spreading. Wearing of masks, hand hygiene and maintaining overall cleanliness and good sanitary conditions, physical distancing, etc., is a must along with vaccination,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-against-revenge-travellers-101625604251278.html
07-07-2021||India||Cabinet expansion buzz as key leaders arrive in Capital||The elevation of union Minister for social Justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot to a gubernatorial position on Tuesday lent credence to the speculation that an expansion of the union council of ministers is on the cards. As did a clutch of leaders flying into Delhi. HT learns that an official announcement could come as early as Wednesday morning and the oath-taking ceremony be held in the evening.For several weeks there has been a buzz about a possible reshuffle in the council and the inclusion of more members from the Bharatiya Janata Party as well as from its allies such as the Lok Janshakti Party, Janata Dal (United), and Apna Dal. The expansion is expected to bring in fresh faces that will help the BJP address the criticism it faced for the systemic deficiencies that were exposed during the second wave of the corona pandemic, prepare for the upcoming set of assembly elections and the 2024 Lok Sabha battle, and address the charge that it is not good with allies.There is also speculation that the party will include more faces from the poll bound states, particularly Uttar Pradesh where caste equations are still important determinants of electoral outcomes.The much awaited expansion comes close on the heels of the completion of the Modi’s government’s seven years in office. Currently, there are 21 cabinet ministers, nine ministers with independent charge, and 23 ministers of state in the union council of ministers. According to people aware of the details since the council can have up to 81 ministers, at least a dozen inclusions are expected.While the party and government functionaries remained tight lipped about the possible changes, the rush of people from outside Delhi to the National Capital led to conjectures about the possible candidates. Jyotiraditya Scindia flew in from Indore; former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal also arrived in the city; as did JDU leaders RCP Singh and Lalan Singh; and former Congressman and Maharashtra chief Minister Narayan Rane .Since the Council of ministers is expected to have more representation from states in the East, there is speculation that Santanu Thakur, an MP from West Bengal who represents the Mathua community and Nitish Pramanik also a member of Parliament who represents the Rajvanshi community are in reckoning.The inclusion of allies is being seen as the BJP’s efforts to cements ties with its partners.The LJP, which is in the middle of a family feud, is expected to make the cut. After the passing away of its chief Ram Vilas Paswan, the LJP is not represented in the council. Paswan’s son Chirag Paswan and his brother Pashupati Paras are locked in a bitter fight over the control of the party.The Shiromani Akali Dal and the Shiv Sena two of the oldest allies of the BJP broke ties with the party and pulled out their representatives from the council: while the Shiv Sena’s Arvind Sawant resigned in 2019, Shiromani Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit the government in 2020.A BJP functionary requesting anonymity said those who are tipped to be in the council of ministers have already received phone calls from party president JP Nadda and party general secretary organisation BL Santhosh.“Since 2014 the BJP has made a conscious decision to give younger people a chance so the likelihood of people in their 40s and 50s being inducted in the cabinet and the council of ministers is high. The party has already made a conscious decision of appointing people in their 50s as party functionaries such as state unit presidents, general secretaries etc,” said a party functionary.Political commentator Abhay Deshpande said the new team is being built with an eye on the 2024 general elections. “After the outcome of the West Bengal assembly elections and the second wave of the corona pandemic there was a dent in the government’s image. They have been making an effort to undergo an image makeover and are trying to fix relations with their allies; so the council of ministers will have a place for new faces. They will have to consider regional aspirations as well as the political situation emerging in states such as Maharashtra while finalising the names.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-expansion-buzz-as-key-leaders-arrive-in-capital-101625603782976.html
07-07-2021||India||Evidence planted in computer of Elgar accused: Report||A new digital forensics report on Tuesday said that the computer of Bhima Koregaon case accused Surendra Gadling was allegedly hacked to plant evidence.The findings of US firm Arsenal Consulting was first reported by The Washington Post. Hours later, Gadling’s lawyers moved the Bombay high court.In February, Arsenal Consulting had said that the computer of activist Rona Wilson, another accused, was allegedly hacked to plant letters that were later presented as evidence in the prosecution's charge sheet.“We were certain that my husband innocent and implicated in a false case. The report fortified our belief,” said Gadling’s wife Meenal Gadling.. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evidence-planted-in-computer-of-elgar-accused-report-101625603494134.html
07-07-2021||India||International bodies express concern on Stan Swamy’s death||United Nations human rights chief Michelle Bachelet and human rights officials of the US and European Union (EU) have expressed concern at the death of octogenarian Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, with some of them saying he had been imprisoned on “false” terrorism charges.The external affairs ministry responded to the criticism on Tuesday by saying “due process under law” was followed in Swamy’s case, and that India remains committed to promoting and protecting the human rights of all citizens.The UN high commissioner for human rights and other UN independent experts had repeatedly raised the cases of Swamy and 15 other human rights defenders associated with the Bhima Koregaon case with the Indian government over the past three years and sought their release from pre-trial detention, Bachelet’s spokesperson for Liz Throssell said.“In light of the continued, severe impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is even more urgent that States, including India, release every person detained without a sufficient legal basis, including those detained simply for expressing critical or dissenting views,” the spokesperson said in a statement.“We stress, once again, the High Commissioner’s call on the Government of India to ensure that no one is detained for exercising their fundamental rights to freedom of expression, of peaceful assembly and of association,” Throssell said.Both Mary Lawlor, the UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders, and Nadine Maenza, chair of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), contended that Swamy had been held on “false” charges of terrorism. They were joined by Eamon Gilmore, the EU special representative for human rights, in expressing concern at Swamy’s death.Swamy, 84, died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a raid at his non-governmental organisation Bagaicha, on the outskirts of Ranchi, on October 9 last year.He was charged with being a member of the banned Communist Party of India-Maoist and being involved in a conspiracy to instigate caste violence in Bhima Koregaon village near Pune in 2018. Swamy denied the charges.In its response, the external affairs ministry said Swamy was arrested and detained by NIA “following due process under law”, and his bail applications were rejected by courts because of the “specific nature of charges against him”. Authorities “act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights”, and all suh “actions are strictly in accordance with the law”, the ministry said.In view of Swamy’s poor health, Bombay high court allowed his treatment at a private hospital, where he received “all possible medical attention” since May 28. His health and treatment were closely monitored by courts, the ministry added.“India’s democratic and constitutional polity is complemented by an independent judiciary, a range of national and state level human rights commissions that monitor violations, a free media and a vibrant and vocal civil society. India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens,” the ministry added.The statement from the UN human rights chief said: “We are deeply saddened and disturbed by the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy, a human rights defender and Jesuit priest, in Mumbai yesterday, following his arrest in October 2020 under India’s Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).”It noted that Swamy had been held in pre-trial detention without bail since his arrest and charged with terror-related offences in relation to demonstrations dating back to 2018.“He was a long-standing activist, particularly on the rights of indigenous peoples and other marginalised groups. While in Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail, his health deteriorated and he reportedly contracted Covid-19. His repeated applications for bail were rejected. He died as the Bombay High Court was considering an appeal against the rejection of his bail application,” the statement added.Bachelet has also raised concerns over the use of UAPA in relation to human rights defenders, a law Swamy had challenged in Indian courts days before he died.Lawlor expressed concern at Swamy’s death in a tweet, saying: “The news from #India today is devastating. Human Rights Defender & Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy has died in custody, nine months after his arrest on false charges of terrorism. Jailing HRDs is inexcusable.”Gilmore tweeted, “India: I am very saddened to hear that Fr #StanSwamy has passed away. A defender of indigenous peoples’ rights. He was held in detention for the past 9 months. The EU had been raising his case repeatedly with authorities.”Maenza too raised the issue of Swamy’s death on Twitter, saying: “Heartbreaking: death of Indian prisoner Father Stan Swamy after he got COVID. He was elderly priest & human rights activist imprisoned on false terrorism charges. @USCIRF spoke out against his arrest & when he was denied bail as his health deteriorated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-bodies-express-concern-on-stan-swamy-s-death-101625603141925.html
07-07-2021||India||200 farmers to protest outside Parliament from July 22: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Farmers protesting three agricultural laws say that will begin demonstrating outside Parliament on July 22 as part of a new push to force the government to scrap a set of legislation enacted last year. Farm unions have been holding meetings to work out logistics and finalise strategies to intensify their agitation and coordinate movement of farmers from various states.According to a plan announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests since November last year against the three laws, nearly 200 farmers will protest outside Parliament every day during the Monsoon session.The SKM also said that farm organisations and like-minded groups will hold countrywide protests against rising fuel prices on July 8.Parliament is set to convene on July 19 for its upcoming Monsoon session. Farm unions say they will soon dispatch a letter to all Opposition parties and lawmakers, urging them to raise the issue of the three farm laws during the entire session, said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait.Farmers on tractors are likely to file into the Capital on July 21 evening. Accommodation arrangements have been beefed up at all current protest sites, Dharmendra Singh of the BKU said.Thousands of farmers have pitched tents at five sites near Delhi’s borders -- Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border) -- from where they have been carrying on their protests. They have also constructed a permanent weatherproof shelter for arriving farmers at the Tikri site, said Dharmendra Singh, a member of the BKU.The farmers’ march towards Parliament is sure to be resisted by police because demonstrations near Parliament are not allowed, setting the stage for a potential standoff.“It will be a peaceful protest. Nearly 200 protesters will demonstrate every day outside Parliament. The government is not interested in talking to farmers because the government isn’t being run by any party but by companies,” Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said.On January 26, a rally taken out by farmers to celebrate Republic Day turned violent, as protesters clashed with policeman and breached Red Fort in the national capital. Farm unions had then called off a planned march to Parliament.Cultivators from various towns and villages in Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have joined those already protesting in many of sites. A large convoy arrived from Pilibhit inUttar Pradesh before moving to various sites on Monday, DharmendraSingh said.“These farm laws are black laws. They must be taken back. Farmers will be very peaceful while protesting. The violence that broke out during the Republic Day in Delhi was a conspiracy to defame farmers,” said Joginder Singh Urgrahan of the BKU Ekta Ugrahan group, which represents a large section of farmers in Punjab.The farmers want three agricultural laws repealed, and say that the legislation will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and jeopardise their livelihoods.The laws, broadly, seek to minimise regulations in trade of farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of commodities for future sales, and set new national rules for contract farming.The government has said the laws would bring competition and widen farmers’ access to markets. Allowing firms to stock large quantities of food commodities will incentivise them to invest in supply and storage, the government has argued.Farmers say the laws will force them to sell to corporate giants with greater bargaining powers at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer assured prices for cereals.Unregulated markets will ultimately lead to a collapse of regulated markets that offer minimum support prices (MSPs), farmers say, although Prime Minister Narendra Modi has denied this will ever happen. MSPs are benchmark prices the government offers for farm produce, aimed at signalling a floor rate for private traders.“The honourable agriculture minister has said that the government is willing to talk about all issues farmers may have except repeal of the laws. So our doors are open,” a farm ministry official, who was at the helm of previous rounds of talks between the government and farmers, said.Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said: “The government wants to turn our annadatas (providers of food) into bonded labourers. Farmers are demanding their rights and the laws should be repealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-farmers-to-protest-outside-parliament-from-july-22-samyukt-kisan-morcha-101625602957704.html
07-07-2021||India||Draft changes to Cinematograph Act misread: I&B to House panel||The proposed amendments to the Cinematograph Act have been misunderstood and will not mean that the central government will censor content, ministry of information and broadcasting officials told the parliamentary panel on information and technology on Tuesday, people familiar with the matter said.The officials clarified that the proposed changes seek to allow the government to ask the censor board to reconsider its decision if it violates the criteria laid down in the law, a person familiar with the matter said.“It is the board that will take the final call,” the person said, quoting officials called by the parliamentary panel that reviewed the functioning of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), in the context of the Draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2021.The draft amendments have provoked a sharp response from the film industry that has expressed concerns that some proposed provisions could curtail creative freedom. The proposed amendments enable the introduction of a broader age-related classification and seek to curb piracy in the industry.The proposed change in the Cinematograph Act has caused consternation in the film industry over the power to recall and review a film’s certification. The proposed changes led to 1400 filmmakers and artists including Anurag Kashyap, Shabana Azmi, and Farhan Akhtar writing an open letter to the ministry objecting to this kind of censorship.On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin backed demands to scrap the proposal, insisting that the draft bill seeks to restore the Union government’s revisionary powers “that were struck down by the Supreme Court two decades ago”.If the proposed amendments are cleared, then the government can ask CBFC to reconsider cinematic content on the basis of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to any offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draft-changes-to-cinematograph-act-misread-i-b-to-house-panel-101625602745994.html
07-07-2021||India||Centre asks SC to transfer petitions against new IT rules from 5 high courts||New Delhi: The Union government has approached the Supreme Court to transfer petitions filed against the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, in over five high courts to the apex court, people familiar with the development said.The petition is expected to come up for hearing later this week.At present, the challenge to the intermediary guidelines and a Digital Media Ethics Code introduced in February is pending consideration before the high courts of Delhi, Bombay, Madras, Calcutta and Kerala. A petition has also been filed before the Karnataka high court where notice is yet to be issued.“In all, four transfer petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court by the ministry of electronics and information technology. The transfer has been sought to avoid multiplicity of proceedings before various high courts and to ensure uniformity in the consideration of the rules under challenge,” a person familiar with the development said.The new rules apply to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms and bring digital media under a three-tier oversight mechanism. This will comprise a grievance officer responsible for dealing with complaints to take down indecent content within 24 hours of a complaint. The two remaining tiers of the oversight system comprise a self-regulatory body of experts headed by a former judge, and an inter-departmental committee headed by a senior bureaucrat of the information and broadcasting ministry.The first petition challenging the rules was filed in the Delhi high court by Foundation for Independent Journalism which runs the news website ‘The Wire’ in March this year. Later, the Quint Digital Media Limited which publishes The Quint also filed a petition and the same is under consideration before the Delhi High Court.Simultaneously, various high courts issued notices on petitions challenging the rules. Digital News Publishers Association along with a journalist filed a petition in Madras High Court, legal news website Live Law approached the Kerala high court, a journalist and an online news portal moved the Bombay high court while Calcutta high court issued notice on a PIL filed by one Sayanti Sengupta,.These petitions have largely claimed that the rules curtail and restrict the freedom of the Press in India and claim the conditions imposed under the Digital Media Ethics Code and guidelines are onerous and beyond the scope of the Information Technology Act 2000.The use of vague words such as “good taste” and “decency” in the ethics code are additional challenges to the rules which, according to many of the petitioners, give “pervasive control to state over published content”. The news websites argued that such a code provides a handle for the government to bring down content that doesn’t suit it.The rules, according to the Centre, are intended to provide speedy redressal of bringing down harmful content and allows users to demand removal of personally intimate pictures or videos within 24 hours. The functionaries are also bound under the rules to cooperate with the Government and investigating agencies for verification of identity, detection and prevention of crimes, and investigation or prosecution of offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-sc-to-transfer-petitions-against-new-it-rules-from-5-high-courts-101625602876698.html
07-07-2021||India||Bharadwaj says Pune judge who denied bail not of correct rank||The Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to furnish records of the default bail plea of activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, who was arrested in August 2018 in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, and has been lodged in Mumbai’s Byculla women’s prison since then.After Bharadwaj’s counsel Yug Chaudhry submitted that the judge who granted the 90-day extension of her custody to Pune Police in 2018 was not competent and that the order was illegal, the court adjourned the hearing till Wednesday so that the information about the judge could be verified by the court registry.The counsel told the court that if the contention was correct, not only Bharadwaj’s detention, but that of the eight other accused in the case – Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen, Surendra Gadling and Mahesh Raut – would also be illegal.The division bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar, while hearing Bharadwaj’s bail application, was informed by Choudhry that the judge who heard the application of Pune Police for the extension of Bharadwaj’s custody was not a designated special judge under the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act, and hence, could not hear matters pertaining to scheduled offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).Choudhry also submitted that based on the responses received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act from HC registry, it was found that judge KD Vadane, who had granted the 90-day extension of Bharadwaj’s detention on November 26, 2018, was only a district and additional sessions judge at Pune, though he had claimed to be a special judge. Choudhry submitted that Vadane had signed two orders, one as a special judge and the second as special UAPA judge.Citing the RTI response, Choudhry told the court that between January 2018 and July 2019, Vadane was not appointed as special judge under section 22 of NIA Act. Choudhry submitted that Vadane also could not have authorised the supplementary charge sheet filed by the Pune Police in February 2019.The court was then informed that the RTI responses showed that though there were other NIA judges at the sessions court in Pune, police had placed the matter before Vadane.Choudhry expressed his dismay and said, “This goes to the very heart of the judicial system. With utmost humility, the bedrock of judiciary is shaken when a non-designated judge calls himself a designated judge... And people are languishing in custody under his orders…”After hearing the submissions and on Choudhry’s insistence that the state should not be allowed to file a reply as it had not done so even after being given sufficient time, the court directed chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare to produce relevant records in relation to the petition.The court, which is likely to hear the matter on Thursday, said it would ask the HC registry to verify the information provided by the petitioner.Meanwhile, Gadling has filed an appeal against the rejection of his temporary bail application by the special NIA court last September. Gadling had sought bail to conduct the last rites of his mother, but he was denied the same. On Tuesday, Gadling’s lawyer, senior advocate Indira Jaising, informed the bench of justice Shinde that on the first death anniversary of the accused’s mother on August 13, he should be granted temporary bail. HC will hear the appeal on July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharadwaj-says-pune-judge-who-denied-bail-not-of-correct-rank-101625602457593.html
07-07-2021||India||Release all Bhima Koregaon accused, Opposition parties write to President||Leaders of 10 Opposition parties on Tuesday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind expressing outrage at the death of activist and undertrial prisoner Stan Swamy, calling for the immediate release of all people accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case and other political prisoners.The letter came a day after the 84-year-old Jesuit priest died of a cardiac arrest at a time the Bombay high court was hearing his medical bail plea.Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last October for allegedly being a part of banned Maoist organisations and fomenting violence on January 1, 2018 at Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village.The leaders said they were writing to the President in “deep anguish” and called the cases against Swamy, including those under anti-terror laws, false.“We are urging your immediate intervention as the President of India to direct your government to act against those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention in jail and inhuman treatment. They must be held accountable,” the joint letter said.“It is now incumbent that all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA [Unlawful Activities Prevention Act], sedition etc, be released forthwith,” the leaders added.The letter was signed by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar, former prime minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Deve Gowda and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee (Trinamool Congress), Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam) and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren (Jharkhand Mukti Morcha) have also signed the letter. Among the other signatories are D Raja (Communist Party of India), Sitaram Yechury (Communist Party of India-Marxist) and Tejashwi Yadav (Rashtriya Janata Dal).The leaders alleged that Swamy was denied treatment for various ailments including Parkinson’s disease.“Only after a nationwide campaign was conducted that even a sipper to drink liquids was made available to him in jail. The numerous appeals made to shift him out of the overcrowded Taloja jail that had seen a huge rise in Covid cases went unheeded. His appeals for bail and being sent home too were rejected. Thanks to the Bombay high court’s intervention he was admitted to a private hospital when his condition started deteriorating after he was infected with Covid. But it was too late to prevent his death in custody,” the letter added.Swamy was the oldest of 16 activists and lawyers arrested on charges of conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018. The village was rocked by caste clashes during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war by Dalits.He was arrested on October 8, 2020 by NIA, which alleged that the priest had Maoist connections and was working for frontal organisations of the banned CPI (Maoist). He was charged under the UAPA and was sent to Taloja jail. In his defence, Swamy said evidence against him was fabricated and that he never conspired to foment violence.Meanwhile, the BJP reacted to the letter saying that it is another attempt by the opposition to “play the politics.”BJP national spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said that opposition has always sided with the international organisations which are blatantly “anti-Modi” and this whole ecosystem of hate against PM involves global media as well.He added that Indian laws are “very strong” and all the institutions of the state are “taking care of constitutional rights of everybody.”Without naming Swamy, Agarwal added, “But opposition in all its actions and statements only talks about the human rights of those people who at one point in time seem to be involved in anti-national activities.”He added that the opposition “never talks” about human rights violations of the “nationalist people”. “This (letter) is all a part of the opposition’s clear-cut strategy against Modi government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/release-all-bhima-koregaon-accused-opposition-parties-write-to-president-101625602211856.html
07-07-2021||India||Chhattisgarh minister rebuts forest dept on Lemru elephant reserve expansion||Raipur: A row has erupted in Chhattisgarh over a letter purportedly written by the forest department stating that Congress leaders including state health minister TS Singhdeo wants the area of Lemru elephant reserve to be reduced by one fourth with Singhdeo claiming his name was “wrongly” included in the letter.On June 26, forest department official KP Rajput wrote a letter to Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) stating that eight legislators including Singhdeo have urged the department not to extend the Lemru elephant reserve to 1995.48 square km from 450 square km due to public sentiment against the proposed expansion in Jashpur-Surguja region. The letter said the leaders were against any expansion of the reserve.Singhdeo rebutted the forest department claim in a letter to the forest department on July 2, insisting that he never sought reducing the area of the proposed elephant reserve. The Chhattisgarh government has been considering the extension of Lemru elephant reserve area. Activists want the entire catchment area of Hasdeo river to be included in the reserve. “It has come to my attention that a letter on my behalf seems to have been portraying that taking into the consideration the public’s sentiments, I have given consent to reduce the size of the Lemru Elephant Project to 450 sq km. However, this is totally untrue and misleading,” the minister said. He stressed that he had registered my consent to dedicate 1,995.48 sq km for the project on the condition that no villages of his constituency should fall within this area. “Though I was assured by the concerned authorities that no villages from Ambikapur constituency was within the purview of this project, some villagers registered their objection to me,” he said.The minister said villagers from Udaipur and Lakhanpur blocks claimed that they are being pressured by forest officials to consent to the expansion of the elephant reserve. “Upon receiving this complaint, I looked into the details of the project and found that the project’s area has been almost doubled to 3,827.64 from the initial proposal of 1995.48 sq km,” he said.“I have never proposed to reduce the size of Lemru elephant reserve to 450 sq km... Instead, I have advocated re-imposing the ‘No Go Zone’ as it was under the UPA government,” Singhdeo said.Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife ), Narisimha Rao PV, said the department has nothing to do with the communication. “As a department, we don’t come into picture. I don’t know why and on what ground the letter was written to me,” said Rao PV. KP Rajput, forest department official whose letter triggered the row, declined to speak on the issue. “I don’t want to comment,” he said. “Singhdeo has clarified his position that the Lemru elephant reserve area should be ​​1,995 sq km and never asked for reducing it to 450 sq km. In this situation, it is clear that the area of ​​Lemru reserve is planned to be reduced due to pressure from mining companies,” said Alok Shukla, convener, Chhattisgrah Bachaao Andolan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-minister-rebuts-forest-dept-on-lemru-elephant-reserve-expansion-101625601918732.html
07-07-2021||India||Ex-Congress minister Kripashankar Singh set to join BJP today||Former Mumbai Congress chief and state minister Kripashankar Singh is set to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday. The development is considered significant ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) elections as Singh is a prominent North Indian face and has support in the community which is BJP’s vote bank from the past few years.According to a statement by the party, Singh will join BJP in Mumbai in the presence of leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil.“I quit Congress on the issue of the abrogation of Article 370. There could be opposition to the process but there was no reason for Congress to oppose the move. I had asked for reasons on the party’s stand on it, but did not get any reply. I am joining BJP without putting forth any conditions,” Singh said.He had quit Congress in September 2019 after he felt side-lined by the party leadership. Singh had been sulking from party activities at least a couple of years before that. The leader is believed to have moved closer to BJP after he was discharged from a multi-crore disproportionate assets case by a special court in 2018. Singh was a sitting legislator till October 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excongress-minister-kripashankar-singh-set-to-join-bjp-today-101625599866438.html
07-07-2021||India||India says its Afghan missions still open; envoy briefs Shringla||India on Tuesday dismissed speculation about the closure of its embassy and two consulates in Afghanistan even as Afghan envoy Farid Mamundzay briefed foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on the fragile security situation in the troubled country.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Indian authorities were keeping a very close watch on the fluid situation in Afghanistan, especially against the backdrop of a massive surge in violence by the Afghan Taliban, to ensure that Indian officials and nationals were not put in harm’s way.Gains by the Taliban in northern Afghanistan have led to some countries closing their consulates in this region. Reports suggested some districts collapsed without a fight and that some 1,000 Afghan security personnel crossed the border to seek refuge in Tajikistan.Amid the uncertainty, the Indian embassy in Kabul ruled out the immediate closure of the Indian missions in Afghanistan. “Media reports on #India closing its Embassy & Consulates in [Afghanistan] are incorrect. @IndianEmbKabul, Consulates in Kandahar & Mazar are open, functioning. We DO HOWEVER continue to closely monitor the evolving security situation particularly around Kandahar & Mazar cities,” it tweeted.The Indian side is keen to not do anything that would send a wrong signal to the Afghan government or elements that have sought to use Afghanistan for anti-India actions, the people said, adding Centre would also keep a watch on the actions of other key players such as the US.In a separate development, Afghan ambassador Mamundzay briefed foreign secretary Shringla during a meeting in South Block. “Ambassador briefed FS on the security situation in Afghanistan. FS assured our Afghan friends of India’s long term commitment towards peace and prosperity in Afghanistan,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted.On June 29, India issued a detailed and specific security advisory for its nationals in Afghanistan following an escalation in terrorist attacks, warning that they should exercise utmost vigilance as they faced a “serious threat of kidnapping”. Indian nationals were strongly advised to avoid all non-essential movements.According to the external affairs ministry’s data, there are around 3,100 Indian nationals in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-its-afghan-missions-still-open-envoy-briefs-shringla-101625600371657.html
07-07-2021||India||Madras HC orders police protection for queer woman after threats||The Madras high court recently granted police protection to a queer woman belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community after a complaint of frequent life threats from the family over sexual orientation. The bench comprising Justice M Nirmal Kumar followed the guidelines laid down by the Madras high court earlier in a historic judgment delivered by justice Anand Venkatesh in June in the case of a lesbian couple seeking protection. It included guidelines for police not to harass the community on account of their parents filing ‘missing complaints’, which happened in the current case. According to the counsel, the petitioner left home on April 17, fearing for her life and safety as she was subject to physical and verbal abuse. On April 22, her brother sent her an FIR filed against her for ‘woman missing’ over Whatsapp. “The petitioner is an adult, who consciously and deliberately left her native to escape from her abusing family members and is now living with her friend,” counsel submitted. “The petitioner’s apprehension is that they may resort to honour killing or adopt other tactics to cause grievous physical harm to her. Given the same, the petitioner has requested for police protection.” The counsel also submitted that immediately after the petitioner completed class 12, she was forcibly married at 17. “The petitioner, in course of time, realised that she was queer and could not stay in a heterosexual marriage. As a result, the petitioner and her husband fell apart, and nothing survives in the marriage,” the counsel said during the hearing. She later began living with her friend in her native village and eventually left the village. Her family was aware that she was living with a female friend. Her parents, according to the counsel, wanted to ensure that she is not alive, because she brought disrepute to the family.The court observed that the petitioner and her friend are “ conscious about their relationship.” “The respondent Police is directed not to cause any harassment and also give appropriate protection for the safety and life of the petitioner following the guidelines issued by this Court in W.P.No.7284 of 2021, dated 07.06.2021.” the court said in its orders. The orders were passed on June 25, which were made public on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-police-protection-for-queer-woman-after-threats-101625598675700.html
07-07-2021||India||Amid row, CPI(M) denies tarnishing Mani’s image||:The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday denied the allegation that it tarnished the image of late Kerala Congress (Mani) leader K M Mani in the Supreme Court while hearing a petition on assembly violence, in which it suffered a setback. The KC (M), which is part of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), has now strongly protested over the reported remarks and asked the government to withdraw them immediately. While hearing the case on Monday, counsel for the Kerala government Ranjith Kumar reportedly said protests on the house floor was a natural one against a corrupt politician. While the LDF said the counsel’s words were twisted by a section of media, many Congress leaders said it was an insult to the late leader and asked the KC(M) to come out of the coalition. Later, the SC refused to quash the case and adjourned it for further hearing on July 15.“The counsel was referring to the corrupt regime of the UDF, not a particular leader. A section of the media deliberately twisted these words to create a smokescreen. We have already informed the Kerala Congress about this,” said party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. He said a section of the media has conspired with the opposition to drive a wedge between the CPI(M) and KC (M).Kerala Congress chairman Jose K Mani, son of K M Mani, said he’s satisfied with the explanation given by the LDF. “It seems counsel’s words were misinterpreted. The Congress-led UDF is trying to create a wedge in the ruling coalition,” he said Many party leaders admitted that they were upset with the remarks of the counsel. “We have already conveyed our protest and asked the government to withdraw these remarks,” said party general secretary Stephen George. He said the party chairman would explain it later even as Congress has stepped up pressure on the party. “We feel K M Mani is not corrupt, but the ruling party says he is. It is for the KC (M) to decide now,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan.The Kerala assembly had witnessed violent incidents in March 2015 after opposition LDF legislators prevented then finance minister K M Mani from presenting the state budget alleging his role in the bar bribery case. Angry members snapped mikes, threw chairs, destroyed furniture and damaged lights in the melee, and two legislators were hospitalised later. The session was live when the violence took place in the House. Speaker N Sakthan later filed a police complaint against six LDF legislators. Among them, V Sivankutty is the education minister in the current Pinarayi Vijayan ministry, and KT Jaleel is a sitting member. In his complaint, the Speaker said property worth ₹2.20 lakh got damaged in the melee, and they tried to manhandle treasury bench members and brought enough shame to the House. When the LDF came to the power in 2016, it tried to withdraw the case, but a local court first rejected it. Then, the government moved the High Court, which also turned down its plea. The government had invoked the privilege of legislators to justify its decision to withdraw the case, but the high court rejected it, saying privilege was not a licence to carry out violent activities in the House. During a discussion in the assembly last year, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had blamed the Congress-led UDF for dragging an assembly issue to the court. Later, former opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also joined the case as a party.After the death of K M Mani in 2019, his party split, and his son took the splinter faction to the LDF camp. A predominant Christian party, its foray into the LDF had helped it win many seats in the Christian heartland of central Travancore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-row-cpi-m-denies-tarnishing-mani-s-image-101625598615698.html
07-07-2021||India||Stalin seeks withdrawal of draft cinematograph bill||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday wrote to union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar, asking him to withdraw the Draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which the DMK leader said would infringe on the right to freedom of thought and weaken democracy. Stalin said the new draft has given rise to “serious apprehensions” not only among those in the film industry but also among all well-meaning sections of the society that cherish freedom of expression. It is unconstitutional, he said, to curb creative thinking of the film fraternity and impose conditions on how films are to be made. “Taking away the right to freedom of thought will only weaken our democracy, which has to be vibrant always irrespective of the parties in power,” Stalin said in his letter. “As you are aware, a vibrant democracy must provide adequate space for creative thinking and artistic freedom,” the chief minister said. “However, the proposed amendment to the Cinematograph Act seeks to restrict it by restoring the revisionary powers of the Union government that was struck down by the Supreme Court two decades ago.” Given that the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) accords certification to the films if they meet all the criteria mentioned in the section 5(a) of the Cinematograph Act, Stalin said that it is “excessive to add more laws and Acts to throttle the freedom of a creative form in the 21st century.” As he has pointed out in his previous letters to union ministers over several issues, Stalin contended that this new legislation was intended to concentrate more power in the hands of the union government that goes against federal principles. He said that once CBFC certifies a film for public viewing, it comes within the domain of state governments. The draft amendment restoring the “revisional power” to the Centre after the CBFC certification is a misuse of “reasonable restriction” clause under Article 19(2) of the Constitution. “... it must be left to the states as law and order is a state subject,” he said. “But now, the Union government, by the proposed Act, tries to go against the spirit of cooperative federalism and transgress the powers of the state governments and its own CBFC. Incidentally, as a prelude to this amendment, the Film Certification Appellate Board, which was functioning as an appellate body against the CBFC, was dismantled.” He pointed out that certain provisions in the Bill are practically difficult to implement. He emphasised that CBFC be allowed to function with autonomy, “so that we remain as a progressive nation, and where creative thinking, that includes art, culture and filmmaking, blossom without fear or favour.” Earlier actor-politician Kamal Haasan and several celebrities from the Tamil film fraternity had opposed the new Bill after the union information broadcasting ministry had sought public opinion before July 2. “Cinema, media and the literati cannot afford to be the three iconic monkeys of India,” Haasan had tweeted on June 28. “Seeing, hearing and speaking of impending evil is the only medication against attempts to injure and debilitate democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-seeks-withdrawal-of-draft-cinematograph-bill-101625598556359.html
07-07-2021||India||Another jumbo succumbs to herpes virus in Kerala||Another elephant died of herpes virus at Kerala’s Kottur elephant rehabilitation centre on Tuesday, officials said, after a calf’s death last week. Two calves have been infected, prompting officials to quarantine other animals and their keepers to check the spread of the disease at the centre. EEHV, or elephant endotheliotropic herpes virus, can infect a wide range of animals including Asian elephants and cause sores and fever blisters. On June 28, Sreekutty, a 19-month-old calf, was the first to succumb to the disease at the centre, which houses 16 elephants including 10 calves. Later the State Institute of Animal Diseases in Palode confirmed the presence of the virus. Forest officials said an epidemiology study was underway to find out the source of the infection. The forest department has also constituted an expert team under Dr Jacob Alexander, Thiruvananthapuram zoo veterinary surgeon, and Dr T Rajeev, veterinary hospital assistant director. “We are keeping a close watch on the situation. Experts are camping at the centre to contain the spread of the virus and save lives of other elephants, ” state animal husbandry minister J Chinchu Rani said. Officials said animals and keepers, who have been quarantined, were being administered anti-viral drugs. A major tourist attraction, the centre has been closed for visitors for over a year now because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, two mahouts and two other workers at the centre were tested positive for Covid-19. They have since recovered. Authorities are planning to develop Kottur, 35 km away from the state capital, into a mini “jumbo township” with an elephant museum, mahout training centre, a super-speciality hospital, a retirement home and crematorium for pachyderms on the lines of Pinnawala Elephant Orphanage in Sri Lanka. Once fully operational, the elephants will be set free in 65 hectares of forestland surrounded by trenches, said officials. Usually abandoned and injured animals are admitted to the centre. The forest department can also bring captive elephants, which are often ill-treated and overworked by their owners, and admit them there. According to the last elephant census, the state has 507 captive jumbos, including 59 at Sree Krishna temple in Guruvayur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-jumbo-succumbs-to-herpes-virus-in-kerala-101625598555716.html
07-07-2021||India||Thawarchand Gehlot appointed as K’taka governor||Bengaluru Amid buzz of Cabinet reshuffle, Union minister for Social Justice & Empowerment, Thawarchand Gehlot, on Tuesday was appointed as the governor of Karnataka, relieving Vajubhai Vala who has been the head of the state since September 1 2014.The appointment of Gehlot comes along with change of heads of other states across the country as approved by President Ramnath Kovind on Tuesday, according to a statement by the Press Information Bureau.“I extend my warm welcome to Shri Thawarchand Gehlot Ji as the new Governor of Karnataka. The state will benefit from Gehlotji’s long experience in public life & commitment to social justice. I thank Governor Shri Vajubhai Vala Ji for his contribution to Karnataka,” BS Yediyurappa, the chief minister tweeted on Tuesday.Opposition leader and member of the Congress party Siddaramaiah also welcomed Gehlot as the new governor. “Many congratulations to Union Minister Shri. #ThawarchandGehlot for being appointed as Governor of Karnataka. I wish him success in the new role and hope he works earnestly to uphold the Constitutional values,” Siddaramaih. He, however, did not mention anything about Vajubhai Vala.“Congratulations to Sri @TCGehlot on being appointed as the Governor of Karnataka.My best wishes to the outgoing Governor Sri Vajubhai Vala for his future endeavours,” DK Shivakumar, the state Congress president said in a post on Twitter.Vala had taken over from K Rosaiah, the then Governor of Tamil Nadu, who was given additional charge of Karnataka after H.R. Bhardwaj’s five-year tenure came to an end in June 2014.Vala has presided as head of the state during one of the most defining political times of the southern state during which there were four chief ministers in a span of seven years.Siddaramaiah was chief minister from 2013-18 when Vala took office. However, after the elections, Vala had invited Yediyurappa and the Bharatiya Janata Party with 104 out of the 224 assembly seats to form the government on May 17, 2018 since it was the single largest party despite it being short of the majority of 113. More importantly, the JD(S)-Congress had already submitted their formal alliance that gave them the majority.But the controversy did not end there as Vala gave Yediyurappa 15 days to prove his majority despite the latter only seeking seven days.The Congress and JD(S) took the matter to the Supreme Court and a three judge bench, in a midnight hearing, reduced the time to prove majority by the evening of May 20.Yediyurappa, who could not mobilise the numbers, stepped down from power after just two days and on the floor of the house admitted to having approached legislators from the Congress and JD(S) to switch over.Three days later on May 23, HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) was sworn in as chief minister after the Congress stitched up an alliance with their old rivals to keep the BJP out.In the 14 months that followed, the Karnataka Raj Bhavan or official residence of the Governor, became the biggest platform for the politics that played out after the coalition was nearly wiped out in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in which the BJP won an unprecedented 25 out of the 28 seats.The mass resignations followed from within the coalition government amid allegations that Yediyurappa and the BJP were luring legislators from Congress and JD(S) to defect for personal gain.Much of the resignation drama was played out in the Raj Bhavan which eventually helped Yediyurappa being sworn in as chief minister for a record fourth time on 26 July 2019.Vala had also been at the helm when contentious laws like the anti-cattle slaughter were mooted by the Yediyurappa-led government as well as for the amendment of the Lokayukta act among others.He leaves at a time when the talk of Yediyurappa being replaced by the BJP is gathering steam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thawarchand-gehlot-appointed-as-k-taka-governor-101625598495757.html
07-07-2021||India||Farmer run over by deputy CM’s car succumbs to injuries, case filed||Bengaluru: A car owned by Karnataka deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi allegedly ran over a 56-year-old farmer in Hungund in Bagalkote district on Monday. The family members of the victim Kudleppa Boli claimed that the minister’s son Chidanand Savadi was driving the car. According to police, the accident took place when Boli was returning home on his bike on Monday evening. District Superintendent of Police Lokesh Jagalasar said that police have seized the car and a case has been registered against the driver who was present at the location of the accident. However, Mangalappa, son-in-law of the victim, alleged that Chidanand was driving the car and accused Savadi’s son of not taking his injured father-in-law to the hospital on time. “My uncle sustained injuries in his head and back. He was lying there. They should have made some arrangements on finding his lying there, but they did nothing,” he told the media. In response to the allegation, the Deputy CM said that his son stopped driving 10 years ago, and Hanumanth (driver) was driving the vehicle. Chidanand claimed that he along with his friends had gone to Anjanadri hill for ‘darshan’ and were on the way to Athani. Chidanand told reporters that he was in his friend’s car while Hanumanth was driving his car when a biker suddenly appeared in front of the vehicle and the driver lost control of it and hit him. He said his driver later apprised him of what happened, following which he (Chidanand) made arrangements to admit the injured to the hospital and informed the police. “By the time I returned, there was no one on the spot. I went to the hospital to meet the victim, where I got the information that he has succumbed to injuries. I also tried to meet his family members but could not. I pray to God to give strength to the kin to bear the loss. I will meet them after the final rites are performed. I will extend every possible help to them,” he told the media. (With Inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-run-over-by-deputy-cm-s-car-succumbs-to-injuries-case-filed-101625598435756.html
07-07-2021||India||CM battles challenges from Lingayat groups||Bengaluru BS Yediyurappa, who was believed to be the tallest leader of the Lingayats, one of the biggest caste groups in the state, is now being bracketed into a representative of one of the sub-sects of the community that could make it harder for him to depend on a group that have so far backed him collectively. The Panchamasali sect, a land-owning farmer group and the biggest sub-sect within the Lingayats are now proposing for one of their own to be considered for a top post, if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) do replace Yediyurappa. “If by chance there is any replacement (of chief minister), give one of our own an opportunity,” Sri Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami, the seer of the Kudalasangama Panchamasali Peeta said on Monday.The seer, among other leaders from the community like Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the BJP legislator from Bijapur city, had held demonstrations for better reservation opportunities for the sub-sect. This demand was followed by other dominant communities like Vokkaligas, Kurubas and Valmikis among others to also sought similar changes in reservation status earlier this year.Mruthyunjaya Swami said that there was dissent brewing within the Yediyurappa administration and cited age-related inability as one of the reasons for the problems within the government and its performance. The seer also threatened to revive the stir for reservation and added that negligence to their earlier demands had resulted in the loss of seats in the April 17 bypolls, threatening to assert themselves politically.The developments come at a time when Yediyurappa is clinging to his chair as the BJP awaits for an opportunity to strike a deal with the chief minister to step down nearly two years before the state goes to polls in 2023.The BJP is wary that any harsh action against Yediyurappa could result in a repeat of 2013 when the latters exit brought down the saffron outfit’s only government in southern India.The rift within the community has led to Yediyurappa being referred to as a as a Banajiga, another sub-sect who are traditionally traders, as a way of emphasizing the distinction.Though the Lingayats backed him in 2013 but he was successful in bringing down the BJP which he exited, only to rejoin them months after the election.The BJP at the centre may have an inclination to push for Hindutva as against the caste-dominated political equations in Karnataka, which analysts and experts said, will not be easy.People aware of the developments said that the chief minister has sought from the central leadership an opportunity to complete his term while also seeking to placate his sons, one of who (BY Raghavendra) is among the probables to be inducted into Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet at the centre.“If the (BJP) high command does want to replace (Yediyurappa) then we also have many of our own who are enthusiastic and experienced. Give us also an opportunity if you are planning a leadership change,” Vijayanand Kashappanavar, ex-MLA and national president of the Akhila Bharatha Lingayata Panchamasali Mahasabha told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.In 2008, Yediyurappa stormed into power after he was denied the top chair by his coalition partner, HD Kumaraswamy of the Janata Dal (Secular), as the Lingayat community firmly stood behind a person they believed was wronged by a member of the other dominant community: the Vokkaligas.“That issue then was Lingayat versus Gowda (Vokkaliga) and this man (Yediyurappa) very successfully converted his personal problem as social and community problem,” said another person who is an expert on the caste, requesting not to be named. At the heart of such mobilisation are Mathas or monasteries, which are powerful entities in Karnataka and almost all caste-groups now have some presence as the spiritual headquarters of particular communities. Though there are some of the Mathas or their head pontiffs who openly support or endorse political opinions, others do it more tactfully in the shadows, people aware of the workings of such establishments said.Karnataka’s complex caste-based politics has largely been dominated by Lingayats and Vokkaligas, who together account for majority of the people who became chief ministers so far in the state’s history.Analysts pointed out that most of the Lingayat chief ministers in the state’s history since it became Karnataka, were Banajigas and possibly just two were Panchamasali.“In the last 15 years there has been a rift within the Lingayat community which has been created mostly by political leaders,” said a north-Karnataka based analyst, requesting not to be named.The analyst cited above said that out of the Panchacharya (or the five main seats of the Lingayats), the Panchamasali had asked for one of them to be headed by a member of their sub-sect which was denied, leading them to form one peetha or chair of their own.Though Basavanna, the 12th century reformer, had wanted a casteless society, there are at least 100 sub-sects within the Lingayat--or the form it has taken--and practiced today, experts said.There have been attempts to portray Yatnal and Murugesh Nirani, the minister for mines and geology, as possible replacements for Yediyurappa as they belong to the Panchamasali.“The groups (castes) back leaders not just for being born into these communities but are with those in power. Yediyurappa did not become a leader because he had the backing of the Lingayats but got their support as he became more and more powerful,” a senior leader of the BJP said, requesting not to be named.However, the leader also said that Yediyurappa was now on “bonus time” as every unwritten rule of the BJP was broken for the 78-year-old since 2018. “This cannot be spun off as injustice as he (Yediyurappa) as the BJP has given him top positions” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-battles-challenges-from-lingayat-groups-101625598316951.html
07-07-2021||India||Will move court if Paras is given Cabinet berth on LJP quota: Chirag||Amid speculations of Pashupati Kumar Paras securing a berth in the Union cabinet expansion, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Tuesday said that he has already informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the suspension of five party MPs and that he would go to court if his uncle was inducted on the party quota.“If any of them gets included in the Cabinet from the party’s quota, I will certainly have an objection to it and I may have to take legal recourse. If anyone is made minister as an independent or from some other party, I have no issue, as it is entirely the prerogative of the Prime Minister. But as far as the LJP is concerned, the party Constitution allows me to be the president and the matter is before the Election Commission (EC) as well as the Lok Sabha Speaker,” he told reporters at his residence in Patna.“I have already written to PM Modi as well as the EC in this regard. A common practice is that the party president is consulted if anyone from the party has to be included in the cabinet,” he added.Chirag, who is locked in a power tussle with the Paras-led faction, ever since the party split on June 17, said his party continued to be with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre. In the 2019 elections, LJP had won six seats as an NDA member.The MP from Jamui seat, who launched his ‘Ashirvad Yatra’ from Hajipur on Monday to mark the the birth anniversary of his father and party founder Ram Vilas Paswan, accused his uncle of engineering the split in the LJP to become a minister at the behest of chief minister Nitish Kumar. “It is ironic that Nitish Kumar always tried to insult my father, but my uncle chose to sit in his lap even at the cost of the family and party, which gave him everything,” Chirag said. The LJP leader said he had chosen the difficult path for himself as this was the lesson his father taught. “I am not eager to become a minister, as my first objective is to build the party as a viable alternative in Bihar. Even when my father was around, attempts were made to break the party, but LJP continued its march. It will continue its march and I am overwhelmed with the response of the people for my Ashirvad Yatra the very first day,” he added. A faction of the LJP headed by Hajipur MP Paras last month removed his estranged nephew Paswan as the party chief, prompting Paswan’s loyalists to respond by stripping five rebel parliamentarians of the party’s primary membership. The party, which has six MPs but no MLAs, plunged into a crisis after five lawmakers rebelled against Paswan’s leadership and chose Paras as the new leader of the parliamentary party.Chirag later met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and urged him to reconsider his decision to recognise Paras as the parliamentary party leader, saying it was against the party’s constitution. He also said that the party will consider taking the legal route if his demand was not considered by the Lok Sabha Speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-move-court-if-paras-is-given-cabinet-berth-on-ljp-quota-chirag-101625597835672.html
07-07-2021||India||ED summons Mufti’s mother in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday issued summons to Gulshan Nazir, mother of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti, to appear before the agency on July 14 in connection with a money laundering case.The notice came hours after the PDP announced its decision to stay away from the proceedings of the Delimitation Commission in Jammu and Kashmir.Sharing a copy of the ED summon on Twitter, Mufti said: “On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents, GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores.” Nazir, who is in her 70s, is the wife of late former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed. She has been asked to visit the ED zonal office in Srinagar on July 14 for the probe. According to news agency PTI, the case filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the central agency following raids on an alleged associate of Mehbooba.The diaries contain details of some purported payments made from the chief minister’s discretionary fund in alleged contravention of rules. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the PDP rule in the erstwhile state.A few lakh rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the accounts of Nazir and some others, officials told the news agency. Mehbooba was questioned by the central agency in March this year in connection with a separate money laundering case.The Delimitation Commission headed by Ranjana Prakash Desai, retired judge of Supreme Court, is on a four-day visit to the UT to meet political leaders and officials to chalk out new voting constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-mufti-s-mother-in-pmla-case-101625597775772.html
07-07-2021||India||Kerala’s spiritual healer wanted to free woman from parent’s custody. SC says no||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday turned down the plea of a 53-year-old spiritual healer in Kerala to free a 21-year-old woman from the custody of her parents claiming that they were in a spiritual live-in relationship for over two years.The self-proclaimed healer, Kailas Natarajan, a doctor by profession, wanted the top court to apply the law laid down by it in March 2018 where an adult woman, Hadiya was allowed to go with her husband, Shafin Jahan, who she married despite opposition by her parents. In the landmark ruling, the Supreme Court held that “parental love or concern cannot be allowed to fluster the right of choice of an adult in choosing a man to whom she gets married.”Before the top court, senior advocate Gopal Shankaranaraynan appearing for Natarajan submitted that the petitioner does not seek the custody of the woman but being an adult, she should be permitted to take a decision of her choice. He claimed to be in what he described as a spiritual live-in relationship with the woman for two-and-a-half years.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana declined.“This is not a case where we can permit the girl to go with the petitioner (Natarajan). The girl is in a very fragile state of mind. This man is married, has two children and once was charged under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act (on the complaint of abuse by a 14-year-old). Facts in this case are such that it does not inspire confidence in giving custody to the petitioner who has doubtful antecedents.”Natarajan earlier petitioned the Kerala high court as well. But the high court also rejected his request on January 20 this year after interacting with the girl, The judges found her to be vulnerable and incapable of taking decisions. She exhibited signs of mental disturbance in demanding to stay with the petitioner. It was her depression that led her parents to approach the petitioner and seek cure. However, on the pretext of counseling her in solitude, Natarajan developed intimacy and claimed that she was his spiritual live-in-partner, although they never stayed together.The court was conscious that such incidents where families are fighting spiritual gurus in court for custody of their child are not new. “You know the environment of our gurujis and swamis,” the bench remarked, recounting a recent public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a couple from Andhra Pradesh who were concerned that their daughter, who had studied abroad, was in a similar situation involving a spiritual guru.There were other reasons too that made the court suspect the petitioner’s antecedents. He was separated from his wife and children, claimed to be a teacher of Vedic Yogashastra but was accused of misbehaving with a 14-year-old girl who came to his house for psychiatric treatment. Even the petitioner’s mother disapproved of his activities in the name of spirituality. Her statement given to the Kerala police was recorded by the high court in its judgment.These grounds made the top court place full trust and confidence on the high court’s interaction with the girl and arrive at a conclusion that the custody of the girl with parents was not illegal and in her best interest.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said that in India, unlike the West, parents tend to cover up mental problems of children. The judges referred to an identical case reported from the US a week ago without identifying the personality. Senior lawyer Shankarnaraynan told the court that the case was of American pop star Britney Spears. Due to her erratic behaviour, a local court in the US made her father in-charge of managing his daughter’s wealth and estate. “There the laws are different, culture is different. Unless and until a person consents, no treatment can be given,” said the bench.In order to be satisfied about the 21-year-old woman’s welfare, the bench directed her to be produced before the District Judge after a month and a compliance report to be submitted to the court on her condition along with details of treatment given to her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-spiritual-healer-wanted-to-free-woman-from-parent-s-custody-sc-says-no-101625597716511.html
07-07-2021||India||Centre warns against ‘revenge travellers’||New Delhi: A spurt in travel after lifting of Covid-19 restrictions — the government termed it “revenge travel” — has led to “frightening” scenes of overcrowding in hill stations that could lead to increased outbreaks of the infectious disease, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.At the ministry’s briefing on the status of the Covid-19 situation, officials shared a series of images from tourists destinations and key cities to point out “gross violations” of Covid-appropriate behaviour, saying that this could potentially nullify the progress made so far.“Covid-appropriate behaviour is absolutely essential; the pictures that we have seen today are frightening, and we have to be very careful, responsible and cautious,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Some of the places that were highlighted in the briefing were Manali and Shimla in Himachal Pradesh; Laxmi Nagar and Sadar Bazar in Delhi; Dadar market in Mumbai (Maharashtra); and Mussoorie in Uttarakhand.“What we are seeing is called revenge travel after travel-related restrictions were relaxed. You can spot tourists without wearing a mask, not following the physical distancing rule even in overcrowded marketplaces, and all these leniencies will create an environment that will nullify all gains made so far in managing the viral disease in the country,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, health ministry. He warned that the challenge posed by the pandemic could be stiffer if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed.Aggarwal said people must keep in mind that the easing of restrictions did not mean that the virus vanished. “The disease is very much there so it is important to adhere strictly to Covid-appropriate behaviour, as we did earlier, to avoid experiencing another wave,” Aggarwal said.Quoting from a survey of over 30,000 respondents, Aggarwal said close to 24% of those surveyed did not wear a mask; in 45% of the people, there was limited compliance wherein the mask was not worn properly, and barely 29% complied with the rules.With regard to social distancing norms, 63% did not follow them at all, while 25% didn’t follow safety measures while travelling. According to the survey, even in Covid-19 vaccination centres, about 6% of the attendees did not follow the necessary Covid-appropriate behaviour, Aggarwal said.“As long as we don’t fully comply, there will always be the fear of seeing a comeback of new cases in large numbers in future,” he said.On the rise in cases in the North-east, Bhargava said: “We are encouraging the northeastern states to do more testing... there is heavy testing going on there...” The northeastern states are reporting increased Covid-19 caseloads, with 47 of the 73 worst-affected districts in the country belonging to the region, according to government data. Arunachal Pradesh alone has high case positivity in 18 districts, followed by Rajasthan in 10, Manipur in nine, Kerala in seven and Meghalaya in six.Experts say that following Covid-appropriate behaviour is the only way to curb disease transmission in the long run. “Vaccinating the entire population will take a long time; therefore, people will have to make behavioural changes that have been laid out by experts to prevent the disease from spreading. Wearing of masks, hand hygiene and maintaining overall cleanliness and good sanitary conditions, physical distancing, etc., is a must along with vaccination,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-against-revenge-travellers-101625597595689.html
07-07-2021||India||Denied entry to SG’s house: TMC leader||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Kunal Ghosh on Tuesday claimed that he tried to enter the residence of Solicitor General of India, Tushar Mehta, in New Delhi but was denied entry without an appointment, to find gaps in a statement issued by the senior lawyer last week on his meeting with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Nandigram in West Bengal, Suvendu Adhikari. Adhikari is an accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case that the Central Bureau of Investigation has been investigating. Mehta, the Union government’s second highest law officer, is representing the CBI in the case in the Calcutta high court and Supreme Court. “The security guards did not allow me to enter and told me that without an appointment, I cannot enter (SG’s house). This is the norm. So, how can Adhikari enter the residence with his armed guards when he is an accused in a CBI case? This means he had a prior appointment. This proves that he was trying to influence the case,” Ghosh told reporters.While both Mehta and Adhikari have denied meeting each other at the SG’s residence in Delhi on July 1, TMC national general secretary and nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Abhishek Banerjee, demanded that the SG reveal CCTV footage to substantiate his claim.Mehta last week had said in a statement that Adhikari had come to his residence-cum-office, in Delhi at 3 pm on July 1 but left without any meeting as he was preoccupied. The TMC has already sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the removal of the SG for alleged misconduct and impropriety. On Monday, a two-member delegation of TMC parliamentarians met President Ram Nath Kovind and submitted a memorandum in this regard.Calling it a tactic to divert attention from real issues, Bharatiya Janata Party state chief Jay Prakash Majumdar said: “The TMC is trying to divert the attention of the people from major issues. The SG knows his job and his jurisdictions. Ghosh has said that Adhikari has been named by the prime accused in the Saradha chit fund case and needs to be interrogated. When Ghosh was arrested a few years ago, he had named Mamata Banerjee in the case. That also needs to be probed,” he said.The SG was not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denied-entry-to-sg-s-house-tmc-leader-101625597475761.html
07-07-2021||India||Common exams for central govt jobs deferred over Covid||The first-ever common eligibility test (CET), which was to be held by the newly constituted National Recruitment Agency (NRA) by the end of this year, has been delayed due to the pandemic, Union minister for personnel, pensions, and grievances Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday. The test is to select candidates for non-gazetted posts in the central government and public sector banks, which is at present being done through separate examinations conducted by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS).“This unique initiative undertaken with the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to screen and shortlist candidates for recruitment to central government jobs was scheduled to take off with the first such test before the end of this year but is likely to get delayed on account of the Covid pandemic,” Singh said at the launch of an e-book, Civil List-2021 of IAS officers. He, however, didn’t specify a date for the exam. He added that CET would bring “ease of recruitment” to young job aspirants and be a “great boon” to those who live in remote areas. “The NRA will be a multi-agency body which will conduct the common test to screen and shortlist candidates for Group B and C (non-technical) posts,” Singh said. “The most significant feature of this reform is that every district in the country will have at least one examination centre which would greatly enhance access to the candidates living in far-flung areas.” The minister also highlighted the bureaucratic reforms undertaken by the government since 2014, such as the decision to do away with the age-old practice of getting documents attested by a gazetted officer and replacing it with self-attestation and three-month central government stint as assistant secretaries for IAS officers at the beginning of their career.The government has also launched mission Karamyogi to help streamline the training and competence building of civil servants. At the apex of the scheme will be the Prime Minister’s HR Council that will consist of select Union ministers, chief ministers, international leaders, and civil servants. The council will determine the “right person for the right role” and decide assignments accordingly, the minister informed. It is a major transition for the bureaucracy, as civil servants’ training will now become a “continuous process”. A dashboard will also monitor and audit the capacity building scheme, and a report will be submitted annually to ascertain its success, the department of personnel and training had said while announcing the scheme last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/common-exams-for-central-govt-jobs-deferred-over-covid-101625597296784.html
07-07-2021||India||Twitter can’t take forever to comply: HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday warned Twitter, saying the social media intermediary “will be in trouble” if it doesn’t comply with the new Information Technology Rules and appoint a resident grievance officers without any delay.“If Twitter thinks that they can take as much time as it wants in our country, then I will not permit that. You should have taken some firm steps to appoint the officer,” justice Rekha Palli said.The court granted time till Thursday for Twitter to specify a time frame by which it can appoint the grievance redressal officers after the company’s counsel sought some more time to contact the company’s executives in San Francisco.“Get clear instructions, or you will be in trouble,” said the judge, adding that the Union government is free to take any action against Twitter for not complying with the rules.The judge also pulled up Twitter, represented by senior advocate Sajjan Poovaya, for “misleading” the court and giving a “wrong impression” on the appointment of a regular grievance officer.“You never told me that it was an interim officer you appointed. Your counter [affidavit] gives the whole story which is very interesting. When a senior counsel makes a statement, I take it seriously,” she remarked.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Union government, told the court that despite the lapse of 42 days since the deadline of May 25 (when the new rules came into force), Twitter is yet to appoint the grievance redressal officers.“While the company is free to do business in India, its attitude cocks a snook at the digital sovereignty of the country... 42 days and no compliance and we have done nothing. Facebook has removed three crore (30 million) [pieces of] content. Google removed 3 lakh [pieces of] content. Twitter could have done better,” said the ASG. His reference is to recent compliance reports of the two companies that indicated the number of pieces of content taken down by the platform itself (for violation of its rules) or based on a complaint. On Monday, the Union government, in an affidavit, told the high court that Twitter has lost its immunity from criminal prosecution -- this is given to intermediaries -- for content on its platform due to its failure to appoint a grievance redressal officer under the new Information Technology rules.Submitting an affidavit in response to a petition by a lawyer, the government said that Twitter and other social media intermediaries were given a “sufficient” period of three months from February 25 to comply with the due diligence norm in order to avail of protection from prosecutions in cases of obnoxious and offensive content posted by a third party.To be sure, whether Twitter continues to enjoy this safe harbour protection is a matter that will be decided by the courts, not by the IT ministry or any other arm of the government. Twitter on Saturday told the high court that the three months timeline fixed by the Centre to appoint such officers under the new IT rules is “directional” but “not mandatory”. The social media intermediary had also told the court that it is in the “final stage” of appointing officers for grievance redressal.Under the new digital rules introduced on February 25, social media companies such as Facebook and Twitter have to put in place a three-tier grievance redressal system and appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person, and resident grievance officer. The deadline for this was May 25. The new guidelines also require these companies to identify within 36 hours the originator of a flagged message as well as to regulate their content, and adopt measures such as tracing individual (offensive) messages and voluntary user verification. WhatsApp has separately approached the Delhi high court over the traceability issue. Proceedings before the high court on Tuesday commenced with senior advocate Poovaya telling the court that his submissions on the appointment of a resident grievance officer on May 31 were premised on instructions he received from the company.He informed the court that even this interim resident grievance officer, who was actually a lawyer, tendered his resignation on June 21 and that the company is in the process of appointing a new one.He added said that his clients are not in compliance with the IT rules as a result. To this, the judge said, “What do you mean you are in the process? The rules are binding on you…It’s been more than two weeks since the person resigned... You have misled the court and gave a wrong impression. You never said that it was an interim officer that you were appointing. But be that as it may, if he went away on June 21, the least that Twitter was expected to do was to appoint a fresh officer in these 14 days before the matter was coming up.” The court was hearing a plea by advocate Amit Acharya, who, through his counsel Akash Vajpai, contended that since no resident grievance officer has been appointed by Twitter to deal with complaints regarding tweets on its platform, he could not take action against two alleged offensive tweets by Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mohua Moitra and journalist Swati Chaturvedi.When the ASG pointed out that Twitter is in breach of the rules, the court said that it has already made it clear that Twitter will have to comply with the rules and asked the intermediary to give details of the efforts made for the compliance of the other provisions of the IT rules.“I don’t know whether I can ask for the details but let us see what progress is being made…The steps should be known to everyone,” the judge remarked, posting the matter for July 8.Twitter has been criticised by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for labelling tweets by one of its spokespersons “manipulated media” and has been questioned by the Delhi Police on the basis for doing so. The tweet in question pointed to a media outreach and social campaign document (a toolkit) that was purportedly put together by the Congress to target the government for its handling of Covid and the Central Vista project. The Congress has claimed the toolkit was forged.Twitter has also been summoned by the Ghaziabad Police over its role in amplifying a video that allegedly misrepresented an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a hate crime, and it also faces a bunch of police complaints about a wrong map of India on its website.Twitter has previously said it was committed to India as a vital market, but criticised the new IT rules and regulations that it said “inhibit free, open public conversation”.It has also raised concerns about the safety of its employees in India and flagged intimidation by the police. There have been several instances of confrontation between the social media firm and the government over orders to block access to content and marking of posts by BJP leaders as “manipulated media”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-can-t-take-forever-to-comply-hc-101625596755621.html
07-07-2021||India||PDP says it won’t meet J&K delimitation panel||Srinagar: The Mehbooba Mufti-led Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) declined to meet the Delimitation Commission on Tuesday, even as leaders of other mainstream political parties in Kashmir met the members of the Centre’s panel hours after they arrived in Srinagar for a four-day tour.The commission – led by justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai – is in Jammu & Kashmir to interact with political parties and officials for “first hand” inputs on an exercise to carve out new constituencies in the Union territory.The PDP said it decided to stay away from the exercise as it felt that the outcome of the process was already decided, aimed to take the power away from the people of J&K, and to realise the “political vision of a particular party”.Several parties, including the National Conference (NC), the People’s Conference (PC), the Congress, and the CPI(M) submitted separate memorandums to the visiting delegation, and urged it to allay apprehensions over the exercise by conducting it in a free and fair manner.“On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents, GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores,” Mufti tweeted on Tuesday. Her remarks came hours the Enforcement Directorate served a notice on Mufti’s mother, Gulshan Nazeer, asking her to appear at the agency’s office on July 14 in connection with a money-laundering case.At a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the national capital on June 24, J&K leaders were told that elections could not precede the delimitation exercise as the 2019 Jammu & Kashmir Reorganisation Act laid down the condition of carving out new constituencies for the polls.Besides leaders of political parties, the commission will hold talks with district officials and other stakeholders on the ongoing process of carving out the new constituencies. The leaders of CPI, Panthers Party, Bharatiya Janata Party, Apni Party and Bhajun Samaj Party also met the Delimitation Commission on Tuesday.Former Supreme Court judge Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of J&K, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir.The commission arrived in Srinagar a day after the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of political major parties such as the NC and PDP, said it was disappointed over the outcome of the all-party meeting with the Prime Minister. The alliance demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections were held there. It also criticised the lack of “confidence-building measures”. The Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state as it effectively nullified Article 370 in August, 2019.A five-member NC delegation that met the commission told it that the exercise should have been done after the assembly elections, and termed it as an “unconstitutional exercise” based on the Reorganisation Act, which has been challenged in the Supreme Court.“We told them the entire Reorganisational Act is unconstitutional that has been already challenged in the Supreme Court. We also told them that people in J&K have lost faith on institutions so this should be done on transparent basis as people have lot of apprehensions and the craving out of the new constituencies should be done on the basis of population and nothing else,” said NC provisional president Nasir Aslam Wani, who was part of the delegation.The BJP delegation held a 30-minute interaction with the commission. “We told them the delimitation of assembly segments should be done on merit and due to huge population of Schedule Tribes, 9 to 10 assembly segments should be kept reserved for them. Also, we told them the previous delimitation had helped few political families of J&K which shouldn’t happen this time and villages of one district shouldn’t be put in another district during the process of redrawing the boundaries,” Sofi Yusuf, who led the delegation, said.On Wednesday, the commission will visit Pahalgam to hold meetings with officials and delegations from four districts of South Kashmir – Anantnag, Pulwama, Kulgam, and Shopian. In Srinagar, the panel will hold meetings related to Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Bandipore, Baramulla, and Kupwara districts.The commission will later travel to Kishtwar to hold discussions with officials of the Doda, Kishtwar, and Ramban districts. On July 9, the commission will meet delegations from Jammu, Poonch, Rajouri, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba and Reasi districts.Jammu & Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir, who led the Congress delegation, said that they asked the Delimitation Commission about their plan on redrawing of boundaries for creating new assembly segments.“The commission members told us that the process will be transparent based on the suggestions of different political parties. However, our view is that the process should have been done in 2026 along with the entire country with a new Census.”Mir said that the Congress delegation conveyed to them this was a wrong process initiated by the Centre on the basis of August 5, 2019 move. “We didn’t give any suggestions to them as this process, we feel, is not legal.”Peoples Conference spokesperson Adnan Ashraf said the party’s delegation told the commission that there were rumours that the aim of the delimitation exercise was to take away the power of the people in Kashmir.In a letter to the panel, PDP general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said that with the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A on August 5,2019 “unconstitutionally” , the people of J&K were “humiliated and demeaned”.“The Reorganisation Act being a product of the same process, we are of the considered opinion that the Delimitation Commission lacks legal and constitution mandate in the first place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-says-it-won-t-meet-j-k-delimitation-panel-101625596575638.html
07-07-2021||India||200 farmers to protest outside Parliament from July 22: SKM||New Delhi: Farmers protesting three agricultural laws say that will begin demonstrating outside Parliament on July 22 as part of a new push to force the government to scrap a set of legislation enacted last year. Farm unions have been holding meetings to work out logistics and finalise strategies to intensify their agitation and coordinate movement of farmers from various states. According to a plan announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests since November last year against the three laws, nearly 200 farmers will protest outside Parliament every day during the Monsoon session. The SKM also said that farm organisations and like-minded groups will hold countrywide protests against rising fuel prices on July 8. Parliament is set to convene on July 19 for its upcoming Monsoon session. Farm unions say they will soon dispatch a letter to all Opposition parties and lawmakers, urging them to raise the issue of the three farm laws during the entire session, said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait. Farmers on tractors are likely to file into the Capital on July 21 evening. Accommodation arrangements have been beefed up at all current protest sites, Dharmendra Singh of the BKU said.Thousands of farmers have pitched tents at five sites near Delhi’s borders -- Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border) -- from where they have been carrying on their protests. They have also constructed a permanent weatherproof shelter for arriving farmers at the Tikri site, said Dharmendra Singh, a member of the BKU. The farmers’ march towards Parliament is sure to be resisted by police because demonstrations near Parliament are not allowed, setting the stage for a potential standoff. “It will be a peaceful protest. Nearly 200 protesters will demonstrate every day outside Parliament. The government is not interested in talking to farmers because the government isn’t being run by any party but by companies,” Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said. On January 26, a rally taken out by farmers to celebrate Republic Day turned violent, as protesters clashed with policeman and breached Red Fort in the national capital. Farm unions had then called off a planned march to Parliament. Cultivators from various towns and villages in Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have joined those already protesting in many of sites. A large convoy arrived from Pilibhit inUttar Pradesh before moving to various sites on Monday, DharmendraSingh said. “These farm laws are black laws. They must be taken back. Farmers will be very peaceful while protesting. The violence that broke out during the Republic Day in Delhi was a conspiracy to defame farmers,” said Joginder Singh Urgrahan of the BKU Ekta Ugrahan group, which represents a large section of farmers in Punjab. The farmers want three agricultural laws repealed, and say that the legislation will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and jeopardise their livelihoods. The laws, broadly, seek to minimise regulations in trade of farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of commodities for future sales, and set new national rules for contract farming. The government has said the laws would bring competition and widen farmers’ access to markets. Allowing firms to stock large quantities of food commodities will incentivise them to invest in supply and storage, the government has argued. Farmers say the laws will force them to sell to corporate giants with greater bargaining powers at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer assured prices for cereals. Unregulated markets will ultimately lead to a collapse of regulated markets that offer minimum support prices (MSPs), farmers say, although Prime Minister Narendra Modi has denied this will ever happen. MSPs are benchmark prices the government offers for farm produce, aimed at signalling a floor rate for private traders.“The honourable agriculture minister has said that the government is willing to talk about all issues farmers may have except repeal of the laws. So our doors are open,” a farm ministry official, who was at the helm of previous rounds of talks between the government and farmers, said. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said: “The government wants to turn our annadatas (providers of food) into bonded labourers. Farmers are demanding their rights and the laws should be repealed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-farmers-to-protest-outside-parliament-from-july-22-skm-101625596337345.html
07-07-2021||India||Release all Bhima Koregaon accused, Oppn parties write to Prez||New Delhi: Leaders of 10 Opposition parties on Tuesday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind expressing outrage at the death of activist and undertrial prisoner Stan Swamy, calling for the immediate release of all people accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case and other political prisoners. The letter came a day after the 84-year-old Jesuit priest died of a cardiac arrest at a time the Bombay high court was hearing his medical bail plea. Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) last October for allegedly being a part of banned Maoist organisations and fomenting violence on January 1, 2018 at Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village. The leaders said they were writing to the President in “deep anguish” and called the cases against Swamy, including those under anti-terror laws, false.“We are urging your immediate intervention as the President of India to direct your government to act against those responsible for foisting false cases on him, his continued detention in jail and inhuman treatment. They must be held accountable,” the joint letter said. “It is now incumbent that all those jailed in the Bhima Koregaon case and other detenues under politically motivated cases, misusing draconian laws like UAPA [Unlawful Activities Prevention Act], sedition etc, be released forthwith,” the leaders added.The letter was signed by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar, former prime minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Deve Gowda and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee (Trinamool Congress), Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam) and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren (Jharkhand Mukti Morcha) have also signed the letter. Among the other signatories are D Raja (Communist Party of India), Sitaram Yechury (Communist Party of India-Marxist) and Tejashwi Yadav (Rashtriya Janata Dal).The leaders alleged that Swamy was denied treatment for various ailments including Parkinson’s disease.“Only after a nationwide campaign was conducted that even a sipper to drink liquids was made available to him in jail. The numerous appeals made to shift him out of the overcrowded Taloja jail that had seen a huge rise in Covid cases went unheeded. His appeals for bail and being sent home too were rejected. Thanks to the Bombay high court’s intervention he was admitted to a private hospital when his condition started deteriorating after he was infected with Covid. But it was too late to prevent his death in custody,” the letter added.Swamy was the oldest of 16 activists and lawyers arrested on charges of conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018. The village was rocked by caste clashes during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war by Dalits.He was arrested on October 8, 2020 by NIA, which alleged that the priest had Maoist connections and was working for frontal organisations of the banned CPI (Maoist). He was charged under the UAPA and was sent to Taloja jail. In his defence, Swamy said evidence against him was fabricated and that he never conspired to foment violence.Meanwhile, the BJP reacted to the letter saying that it is another attempt by the opposition to “play the politics.”BJP national spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said that opposition has always sided with the international organisations which are blatantly “anti-Modi” and this whole ecosystem of hate against PM involves global media as well.He added that Indian laws are “very strong” and all the institutions of the state are “taking care of constitutional rights of everybody.”Without naming Swamy, Agarwal added, “But opposition in all its actions and statements only talks about the human rights of those people who at one point in time seem to be involved in anti-national activities.”He added that the opposition “never talks” about human rights violations of the “nationalist people”. “This (letter) is all a part of the opposition’s clear-cut strategy against Modi government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/release-all-bhima-koregaon-accused-oppn-parties-write-to-prez-101625596275641.html
07-07-2021||India||Bizman ‘invested’ ₹1 cr on advice of woman he met on dating site; 4 arrested||Bhopal: A chartered accountant from Gurugram is among four people arrested by Madhya Pradesh police on charges that they duped people in India and converted the proceeds into crypto currency, a senior police officer said on Tuesday. Police officers stumbled upon the racket when they were probing a complaint by a Bhopal-based businessman who said he invested ₹1 crore in a company dealing with spices on the advice of a woman he met in February through a dating site.Yogesh Chaudhary, MP’s additional director general of police, said the businessman was told to deposit the money in four bank accounts. “During investigation, it was found that the accused used to open bank accounts of fake companies in the nationalized banks. They used to target businessmen and asked them to deposit money in these accounts for investment. They used to convert the money into cryptocurrency with the help of agents, who were not aware of the fraud, and later sent to Pakistan through an international crypto exchange,” Chaudhary said.Police identified the four persons arrested by MP’s Cyber Crime Cell as Avik Kedia, a chartered accountant from Gurugram, Dolly Makhija, a company secretary and businessmen Vikki Makhija from Delhi and Dilip Patel from Gujarat.Chaudhary claimed the accused have carried out transactions worth ₹50 crore.He added that three people including an unidentified Chinese national were also involved in the fraud.The police officer, however, did not elaborate about the Pakistani agent, insisting that they were still questioning the four suspects.Police have seized 60 digital signatures of directors of shell companies, three laptops, four pen drivers, a mobile phone, crypto trading statements, documents related to fake firms, Aadhaar and PAN cards of different people and four cheque books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bizman-invested-rs-1-cr-on-advice-of-woman-he-met-on-dating-site-4-arrested-101625596218580.html
07-07-2021||India||‘Wet-bulb temperatures’: Soaring mercury, humidity make outdoors dangerous||New Delhi: As the monsoon continues to play truant over northwest India, including Delhi, the Capital is experiencing a mix of heatwave-like conditions and high humidity levels, which, forecasters say, will last till July 10 when the monsoon is expected to arrive. Scientists said that in the absence of rainfall, Delhi and parts of NCR are recording high wet-bulb temperatures, a combined measure of heat and humidity of a region. On Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature in Delhi was 40.6 degrees Celsius, four degrees above what is considered normal for this time of year. The relative humidity was around 54%. This translates into a wet-bulb temperature of 32.28 degrees Celsius. That may not seem like much, but according to scientists, it is next to impossible to work outside when the wet-bulb temperature is over 32 degrees. Worse, on prolonged exposure to a wet-bulb temperature of 35 degrees or higher, even fit people may face significant discomfort, even collapse and require hospitalisation. Scientists say the wet-bulb temperature is a good indicator of how hot we feel (as opposed to how hot it is). To be sure actual measures of heat perception involve other variables such as angle of sunlight and wind direction and speed, but, in general, the wet-bulb temperature itself is a good proxy for this. The formula for wet-bulb temperatures is complex although it involves only two variables -- temperature and relative humidity. It makes up for this by using inverse tangent (or arc tan) trigonometric functions. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster, explained that temperatures are high in Delhi on account of a delayed monsoon, but moisture carrying easterly winds that are intermittently blowing into the city are keeping the humidity levels also high. The result is high discomfort. “Usually during this time of the year, Delhi receives a few spells of rainfall that brings the maximum temperature down. So, even if the humidity levels are high, the discomfort is not as much. But this time, the temperatures are high because of delayed monsoon and so are the humidity levels, this makes people sweat more profusely and makes staying outdoors extremely difficult,” Palawat explained.In short, it’s almost as bad as it is in Chennai in May when temperatures in the low 40s and relative humidity in the high 80s combine to take wet-bulb temperatures dangerously high. Climate Trends, a Delhi-based communications group focusing on environment and climate change, said that Delhi experiences 63 such days in a year (called wet-bulb days) , Mumbai , 47, Trivandrum, 113 and Chennai, 140.India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday revised the dates for monsoon arrival in Delhi and parts of northwest and central India to July 10, which will make this the most delayed monsoons in at least the last 17 years. “The human body can withstand dry heat, but as humidity levels increase along with heat, the ability to spend time outdoors slowly decreases,” said a senior IMD official. IMD forecasts temperatures in the city over the next two days to be around 40 degrees Celsius, which will continue the spell of sweltering heat in the city. Climatologists explained that this shift to recording felt heat is a global trend. “People do not grasp the seriousness of the situation. An entire set of livelihoods depends on being outside. Imagine being a construction worker who can’t work for two months of the year,” said Camilo Mora, associate professor (department of geography and environment), University of Hawaii. He added: “Your sweat doesn’t evaporate if it is very humid, so heat accumulates in your body. People can then suffer heat toxicity, which is like sunburn on the inside of your body. This is all an impact of years of neglect of the environment and it is now coming back to haunt us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wetbulb-temperatures-soaring-mercury-humidity-make-outdoors-dangerous-101625596216784.html
07-07-2021||India||From 17 to zero: Goa is India’s first state to eradicate rabies deaths||On May 17, animal husbandry director Agostinho Mesquita issued a notification declaring Goa a “rabies-controlled” state. For Murugan Appupillai, the India Education Director of Mission Rabies, it was a day he was long waiting for. In 2014, when Mission Rabies, a UK-based charity, first began a pilot project to vaccinate stray dogs in the state, Goa had recorded 17 human deaths due to rabies. The last human death due to rabies was recorded in September 2017. No fresh case of rabies in humans has since been recorded, making Goa the first in the country to be declared a rabies-controlled state. It is on its way to becoming the country’s first rabies-free state.“We cannot yet call ourselves a rabies-free state because there are still some cases of dogs being detected with rabies especially in the border talukas of Goa, but we are getting there,” Appupillai said.Mission Rabies, in its first year of operation in Goa, vaccinated 20,400 and sterilised around 20,000 dogs, proving it was possible with greater manpower and dedication to vaccinate over 70% of them in the state. With the government agreeing to collaborate and fund the project to make Goa a rabies-free state, the non-profit organisation embarked on a mission to vaccinate 70% of the state’s dog population, including stray canines. It vaccinated over 100,000 dogs each year for three years in a row.The government notified a special scheme under which it bore the cost of the entire programme. This included purchases of syringes and rabies test kits, lab charges, the salaries of the drivers, dog catchers, and other expenditure heads. The government spent over ₹1.65 crore over three years on the scheme.“We recruited volunteers and trained them. A team visited a locality and caught as many dogs as possible. The next day a second team would visit the same locality and try to catch the dogs that were missed the first time,” said Appupillai.Also Read | When a demolition drive destroys a villageJaigar O’Neill of Mission Rabies said, in a blog post, “Over 500 vets from 16 different countries arrived in India to volunteer alongside local vets, animal handlers, and skilled dog catchers. Working together, we caught and vaccinated as many dogs as we could. Over 63,000 vaccinated dogs in 30 days.”Under Mission Rabies, 540,593 rabies vaccinations were administered to dogs. Nearly a million people were educated about dog bite prevention. 24-hour rabies surveillance, including an emergency hotline, rapid response team, and a support team, were set up for dog bite victims.“The reason why rabies was not tackled earlier was that it is a neglected disease. Rabies is not a new disease. In fact, it goes back to more than 3,000 years ago. India is the global hotspot for rabies with more than 20,000 rabies deaths each year which is the highest recorded by any country annually. It is a shame for India more so because a vaccine is available and has been available for more than 100 years since the days of Louis Pasteur,” Appupillai said.“In the western world, it has already mostly been eliminated but in India, it is endemic because nothing was done methodically.”There is no reason to celebrate just yet. While there may be no cases of humans dying of rabies, but dogs continue to contract the disease. “The number of (recorded) rabies cases in dogs were just seven a year when the pandemic...struck. In neighbouring Maharashtra, where the (Covid-19) lockdown was in force for several months, and restaurants were closed there has been a migration of dogs from across the border in search of food and they are mixing with local dogs,” Appupillai saidAs a result, the surveillance teams of Mission Rabies noticed a rise in cases of rabies among dogs. Over the last year, 24 cases of rabies among canines were found, more than three times the previous year’s seven recorded cases.Also Read | As Reliance promises leap into clean energy, green economics becomes mainstreamAs cases began to rise, Mission Rabies began revaccinating dogs in the border talukas to prevent a recurrence of the disease and keep the virus under check.In June 2021 (last month), 30 necropsies (autopsies on animals) were performed, and two dogs were confirmed positive for rabies. Although one of the positive dogs was from Maharashtra, the other dog was from Mollem in Dharbandora (Goa). The vaccination teams are now undertaking intensive vaccination across Dharbandora.“We have to ensure that more than 70% of the dogs are vaccinated as beyond that herd immunity kicks in and the virus remains in check,” Appupillai . He added their “maintenance” project needs to be continued to ensure that the gains over the last few years are not squandered.He hoped that more states will be willing to come forward to replicate the project. So far, only Bengaluru city officials have asked for a similar exercise.But with Goa becoming the first state to eradicate rabies, Appupillai expects things will change.O’Neill said the people of Goa will take pride in what their state has managed to achieve and take action to support rabies control. “Other states will see that Goa has made rabies control possible in India and be encouraged to do the same. This change in Goa is a momentous moment in the fight against rabies, in India and across the world. However, there is still a lot of work to do to stop rabies from re-emerging in Goa and declare it rabies-free.”Signages have now been installed across Goa informing both visitors and locals that Goa is a rabies controlled state. “More boards will be placed on beaches and at prominent tourist sites over the coming weeks. To mark Goa as a rabies controlled area, all pets entering the state are now required to be vaccinated against rabies,” Appupillai said.Chief minister Pramod Sawant too congratulated Mission Rabies.“We have now achieved 5,40,593 vaccinations against rabies in dogs and educated nearly one million people in dog bite prevention across Goa as well as we have set up 24-hours rabies surveillance involving an emergency hotline and rapid response team for dog bite victims,” Sawant said. “We are happy to say that in the last three years we do not have a single case of rabies in Goa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-17-to-zero-goa-is-india-first-state-to-eradicate-rabies-deaths-101625565254674.html
07-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: Former Congress leader Kripashankar Singh to join BJP in Mumbai tomorrow||India's daily Covid-19 fell to the lowest in almost four months after it reported 34,703 cases over the last 24 hours. As many as 553 succumbed to the viral disease while 51,864 recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 403,281 and 29,752,294 respectively.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to chair a meeting at his residence amid reports of a cabinet reshuffle.Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Former Congress leader Kripashankar Singh to join BJP in Mumbai tomorrowFormer Congress leader Kripashankar Singh will join Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the party headquarters in Mumbai on Wednesday. "Singh has relevance in Mumbai politics, and has been in touch since last few months. He will join in the presence of former CM Devendra Fadnavis," ANI quoted Maharashtra BJP leader Madhav Bhandari as saying on Tuesday.Modi govt creates a new ministry of co-operationAhead of the much awaited cabinet rejig, the union government on Monday announced the creation of a new ministry named as the ministry of co-operation with the intent to buttress the vision of ‘Sahkar se Samriddhi’ or prosperity through cooperation.J-K: Kupwara administration imposes restrictions on sale, use, storage of dronesAfter Baramulla, Kupwara district administration imposed restrictions on the storage, sale, possession, use, and transport of drone (s)/Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) on Tuesday, reported ANI.India remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all: MEA on Stan Swamy caseOver the criticism of Stan Swamy case, the ministry of external affairs on Tuesday said that the country remains committed to promotion and protection of human rights of all its citizens, reported PTI.Maharashtra reports 8,418 new Covid-19 cases, 171 deaths in 24 hoursMaharashtra on Tuesday reported 8418 new cases, 10,548 recoveries and 171 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 61,13,335Total recoveries 58,72,268Death toll 1,23,531Active cases 1,14,297Beams of under construction flyover in Vizag collapse, kill 2Two huge concrete beams of a flyover under construction collapsed, killing at least two persons on the National Highway-16 at Anakapalli near Visakhapatnam on Tuesday evening. The incident also caused injuries to several others, reported PTI.Cabinet reshuffle likely to take place tomorrowUnion Cabinet reshuffle likely to take place Wednesday evening, reported ANI.NTA announces dates for JEE Mains 2021; exams to be held from July 20 to July 25 and July 27 to August 2JEE Mains 2021 to be conducted from July 20 to 25 and July 27 to August 2, 2021, announced NTA on Tuesday.Chandigarh allows restaurants, bars to open from 10am to 10.30pm"Restaurants, bars & eateries are allowed to open from 10 am to 10.30 pm. Guests allowed for special gatherings would be increased to 100 (persons) or 50% capacity of the banquet hall etc., whichever is less," says Chandigarh Administration in a fresh order pic.twitter.com/UIJBeLYOAKDirect Centre to act against those responsible for foisting false cases against Stan Swamy: Opposition leaders urge PresidentOpposition leaders including Congress' Sonia Gandhi, NCP's Sharad Pawar, TMC's Mamata Banerjee and others wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday urging him "to direct GoI to act against those responsible for foisting false cases on Bhima Koregaon accused Stan Swamy," who died on Monday.Mehbooba Mufti alleges ED has summoned her mother over ‘unknown charges’On the day PDP chose not to meet Delimitation Commission, ED sent a summon to my mother to appear in person for unknown charges. In its attempts to intimidate political opponents,GOI doesn’t even spare senior citizens. Agencies like NIA & ED are now its tools to settle scores pic.twitter.com/pVw2uYMAorPunjab CM arrives at Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi's residencePunjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday arrived at the residence of the Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi.Mathura court rejects journalist Siddique Kappan bail pleaA Mathura court rejected the bail plea of arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan. He was arrested on his way to Hathras last year, reported ANI.Pictures we have seen today are very frightening, says ICMR DG as tourists flock to Manali amid drop in daily Covid-19 casesPictures (from hill stations) are frightening. People must comply with COVID-appropriate behaviour: Dr Balram Bhargava, DG, ICMR pic.twitter.com/QI1Uie29UPUttarakhand govt moves SC against high court order staying Char Dham yatraThe Uttarakhand government approached Supreme Court against the Uttarakhand High Court order staying the Char Dham Yatra. The state government has filed a plea before the apex court. A hearing in connection with the Yatra will take place in the High Court on Wednesday, reporDelhi’s daily Covid tally rises to 79 from 54 a day ago; 4 new deaths take cumulative toll past 25,000-markDelhi reported 79 new Covid-19 cases, 154 recoveries and four deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 833Total recoveries: 14,08,853Death toll: 25,001GST collection for June amounts to over ₹92,000 crore: Finance ministryThe Union ministry of finance on Tuesday said gross GST revenue collected is ₹92,849 crore in the month of June 2021. It includes GST collection from domestic transactions between June 5 to July 5, 2021, since taxpayers were given various relief measures, in the wake of the second wave of Covid pandemic.DMRC launches 1st FASTag/UPI based cashless parking at Kashmere GateDelhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday launched first FASTag/UPI-based cashless parking and a multi-model integration facility at Kashmere Gate metro station.Assam govt announces complete lockdown in 7 districts from July 7Assam | Total lockdown declared in 7 dists-Goalpara, Golaghat, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur, Biswanath&Morigaon from July 7 till further notice. Round the clock curfew; commercial setups, restaurants, shops remain shut. Ban on public & pvt transport. Inter-state movement suspended pic.twitter.com/tM8N4szkuzPunjab CM reaches Delhi, to meet Sonia Gandhi soonPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh arrived in the national capital on Tuesday afternoon to meet Congress party's interim president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the infighting in the party's state unit. Bengal MP Nisith Pramanik to join Union cabinet?Nisith Pramanik, a member of Parliament from West Bengal, is set to be one of the new entrants into the Union cabinet. HT has learnt that he has been sounded off and has been stationed in Delhi for the past few days awaiting the call for the swearing-in ceremony. According to a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, the ceremony is expected to be held tomorrow evening. But there is no confirmation from Rashtrapati Bhawan. Pramanik’s entry is said to signal the growing importance of the region to the BJP’s plans. Pramanik represents the Rajbanshi community.Leaders including Jyotiraditya Scindia head towards Delhi amid cabinet reshuffle buzzAmid the buzz about an expected Cabinet expansion this week, several leaders, who are speculated to have been intimated about a possible berth in the council of ministers, have begun arriving in the national capital. Senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia will take a flight to Delhi this afternoon from Indore. Scindia, a former Union minister, is expected to be part of the council of ministers. He joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in March 2020.Another key contender, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, is also arriving in the capital on Tuesday ahead of the much-awaited Cabinet expansion exercise. Janata Dal (United) or JD (U) leaders RCP Singh and Lallan Singh are also travelling to the capital. The JD (U), an ally of the BJP, did not have any representation in the Council of ministers so far.3-4 ministers might be dropped in cabinet reshuffle: ReportAt least one senior leader told HT that 3-4 ministers may be dropped. When reporters asked defence minister Rajnath Singh about it, he said that his lips were sealed.Punjab CM on his way to meet Sonia Gandhi in DelhiPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has left from Chandigarh to meet Congress Interim President Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi, amid infighting in the party's state unit.Contact lost with plane in Russia's Far East, 28 on board: ReportsA Russian plane with 28 on board has gone missing in the country's far east region, news agency AFP reported citing reports.Sensex opens 55 points higher to 52,935.46 in opening session; Nifty at 15,858The markets opened on a green note on Tuesday as Sensex surged 55.46 points and was trading at 52,935.46. Nifty was up by 24.05 points and was trading at 15,858.40.Cabinet reshuffle expected this week, PM Modi's crucial meeting likely todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold a crucial meeting at his residence on Tuesday amid reports of a cabinet reshuffle. The cabinet rejig is expected to take place later this week, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan. Read MoreIndia reports 34,703 new cases, lowest in 111 daysIndia on Tuesday reported 34,703 new cases of Covid-19 over the last 24 hours. The number is lowest in almost 111 days.The number of active cases declined to 4,64,357, while the recovery rate has risen to 97.17 per cent.Germany lifts ban on travellers from delta variant hit India, other countriesGermany lifted a ban on travellers from India, the UK and three other countries, where the delta variant of coronavirus has been found in the samples of Covid-19 patients. Read MoreDelimitation Commission to arrive on four-day visit to J&KThe Delimitation Commission led by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai will arrive in J&K on a four-day visit to interact with political leaders and civil society groups, among others, to gather first-hand inputs to carve out new constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-6-2021-101625528963149.html
