08-07-2021||India||Facebook must appear before Delhi assembly riots panel, says Supreme Court||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Thursday held that Facebook must appear before a Delhi assembly committee to respond to queries regarding its role and other aspects of the February 2020 Delhi riots, as it emphasised that the social media intermediary cannot escape responsibilities after becoming a “power centre” that can “polarise public debates” and “influence vast sections of opinions”. “Facebook cannot excuse themselves from appearing pursuant to the new summons issued to them on February 3, 2021... Facebook is a platform where political differences are reflected. They cannot wash their hands off the issue as this is their very business,” said the bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul. At the same time, the court clarified that the peace and harmony committee of the Delhi assembly cannot become a “prosecuting agency” which can hold people guilty and order filing of charge sheets in the riot cases. The Facebook executive will be at liberty not to answer questions relating to law and order and police, while such a refusal cannot lead to any coercive step by the assembly, said the bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. The bench dismissed the petition filed jointly by Facebook and Facebook India head Ajit Mohan against the summons issued to Mohan by the Delhi assembly committee, which is headed by Aaam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha, noting that the committee had authority to seek attendance of “non-members” of the assembly as well and to ask them to depose on oath on a subject within its jurisdiction. Underlining that Delhi assembly was as good as any other state assembly, with the only exception of absence of legislative powers on land, police and public order, the top court rejected Facebook’s contention that it cannot be compelled by any committee of the parliament or the state assembly to participate in an inquiry and that its move to appear before a parliamentary panel last year on information technology was a “business decision”. “As per their own acknowledgement, they would only appear before any committee if it served their commercial and operational interests, as it did when they appeared before the parliamentary committee. But if their business interests are not served, they seek a right to stay away. Such a stand is completely unacceptable to us. Facebook has the power of not simply a hand but a fist, gloved as it may be,” said the bench in its 188-page judgment. It bench, however, pointed to certain statements made on the alleged collusion of Facebook in the Delhi riots by the Chadha during a press conference in August last year, and said that “such statements are hardly conducive to fair proceedings before the Committee and should have been desisted from”. While Facebook and Mohan were represented through senior advocates Harish Salve and Arvind Datar, the Delhi government had senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Rajeev Dhavan and advocate Shadan Farasat to argue for the government and the committee. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appeared for the central government, which supported Facebook in saying that the summons could not be issued for want of legislative competence - an issue that the court called “premature”. Holding that lawmaking is not the only business of a legislative assembly, the bench underscored the role of an assembly committee in assisting the legislature in various issues of governance and said that Facebook, with their expanded role as an intermediary, “can hardly contend that they have some exceptional privilege to abstain from appearing before a committee duly constituted by the assembly.” The court further termed the Facebook’s petition plea “premature” and “speculative” since the Facebook executive was yet to appear before the committee to understand the ambit of questioning, and therefore, it said, issues of privilege power, right to free speech and silence, right to privacy etc. were “pre-emptory” and a “preventive endeavour”. It further said that the privilege power of the Delhi assembly was not just a statutory power but a constitutional one, on par with any other state assembly. Highlighting that the “unfortunate violence” that broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020 had left 53 people dead and several hundreds injured, the bench underlined that the need to go into this incident, both from a legal and social perspective, cannot be belittled. “The capital of the country can ill-afford any repetition of the occurrence and thus, the role of Facebook in this context must be looked into by the powers that be..the assembly being a local legislative and governance body, it cannot be said that their concerns were misconceived or illegitimate. It is not only their concern but their duty to ensure that ‘peace and harmony’ prevails,” said the court. Thus the committee, said the court, has the power to go into the incident and issuance of summons is key to this investigative exercise, which cannot be sidestepped by Facebook on the premise that it is an “outsider” which does not want to be drawn into a political divide. “Facebook is a platform where such political differences are reflected. They cannot wash their hands off the issue as this is their very business. As noticed earlier, their role is not as innocuous as they are seeking to contend. Similarly, we cannot accept the plea that an assembly must confine itself to the core function of legislation. This would be unreasonably restricting the role of an elected body,” held the bench. About the scope of the inquiry by the committee, the court said it would undermine the very purpose of a vital democratic polity if it were to say that informed deliberation in relation to the best measures through which online mass hate and violence in their geographical jurisdiction can be addressed would not be within the committee’s area of competence. Chadha welcomed the judgment. “The court has reaffirmed and acknowledged the important role of the committee of peace and harmony. We will study the judgment, and shall thereafter continue the proceedings in terms thereof. The committee, like other legislative committees of the assembly, is keen on continuing a genuine deliberative process on issues of concerns in the NCT of Delhi with full participation of all concerned,“ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-must-appear-before-delhi-assembly-riots-panel-says-supreme-court-101625768786587.html
08-07-2021||India||Facebook can’t take a different stand in India, says top court||The Supreme Court on Thursday made a strong pitch to make Facebook accountable for its social media content, citing the global trend on how Facebook had a “disruptive” potential that could threaten the diversity existing within India. Facebook was in court to challenge the summons issued by the Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee over some alleged hate speeches circulated on the platform during the riots that rocked north-east Delhi in February last year. While reaffirming the powers of the committee to summon Facebook executives, the bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul rejected the “simplistic” argument by the social media intermediary that it cannot be held liable because it neither initiates transmission of message nor controls it. It said that Facebook cannot be permitted to take contradictory stands in different jurisdictions depending upon its suitability and convenience. It underscored that in the United States of America, Facebook projected itself in the category of a publisher giving them protection under the ambit of the First Amendment and the control to justify moderation and removal of content. “Conspicuously in India, however, it has chosen to identify itself purely as a social media platform, despite its similar functions and services in the two countries. Thus, dependent on the nature of controversy, Facebook having almost identical reach to population of different countries seeks to modify its stand,” said the bench. Disapproving of this “hands-off approach”, the bench said, “It is difficult to accept the simplistic approach adopted by Facebook that it is merely a platform posting third party information and has no role in generating, controlling or modulating that information… Facebook today has influence over one-third population of this planet. Entities like Facebook have to remain accountable to those who entrust them with such power.” The judges noted that India is more diverse than the whole of Europe in terms of cultures, food, clothing, language, religion, and traditions. “We (India) have a history of what has now commonly been called ‘unity in diversity’. This cannot be disrupted at any cost or under any professed freedom by a giant like Facebook claiming ignorance or lack of any pivotal role.” The court cited a November 2018 international news report where Facebook had admitted to its role in failing to prevent a series of misinformation and posts that led to division and incitement of violence during the ethnic cleansing in Myanmar. The platform had even apologised for failing to respond to “evident signs of abuse of the platform” in Sri Lanka leading to widespread violence in 2018. “While Facebook has played a crucial role in enabling free speech by providing a voice to the voiceless and a means to escape state censorship, we cannot lose sight of the fact that it has simultaneously become a platform for disruptive messages, voices, and ideologies,” said the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy. In India, Facebook has about 270 million registered users. “The width of such access cannot be without responsibility as these platforms have become power centres themselves, having the ability to influence vast sections of opinions,” the bench observed. Less informed individuals using the platform tend to treat information received from populist leaders as “gospel truth” without verifying the same. Noting with concern how extremist views are being peddled into the mainstream to spread misinformation on social media platforms, the bench said, “The effect on a stable society can be cataclysmic with citizens being ‘polarised and paralysed’ by such ‘debates’, dividing the society vertically.” Even election and voting processes, considered the very foundation of a democratic government, are being threatened by social media manipulation, the bench observed, citing recent examples of how these platforms were blamed for “obfuscation of facts” and “spreading of outright lies in public sphere” during the 2016 US Presidential elections and Brexit. Countries like Australia, US, United Kingdom are contemplating laws to regulate social media platforms while the European Union has formulated legislative proposals, such as the Digital Services Act and Digital Markets Act, to set down rules for platforms to follow, the judgment said. “The role played by Facebook is thus more active and not as innocuous as is often presented when dealing with third party content,” said the bench, observing that the ability to decide “which content to amplify, suggest, and elevate” lies with these platforms. Facebook admitted in court that it controls the content on its platform as it removed 22.5 million pieces of hate speech content in the second quarter of 2020. “This unprecedented degree of influence necessitates safeguards and caution in consonance with democratic values. Platforms and intermediaries must subserve the principal objective as a valuable tool for public good upholding democratic values,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-can-t-take-a-different-stand-in-india-says-top-court-101625768727088.html
08-07-2021||India||Centre and Delhi govt must walk ‘hand in hand’, says SC while hearing Facebook petition||New Delhi: The Centre and Delhi government must work together on governance issues in the Capital, the Supreme Court said on Thursday, urging both administrations to walk “hand in hand” without adopting a “my way or highway approach”.The comments by the top court came while deciding a petition by Facebook vice president Ajit Mohan, who challenged summons by a Delhi assembly panel in connection with communal riots that rocked northeast Delhi in February 2020.“No governance model requiring such collaboration can work if either of the two sides take a ‘my way or the highway’ approach –which both seem to have adopted,” said the three-judge bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul. The judges noted that Delhi’s hybrid administration – in which the Union government holds the prerogative for several key areas of governance –has worked well for many years with different political dispensations in power both at the Centre and State. “But the last few years have seen an unfortunate tussle on every aspect with the State government seeking to exercise powers as any other assembly and the Central Government unwilling to let them do so….” the bench added. “This has been responsible for a spate of litigation and despite repeated judicial counsel to work in tandem, this endeavour has not been successful,” said the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy.The Court called this an endeavour to “score points over the other”, which it said resulted in the present litigation filed by Facebook. The social media company, the court said, sought to take “advantage of this divergence of view” and the inability of both the Centre and State government to “see eye to eye on governance issues in Delhi”.Taking the role of a mediator, the bench advised the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre to show maturity at their ends. The Court asked AAP government to recognise and work within the constitutional scheme of division of powers in Delhi and “not what they think should be the division of powers”.On Centre, the bench said: “The central government is required to work in tandem, albeit with a different political dispensation… To work well, the central government and the state government have to walk hand in hand or at least walk side by side for better governance.”The court said that the two governments must realise the electoral mandate which has shown maturity to elect one dispensation in the Centre while seeking to choose another in the State, not once but twice.“The two powers unfortunately do not seek to recognise this aspect, and that is the bane of this structure requiring collaboration and concurrence. Some prior discussion and understanding could easily solve this problem instead of wasting large amounts of judicial time repeatedly arising from the failure of the two dispensations to have a broader outlook,” the bench remarked.In the present proceeding, the Court held that the Delhi government acted out of a duty to ensure that “peace and harmony” prevails in the Capital. “However, we may note that the long and repeated battles between the State and the Centre appear to have cast a shadow even over the well-meaning intent of the committee to assess peace and harmony as reflected in the Terms of Reference,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-and-delhi-govt-must-walk-hand-in-hand-says-sc-while-hearing-facebook-petition-101625768668391.html
08-07-2021||India||Grenade found in west Delhi drain during clean-up draws NSG team from Manesar||For over nine hours on Thursday, police officers on the road outside Nasirpur, an urban village in Delhi’s Sagarpur, were on high alert. Until late Thursday evening, the police team was waiting for officers from National Security Guard(NSG) headquarters in Manesar to reach this nondescript village in a south-western corner of the Capital. A drain cover on the footpath, with sand bags next to it, and a police teams guarding it, were the focus of attention as curious passersby peeked to check what had been discovered at the spot -- an old grenade, rusty on the outside, with parts of its surface chipped away by the years. It wasn’t the police who first discovered the suspicious device.On Thursday morning, a municipal corporation worker, cleaning drains as part of the civic body’s annual de-silting exercise before the monsoon, saw a round object in the drain. A police officer who spoke to the cleaner said the man initially thought it was some sort of a metal ball. He checked with other workers, and they thought that it looked like something they had seen in Hindi films -- a hand grenade with the “safety pin” on. Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police(south west), said: “At 11.55pm, we received a distress call on the 112 number about a safai karamchari discovering a grenade while cleaning a drain under the walkway. Immediately, the station house officer of the area rushed to the spot along with district bomb disposal team and found the old, corroded grenade at the spot. The district ballistics team safely placed it away from the crowded area, in an open space. Area around it has been buttressed using makeshift sandbags. A local police guard is posted there to ensure that no one goes near the grenade.” DCP Singh said police asked for the assistance of the National Security Guard(NSG) to ascertain the make and model of the grenade. Police suspect the grenade could be several decades old. They have no idea yet how it got there. Till late Thursday evening, the NSG commandos were yet to reach the spot. “We have been told that the NSG team has left Manesar. There is nothing to worry. It is totally safe. It is an old grenade. It has the marking HE 36. Our officers wasted no time in checking it out on Google. We were told it isn’t in use these days. We alerted our senior officers, issued an alert and they have asked for the NSG. The situation is kind of funny but there is a protocol, and we have to follow it,” said an officer HT spoke to around 9pm.Awaited-- quote of worker who found it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grenade-found-in-west-delhi-drain-during-clean-up-draws-nsg-team-from-manesar-101625768667126.html
08-07-2021||India||Modi stresses need for modern, flexible education models||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with directors of top centrally-funded technical institutions and stressed on the need to develop “innovative” and “flexible” education models to meet future needs, and make India a “hub for research and development”. A statement issued by the Prime Minister Office (PMO) said Modi emphasised the need to adapt higher and technical education to keep in tune with the changing environment and emerging challenges. “This requires the institutions to reinvent and re-evaluate themselves, develop alternative and innovative models in accordance with the present and future needs of the country and society... There is a need to progress towards education models that are flexible, seamless, and able to provide learning opportunities as per requirements of the learners,” Modi said at the virtual interaction, adding that access, affordability, equity and quality should be the core values of such education models.The interaction was attended by over 100 heads of institutes, including the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the Indian Indian Institute of Science. It was also joined by newly-elected Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and ministers of state for education.Officials who attended the meeting said Modi was briefed on the ongoing research and development (R&D work) at these institutions and on the improvement in the Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) in higher education in the past few years. “Digitisation of higher education can play a big role in increasing GER, and students will have easier access to good quality and affordable education,” Modi said. GER is a statistical measure used in the education sector to determine the number of students enrolled in school at several different grade levels (like elementary, middle school and high school), and use it to show the ratio of the number of students who live in that country to those who qualify for the particular grade level.The Prime Minister lauded the R&D work carried by these institutions towards meeting challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan will form the basis of dreams and aspirations of India in the coming 25 years when we celebrate 100 years of Independence. We need to focus on developing futuristic solutions in fields of education, healthcare, agriculture,defense, and cyber technologies,” he said.The Prime Minister also spoke on the need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages.“Had an enriching interaction with Directors of leading IITs and @iiscbangalore during which we exchanged thoughts on a wide range of subjects including making India a hub for R&D (Research and Development), innovation and popularising science among the youth,” Modi tweeted after the interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-stresses-need-for-modern-flexible-education-models-101625768665917.html
08-07-2021||India||ED probes NCP’s Khadse in Pune land case||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse on Thursday was probed by Enforcement Directorate officials for nearly nine hours at the agency’s south Mumbai office, a day after his son-in-law was arrested in connection with the Bhosari (Pune) land fraud case.Khadse and his family have been accused of defrauding the government exchequer to the tune of ₹61.25 crore.The NCP leader, who had quit the Bharatiya Janata Party last year, was earlier questioned by the central agency in January. “It is a politically-motivated case. Earlier, five agencies had probed the same case and found nothing against me. I will cooperate with ED,” Khadse had told reporters before entering the ED office.Khadse, his wife Mandakani, Chaudhari and (Bhosari) land owner Abbas Rasalbhai Ukani were booked in the money laundering case by the ED on August 28, 2019. The central agency’s case is based on a complaint by Maharashtra’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) against Khadse’s family in 2017. While the ACB had later shut the case, the ED continued its investigation into the alleged financial irregularities in the land deal.The case pertains to the purchase of a plot at Bhosari village in Haveli Taluka of Pune district (having Survey No S2/2A/2) on April 28, 2016, by Khadse’s kin for ₹3.75 crore, against the prevalent market rate of ₹31 crore.The ownership of the plot was contentious as the industries department had acquired it in 1971 but the final award of the plot was not made and the owner was not compensated.According to the ED, Khadse and his family knew the plot was reserved for Maharashtra Industrial Development Cooperation. Yet they fraudulently purchased it so that they could claim a compensation of more than double the market rate whenever the MIDC would acquire it. According to people familiar with the development, the NCP leader was quizzed over his role in the alleged illegal purchase of the land and fudging of records at the registration office.The senior politician was also quizzed regarding a few meetings that took place in 2016 between the accused persons, including his son-in-law Chaudhari.ED officers also tried to find out if Khadse was aware of five shell companies which were used in layering of funds to purchase the land, the people cited above said. “We have been asked to submit certain documents. We will submit the same within 10 days. We will come as and when required by the ED. There has not been any other summons issued. We will cooperate with the investigation,” Khadse’s counsel Mohan Tekavade told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-probes-ncp-s-khadse-in-pune-land-case-101625768605812.html
08-07-2021||India||U’khand to review decision to stop kanwar yatra amid Covid||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Thursday decided to review its decision to stop all Kanwar yatra devotees from entering the state this year, prompting experts to caution about a steep surge in Covid infections if safety protocols are violated.The decision on the yatra, which sees millions of people travel through several states by foot to the holy town of Haridwar, came a day after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath cleared the event and asked Uttarakhand to allow the procession.On Tuesday, the state government had decided not to allow the yatra over fears of a third Covid wave and increasing cases of delta variant in the state. The last Kanwar yatra was held in 2019 and roughly 30 million pilgrims reached Haridwar, as per official records. A senior official privy to the developments said chief minister Pushkar Dhami met senior officials on Thursday to discuss Kanwar yatra.“It was decided that state government will first hold talks with other states from where Kanwariyas come on how to conduct the yatra amid fears of the third wave, how the millions of pilgrims would be tested and whether there should be a cap on the numbers this time. The final call [on how to allow the yatra]will be taken after talks in a day or two,” said the official quoted above. Ashok Kumar, director-general of police (DGP) Uttarakhand, who was present in the meeting, said that Kanwar yatra was discussed in the meeting. “Various aspects of the yatra were discussed and pros and cons were weighed,” he said. This is the first major administrative decision by Dhami, who took charge on July 4. His predecessor, Tirath Singh Rawat, resigned on July 2 amid controversy over his administration’s decision to allow the Mahakumbh in Haridwar and large-scale fraud in testing during the holy event.Both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party and are scheduled to go to the polls early next year.On Tuesday, the state government had issued an order stating that Kanwar pilgrims from neighbouring states won’t be allowed to enter Haridwar.Uttarakhand Police also held meeting with senior police officials of Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Punjab. Kumar had told his counterparts to publicise the government order on the ban and ask pilgrims from their states not to come to Haridwar. The state police had also decided to seal the borders of the state from July 22 to ensure Kanwariyas don’t enter Haridwar from Uttar Pradesh or Himachal Pradesh. But on Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh allowed the yatra from July 25. Adityanth also asked UP officials to coordinate to Uttarakhand administration and resolve any lingering problems.The fortnight-long Kanwar yatra is an annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees -- known as Kanwariyas -- to Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand to fetch the water of the Ganga and carry it back to local temples. Devotees come from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh to Uttarakhand. The yatra was cancelled last year due to Covid and is usually held from July 23 to August 6. Uttarakhand government received sharp criticism from experts and the judiciary over its decision to allow full-scale organisation of the Mahakumbh, which saw 9.1 million people participate in violation of Covid norms and distancing guidelines. Roughly six million of these was in April at the height of the second wave and officials in many other north Indian states traced local infection surges to Kumbh returnees. The administration is probing if 100,000 rapid antigen tests at the event were faked.On June 28, the Uttarakhand high court also lashed out at the state government for allowing the Char Dham yatra and stayed its cabinet decision in this regard. Dr DD Choudhary, senior member of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Uttarakhand said allowing Kanwar Yatra at this juncture will be a disaster. “The Kanwar yatra has the potential to spread the third wave like wildfire. It just needs few infected Kanwars to spread the Delta plus variant, which has also been detected in Uttarakhand now,” the doctor said. Rajesh Shivpuri, Garhwal-based political observer, said allowing millions of pilgrims when the country is readying to battle the third wave can be dangerous. “Every aspect should be considered before allowing Kanwar pilgrimage. It won’t be easy to manage Kanwariyas even if Kanwar yatra specific SoP is issued and restrictions are put in place,” he said. Suryakant Dhasmana, senior vice president of Uttarakhand Congress, criticised the state government’s U-turn. “Everyone knows what happened in Mahakumbh, what mess they have left behind, and how they endangered the lives of millions of people through fake Covid tests. During Kanwar yatra, which is mostly unorganised, with people come from different states, how can they manage such huge numbers at a time when they should be readying for third wave?” he asked. However, traders in Haridwar welcomed the decision. “All religious, festive baths and pilgrimages are being held in UP, then why not in our Uttarakhand. Right now, the Covid wave has come down sharply and the state is reporting few daily cases. There is no rationale in keeping the ban on the yatra,” said Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal Haridwar district president Sunil Sethi. (With inputs from Sandeep Rawat from Haridwar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-to-review-decision-to-stop-kanwar-yatra-amid-covid-101625768545856.html
08-07-2021||India||Violence mars filing of papers for block panchayat chief in UP||Lucknow: Incidents of firing, clashes, verbal duels between opponents and accusations of obstructions in filing papers were reported in 17 different blocks in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, when filing of nominations for the post of block panchayat heads at 825 blocks across 75 districts were held, senior police officials said.Additional director general of police (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar, however, said the incidents were reported from only 14 places.He added that directives have been issued to district police authorities to ensure stern action against troublemakers. Stating that incidents of violence were reported away from nomination centres, Kumar admitted that it did cause law and order trouble, following which cases were filed.The ADG also said that extra police arrangements have been ordered for Friday, when candidates can take back their nominations, and on Saturday, when voting will take place to elect the block panchayat chiefs.Another police official said major trouble was reported from Sitapur’s Kasmanda block, where supporters of Bharatiya Janata Party and independent candidates scuffled while returning from the nomination centre. He said the incident led to firing between the supporters, in which three people suffered bullet injuries and were rushed to Lucknow for further treatment.A local resident in the area, however, alleged that the incident took place even as police personnel were present at some distance from the nomination centre. A video of Sitapur violence, which has gone viral, purportedly shows police personnel running for shelter amid indiscriminate firing by troublemakers. HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video.In an incident, reported in Unnao’s Purwa block, the son of a BJP candidate alleged that the Samajwadi Party candidate in the block along with her supporters attacked and robbed him while he was returning home on Wednesday night. It led to a confrontation between supporters of the BJP and SP outside the nomination centre.In Ambedkar Nagar, former Bahujan Samaj Party minister Lalji Verma accused BJP candidate Tejaswi Jaiswal of snatching nomination form from his hand and misbehaving while he was going to extend support to another candidate at Tanda block.In Bahraich and Kannuaj, there were reports of stone-pelting between opponent groups, but no major injuries were reported, police said. Similar confrontations and verbal duels were also reported from Mainpuri, Siddarthnagar, Jaunpur, Ayodhya, Bulandshahr, Bijnor, Siddarthnagar, Amroha, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Pilibhit and Basti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-mars-filing-of-papers-for-block-panchayat-chief-in-up-101625768427133.html
08-07-2021||India||Have right to suspend any account that violates terms: Twitter to HC||Social media firm Twitter on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it can suspend the account of any individual user found in breach of their service agreement, and that it has a “contractual obligation” to do so.The company, in response to a plea by senior advocate Sanjay Hegde challenging the suspension of his Twitter account, said that its services are “purely in the nature of a voluntary service” which it “provides to its users in a commercial capacity”. The social media intermediary also said there was no element of public function involved, and it was not obligated to render its service to further the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Indian Constitution.“…the provision of services on Twitter is pursuant to a contractual obligation which the petitioner (Hegde) has signed up for, and the said contract gives Respondent No 2 (Twitter) the right to suspend an account if it is in violation of the user agreement and its policies. This shows that Respondent No 2 is merely discharging its contractual obligations,” Twitter said in an affidavit filed on Wednesday.“…the provision of service of Twitter is in no matter relatable to any function of the State carried out in its sovereign capacity; Its service is not in any manner a State protected monopoly, since there are multiple other such service providers which are intermediaries discharging similar functions,” the reply added.It also said that its services extended beyond the territorial boundaries of India, and it cannot be said that the platform owed a duty to the Indian public to facilitate free speech and expression.“For any activity to be classified as a public duty, it is necessary that a positive obligation is cast to discharge that duty. Efforts which are purely voluntary cannot be said to have the necessary public element in them,” Twitter told the high court.In December 2019, Hegde moved the high court challenging the permanent suspension of his account --“@sanjayuvacha”, from November 5, 2019 — alleging that the move was “arbitrary”, illegal as contrary to Twitter’s rules. According to the petition, Hegde’s account was suspended for allegedly re-tweeting two posts on the micro-blogging site. One of the posts was that of Kavita Krishnan, secretary of All India Progressive Women’s Association and member of CPI(ML) politburo who had shared Gorakh Pandey’s poem “Unko phaansi de do” in 2019. Hegde had re-tweeted the post with the caption “Hang Him”, an English translation of the poem’s title, the plea read. The second post was a picture of August Landmesser which Hegde was using as his profile header/ cover photo for over a year. The plea also contended that the suspension of account was a violation of his right to free speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19 (1) (a)of the Indian Constitution. Advocate Pranjal Kishore, appearing for Hegde, sought directions to the Centre to frame guidelines to ensure that online speech is not arbitrarily censored by social media firms such as Twitter. He also sought restoration of the account.The petitioner argued that since Twitter imparts a public function, which is being a social media platform, facilitating the exchange of information and ideas, the plea was maintainable.Opposing this stand, Twitter said that its services were covered under the Information Technology Rules, and there was a mechanism provided under it, in case a user is aggrieved by any act or omission by an intermediary.Twitter has been in the eye of controversy over the past few months. On May 20, it labelled a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Sambit Patra “manipulated media” prompting a Delhi Police investigation. The special cell of Delhi Police questioned Manish Maheshwari, managing director of Twitter in India, in late May.The company then missed a May 25 deadline to comply with the new guidelines for intermediaries and social media firms, and an official in the IT ministry previously told HT that the company would lose the protection it enjoyed as an intermediary under the country’s IT law as a result.The Ghaziabad Police has been wanting to question Maheshwari over a video clip that went viral last month. The police believe Twitter did not do enough to halt the circulation of the clip which they believe misrepresents the nature of an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a communal hate crime. The Karkataka high court gave the Twitter executive protection from arrest and told the Ghaziabad Police that they could question him virtually, a ruling that has since been challenged in the Supreme Court.“Respondent No 2 (Twitter), in accordance with the IT Act and applicable rules has a grievance redressal mechanism and the petitioner’s recourse is to file a complaint on the said portal. The petitioner (Hegde), by filing this writ petition, is attempting to give a purely contractual dispute the colour of a public function allegedly being performed by it solely to make it amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the Court,” the reply by the social media firm said.Senior advocate Pavan Duggal said that even though the two parties are engaged in a contractual obligation, the agreement would not hold water in any court if it is in violation of the laws and the rights guaranteed under the Indian Constitution. If Twitter has suspended any account, then the IT Rules mandate that it has to be transparent and the site must spell out the reason for suspension, he said.The matter will now heard on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-right-to-suspend-any-account-that-violates-terms-twitter-to-hc-101625768366533.html
08-07-2021||India||‘No condition should be imposed,’ says Rakesh Tikait after Centre’s call for talks||Leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that the government should not impose conditions on the protesting farmers if it wants to discuss the issue of the three farm laws.“The farm laws will not be curbed, yet they are asking us to end the protest. Farmers are not protesting for 8 months so that they could follow government’s orders. If they want to talk, they can talk, but no conditions should be imposed,” Tikait said, news agency ANI reported. His remarks came after Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar asked the farmers to give up the protests and come to the discussion table. Tomar, however, stood firm by the government’s position that the three farm laws would not be repealed.Also, the minister assured that more resources would be provided to the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) and they would be strengthened.Also read | APMCs to use ₹1 lakh crore fund, says Tomar, urges farmers to stop stir“APMCs will not be done away with. The Centre had declared in the Budget that the APMC will be part of the ₹1 lakh crore infrastructure fund. APMC can benefit from the fund through loans, interest waivers,” ANI quoted Tomar as saying. “ ₹1 lakh crore allocated under Atmanirbhar Bharat to Farmers Infrastructure Fund can be used by APMCs,” he further said.However, Tikait seemed unconvinced and questioned the government’s plan. “What is this formula that APMCs will continue to run despite no sales?” he asked. “They should tell us the system through which mandis will be saved. If produce are purchased outside Mandis, then they will be finished. There has been 0% sale in over 40 APMCs in Madhya Pradesh. They are on the verge of collapse. APMCs in Bihar, UP have been shut down,” he added.“If no purchases are done at mandis, how will they survive? They said APMCs will use ₹1 lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund. It may be possible that the government supports APMCs for one or two years but what will happen after that?” he further asked. Reiterating the farmer unions’ stance, he insisted that farmers will not be benefited unless there is a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP).Several farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s border since November last year against the three farm laws enacted by the Union government. More than ten rounds of discussions have taken place between the farmer unions’ leaders and the government, but no agreement has been reached.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-condition-should-be-imposed-says-rakesh-tikait-after-centre-s-call-for-talks-101625767712126.html
08-07-2021||India||Hope countries will lift curbs on India soon, says MEA on international travel||The Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) on Thursday said it hopes that other countries would ease the travel restrictions on India with the Covid-19 situation in the country “vastly improved". The ministry also said that the issue is being taken up with partners including those in the Gulf.“As we have said earlier, we hope that with the vastly improved Covid situation in India, countries would ease restrictions for travel from India. We have been taking up this issue with foreign partners wherever possible,” news agency PTI quoted Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson for the external ministry, as saying. Bagchi said this in response to a question about the problems faced by Indian citizens travelling abroad, especially to Gulf countries.Highlighting a recent meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan and the Indian ambassadors in the Gulf nations, Bagchi said, “Our Ambassadors were requested to take up with their host countries the issue of resumption of flights with India."Also read | Active Covid-19 cases in India rise after 55 days; 8 states follow suitAlso, he mentioned that Jaishankar raised this issue during his bilateral meetings with representatives from other countries on the sidelines of the G-20 ministerial meetings in Italy, which concluded recently. Further, Bagchi also said that foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla too had raised this issue with his counterparts.Normalisation of travel and the mobility of students, professionals and for enabling family reunions were among the issues discussed by Shringla, Bagchi mentioned. “So, in summary, we are actively trying to help Indians who need to travel back to various countries across the world,” he assured.Meanwhile, Oman has suspended passenger flights from 24 countries across the world, including India, on Thursday, according to a news report by PTI. The country has suspended all flights indefinitely. Alongside India, flights from the UK, Singapore, the Philippines, Indonesia, South Africa and Brazil have also been suspended.However, some other countries like Canada and Germany have also relaxed their curbs on travel, conditional on full immunisation against the disease (two doses of vaccines) and a negative Covid-19 report.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-countries-will-lift-curbs-on-india-soon-says-mea-on-international-travel-101625765985829.html
08-07-2021||India||EAM for greater regional efforts to ensure political settlement in Afghanistan||Against the backdrop of stepped-up efforts by the Taliban to capture territory, external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday called for greater regional efforts to ensure a political settlement in Afghanistan that is good for both the country and the region.Jaishankar dismissed suggestions of a nuclear arms race between India and China but acknowledged that bilateral relations were disturbed because Beijing wasn’t abiding by border agreements and there had been a border incident that resulted in casualties after 45 years.He made the remarks during a question and answer session after delivering an address on the theme “India-Russia ties in a changing world” at the Primakov Institute of World Economy and International Relations in Moscow. The address was a key part of his three-day visit to Russia.The deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan figured in Jaishankar’s meetings during a transit halt in Tehran on Wednesday and it is also expected to be a key part of his talks with Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov on Friday.Recalling the role played by India and Russia in supporting the erstwhile Northern Alliance in Afghanistan two decades ago, Jaishankar said both countries want a united and sovereign Afghanistan “at peace with itself and at peace with its neighbours”, and where minorities have a fair share of representation.“I do think that the countries of the region... have a very strong interest in ensuring that we get an outcome in Afghanistan which is both good for Afghanistan and which is good for the region. And they are not different because I can tell you what is good for Afghanistan will automatically be good for the region,” he said.Responding to questions that focused on China, including the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Jaishankar said the two countries had a very stable relationship for the past 40 years. “I’m not saying that there were no issues and challenges in the relationship but it has been very stable and it saw a big economic element where China essentially emerged as our second-largest trade partner,” he said.“But for the last one year, there has been a lot of concern about the relationship because China has not observed agreements that it had signed up to when it came to our border. After 45 years we actually had a border incident with casualties and peace and tranquillity on the border, for any country, is a foundation of a relationship with a neighbour,” he added.He brushed aside a question on a nuclear arms race between India and China, saying the Chinese side had become a nuclear weapon power in 1964 with a primary focused on the US and the erstwhile USSR, while India exercised the nuclear option in 1998 while making it clear that it was aiming only for a minimum deterrent.There is no basis for an arms race, given the 30-year gap between the nuclear weapons programmes of the two sides and India’s decision to have a minimum deterrent, he said.Jaishankar also addressed Russian concerns about the Indo-Pacific by saying that the country could be part of the concept as it was not aimed at shutting anyone out. He described the Indo-Pacific as a “further advancement” of India’s Act East policy to focus on a region where the nation’s top trade partners are located, including China, Japan, South Korea, Russia, Australia and the ASEAN states.“In many ways, Russia is there. If Russia acts like Russia, Russia will make its full contribution [to the Indo-Pacific],” he said, adding that Indian investments in Russia’s Far East, Russia’s participation in the East Asia Summit are “part of the Indo-Pacific”.During his address, Jaishankar said relations between Russia and India have been “among the steadiest of the major relationships in the world after World War 2”. He added, “Where India-Russia bilateral ties are concerned, there have been changes – even issues – from time to time. But at the end of the day, the logic of geo-politics was so compelling that we barely remember these even as minor aberrations.”“On the political front, it is essential for India and Russia to work together to ensure the stability and diversity of the world as we know it. This includes an insistence on honouring agreements and observing laws. On the economic side, there is a growing realisation on the importance of resilient and reliable supply chains. Our collaboration can surely add to the options before the world, as we have already seen in the case of vaccines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-for-greater-regional-efforts-to-ensure-political-settlement-in-afghanistan-101625765426264.html
08-07-2021||India||'A single mistake': PM Modi's Covid-19 warning at ministers' meet||The photos and videos of crowded places and people roaming about without masks, throwing social distancing to the wind should instil a sense of fear, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday as he met his new council of ministers a day after the Cabinet reshuffle. This is not a time for carelessness or complacency, the prime minister said adding that a single mistake would have far-reaching impacts and would also weaken the fight to overcome Covid-19, news agency ANI reported quoting sources.His warning comes as the union health ministry, which got a new minister on Wednesday, too expressed its concern over people indulging in "revenge travel" at a time when the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is not yet over and the threat of a 3rd wave is looming large.The ministry on Tuesday said the photos of people thronging hill stations are "frightening" as 73 districts across 17 states and Union territories are still reporting a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent. Not only in Shimla, Mussoorie, but people also started crowding local markets in Delhi, Mumbai as well.Active Covid-19 cases in India go up after 55 days; 8 states follow suit"As ministers, our aim should not be to instil fear but to request people to keep taking all possible precautions so that we are able to move beyond this pandemic in the times to come," PM Modi said, expressing concern at the persistently high number of Covid-19 cases being reported from Maharashtra and Kerala.The second wave of the pandemic which reached its peak in April, May is on its way out now, but experts have warned that the third wave in India might be "inevitable". While the northeastern states are now reporting a higher test positivity rate, cases in Kerala and Maharashtra are also not coming down below a certain point. On Thursday, India's active Covid-19 cases recorded a spike after 55 days. The number of new infections reported on Thursday (45,892) also surpassed the recoveries reported in the same period (44,291), marking a departure from the recent trend of higher recoveries and lower daily infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-space-for-complacency-pm-modi-s-covid-19-warning-at-ministers-meet-101625763139496.html
08-07-2021||India||‘Waited for decades...’: Fans-turned-political workers feel dejected as Rajinikanth moves on||As actor Rajinikanth is set to return to Chennai on Friday from the US where he underwent a health-check up and is readying for his new Tamil release in November, some of his fans are still picking up the pieces after being abandoned in his political quest.A dejected, SM Rabik has left Rajinikanth’s fan club in Madurai of which he was one of the founding members since 1977. He was also working as part of the Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), a conglomeration of all his fans clubs launched when the superstar announced his entry into politics in December 2017.“I’ve relieved myself from everything since he has decided not to pursue it,” says Rabik. “I was never interested in any other political party. But I was waiting for decades for him to enter politics,” he said not wishing to elaborate further.The RMM was packed with Rajinikanth’s cult following, with no background in politics, but they turned into his foot soldiers as he began from scratch.Another fan and RMM functionary, who wanted his identity protected, resigned from a private software company in Chennai, three days after Rajinikanth announced his exit due to excessive trolling he faced in his office and online. The actor returned from his shooting from the sets of ‘Annaatthe’ and on 29 December 2020, he announced that he will not pursue politics due to his health condition.“I had canvassed for votes for him everywhere including my office and everyone kept telling me he will back out,” he says. “So when he did back out, my colleagues humiliated me for wasting my time. One friend even got me a t-shirt with the slogan ‘Idhuvum Kadandhu Pogum (this too shall pass)’.” He shifted jobs and his new company isn’t aware of his association with Rajinikanth’s brief stint in politics.For some Rajinikanth fans, the questions remain if he was forced into politics for multiple reasons. “And if he did it for commerce,” says a fan who wrote a book on the superstar and he didn’t want to be identified. “Rajini was this duck who laid a golden egg with a film every two years and fans would crave for it. Ever since he announced his political entry he has been making back-to-back films and none of them had any hint of his politics.” He says he compared Rajinikanth straddling films and politics with his predecessors like MG Ramachandran and Vijayakanth.Tamil Nadu is after all a pioneer in fusing silver screen and politicking. “But with Rajinikanth, several things were off the mark so disappointment with him is something that happened slowly unlike his hardcore fans for whom it was a big bang disappointment,” the writer says. He adds that he was wondering how Rajinikanth would plan an exit strategy after his press conference in March 2020 where he announced he would lead the party but someone else would be chief minister. “The hardcore fans told me I should be thinking loyally not logically. For them, Rajinikanth is God and God will never do anything wrong to us. While some still hold on to that belief, this shattered for a few others.” He gives the example of a 60-year-old RMM functionary who was a Rajinikanth’s fan club president and pawned his wife and children’s gold jewellery and spent 6-lakhs on Rajinikanth’s birthday on December 12 2020. He moved on to another party.Several others, including those who held key positions in the RMM, have joined other parties such as the DMK and the BJP with Rajinikanth’s blessing. Political greenhorns like Gayathri Srinivas believe that RMM gave them a political launchpad. She was the RMM’s district secretary of the women’s wing in south Chennai who joined the BJP earlier this year.“Along with family and friends, I joined RMM to work towards social causes and bring about an alternative politically,” says Srinivas. “I’m a huge fan and meeting him just once for me was a divine experience. I had no idea about joining politics until he announced his entry. Now that I’ve learnt so much over the last three years, I didn’t want to waste the experience.” She adds that she chose BJP as she felt their ideology aligned with Rajinikanth’s politics.Despite the disappointment, sections of his fan base remain intact such as 27-year-old Nagaraj Jayakumar who was RMM youth wing head of Chennai’s Alandur. “We wouldn’t have learnt the basics in politics in established parties like the DMK and the AIADMK but here we completed work in 70% of the booths,” says Jayakumar. He had started a YouTube channel, Samaniyar exclusive for Rajinikanth to bust fake news about him. But he says it’s been hard to move on. “I worked for the party during weekends. We have spent a lot of time on party work, so it’s frustrating and several people are still stuck not knowing what to do next. I’ve continued with my day job.”The kind of impact Rajinikanth’s brief political foray and exit had on his fandom could be indicated by the response to his new film, ‘Annaatthe’ slated for a Diwali release. The film is produced by DMK patriarch late M Karunanidhi’s grand-nephew Kalanidhi Maran’s Sun Pictures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waited-for-decades-fans-turned-political-workers-feel-dejected-as-rajinikanth-moves-on-101625763146068.html
08-07-2021||India||Why some people get more sick from Covid-19? Global study finds gene link||An international study involving over 3,000 researchers from 25 countries has found out the genetic answer to the question of why some people get more sick from Covid while some other do not report any symptoms. There are age and co-morbidity factors, but still, the SARS-CoV-2 virus has not been exactly the same for two people. And the answer to it lies in TYK2 gene that appears strongly connected to the disease severity, the study published in Nature said."Susceptibility to life-threatening infections and immune-mediated diseases are both strongly heritable. In particular, susceptibility to respiratory viruses such as influenza is heritable and known to be associated with specific genetic variants. In the case of Covid-19, one genetic locus—on chromosome 3p21.31—has been repeatedly associated with hospitalization. As with other virus-associated diseases, there are several examples of loss-of-function variants affecting essential immune processes that lead to severe disease in young people," the study said.The results may help pinpoint “some clear biological markers that could be used to repurpose existing drugs or drugs in the pipeline,” Bloomberg quoted Mark Daly, a study co-author who is the director of the Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland at the University of Helsinki and a geneticist at Harvard University, as saying.The research began in March 2020 and in its course, the scientists studied almost 50,000 infected people and two million uninfected. About 13 generic locations have been identified in the research which are strongly linked to either susceptibility to the virus or severity. Some of these 13 genetic locations had previously been linked to other illnesses, including lung cancer and autoimmune diseases, the study said.Several studies aiming to shed light on the genetic link behind severity have associated blood group with SARS-CoV-2 and claimed that O blood type provides more protection from Covid-19.(With inputs from Bloomberg)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-some-people-get-more-sick-from-covid-19-global-study-finds-gene-link-101625762779843.html
08-07-2021||India||Don’t allow OIC to be subverted by ‘vested interests’ like Pak, says India||India on Thursday called on the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) to not allow its platform to be subverted by “vested interests” such as Pakistan to interfere in India’s internal affairs or to carry out propaganda against the country.The Indian position was articulated by external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi during a regular news briefing while responding to questions on the OIC’s offer to arrange a meeting between India and Pakistan and the organisation’s proposal to send a delegation to Jammu and Kashmir.OIC secretary-general Yousef Al-Othaimeen had raised these issues with Indian ambassador Ausaf Sayeed during a meeting in Jeddah on July 5. Pakistan latched on to a statement issued by the OIC after the meeting to claim this was the first time the position of 57 OIC member states had been “duly conveyed to India”.Bagchi noted that the meeting with the Indian envoy was held in response to an earlier request from the OIC secretary-general and said the “OIC should be watchful that their platform is not subverted by... vested interests for comments on internal affairs of India or for anti-India propaganda through biased and one-sided resolutions”.Asked about Pakistan’s role in the entire affair, Bagchi said, “As regards Pakistan, I have already referred to vested interests in my remarks.”Bagchi also said the Indian ambassador had used the meeting with the OIC official to convey the “need to correct some of the misperceptions about India that are perpetrated by vested interests in the OIC”.The OIC, in its statement, had said that Al-Othaimeen had reviewed “issues concerning the situation of Muslims in India, along with the Jammu and Kashmir dispute, and relevant UN and OIC resolutions opposing any unilateral actions on the issue” during the meeting with the Indian envoy.Al-Othaimeen conveyed OIC’s desire to send a delegation to Jammu and Kashmir in line with resolutions of the OIC council of foreign ministers, and “asked about the possibility of a meeting between Pakistan and India, stating that the general secretariat stands ready to assist if the two parties would so request,” the statement added.Pakistan has repeatedly sought to raise the Kashmir issue at the OIC against the backdrop of India’s dramatically improved relations with several key players in West Asia and in the Islamic organisation, including Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar, Indonesia and Bangladesh.In 2019, Pakistan was angered when then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj was invited by the UAE to attend and address an OIC foreign ministers meeting as a special guest. Pakistan has also been finding fewer takers among OIC member states for resolutions aimed against India but continues to rake up matters such as Kashmir at the grouping.The OIC CFM in Niamey in November 2020 categorically rejected India’s unilateral actions since 5 August 2019. It also demanded that India rescind its illegal actions and respect the inalienable right of the Kashmiri people to self-determination, as promised by numerous UNSC resolutions.The Kashmir issue wasn’t on the official agenda of a meeting of OIC foreign ministers held in Niger in November 2020 but Pakistan subsequently proposed a resolution on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-allow-oic-platform-to-be-subverted-by-vested-interests-like-pakistan-says-india-101625759245929.html
08-07-2021||India||‘Ensure adequate vaccine supply’: Chidambaram to new health minister Mandaviya||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Tuesday took to Twitter to state that the first task of the newly-appointed Union health minister Mansukh Mandviya should be to “ensure adequate and uninterrupted supply” of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccines to all states and Union territories (UTs). “Once again, vaccination has been suspended at several centres in Tamil Nadu because they have run out of vaccines,” he tweeted.“No more games to enter the Guinness Book of Records please. Just focus on the supply of vaccines to all states,” the Congress leader wrote in another tweet, taking a dig at the central government’s claim of carrying out the biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive in the world a few weeks before.No more games to enter the Guinness Book of Records please. Just focus on the supply of vaccines to all the States.Notably, the resignation of Dr Harsh Vardhan came to many as quite a shock since Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always lauded him for his handling of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic in India since its outbreak in March last year.Vardhan, who is an ENT surgeon by profession, was managing the ministries of science and technology, and earth sciences as well. He was even elected to the executive board of the World Health Organisation (WHO) last year.Soon after Vardhan’s resignation surfaced, Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala and Jairam Ramesh extended defence for the former, saying that he has been made a “scapegoat” for the failures of the Centre. “Poor Dr. Harsh Vardhan, a good man has been made a scapegoat for monumental failures at the highest level — nowhere else,” Ramesh tweeted.Meanwhile, vaccine shortage has lately been an issue across India with vaccination drive reportedly affected in several states, including Jharkhand and Maharashtra, among others. The Union health ministry issued statements on Tuesday and Wednesday to clarify that the Centre informs the states and UTs in advance about the number of vaccine doses being sent to them. The ministry also pointed out that states have been asked to plan their Covid-19 vaccination drive based on the availability of vaccine doses.The Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO, Adar Poonawalla, on Thursday congratulated the new health minister and said that the company is “looking forward” to Mandaviya’s “leadership” to navigate through the Covid-19 pandemic.A Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat, Mandaviya holds a master’s degree in Political Science from Bhavnagar University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-adequate-vaccine-supply-chidambaram-to-new-health-minister-mandaviya-101625757956835.html
08-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram reports 13 cases of Zika virus infections and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala: Thiruvananthapuram district reports 13 cases of Zika virusKerala’s Thiruvananthapuram district reported a total of 13 Zika virus cases on Thursday. The samples collected were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. Read more'Rahul Dravid came up to me, Dhoni and said I know we're upset, let's go for a movie': Irfan Pathan recalls 2007 WCIrfan Pathan narrated an incident in which the legendary cricketer had motivated him and MS Dhoni after India’s early exit from the 2007 ODI World Cup. Read more When Vicky Kaushal proposed to Katrina Kaif in front of Salman Khan, sang Mujhse Shaadi Karogi. Watch videoActor Vicky Kaushal had once proposed to actor Katrina Kaif for marriage in front of actor Salman Khan. Vicky also sang Mujhse Shaadi Karogi during an event a few years ago. Read moreSuhana Khan channels Kuch Kuch Hota Hai's Anjali in ₹11k blue jumpsuitSuhana Khan's outfit choices are not only super fashionable but also very minimalistic when it comes to the style diva's aesthetic. Read moreOwner’s reunion with dog after a decade may leave you teary-eyedSome stories of reunion prove the fact that miracles are indeed a reality and this incident of a dog reuniting with its owner after 10 long years is a perfect example of that. Read moreSourav Ganguly birthday: Mamata Banerjee brings flowers for former captainWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday visited BCCI president Sourav Ganguly's residence in south Kolkata's Behala to wish him on his birthday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-s-thiruvananthapuram-reports-13-cases-of-zika-virus-infections-and-all-the-latest-news-101625757251277.html
08-07-2021||India||I am the real political successor, Chirag can claim Paswan's assets: Pashupati Paras||Newly inducted Union food processing minister Pashupati Kumar Paras said there is no dispute over he representing the LJP in the Cabinet as he is the “real successor” of the late politician Ram Vilas Paswan and not his son Chirag. Paras, however, acquiesced that Chirag has the right to his late father’s assets"I am the real political successor of Paswanji (Ram Vilas Paswan). Chirag Paswan is definitely his son but he is not and cannot be his political successor. He (Chirag) definitely has a right on his father's assets," PTI said quoting Paras.Paswan founded Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) after he split from the Janata Dal in 2000. A factional fight had broken out between Chirag and Paras, with both claiming rights to lead the party. On June 17, the party split as the Paras-led faction, consisting of five Members of Parliament (MP), rebelled against Chirag. LJP which is an alliance partner in the National Democratic Alliance government (NDA) currently has six MPs in the house. The Lok Sabha speaker recognised Paras as the leader of LJP in the house.Paras, who is the brother of the late Paswan, told reporters that he idealises his late brother. "I consider Ram Vilas Paswanji as my ideal. He was my elder brother," he said.Also Read: Chirag Paswan to move court against uncle Paras’s induction in Union cabinetChirag, who represents Jamui constituency, and was considered to be his father’s political successor, said he will move the Delhi high court against his uncle’s induction in the Narendra Modi cabinet. He claimed that since Paras had already been expelled by LJP, he cannot be offered a ministerial berth on the party’s quota. “LJP has nothing to do with him if he is made a minister from his faction,” Chirag Paswan had said on July 7.On being asked about his nephew’s decision to challenge the Lok Sabha speaker’s act of recognising him as the party’s leader, Paras said that it was not "legally correct" and that in a democracy, the majority always prevails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-the-real-political-successor-chirag-can-claim-paswan-s-assets-pashupati-paras-101625756839121.html
08-07-2021||India||Fisherman carries TN minister Anitha Radhakrishnan in ankle-deep water, video stokes controversy||Tamil Nadu fisheries minister Anitha Radhakrishnan has found himself at the receiving end of major social media backlash after videos of him being carried by a fisherman from the sea to the shore emerged. The minister was reportedly hesitant to step on water and was hence carried by the man, which he denied while talking to reporters.Radhakrishnan was at Pulicat in Tiruvallur district of Tamil Nadu to inspect erosion in a nearby lake along with the district collector and MLAs. During his inspection, more than 30 people travelled along with the minister in a boat that can only transport seven people at a time, local Tamil news station Puthiyathalaimurai TV reported. Because of this, the boat began to lose balance and some people were moved to another boat.The minister then continued his inspection and while returning he reportedly was not sure about stepping on the water. Following this, a fisherman nearby with the minister carried him on his shoulder in ankle-deep water to land.In the video of the incident, which garnered large attention on social media platforms like Twitter, another man could be seen assisting the minister and the fisherman who carried him. Several news reports also said that the minister didn’t want his shoes to get wet.However, Radhakrishnan had denied such claims. He also said that he had not asked anyone to carry him and that the fisherman volunteered to do so because of his “affection” Puthiyathalaimurai TV quoted the minister as saying earlier on Thursday.Despite the minister’s explanation, the video received many angry reactions, especially on Twitter. Many people called out the minister for the ‘VVIP treatment.’Radhakrishnan, the current minister for the Tamil Nadu department of animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, won the Tiruchendur constituency in the Thoothukudi district in the recently concluded Tamil Nadu state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fisherman-carries-tn-minister-anitha-radhakrishnan-in-ankle-deep-water-video-stokes-controversy-101625756321544.html
08-07-2021||India||India, Iran express concern at deteriorating security in Afghanistan||India and Iran have expressed concern about the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and called for strengthening intra-Afghan dialogue to find a comprehensive political solution against the backdrop of the drawdown of US and international forces.The situation in Afghanistan figured in external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s meeting with his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif in Tehran on Wednesday. Jaishankar also met president-elect Ayatollah Sayyid Ebrahim Raisi when he made a transit halt in the Iranian capital while travelling to Russia.Jaishankar’s stopover in Tehran coincided with a meeting in Tehran between an Afghan government delegation and Taliban representatives that was arranged by the Iranian government. This was the first formal contact between the two sides since talks in Qatar stalled several months ago. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday the Indian and Iranian sides exchanged views on regional and global issues during Jaishankar’s technical halt in Tehran. “They also discussed the evolving situation in Afghanistan and expressed concerns over the deteriorating security there,” he said.A statement issued by Iran’s foreign ministry said the two sides “stressed the need to strengthen intra-Afghan dialogue in Afghanistan which leads to a comprehensive political solution”. The statement added that Jaishankar referred to the talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Tehran, and “thanked Iran for its efforts to bring the two sides closer to a comprehensive political solution”.Western security officials have said the Taliban have captured more than 100 districts in Afghanistan, while the insurgents claim to hold more than 200 districts in 34 provinces. Main cities and provincial capitals remain under the control of government forces.India, which has been keeping a wary eye on the fighting, has said its embassy in Kabul and consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif are currently functional. However, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that officials are closely tracking the extremely fluid situation and plans are being framed to cater for all contingencies, including the evacuation of Indian nationals and diplomats.Bagchi said, “We are carefully monitoring the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and its implications on the safety and security of Indian nationals in Afghanistan. Our response will be calibrated accordingly.”The spokesperson further said India and Iran also discussed joint connectivity initiatives in the region, such as the International North-South Transport Corridor and Chabahar port. Jaishankar “reiterated India’s interests in the region and support for efforts to maintain peace, security and stability”, he added.Jaishankar also handed over a congratulatory message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the Iranian president-elect.Iran’s foreign ministry said Jaishankar and Zarif discussed the “prospects for the Vienna talks” on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) or the Iran nuclear deal, and cooperation in transport and communications, including the Chabahar port, to promote convergence in the region.Since the US pulled out of the JCPOA under the former Trump administration, India has consistently backed a negotiated settlement of the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-iran-express-concern-at-deteriorating-security-in-afghanistan-101625756485765.html
08-07-2021||India||Jumbos roam everywhere, can’t make Chhattisgarh an elephant reserve: Minister||Raipur: Chhattisgarh farm minister Ravindra Chaubey on Thursday waded into the public debate over the size of the Lemru elephant reserve, saying the entire state cannot be declared an elephant reserve just because the jumbos were spotted across Chhattisgarh.“Elephants are now roaming across the state. I have said that the elephants are now roaming across five revenue divisions of the state, so do you mean that the whole of Chhattisgarh should be declared as elephant reserve… No, this is not possible,” the senior minister said.The six-time lawmaker’s comments come days after health minister TS Singhdeo made it clear that he did not support limiting the elephant reserve to 450 square kilometres but wanted the government to stick to its plan of 2020 to set up the reserve across 1,995 sq km.The plan to set up the elephant reserve across 450 sq km was conceived by the Bharatiya Janata Party government led by Raman Singh in 2005. In two years, it got the approval of the Union government also. But the project never took off.The Bhupesh Baghel government revived the plan after the change of guard in 2018, initially proposing to set up the elephant reserve in north Chhattisgarh across 450 sq km. In 2020, the Chhattisgarh government decided to expand the proposed reserve to 1,995 sq km and later, initiated another proposal to increase the size further to 3,720 sq km in mineral-rich north Chhattisgarh.A controversy erupted this week after health minister Singhdeo objected to the forest department’s pitch for going back to the original plan of 450 sq km citing objections from eight lawmakers including health minister Singhdeo. The minister was livid and sent a sharp rebuttal to the forest department’s claim. On Wednesday, another MLA Laljeet Rathia demanded that coal mining in the jungles of Hasdeo Aranya be stopped.On Thursday, Chhattisgarh agriculture and water resources minister Ravindra Chaubey said the divergence of opinion shouldn’t be seen as a conflict. “We cannot make such a big project over a suggestion of only one person hence suggestions are coming and it should not be seen as a conflict,” Chaubey said.For now, the government hasn’t spelt out its stand. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel held a review meeting with forest officials on Thursday but according to a senior official who was present, the elephant reserve wasn’t discussed.“The controversy over the elephant reserve was not discussed in the meeting. I believe that suggestions from some MLAs will be taken and finally, the decision will be taken by the cabinet meeting on expanding or reducing the size of the reserve,” the official said,Some of the controversy and the resistance to the reserve is linked to the direct impact that it would have on coal mines in north Chhattisgarh and the displacement of tribal villages.“If the elephant reserve is not to be made or extended at least the minister should announce that mining will not be allowed in this jungle,” said Alok Shukla, convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, recalling that Rahul Gandhi promised tribals in 2015 that no tribal will be removed from the jungle and Congress will not even do anything that increases the human-elephant conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jumbos-roam-everywhere-can-t-make-chhattisgarh-an-elephant-reserve-minister-101625756427344.html
08-07-2021||India||APMCs to use ₹1 lakh crore fund, says Tomar, urges farmers to stop protest||The government has several times requested the protesting farmers to end their ongoing protests against the three farm laws. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar again made the request on Thursday. The only difference was that the request came along with a few announcements for the farm sector taken in the very first meeting of the new Cabinet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Agricultural Produce Market Committees will be able to use ₹1 lakh crore fund, the minister said, announcing the Cabinet decisions.PM Modi's new Cabinet clears new ₹23,132 crore package for Covid management"Whatever the government announces it has the will to implement them. In this year's Budget, it was announced that mandis will not be stopped. It was also announced that APMCs will be allowed to use the ₹1 lakh crore fund allocated under Aatmanirbhar Bharat to Farmers Infrastructure Fund. In today's Cabinet meeting, it has been decided to implement that announcement. All state-centre co-operatives, federations, and autonomous federations will be able to utilise this fund," the minister said adding that many people will benefit from the tweaks that the Cabinet has introduced as criteria to avail of this fund.On further talks between the government and the protesting unions, the minister said, "I have urged the unions several times that we are ready to talk on any issue except the repeal of the laws. The government has always been sensitive to the demands of the farmers. PM Modi government has the highest regard for farmers. We want farmers to prosper under this government. And the three laws are in that direction only. Farmers' union should now rethink the steps we are taking to strengthen APMCs.""Since the protest began, you are seeing what we doing on MSP. Farmers from those areas which are at the forefront of the protest are reaping the maximum benefits of our MSP scheme. So I would again urge the union leaders to resume talks," the minister said.In another agriculture-related decision, the Cabinet has decided to amend the Coconut Development Board Act, 1979 to make the post of chairman non-executive, as part of its efforts to boost production and productivity in this sector. The post of the chairman will be non-executive and there would be a CEO for executive powers. Those who have field experience will be appointed as non-executive chairman of the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apmcs-to-use-rs-1-lakh-crore-fund-says-tomar-urges-farmers-to-stop-stir-101625755448730.html
08-07-2021||India||Zika virus cases in Kerala: Symptoms, prevention and treatment of mosquito-borne disease||Amid efforts to contain coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Kerala on Thursday reported 13 cases of mosquito-borne Zika virus for the first time. All samples tested positive for the Zika virus were collected from the Thiruvananthapuram district and sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. The samples were collected for testing after a 24-year-old pregnant woman sought treatment late last month with symptoms like fever, headache, and red marks on the skin, according to Mathrubhumi news portal.Zika virus spreads mostly by the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquito, which bites during the day. Aedes mosquitoes are the same that transmit dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever. The virus can be passed from a pregnant woman to her fetus and can cause infants to be born with microcephaly and other congenital malformations.It is also associated with other complications of pregnancy including preterm birth and miscarriage. According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), individuals infected with the Zika virus can also transmit the disease to their sex partners.Also Read | Kerala: Thiruvananthapuram district reports 13 cases of Zika virusSymptoms of Zika virus infectionThe symptoms for the mosquito-borne disease include mild and include fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or headache. The incubation period of Zika virus disease is estimated to be 3–14 days and the symptoms typically last for 2–7 days. Most people with Zika virus infection do not develop symptoms, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).Prevention and TreatmentThere is no specific treatment or vaccine for the Zika virus and the development of the Zika vaccine remains an active area of research. The UN health agency advises people with symptoms to get plenty of rest, drink fluids, and “treat pain and fever with common medicines.” Zika virus infection can only be prevented by avoiding mosquito bites. Special attention should be given to prevent mosquito bites among pregnant women, women of reproductive age, and young children, says WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-cases-in-kerala-symptoms-prevention-and-treatment-of-mosquito-borne-disease-101625754202624.html
08-07-2021||India||IMD alerts: Low pressure over Bay of Bengal to bring rainfall in these states||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday said moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by frequent cloud to ground lightning are very likely over Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh in the next 24 hours. “This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors,” IMD said in a post on Twitter.Moist easterly winds in the lower level of Bay of Bengal, have begun to establish over eastern India, and is likely to spread into Punjab and north Haryana from July 10 onwards, IMD further said. Besides, a low pressure is likely to form over Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts around July 11.Under the influence of these conditions, heavy rainfall along with thunderstorms are expected in several states of India.Here is a list of important IMD alerts for the next few days:1. Heavy rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Goa and Maharashtra, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala, coastal Andhra Pradesh, and Mahe in Puducherry between July 8 to 12.2. Owing to strengthening of southwest monsoon over Arabian Sea and the expected low pressure over Bay of Bengal, heavy rainfall along the west and east coasts of the country is likely to continue in the next five days.3. Northeast India will receive scattered to widespread rainfall from July 9 onwards. Furthermore, heavy rainfall is also very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Punjab on July 11 and 12, and over west Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand between July 8 to 12.4. Between July 10 to 12, heavy rainfall activity is very likely over Haryana, east Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi.5. Scattered to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over central Indian regions such as Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh in the next five days.6. The revival of southwest monsoon from today, however, will lead to the reduction in the intensity and distribution of rainfall over the northeastern states, including Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland from July 9 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-low-pressure-over-bay-of-bengal-to-bring-rainfall-in-these-states-101625753225025.html
08-07-2021||India||Amid cabinet reshuffle, health ministry again issues statement over vaccine shortage claims||Amid reports of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine shortage from various parts of the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has released another statement to clarify their stand, citing all states and Union territories (UTs) are informed well in advance about the number of vaccines to be sent to them.In the statement – second one in this week, the health ministry quashed media reports claiming there was 32 per cent less vaccination in the past one week as opposed to the previous one.“It is clarified that all states or UTs are being informed much in advance about the doses that will be available during the month of July 2021, including the supply to private hospitals. The states or UTs have been advised to plan their Covid-19 vaccination sessions based on the availability of the vaccines,” the statement read.The ministry also informed that after discussion with the vaccine manufacturers, it had already been conveyed to all states or UTs that they will receive “more than 12 crore doses” of Covid-19 vaccine in July.“Till today morning, over 2.19 crore doses have already been supplied to all states or UTs from July’s supply,” the statement added, reiterating that the health ministry is informing the states “adequately in advance” about the supply of vaccines being sent to them.According to the statement, states or UTs have also been asked to share their demand for vaccine doses with the Centre in case there is a need for more owing to increased coverage.The ministry’s statement on Wednesday comes a day after it struck down media reports claiming Covid-19 vaccine shortage led to the closure of some vaccination centres in Rajasthan.The Centre said Rajasthan had more than 1.69 lakh unutilised stock of vaccine jabs as of July 1, and under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme, the state was given over 8.89 lakh doses of vaccine between July 1 and 6.“In addition, Rajasthan would receive an additional 3,951,000 doses during the remaining part of July 2021. Hence, in entire…July, Rajasthan will receive more than 5,090,000 vaccine doses,” the statement by the health ministry read.The Centre also clarified that Covid-19 vaccines being a biological product, its manufacturing process “takes time” and does not “translate into immediate supply”.Last week, owing to vaccine shortage in Maharashtra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state vaccination centres suspended their vaccination drive in Mumbai. On June 29, 3,87,644 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the state, which dropped to 2,56,019 on June 30, and rose marginally to 2,72,714 on July 1.In Uttar Pradesh’s Noida, a government district hospital was flooded by beneficiaries, who flouted coronavirus norms, to get their jabs. Speaking to ANI, the chief medical superintendent said that the crowd was due to the hospital not getting enough vaccines for two days.On Thursday, in a veiled jibe at the appointment of Mansukh Mandaviya as the Union health minister amid cabinet reshuffle, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Does this mean no more vaccine shortage? #change”Notably, Dr Harsh Vardhan’s resignation came as shocking to many as he was widely applauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his management of the ongoing coronavirus crisis in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-again-issues-statement-over-vaccine-shortage-claims-101625751681647.html
08-07-2021||India||Kerala: Thiruvananthapuram district reports 13 cases of Zika virus||Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram district reported a total of 13 Zika virus cases on Thursday. The samples collected were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune.According to the World Health Organisation, Zika virus is caused by Aedes mosquitoes, known for being active during the day. It was first detected among monkeys in Uganda in 1947, and was later identified in humans in 1952 in Uganda and the United Republic of Tanzania. Outbreaks of Zika virus have been detected in Asia, Africa, America and the Pacific islands.Also Read: Genetically modified mosquitoes released in US to fight disease-carrying speciesThe incubation period of Zika virus is between 3 to 14 days, and a majority of people infected by it do not develop any actual symptoms. Some milder symptoms, exhibited by few individuals, include fever, rashes, headache, muscle and joint pain etc. Zika virus is also known to trigger Guillain-Barré syndrome, neuropathy and myelitis, especially in adults and children.The virus is also known for causing congenital abnormalities and microcephaly in a developing foetus and a newborn.Also Read: Trial gives hope for better control of mosquito-borne disease outbreaksBrazil weathered a particularly dangerous outbreak of the Zika virus in 2015 due to which more than 1,600 Brazilian children were born with devastating microcephaly.The National Institute of Virology (NIV) had successfully isolated the Zika virus for the very first time in November of 2018. In India, the first local outbreak of Zika virus was reported in Ahmedabad in January 2017 and the second in Tamil Nadu’s Krishnagiri district in July, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-thiruvananthapuram-district-reports-13-cases-of-zika-virus-101625747559300.html
08-07-2021||India||PM Modi's new Cabinet clears ₹23,132 crore package for Covid management||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's new Cabinet met on Thursday and took a slew of measures regarding the health infrastructure of the country, amid the ongoing 2nd phase of the Covid-19 pandemic. In April 2020, the Cabinet had approved ₹15,000 crore package for Covid-19 emergency response, which was utilised to the maximum to upgrade the health infrastructure of the country, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said."Now we know what challenges we faced during the second wave of the pandemic. So in the second phase, we are announcing a package of about ₹23,123 crore keeping the future in mind," the new health minister said.Look forward to your leadership: Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla's tweet for Mansukh MandaviyaAll state governments will be consulted to chart out a future roadmap so that oxygen, beds, crucial medicines do not pose a challenge in front of the country. Out of this ₹23,000 crore, the Centre will give ₹15,000 crore and the state will give ₹8,000 crore, the minister said.कोरोना के खिलाफ लड़ाई को और मजबूत बनाने के लिए 23 हजार करोड़ रुपये से अधिक के एक नए पैकेज को मंजूरी दी गई है। इसके तहत देश के सभी जिलों में पीडियाट्रिक केयर यूनिट से लेकर आईसीयू बेड, ऑक्सीजन स्टोरेज, एंबुलेंस और दवाओं जैसे जरूरी इंतजाम किए जाएंगे।https://t.co/wbItmbjEsX"Can we not use telemedicine? Can we not teleconsultation? All these have been incorporated into this new package. State governments can also use this fund to pool in nursing students to bolster the health infrastructure," the new minister said.Special focus on child health careThe new health minister mentioned child health care as he announced the new package which includes provision for 20,000 new ICU beds.s About 20 per cent of it will be meant for children or be used for a hybrid purpose -- for both children and adults, the minister said. The package also has the provision for 736 district paediatric care units. The announcement comes amid apprehension that Covid 3rd wave, if it comes in India, might impact childrenThe package will be implemented within nine months, from July to March, next year, Mandaviya said. "The maximum deadline is of 9 months. We can do this even before the deadline according to the situation," the health minister said.How will the new ₹23,000 crore package be utilised?1. Integrated digital platform-- telemedicine, teleconsultation2. 736 district paediatric care units3. ₹1 crore for medicine buffer stock at state and district level4. Pooling in medical interns, BSc nursing students at the state level5. 10,000 litres oxygen storage at every district6. Provision for setting up 2.4 lakh beds.7. Provision for setting up 20,000 ICU beds, including 20% for children8. Provision for 150-unit need-based field hospitals comprising 2,500 and 5,000 beds.This was the first Cabinet meeting after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reshuffled his council of ministers and dropped several key faces of the council. Former minister Prakash Javadekar, who has been dropped from the ministry on Wednesday, used to brief Cabinet decisions after the meeting. After Thursday's meeting, new IB minister Anurag Thakur briefed the new decisions while agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and new health minister Mansukh Mandaviya elaborated on decisions of their respective departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-new-cabinet-clears-new-rs-23-000-crore-package-for-covid-management-101625750791996.html
08-07-2021||India||India has administered over 364 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 364 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, July 7, even as a major reshuffle in the Union Cabinet saw the health minister, Harsh Vardhan stepping down, and Mansukh Mandaviya taking over the charge. Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 364,569,414 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,104,426 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,404,816 were given the first dose while 135,166 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 106,208,106 persons across the country have received their first dose and 3,188,078 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Sanofi-GSK Covid vaccine candidate gets nod for Phase 3 trials in IndiaEight states: Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 5 million first doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the 18-45 age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.India on Thursday recorded 45,892 fresh Covid cases and 817 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. With this, the country’s cumulative Covid-19 infection tally went up to 30,709,557 and the total death toll was pushed to 405,028.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-364-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101625749346616.html
08-07-2021||India||Sanofi-GSK Covid vaccine candidate gets nod for Phase 3 trials in India||The national drugs regulator has granted approval to pharma majors Sanofi and GSK to conduct phase 3 clinical trials of their Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India, the companies announced in a joint statement on Thursday.It will be a bridging trial to assess the safety, efficacy, and immunogenicity of their adjuvanted recombinant-protein Covid-19 vaccine candidate as part of the global, randomised, double-blind phase 3 study with over 35,000 volunteers aged above 18 across the US, Asia, Africa, and Latin America.“The primary endpoint of the study is the prevention of symptomatic COVID-19 in SARSCoV-2 naïve adults, with secondary endpoints being the prevention of severe COVID-19 disease and prevention of asymptomatic infection,” said the statement.Also Read | Mankind Pharma gets DRDO’s nod to manufacture and market anti-Covid drug 2-DGAccording to the companies, the global interim phase 2 results have shown that the vaccine candidate achieved high rates of neutralising antibody responses in all adult age groups, with 95 to 100% seroconversion rates. After a single injection, high neutralising antibody levels were also generated in participants with evidence of prior SARS-CoV-2 infection, suggesting strong potential for development as a booster vaccine.In a two-stage approach, the study will initially investigate the efficacy of a vaccine formulation targeting the original virus strain (D.614), while a second stage will evaluate a second formulation targeting the Beta variant (B.1.351).The design of the phase 3 study, conducted across a broad diversity of geographies, also allows evaluation of the efficacy of the candidate against a variety of circulating variants. Sanofi and GSK will also run clinical studies to assess the ability of the adjuvanted recombinant-protein Covid-19 vaccine candidate to generate a strong booster response regardless of the type of vaccine initially received.“India is participating in Sanofi Pasteur’s pivotal Phase 3 study… we should soon begin enrolment of study participants in the country,” said Annapurna Das, country head, Sanofi Pasteur India.“As the virus continues to evolve, we are anticipating what will be needed in the coming months and years, and accordingly, have adapted our vaccine development programme. We believe our Covid-19 adjuvanted, recombinant vaccine can make a significant contribution to the ongoing fight against Covid-19 and are committed to initiating our clinical programme in India, at the earliest.”As part of their partnership to develop the Covid-19 vaccine, Sanofi provides its recombinant antigen and GSK contributes its pandemic adjuvant, both established vaccine platforms that have proven successful against influenza.“As Covid-19 vaccination becomes available, study participants are encouraged to receive an approved Covid-19 vaccine during the study, if they wish to do so. As part of the study design, all participants including the control group will be offered the study vaccine as soon as it is determined to be safe and effective,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanofigsk-covid-vaccine-candidate-gets-nod-for-phase-3-trials-in-india-101625749046640.html
08-07-2021||India||Champion sailor Abhilash Tomy seeks funds for race that almost killed him||In the 75th year of the country’s Independence, a champion Indian sailor will attempt a feat that almost killed him three years ago -- an enormously challenging solo and non-stop circumnavigation race that bars the use of modern technology.But Abhilash Tomy’s quest for sailing glory faces a funding hurdle -- he needs to raise up to ₹4 crore to get through to the 2022 edition of the quadrennial Golden Globe Race (GGR).Struggling to find sponsors for the around-the-world race, the former navy commander has decided to take a shot at crowdfunding to be able to compete in the gruelling event -- an endurance test like no other in the world of competitive sailing.“I could not finish the 2018 edition of the race because of an accident. It’s been in my head for a long time. I am ready for the unfinished business. I have launched a crowdfunding campaign to arrange funds for a boat and several other associated expenses,” Tomy said over phone from Goa.Also Read | Living in isolation is hard... but it’s not without benefits, writes Abhilash TomyHe has launched a fundraising campaign on the Ketto crowdfunding platform, and fondly describes his supporters as “crew” who stand a chance “to be a part of a race around the world”.Tomy suffered a debilitating back injury on September 21, 2018, after rough seas and powerful winds in the southern Indian Ocean -- one of the remotest spots on Earth -- crippled his yacht, SV Thuriya. He was rescued 70 hours later.“I did not suffer from any post-traumatic stress disorder after the accident. There are no fear issues. I was doing fairly well until the storm took Thuriya down. I regard my participation in GGR-22 as a fitting tribute to the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence,” he said.Before the September 21 accident, Tomy was in the third position among 11 international participants and had sailed more than 10,500 nautical miles since the race began on July 1, 2018, from a port in France.Pause. Click this link. Donate. ShareGolden Globe Race 2022 - India Entry https://t.co/J2qkRjbQ0zThat was the 50th year of the race that commemorates Robin Knox-Johnston’s feat in 1968, with participants required to operate under the same conditions, even navigating using charts and the stars.“This time, it’s going to be even harder as participants will be given only 25 litres of fuel compared to 120 litres in 2018. I had kept all the fuel for power generation. This time, I will be dependent on sun and winds to charge batteries. The good thing is that participants will be allowed to carry cameras this time,” said Tomy, who took premature retirement from the navy in January 2021.Tomy became the first Indian to circumnavigate the globe on board his previous boat Mhadei -- solo, non-stop and unassisted -- in 2013. At the end of the five-month-long voyage, the President of India received Tomy and his boat at the Gateway of India in Mumbai. He was awarded India’s second-highest peace-time gallantry award, Kirti Chakra, for the achievement.Tomy has raised around ₹1.5 lakh on the crowdfunding platform over the last two days against a goal of ₹three crore. He launched the campaign on July 6.“It all boils down to how much money I can raise. There are costs associated with getting a boat, its refit, entry fee for the event, technical managers and other expenses. I have approached some corporate houses too but haven’t had any response so far,” he said.Tomy first announced that he would take part in GGR-22 at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit-2019. Speaking at the 17th edition of the summit, he gave details of the harrowing moments that abruptly ended his participation in GGR-18 but thrust him into the spotlight for surviving an ordeal that tested the limits of human endurance.“When the boat turned upright after the second knockdown, my wrist was stuck on wires connecting the mast. At one point, the strap of my watch broke, and I fell nine metres on a piece of aluminium called the boom. Then I fell to the deck on my back. I cleaned up some of the broken equipment, but half an hour later, I could not stand,” said Tomy of the moments that turned out to be the point when he broke his spine in four places.When a rescue team -- a coordinated effort of four nations -- finally reached him, his first thought was that he was hallucinating.“After 48 hours of sleep deprivation, hallucination is common. When I heard the knock, I thought this could be a hallucination and I must be prepared for that. But then they were there, real people — and I told them you are like angels to me,” he said at the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/champion-sailor-abhilash-tomy-seeks-funds-for-race-that-almost-killed-him-101625747785446.html
08-07-2021||India||Giloy and liver damage: What is the controversy and what govt says||A day after dismissing reports that Giloy can lead to liver damage, the ministry of Ayush on Thursday said it is advisable to consult a medical practitioner before incorporating Giloy in one's diet. "When taken regularly, Giloy can do wonders for overall health concerns. It has also been approved by the Food and Drug Administration to be used as a remedial medication," it said.When taken regularly, Giloy can do wonders for overall health concerns. It has also been approved by the Food and Drug Administration to be used as a remedial medication.It is advisable to consult a medical practitioner before incorporating Guduchi in one's diet. pic.twitter.com/oW5YVaajj1Reports quoting Mumbai doctors said six patients with severe liver damage were found between September and December and each of them had a history of taking Giloy, which became popular as an immunity booster, especially amid the Covid-19 pandemic.What does the study say?Aabha Nagral, the lead author of the study, published in the Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hepatology, said biopsy result proved that the liver injury was linked to the herb Tinospora cordifolia which is known as Giloy.The consumption of Giloy reportedly shot up during the first wave of the pandemic as it is considered a natural immunity booster.What has the government said?The Ayush ministry on Wednesday said the study is misleading as the liver damage linked to Giloy was only reported in six patients. The researchers did not analyse the contents of the herb that was consumed by the patients, the ministry said. The ministry also said that the study did not clearly identify the herb and did not mention the dosage the patients took.What has Patanjali said?Giloy juice is available under many brands in India. Yoga guru Ramdev's Patanjali is one of them. Patanjali Ayurved managing director Acharya Balkrishna issued a statement and said the case study has been limited, not satisfactory. All six patients had pre-existing diseases and were taking other allopathic medicines. Dismissing the link between Giloy and liver diseases, Balkrishna said Giloy has been traditionally used in Ayurveda to treat liver disorders. "There is a wide variation in the quantity of the herb taken by be the patients, formulations employed and the duration of consumption. Consequently, the outcomes of the case series should not be attributed to the medicinal safe use of Giloy. Moreover, the investigators have neglected several crucial parameters such as previous medication history, identification of chemical constituents in the formulation as well in the damaged liver and blood," Balkrishna said.What should you do?The Ayush ministry has now said Giloy when taken regularly can do wonders to overall health. The ministry has now advised consulting a medical practitioner before incorporating Giloy in one's diet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/giloy-and-liver-damage-what-is-the-controversy-and-what-govt-says-101625746392253.html
08-07-2021||India||Row over parole to Abhaya case convicts, activist moves HC||Human rights activist Jomon Puthanpurakkal on Thursday moved the Kerala High Court questioning the parole granted to two life-term convicts in Sister Abhaya murder case, Father Thomas Kotoor and Sister Sefi. Both were released on 90-day special parole in May citing the recommendations of the committee constituted by the Supreme Court in view of the pandemic situation.The prisons department had released over 1500 prisoners, including two life-term convicts, as part of its efforts to decongest jails in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave. But the petitioner alleged that both were granted bail even before completing five months in jail and prisoners involved in offences up to 10 years were eligible for such parole.“The state government and jail department illegally granted parole to both after pressure from a section of the church. The government also ignored the fact that both had moved the higher court questioning the verdict and it refused to stay the verdict,” said Puthanpurakkal, who single-handedly fought the case for 27 years. He wanted the court to cancel their parole and send them back to jail. Later, the Kerala Legal Service Authority also made it clear it never commended parole for both. But the jail department said it had released many life convicts earlier also on parole and it had not shown any favouritism in the particular case. A Central Intelligence Bureau (CBI) court in Thiruvananthapuram had convicted the two last December, 28 years after the crime.Sister Abhaya (19), a plus-two student, was found dead in the well of the Pious X Convent in Kottayam in March 1992. It was initially dismissed as a suicide by the state police and crime branch, but the CBI later concluded that it was murder. In 2009 the CBI charge-sheeted Catholic priest Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sefi in the case. But the case again dragged after different petitions came up and it witnessed many twists and turns. During the long battle, the Kanaya Catholic church stood with the accused and even after the verdict it maintained that both were victimised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-parole-to-abhaya-case-convicts-activist-moves-hc-101625746287839.html
08-07-2021||India||Env minister Bhupender Yadav’s law expertise may help perform a balancing act||Several environmentalists and former bureaucrats are hopeful with Bhupender Yadav’s appointment as the new environment minister.Yadav, a lawyer and former national secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party, is also called the “Committee Man” because he has chaired several parliamentary committees on critical issues, such as the Rajya Sabha Select Committee on Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 etc.More importantly, he has co-authored a book with environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta in 2011 on the legal aspects of forest conservation in India titled “Supreme Court on Forest Conservation.”On Thursday afternoon, when he took charge of the environment ministry, some officials felt that he came across as a more approachable minister. Yadav first participated in a plantation drive and then met senior officials from the ministry for a briefing on ongoing projects and issues.“I will not be able to answer questions today. All I can say is that I am grateful that I have been selected for this responsibility,” he told the media. “He seems soft spoken and more understanding of complex issues surrounding environment and climate change,” said a senior environment ministry official.Anup Nayak, former member secretary, national tiger conservation authority (NTCA) tweeted: “With the change in guard in the MoEFCC, let’s hope that the highhandedness and arrogance will give way to humility and rational decision-making benefitting forestry.”“It’s good that a lawyer has taken charge of the ministry. The ministry was circumventing the parliamentary process through various office memorandums and orders. I really hope he addresses that first. Given his background in law, he can help improve the functioning of the ministry. He has been associated with various environmental movements and has taken up environmental cases so he knows the issues very well. He has chaired the highest number of parliamentary committees also,” said Ritwick Dutta. Yadav has, for example, taken up issues related to Sethu Samudram project and Andaman and Nicobar in the SC, Dutta added.“I think we have reasons to maintain hope. He is an advocate with knowledge of environmental law and being one of the cadre he may listen to people’s voices. It’s an opportunity for the NDA to clean up the damage done through various dilutions in the past seven years,” said Sudiep Shrivastava, a Chhattisgarh-based lawyer who is working on cases related to Hasdeo Arand.The environment ministry has been facing public backlash on various controversial decisions in the past few years during Prakash Javadekar’s tenure. The draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification published on March 23, 2020, has been in the eye of a storm because of widespread opposition to certain clauses which can weaken the process of environmental appraisal of industries and infrastructure projects. The Delhi Police had sent a notice on July 8 last year to youth climate group Fridays for Future under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for sending multiple emails to Javadekar against draft EIA 2020. Delhi Police had later clarified that sending the notice was a clerical error. The ministry had received over 200,000 objections and comments to the draft EIA 2020 which are being assessed by a committee.Large infrastructure projects, such as townships planned in the fragile Andaman and Nicobar Islands; the Char Dham road project through Himalayas in Uttarakhand; hydropower projects in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley; mining in Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand forests are presently being considered by the ministry. The ministry has also started amending almost all environmental legislations to ensure they meet current requirements according to officials. The ministry’s wildlife division has prepared a Cabinet note to amend the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 which is yet to be cleared by the Cabinet; a similar note on the amendment to Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 has also been finalised after circulating it internally among ministries. Recently, the ministry has called for expression of interest from consulting agencies, firms, and joint venture consortiums to prepare a new draft amendment to the Indian Forest Act, 1927. A private law firm is preparing a draft environmental management act which will subsume the Air Act 1981, Water Act 1974, and the Environment (Protection) Act 1986 and serve as an overarching law particularly for all infrastructure and industry projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/env-minister-bhupender-yadav-s-law-expertise-may-help-perform-a-balancing-act-101625746045333.html
08-07-2021||India||Mankind Pharma gets DRDO’s permission to manufacture and market anti-Covid drug 2-DG||Mankind Pharma has received the license from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to manufacture and market oral Covid-19 drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), the company announced on Thursday.The drug was developed by the Defence Research and Development Establishment (DRDE), Gwalior, and clinical trials were conducted by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a lab of DRDO, in association with Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the ministry of defence had said in a release last month.Mankind will be manufacturing this drug at its facilities in Visakhapatnam and Himachal Pradesh.Also Read: DRDO's anti-Covid drug 2-DG effective against all Covid-19 strains, reduces cell death: StudyAccording to the government release, clinical trial data shows that the drug accumulates in virus-infected cells, and prevents the growth of the virus, helping in faster recovery of patients hospitalised with Covid-19, and reducing their dependence on supplemental oxygen. The anti-Covid drug from DRDO reduces the virus multiplication and alleviates cells from infection-induced cytopathic effect and cell death, the study conducted in June had found.Being a generic molecule and an analogue of glucose means 2-DG can be easily manufactured and made available in large quantities, the release added.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had permitted the emergency use of 2-DG as an adjunct treatment for moderate to severe Covid-19 infections on May 1, Mankind Pharma told news agency PTI. "Our objective behind this agreement is to ensure maximum reach of this medication to the deserving Indian patients suffering from the deadly pandemic," the company said.Government officials had announced that the market price of 2-DG will be fixed at ₹900 per sachet, and sold by the Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy's Laboratories. DRDO would provide the drug for free to central and state governments||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mankind-pharma-gets-drdo-s-permission-to-manufacture-and-market-anti-covid-drug-2dg-101625745390081.html
08-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Peace and Harmony Committee can issue summons, SC tells Facebook and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Peace and Harmony Committee can summon FB but not recommend prosecution’: SCThe Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by Facebook India vice president Ajit Mohan challenging the summons issued to the company by the Peace and Harmony Committee of the Delhi Legislative Assembly in connection with the Delhi riots in February last year. Read more.Indians can travel to these countries starting next week. Check details hereMany countries have reopened their borders for Indian tourists embarking on non-essential travel at a time when India’s weekly coronavirus (Covid-19) positivity rate declined to 2.37%, and the daily positivity rate stood at 2.42% – less than 3% -- for the 17th consecutive day. Read more.Known to keep a low profile, Narayanaswamy gets a place in Union CabinetA Narayanaswamy, 62, a first-time Member of Parliament from Karnataka’s Chitradurga who was inducted into the Union council of ministers on Wednesday, hit the headlines in May 2019 when he was denied entry into a village in Tumakuru as he is a Dalit. He wanted to visit the village to highlight the poor condition of the schools in the region and encourage works under Corporate Social Responsibility there. Read more.Pratima Bhowmik is first Tripura resident to become Union ministerPratima Bhowmik, 52, is the first resident of Tripura to become a Union minister. She is among the senior-most leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state. A science graduate, Bhowmik joined the party in 1991 and has since held organisational positions in the state. She unsuccessfully contested assembly elections twice against Tripura’s longest-serving chief minister Manik Sarkar in 1998 and 2018. She became the first-term Member of Parliament from Tripura in 2019. Read more.Newly-inducted ministers promise to work as per PM Modi’s visionThe ministers, who took charge on Thursday after the biggest reshuffle in Narendra Modi’s Union council of ministers a day earlier, promised to work as per the Prime Minister’s vision for the country. Read more.Kumar Sangakkara's epic reply to ICC's tweet on MS Dhoni wins heartsFrom one wicket-keeper to another. From one captain to another. From one champion to another, Former Sri Lanka skipper Kumar Sangakkara won the internet over with his epic reply to a tweet posted by the ICC on MS Dhoni. Read more.Nagpur Police posts advisory with Leonardo Da Vinci’s Mona Lisa twist. Seen pics yet?Wearing mask, using sanitizer and most importantly, taking vaccine have turned into essential preventative measures that everyone should follow. Often different authorities, including police departments, take to social media platforms to highlight the importance of following these safety norms. There is now a latest inclusion to that list and it is a post by Nagpur Police. What has left people intrigued is how they gave a twist to the iconic Mona Lisa painting by Leonardo Da Vinci to spread the message. Read more.Amy Jackson shares throwback pic of Aishwarya Rai eating food on floor, calls her a 'queen'Amy Jackson has shared a throwback picture of her 'forever favourite', Aishwarya Rai. Amy reposted a picture of Aishwarya, clicked soon after she was crowned Miss World in 1994. Read more.Karishma Tanna’s animal flow workout at gym will pump up your exercise energiesIn an effort to improve strength, power, flexibility and mobility, Naagin-star Karishma Tanna was seen evoking a sense of fun and creativity to mundane workout session as she performed animal flow at the gym with her trainer, Pawan Jatwa. Making workout look all fun and play, Karishma pumped up our drooping energies as she sweat it out in the gym with animal flow exercises and that is all the fitness motivation we need to take us through the rest of the week. Read more.Mercedes builds on its lead, delivers 4,857 cars in India in first half of 2021Mercedes-Benz India on Thursday reported a strong end to the first half of 2021, a period in which it delivered 4,857 new vehicles in the country. This is a growth of 65% over the same time period of 2020 even if it is important to note that Covid-19 pandemic had varying effects on the auto market in both of these time periods. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-peace-committee-can-issue-summons-sc-tells-facebook-101625741998852.html
08-07-2021||India||Look forward to your leadership: Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla's tweet for Mansukh Mandaviya||Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of the world's largest vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India, on Thursday congratulated new health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and said his company is looking forward to the new health minister's leadership, navigating through the Covid-19 pandemic. "It was a pleasure interacting with you during your visit," Poonawalla wrote, posting a photo of Mansukh Madviya's recent visit to the Pune facility of vaccine firm.Congratulations Hon. @mansukhmandviya Ji. As our new Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare India and Chemical & Fertilizers, we look forward to your leadership as we navigate through this pandemic. It was a pleasure interacting with you during your visit to @SerumInstIndia. https://t.co/84jmzkrKxcIn a major reshuffle, several key ministers of the Modi Cabinet, including former health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, were dropped on Wednesday as new ministers took their oath on the same day. The axing of Dr Harsh Vardhan has triggered a debate whether the move is an indirect statement on the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress criticised the decision and said the former health minister has been made a scapegoat. Replacing Dr Harsh Vardhan with Mansukh Mandaviya who was in charge of the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers and the ministry of ports and shipping and waterways has also triggered controversies as old tweets purportedly by the minister have now been dug out on social media platforms.Also Read: Cabinet reshuffle | Here’s what new ministers said after PM Modi’s resetHaving taken charge amid the ongoing second wave and the looming threats of a third wave of the pandemic, Mansukh Mandaviya's primary challenge will be to pace up vaccination across the country. As India has largely been dependant on Covishield, the vaccine manufactured by Adar Poonawalla's Serum Institute of India, continuous coordination with the vaccine manufacturer will be crucial.Two days before the Cabinet was reshuffled, Mansukh Mandaviya, as evident from Serum CEO's tweet, visited the Pune facility of Serum and held a detailed discussion with Adar Poonawalla to understand the challenges of vaccine production.Pune's Serum Institute has been supplying Covishield at a discounted price to the government since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January. While Serum is looking at working on its new Covid-19 vaccine Covavax, it is also expected to accelerate vaccine production by several notches.With former health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan too, Serum shared a close relationship. Before the Covid-19 pamdemic, in 2019, Harsh Vardhan had inaugurated Serum Instiute of India's Manjri plant. In 2020, Dr Vardhan inaugurated the country's first pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, developed by Serum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/look-forward-to-your-leadership-serum-ceo-adar-poonawalla-s-tweet-for-mansukh-mandaviya-101625742362203.html
08-07-2021||India||‘Peace and Harmony Committee can summon FB but not recommend prosecution’: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by Facebook India vice president Ajit Mohan challenging the summons issued to the company by the Peace and Harmony Committee of the Delhi Legislative Assembly in connection with the Delhi riots in February last year.A three-judge bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said that the Committee was well within its power to issue summons for appearance to Facebook but it certainly did not have the legislative mandate to recommend action in case of persons against whom a prima facie case is made out. Such a term of reference would fall within the domain of law and order and police, which are subjects on which the Delhi Assembly cannot legislate.The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, said that it was this term of reference that created a legitimate apprehension in the mind of the petitioner (Mohan) that Facebook is sought to be made an accused. The Court also said that ‘Peace’ and ‘Harmony’ are subjects beyond law and order, yet care must be taken by the Committee in framing the terms of reference so that it does not traverse the excluded territories (law and order, police).It was on September 23, 2020 when Facebook India vice-president Ajit Mohan filed a petition in the Supreme Court challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the Peace and Harmony Committee of the Delhi Assembly seeking his presence before the panel.The Court had protected Mohan against any coercive action and during the course of arguments wished to know if the Assembly intended the personal appearance of Mohan alone or anybody from the company. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for Mohan, claimed that as an intermediary for the exchange of information on his platform, he cannot be compelled to come and state on oath before a non-statutory Committee.For the Assembly, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi had advanced arguments and said that the notice never required Mohan to depose but any senior, responsible person from the company capable of assisting the Committee. It was pursuant to this, a fresh notice was issued to Facebook India by the Delhi Legislative Assembly in February 2021, this time asking a senior, responsible officer from the company to appear before the Peace and Harmony Committee. This notice was taken on record by the Court. The case was dealt with on three fronts by the court – the issue of legislative privileges, the question of free speech and expression raised by Mohan, and the legislative competence of the Committee.The Delhi Assembly had relied on various entries in the state list and concurrent list, by which the Delhi Assembly derived its power to discuss and debate on the issue in question. It cited entry 1 in the state list dealing with public order, which is distinct from law and order and entry 1 in concurrent list which gives sweeping power to state assemblies to legislate on the subject ‘criminal law’. Further, entry 39 in state list that gave assemblies power to enforce the attendance of witnesses for purpose of recording statements was also relied upon. In addition, he said that the issue raised a question of the legislative dignity of the Delhi Assembly.Even the Peace and Harmony Committee joined as a party to the proceedings and was represented by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan. The committee informed the Court that it had received the mandate to suggest measures to eliminate factors and situations having the potential to disturb communal harmony in the capital and to establish harmony among different religious or linguistic groups.The Court reserved orders on the petition on February 24 this year but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the decision was delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-and-harmony-committee-can-summon-fb-but-not-recommend-prosecution-sc-101625740405000.html
08-07-2021||India||Newly-inducted ministers promise to work as per PM Modi’s vision||The ministers, who took charge on Thursday after the biggest reshuffle in Narendra Modi’s Union council of ministers a day earlier, promised to work as per the Prime Minister’s vision for the country.Anurag Thakur said PM Modi has done terrific work in the last seven years to take India forward. He said he will try to meet the expectations as he took over as the new information and broadcasting minister.Jyotiraditya Scindia, the new civil aviation minister, thanked the PM, Union home minister Amit Shah, and BJP chief JP Nadda as he took charge of his ministry. He promised to carry out all the responsibilities with hard work and determinism.Hardeep Singh Puri, who has been named as the new petroleum and natural gas minister, said the focus would be to increase the domestic production of crude oil and natural gas. He said they would work towards the development of a natural gas-based economy.Also Read | The Cabinet reshuffle marks a break from the pastHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya thanked Modi and added he will work in accordance with the Prime Minister’s expectations.Kiren Rijiju, the new law minister, said his time as the sports minister was memorable, and Modi’s vision of making India a sporting nation will be fulfilled.Ashwini Vaishnaw, who took over as the new railway minister, said the ministry is a major part of Modi’s vision. “His vision for railways is to transform the lives of the people...that everyone...the common man, farmers, the poor... gets the benefit of the railways. I will work for that vision.”G Kishan Reddy said under Modi’s guidance, he has taken charge as the minister of state for tourism, culture, and northeast affairs.Bharati Pravin, who took over as the minister of state for health, expressed her confidence in Modi’s vision for a healthy India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-promise-to-work-as-per-pm-modi-s-vision-101625738904894.html
08-07-2021||India||When will Moderna and Pfizer Covid vaccines reach India? Latest updates||Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine is expected to reach India this week but the issue of whether the company will be provided legal indemnity which is protection against any lawsuit in the country remains uncertain and reports said discussions are still going on. Moderna will be the first US-made vaccine to come to India. Hence, all eyes are on the technicalities as this will pave the way for other foreign vaccine manufacturers to come to India.On June 29, the Drug Controller General of India granted permission to Cipla to import the Moderna vaccines from the US. The vaccine, with efficacy of approximately 94.1 per cent, also has received EUA from the World Health Organization and over 50 countries.Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine in India will be part of WHO's Gavi alliance and will be a donation from the US government. As of now, there has been no agreement on commercial supplies of the vaccines.Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine ‘less effective’ against Delta variant: IsraelStatus of Pfizer vaccine in IndiaConsultation with all three US vaccine makers Moderna, Pfizer, and J&J has been going on for quite some time. Moderna and Pfizer had sought protection from the country so that they can't be booked in case of any adverse effect of the vaccine. While the issue is still being discussed, reports said Pfizer has not yet applied for emergency use authorisation in the country.How many doses of vaccines will India receive from Moderna and Pfizer?India expects to receive 3 million to 4 million doses of the Pfizer and Moderna Covid-19 shots through the COVAX facility by August.Moderna and Pfizer are the two vaccines with the highest efficacy percentage in the world with emerging studies claiming their effectiveness against variants as well. Both the vaccine are mRNA vaccines that contain genetic instructions for our cells. A US study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, said people who received either of these two vaccines are up to 91 per cent less likely to develop breakthrough infections.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-moderna-and-pfizer-vaccines-against-covid-19-reach-india-latest-updates-101625737446874.html
08-07-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases in India rise after 55 days; 8 states follow suit||India’s count of active cases increased slightly to 460,704, after 45,892 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the previous 24 hours, taking its infection tally to 30,709,557. Thursday’s record breaks with the consistent downward trend exhibited in the past 55 days, according to the data released by the Union health and family welfare ministry.This comes days after India recorded the lowest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in 111 days on July 6, after a total of 34,703 cases were recorded.India recorded its first grim milestone in its Covid-19 tally on August 7 of last year, after the total number of cases crossed the 20-lakh mark, this was followed by the country crossing the 30 lakh on August 23, on September 5 the cumulative tally was breached multiple times all throughout the month of September, surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed two crore-mark on May 4 and three crore on June 23.Also Read: 'No more vaccine shortage?': Rahul Gandhi's dig at new health ministerThe states of Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Kerala, Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Sikkim, and Odisha have been reporting a similar jump in daily cases. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to chief secretaries of different states urging caution.In his letter to the chief secretary of Odisha Bhushan said, "It is a point of concern that presently, three districts of Odisha are reporting weekly positivity of more than 10 per cent (28th June to 4th July). Though the State positivity is consistently decreasing and has reported positivity of 5.36 per cent for the week ending 4th July. The district of Nuapada has shown a significant increase in positivity over the last week,".Bhushan also urged the chief secretaries to speed up vaccination drives, insisting that “Vaccination must be used as an aid to the infection containment strategy. Ramping up vaccination sites, improving the efficiency and utilization of vaccination, deploying strategic vaccination centres near the containment zones, and now. ensuring speedier vaccination of all citizens aged 18 should be undertaken on a priority,"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-india-goes-up-after-55-days-8-states-follow-suit-101625734645601.html
08-07-2021||India||Former Karnataka minister Shobha Karandlaje is now a Union minister||Shobha Karandlaje, a Member of Parliament from Karnataka’s Udupi-Chikmagalur who was inducted into the Union council of ministers on Wednesday, is a former Karnataka minister. She joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 1996 and served as a member of the state legislative council before getting elected as a lawmaker in 2008.A postgraduate in sociology, Karandlaje, who has been named as Union minister of state for agriculture and farmers welfare, is considered to be a close aide to Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa.Also Watch | What drove Modi Cabinet reboot: Polls, appeasement or governance?Karandlaje has been known for her controversial statements. In July 2017, she submitted a list to the central government alleging 23 Hindus were “murdered” in Karnataka since 2015 when Congress was in power in the state. It later emerged that the list included even those who died by suicide. In December 2017, she was booked for inflammatory tweets related to the alleged rape and murder of a Dalit girl. When a 19-year-old man died under mysterious circumstances in Honnavar in Uttara Kannada, Karandlaje claimed that he was tortured by “Jihadis”. The allegation fuelled tensions months before the 2018 assembly elections. The state police on December 11, 2017, put out a detailed response by the forensic science laboratory in Manipal saying there was no evidence to suggest that the man was tortured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-karnataka-minister-shobha-karandlaje-is-now-a-union-minister-101625734404698.html
08-07-2021||India||'No more vaccine shortage?': Rahul Gandhi's dig as Mansukh Mandaviya replaces Harsh Vardhan as health minister||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi once again took a dig at the alleged deficiency of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, at a time when Mansukh Mandaviya replaces Dr Harsh Vardhan as the health minister of the country. Mandaviya took charge of the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rejig of the Union cabinet.The change in the portfolio comes at a crucial juncture when India is in the middle of an unprecedented global pandemic, with reports of vaccine shortages plaguing various parts of the country."Does this mean no more vaccine shortage?" the Congress leader asked, popping his post with the hashtag "#change". Rahul Gandhi’s veiled jibe at the cabinet reshuffle seems to have pointed out a question: If the new health minister would respond to the issue of vaccine deficiency, or if he would follow in the footsteps of his predecessor who frequently hit back against critiques over the same.Does this mean no more vaccine shortage?#ChangeThe former Congress president has been a harsh critic of the Centre’s vaccination policy for months. He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on numerous counts, to end the 'shortage' of vaccine doses in the country, a claim that the BJP-led government debunked as a “lie”.Earlier on several occasions, Gandhi took potshots at the Centre’s vaccination policy, which he has described as “lacking”. Just last week, the Congress leader had questioned the government on vaccine availability and asked, "It's July already, yet there are no vaccines. Where are the vaccines?"Hitting back at Gandhi, the then health minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan had, in turn, asked, "What is Rahul Gandhi's problem? Does he not read? Does he not understand?" The former minister had added that "facts" regarding vaccine availability have been put out by the government for the month of July. "There is no vaccine for the virus of arrogance and ignorance," he remarked, adding that Congress must think about a "leadership overhaul".Last Saturday, Rahul Gandhi shared a cumulative vaccination tracker and pointed out that India's actual Covid-19 vaccination rate is 27% below the government's target rate to avoid a potential third wave of the pandemic.Meanwhile, there have been reports of vaccine shortages across the country. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday that the national capital has run out of vaccines once again and urged the Centre to provide vaccines as per the requirement to the people of Delhi.Last week, the Odisha government halted the vaccination drive in 16 of its districts owing to a "shortage" of Covishield doses. Meanwhile, the Himata Biswa Sarma-led Assam government said that it could only vaccinate a population 45% less than the set target, due to a massive shortage of Covid-19 vaccines.In Maharashtra, the administration suspended the vaccination drive across 281 civic-run centers and 20 government-run centers in Mumbai last week due to a shortage of stocks. Several other states like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, etc have also said that they are facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-more-vaccine-shortage-rahul-gandhi-s-dig-as-mansukh-mandaviya-replaces-harsh-vardhan-as-health-minister-101625730596818.html
08-07-2021||India||Flouting Covid-19 rules, maskless tourists throng Mussoorie's Kempty falls||The government has issued warnings against overcrowding popular tourist destinations, but that seems to be having little effect on tourists. Days after shocking pictures from Manali showed crowded streets and zero regard to social distancing norms, now tourists have gathered in Uttarakhand.Videos have emerged on social media which show tourists bathing at Mussoorie's famous Kempty Falls. Social distancing went for a toss as people gathered at the popular tourist spot; not even a single person was seen wearing a mask in the videos.#infobug07july21With no #masks in sight, hundreds of tourists appeared to be #vacationing their '#pandemic' troubles away at the Kempty falls in #Mussoorie.#repost #viral #Internet pic.twitter.com/3lnjLVG2gKHotels were full and there were long queues of vehicles on the streets as people escaped to the hills in order to beat the summer heat. Stunned by the videos, many took jibes at the carelessness of the public, saying that if citizens don’t learn their lessons, the third wave of Covid-19 is not far away.Popular hill stations like Shimla, Mussoorie, Kufri, Narkanda, Dalhousie and Manali, are witnessing the arrival of tourists in large numbers, who are looking to get rid of the scorching heat in the northern plains. Due to the dip in Covid-19 cases, states like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have relaxed the restrictions which has led to an influx of the people from other states. A few days ago, pictures of crowded streets in Manali had gone viral.The increase in the number of tourists has also posed a challenge to the state government to ensure adhering of Covid-19 norms by the visitors amid fears of an impending third wave of coronavirus infections.The Union health ministry earlier on Tuesday expressed concern over people flocking to hill stations and markets without following Covid-19-appropriate behaviours and warned that such laxity can nullify the gains made in the management of the pandemic so far."People are indulging in revenge travel with restrictions being lifted. They need to understand that the virus and the disease is still here. People roaming in hill stations and markets without maintaining physical distance and not wearing masks can nullify the gains made in the management of the pandemic so far," joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said as he stressed on following Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flouting-covid-19-rules-maskless-tourists-throng-mussoorie-s-kempty-falls-101625727416130.html
08-07-2021||India||Ministry of cooperation is a political game changer for 2024||With Union home minister Amit Shah taking charge of the newly created ministry of cooperation, the writing is on the wall. Though the decision taken in the run-up to 2024 general elections didn’t not exactly rule the airwaves but is aimed at reviving the cooperatives in the country, and stopping the exploitation of agriculturists by the middlemen in India’ rural areas.Interestingly, the new ministry was also created in the backdrop of ongoing farmer protests against the new farm laws. The movement has now significant political overtones and are aimed at consolidating the opposition against the BJP in poll bound states of Punjab, Uttarakhand and UP in 2022.“This ministry will provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in the country.It will help deepen cooperatives as a true people-based movement reaching upto the grassroots,” the cabinet secretariat said in a 6 July statement.India has a history of successful cooperative movements. A case in point being Amul that was founded in 1946.“The exploitative trade practices followed by the local trade cartel triggered off the cooperative movement. Angered by unfair and manipulative practices followed by the trade, the farmers of the district approached the great Indian patriot Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel for a solution. He advised them to get rid of the middlemen and form their own co-operative, which would have procurement, processing and marketing under their control,” according to information available on Amul website.The model has been very successful with the revenue of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd (GCMMF) that markets dairy products under Amul brand growing to Rs39,200 crore.A successful agriculture and livestock cooperative movement in other parts of country after new farm laws will not only increase the income of farmers and productivity of land but also add to the nation’s growth in pure GDP terms.Facing farm protests, the government has been working on this new playbook for some time now. Given the fact that Amit Shah is decisive and hard taskmaster, the new ministry will take off before the 2024 general elections and dampen the already dwindling support to the anti-famer laws agitation.“The Government is committed to the development of Multi-State Cooperatives and will provide all support to them. To further streamline the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ for Cooperatives, I propose to set up a separate Administrative Structure for them,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her budget speech earlier this year.“In a historic move, a separate ‘Ministry of Co-operation’ has been created by the Modi Government for realizing the vision of ‘Sahkar se Samriddhi’. In our country, a Co-operative based economic development model is very relevant where each member works with a spirit of responsibility,” the cabinet secretariat' statement said and added, “The Ministry will work to streamline processes for ‘Ease of doing business’ for co-operatives and enable development of Multi-State Co-operatives (MSCS).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-of-cooperation-is-a-political-game-changer-for-2024-101625731239268.html
08-07-2021||India||Team Modi gets bigger, stronger||Among the changes are several leaders who are from the BJP’s allies, while some others come from important states where big-ticket elections are due soon. Several of the government’s prominent faces have also been dropped in the reshuffle, which is the first of Modi’s current term.Also read: Cabinet grows in size after rejig, third-largest since 1990||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/team-modi-gets-bigger-stronger-101625695922897.html
08-07-2021||India||Do you know EPFO allows withdrawal of funds for medical emergency? Details here||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) in May stated in an official release that its members can withdraw funds of up to ₹1 lakh for medical emergency and hospitalisation from serious life-threatening diseases, including Covid-19.Notably, medical advances earlier could only be withdrawn after the estimates were provided by the hospital. In the release, EPFO stated that in case of life-threatening illnesses, it becomes “imperative to get the patient immediately admitted in hospital on emergency to save his/her life and it is not possible to get the estimate from hospital in such serious situations.”The EPFO mentioned in the release that a lump sum medical advance of up to ₹1 lakh can be granted by the authority for withdrawal without the need of an estimate from the hospital or documentation.Here are the steps to follow to get medical advances from EPFO:6. Go to the official website of EPFO at epfindia.gov.in7. Enter your UAN, password, and captcha details to log in to your account.8. Navigate to the ‘Online Services’ tab, and click on ‘Clam (Form-31, 19,10C & 10D)’ option.9. A new page will open, where one needs to verify their bank account information that is linked to the UAN. All the terms and conditions must be read and accepted.10. After this, click on ‘Proceed for Online Claim’, and select ‘Medical emergency’ from the withdrawal applying options.Important points to be noted:5. Those applying to avail of the facility must remember that medical advances can only be claimed by employees covered under CS(MA) rules and also those under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS).6. This facility is typically available for patients admitted in a government or Public Sector Unit (PSU) or CGHS-empanelled hospital for treatment of the disease. However, in case the patient is admitted to a private hospital then the case shall be gauged by the competent authority of the EPFO to decide if the medical advance needs to be rendered.7. An employee must submit medical bill within 45 days from the date of discharge from the hospital.8. The medical advance can either be credited to the salary account of the employee or to the concerned hospital where the treatment is taking place, depending on the discretion of the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-you-know-epfo-allows-withdrawal-of-funds-for-medical-emergency-details-here-101625729510145.html
08-07-2021||India||Pratima Bhowmik is first Tripura resident to become Union minister||Pratima Bhowmik, 52, is the first resident of Tripura to become a Union minister. She is among the senior-most leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state. A science graduate, Bhowmik joined the party in 1991 and has since held organisational positions in the state. She unsuccessfully contested assembly elections twice against Tripura’s longest-serving chief minister Manik Sarkar in 1998 and 2018. She became the first-term Member of Parliament from Tripura in 2019.The daughter of a schoolteacher, Bhowmik has also been involved in farming in her native Baranarayan village in Sonamura. She also was a keen Kho-kho and Kabaddi and took part in the block, district, and state-level competitions.Also Watch | What drove Modi Cabinet reboot: Polls, appeasement or governance?Triguna Sen, who was from West Bengal but represented Tripura in Rajya Sabha, was a minister in former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s cabinet. Santosh Mohan Dev, a resident of Assam, contested Lok Sabha polls in 1989 from West Tripura constituency and became a minister in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pratima-bhowmik-is-first-tripura-resident-to-become-union-minister-101625730144487.html
08-07-2021||India||Nitish Kumar sacrificed his party leaders to make Pashupati a minister: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan on Thursday said Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal leader Nitish Kumar had ignored his own party's candidates and put forth the name of Pashupati Kumar Paras for a cabinet berth.Paras, the younger brother of Chirag Paswan's late father Ram Vilas Paswan, is a member of Lok Sabha from Hajipur and now a Union minister. In Prime Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet expansion, Paras got the post of food processing minister on Wednesday.Also Read: Chirag Paswan says will move court if Paras is given Cabinet berth on LJP quotaChirag Paswan, who is currently on Aashirwad Yatra, said that though he didn't dream of being a Union minister, the appointment of Paras to the cabinet and the sidelining of Janata Dal leaders like Rajiv Ranjan "Lalan" Singh by Nitish Kumar seemed like a ploy. Paswan was speaking in Samastipur, where he has made a stop during the yatra.“I never craved for a ministerial berth, but I still don’t know from which party’s quota my uncle Pashu Pati Kumar Paras has been inducted in the Cabinet. The way things have unfolded, it appears Nitish Kumar sacrificed his own party leaders, especially Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh,” Paswan said, adding that he informed PM Modi about the suspension of the five party MPs, including Paras, from the LJP.Also Read: JD(U) may split anytime, claims LJP’s Chirag PaswanLalan Singh, who allegedly played an instrumental role in orchestrating the LJP split, has been overlooked in Union cabinet expansion and this points to the impending upheaval within the JD(U), Paswan said.“The ministerial berth that belonged to Lalan Singh was snatched from him. This has caused dissatisfaction within the JD(U) and could lead to a split,” he said.Meanwhile, the LJP leader had on Tuesday said he will approach court if his uncle was given a berth in the Union cabinet on his party quota. “If any of them (the expelled MPs) gets included in the Cabinet from the party’s quota, I will certainly have an objection to it and I may have to take legal recourse. If anyone is made minister as an independent or from some other party, I have no issue, as it is entirely the prerogative of the Prime Minister. But as far as the LJP is concerned, the party Constitution allows me to be the president and the matter is before the Election Commission (EC) as well as the Lok Sabha Speaker,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-sacrificed-his-party-leaders-to-make-pashupati-a-minister-chirag-paswan-101625724385806.html
08-07-2021||India||Former geography professor from Manipur joins Union council of ministers||Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, 68, who was inducted as a Union minister of state on Wednesday, is a first-term Member of Parliament from Inner Manipur. He was given charge of minister of state of education and foreign affairs on Wednesday. A former geography professor, Singh earlier served as a member of the parliamentary standing committee on science and technology. Singh has been involved in the documentation and conservation of the environment, heritage, and biodiversity.Also Watch | What drove Modi Cabinet reboot: Polls, appeasement or governance?In a tweet, Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh highlighted the minister’s experience in academics and social work. The chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Manipur chief A Sarda Devi thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for inducting a representative from the state in his council of ministers. Devi said the induction “proved again that BJP walks the talk, and the party has shown its commitment of bringing development to the northeast including Manipur”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-geography-professor-from-manipur-joins-union-council-of-ministers-101625729784541.html
08-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sonia Gandhi writes to Saira Banu on Dilip Kumar's demise and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sonia Gandhi offers condolences to Saira Banu on Dilip Kumar’s deathCongress president Sonia Gandhi offered “heartfelt condolences” to Saira Banu, actor, and wife of famous Hindi film actor Dilip Kumar, after the thespian passed away on Wednesday at a Mumbai hospital at the age of 98. Read MoreFormer IAS officer and engineer from Odisha get key portfolios in CabinetAshwini Vaishnaw, a bureaucrat-turned-politician who was inducted on Wednesday into the Union Cabinet in charge of railways, electronics, and information technology, is known as a backroom boy. Read MoreVaccinated British travelers no longer need to isolate under new ruleUK officials have strategized a plan which is expected to come into force this month under which British travelers who have received both doses of a coronavirus vaccine will no longer need to isolate when they return home from moderate risk countries. Read MoreDharmendra reveals Saira Banu's heartbreaking words to him after Dilip Kumar's death: 'Jaan nikal gayi meri'Saira Banu, who lost her husband, actor Dilip Kumar, on Wednesday morning, was heartbroken as his friends and family paid their last respects to the late actor. Read MoreThis IFS officer motivated kids from a Nashik village to care for birds. Read his inspiring storyThe smallest change can make the biggest difference - If you’ve heard this saying, then let us tell you the story of an IFS officer who proved each word of the said statement. Read MoreGauahar Khan’s uber-chic loungewear look in tie-dye co-ord set is fashion goalsWe can’t help but yearn for a similar romantic getaway as we scroll through Gauahar Khan and her hubby Zaid Darbar’s flood of pictures from their current Moscow trip. Read MoreJaguar Land Rover drives in two-door Defender 90 SUV at ₹76.57 lakhJaguar Land Rover on Thursday announced the launch of Defender 90 SUV at a starting ex showroom price of ₹76.57 lakh. Read MoreNow, Samsung Galaxy S21 FE specifications leaked! Take a sneak peek at what's comingSamsung is expected to launch the Galaxy S21 FE (Fan Edition) later this year. Read MoreWhat drove Modi Cabinet reboot: Polls, appeasement or governance?Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the expansion of his cabinet followed by portfolios of the ministers. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sonia-gandhi-writes-to-saira-banu-on-dilip-kumar-s-demise-and-all-the-latest-news-101625726463586.html
08-07-2021||India||Virendra Kumar, a seven-time MP, returns to Union council of ministers||Virendra Kumar, a seven-time Member of Parliament from Madhya Pradesh’s Tikamgarh, has returned to the Union council of ministers as social justice and empowerment minister. A Dalit leader, Kumar first became a Union minister of the state in 2017. He comes from a humble background and is known as the common man’s leader, who was often seen riding a scooter and meeting people.Also Read | Sonowal’s second stint in Delhi ends speculation about his future roleKumar would assist his father, who ran a cycle puncture repairing shop in Sagar. A postgraduate in Economics from Dr Hari Singh Gour University, he joined Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and was jailed during the state of emergency in the 1970s.Rajkamal Kesharvani, a friend of Kumar’s and a BJP leader, said: “I have seen his struggle, but he is not among those who forget their roots after getting success. He evolved himself as a politician but did not change...During his visits to Tikamgarh and Sagar, he can be seen sitting with three-four people at shops and discussing their problems,” said Kesharvani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virendra-kumar-a-seven-time-mp-returns-to-union-council-of-ministers-101625728104838.html
08-07-2021||India||Twitter says will appoint grievance officer in 8 weeks in line with IT rules||Twitter informed the Delhi high court on Thursday that it would take eight weeks to appoint a grievance redressal officer in compliance with the new IT rules. The social media platform also told the court that it is in a process of setting up a liaison office in India which will be the company's permanent physical contact address in the country.The Delhi high court had warned Twitter earlier this week on Tuesday that the company cannot take forever to comply with the country's Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The social media platform "will be in trouble" if it does not appoint a resident grievance officer without any delay in line with the laws, the court had said.Twitter had time till Thursday to specify a time frame within which it can appoint the grievance redressal officers. Following up on the matter, the social media platform told the Delhi high court on Thursday that it will be presenting its first compliance report in accordance with the IT rules latest by July 11.In its court filing on this day, Twitter said that its India unit has already appointed an interim chief compliance officer and will soon designate two other executives for the time being to comply with the country's new IT rules. The company, however, indicated that its conflict with the Union government over the IT laws may not be at its end yet. "While Twitter is striving to comply with the 2021 rules, Twitter reserves its right to challenge the legality, validity, and vires of the rules," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-says-will-appoint-grievance-officer-in-8-weeks-in-line-with-it-rules-101625726800342.html
08-07-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi, Manmohan Singh write to Saira Banu on Dilip Kumar’s death||Congress president Sonia Gandhi offered “heartfelt condolences” to Saira Banu, actor, and wife of famous Hindi film actor Dilip Kumar, after the thespian passed away on Wednesday at a Mumbai hospital at the age of 98.“With passing away of your beloved husband Shri Dilip Kumar, the golden age of Indian cinema has finally come to an end,” Gandhi wrote.She added that Kumar, who was a “legend in his lifetime”, will continue in live in the hearts of people in future too as “generations of film lovers will continue to watch him with admiration in his films that his superb acting skills turned into evergreen classics.”“Who can forget the realism and the emotion, power that he brought into roles in films as diverse as Ganga Jamuna, Daag, Deedar, Mughal-e-Azam, Naya Daur, Madhumati, Devdas, Ram Aur Shyam, and so many more,” Gandhi said.Gandhi said that Kumar lived a “long and a fulfilled life” and left India with a “priceless legacy” through his work in the field of art and culture. “His loss will be deeply mourned by his countless fans and India will always honour his memory,” she said, while wishing peace for the departed soul.Also Read | A gentleman actor whose intensity shone on screen: Waheeda Rehman on Dilip KumarFormer prime minister Manmohan Singh also offered condolences to Saira Banu, saying Kumar was the “first Khan” and “tragedy king” of Indian cinema, and his death was an “irreparable loss.”In a letter to Banu, Singh said the actor’s death was a moment of “profound sorrow” and added that “his distinguished contribution to the Indian Cinema will always be remembered by the people of our country and by all the Hindi film lovers all over the world.”Calling Kumar a legend of Indian cinema “who will remain a prince in the minds of generations of Hindi cinema lovers,” Singh added that Kumar also held the Guinness World Record for winning the maximum number of awards by an Indian actor.“His contribution in the field of Indian cinema was recognised by the Government of India by awarding him the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian awards of India,” Singh wrote adding that he and his wife Gursharan joins the bereaved family in the hour of grief.Saira Banu and Kumar had been married since 1966. Kumar was admitted to a Mumbai hospital after experiencing breathlessness on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-offers-condolences-to-saira-banu-on-dilip-kumar-s-death-101625724384235.html
08-07-2021||India||Gold prices see massive drop; rates fall 0.3% to ₹47,776 per 10 grams||Gold prices in the Indian market on Thursday witnessed a drop – the first one after six days. On the Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX), gold futures declined by 0.3% to ₹47,776 for 10 grams at 9:05am. Silver rates also dropped by 0.5% to ₹69,008 per kilogram. Besides, the price of 24k gold in the Indian spot market was quoted at ₹47,980.In the international market too, gold prices dipped after seeing an upward swing in the previous session. Spot gold dropped by 0.3%to $1797.2 per Troy ounce. This price level is 3.2% higher than the average gold price seen in the last 30 days ($1739.7). Furthermore, silver prices saw a drop as well, with the metal dipping 0.93% to $25.9 per Troy ounce.The price of platinum, too, suffered, dropping 1.06% to $1077.0 per Troy ounce."Lower US treasury yields and worries over the rise in new virus cases due to the more virulent Delta variant are keeping gold prices steady near $1800 an ounce. Meanwhile, a strong US dollar and optimistic global economic sentiment continue to dampen its safe asset appeal," says Hareesh V, research head commodities at Geojit Financial Services said, Livemint reported.Hareesh added that the yellow metal prices continue to be rough inside $1,820-1,748 levels, and breakage on either side would indicate a short-term direction for the commodity, a LiveMint report stated.Gold prices recently reached a three-week high in the global market owing to the weakening US dollar. On the MCX portal, the yellow metal prices jumped 0.08 per cent to ₹47,730 per 10 gram yesterday, with the prices witnessing 0.27 per cent or ₹38.2 rise per 10 gram the previous session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-prices-see-massive-drop-rates-fall-0-3-to-rs-47-776-per-10-grams-101625723433000.html
08-07-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to wife Saira Bano expressing condolences on Dilip Kumar's demise||A day after Dilip Kuma passed away in Mumbai hospital, Congress' interim president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Saira Banu, expressing condolences on the demise of the legendary actor. In the letter, Sonia Gandhi said that with the passing of Dilip Kumar, "the Golden Age of Indian Cinema finally came to an end". She also described the late actor as a "legend of his lifetime". "He will remain a legend in the future too, as generations of film lovers will continue to watch him with admiration in films that his superb acting skills turned into evergreen classics," Sonia Gandhi added.The senior Congress leader also said that Dilip Kumar lived a long and fulfilled life, and left a priceless legacy through his rich contributions to the world of art and culture.Also Read | 'To be remembered for generations': Political fraternity mourns Dilip Kumar's death"His loss will be deeply mourned by his countless fans, and India will always honour his memory. May his soul rest in peace," Gandhi said in her letter, adding, "I pray that you find the strength to bear your loss."Tributes poured in on Wednesday from people across all fraternities including politics, sports, after much-loved Bollywood veteran Dilip Kumar died aged 98.Also Read | Dilip Kumar gets state funeral, is draped in 'beautiful tricolour'. WatchHe died in a Mumbai hospital after a prolonged hospitalisation due to age-related ailments. The five-decade career of the actor includes 'Mughal-e-Azam', 'Devdas', 'Naya Daur', and 'Ram Aur Shyam', and later, as he graduated to character roles, 'Shakti' and 'Karma'.He married Saira Banu, also a famous and critically acclaimed actress of her time, in 1966.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-saira-bano-expressing-condolences-on-dilip-kumar-s-demise-101625723196746.html
08-07-2021||India||Former IAS officer and engineer from Odisha get key portfolios in Cabinet||Ashwini Vaishnaw, a bureaucrat-turned-politician who was inducted on Wednesday into the Union Cabinet in charge of railways, electronics, and information technology, is known as a backroom boy. A 1994 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, he first came into prominence in June 2019 when the ruling Biju Janata Dal in Odisha and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supported his candidature in Rajya Sabha polls.Born in Jodhpur, Vaishnaw, 50, graduated from Rajasthan’s Jai Narain Vyas University in 1992 with a gold medal in electronics and communications engineering. Two years later, he joined the IAS. His work was recognised when days before the super cyclone hit Odisha in 1999, Vaishnaw tracked a US Navy website to know its path to keep top officials informed about it and help them deal better with the natural disaster. His timely evacuation of 10,000 people in Balasore despite a lack of shelters also earned him much acclaim.Also Watch | What drove Modi Cabinet reboot: Polls, appeasement or governance?Former Odisha chief secretary Sahadev Sahoo, who worked with Vaishnaw, described the minister as meticulous. “He was a copybook officer, never kept work pending. (He) talks little and did not belong to any faction in bureaucracy. Though he stayed mostly outside Odisha, his Odia speaking skills are proof of his eagerness to learn,” said Sahoo.Vaishnaw worked in Odisha till 2003 when he joined Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s office as deputy secretary. In 2006, he became the deputy chairman of Mormugao Port Trust, where he worked for two years before pursuing a Master of Business Administration course from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He later quit IAS and worked in private companies until 2012. He was in Gujarat to set up two components manufacturing units of automobile companies Maruti and Honda in 2012. Vaishnaw lived in a container for seven months so that the work could be finished in record time.Sudhanshu Mani, former Integral Coach Factory general manager, said the railway ministry’s functioning will improve under Vaishnaw, a technocrat. “I had the fortune to know him and see him work closely as a senior executive of GE Transportation and Siemens. He knows Indian Railways in and out and I could see that he was cut out for much higher things. Indian Railways are in for a genuine makeover,” Mani tweeted.Bishweswar Tudu, the other new minister from Odisha in the council of ministers, is also a former government servant. He took voluntary retirement to successfully contest the 2019 national polls from the tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj. Tudu has been associated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram. He was an engineer in the Odisha water resources department before he quit in 2019. A Santhal tribal, Tudu’s inclusion is also seen as part of an attempt to reach out to the tribal community in Odisha ahead of next year’s panchayat polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ias-officer-and-engineer-from-odisha-get-key-portfolios-in-union-council-101625722344115.html
08-07-2021||India||'All 12-digit numbers are not Aadhaar': UIDAI tweets steps to avoid fraud||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) on Thursday warned that all 12-digit numbers are not Aadhaar. It has issued caution against such frauds asking Aadhaar card verification before accepting it as an identity proof.The statutory authority has said that Aadhaar card verification online is possible in simple steps by logging in at the direct UIDAI link --resident.uidai.gov.in/verify."All 12-digit numbers are not Aadhaar. It is recommended that the Aadhaar should be verified before accepting it as identity proof," the UIDAI tweeted.Aadhaar has emerged as one of the most important documents from availing public schemes. From taxes to vaccines everything is linked to this one identity proof.Here is the step by step guide on how to verify Aadhaar card online:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-12-digit-numbers-are-not-aadhaar-uidai-tweets-steps-to-avoid-fraud-101625718690634.html
08-07-2021||India||Annapurna Devi’s elevation marks her growing stature in BJP||Annapurna Devi, 51, who was inducted into the Union council of ministers as a minister of state for education on Wednesday, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the 2019 national polls. She was the Jharkhand unit chief of Lalu Prasad Yadav-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) when she defected to the BJP and went on to win the Lok Sabha election from Koderma. Devi defeated former chief minister Babulal Marandi, a joint candidate of the United Progressive Alliance, by around 450,000 votes.Devi was the vice president of the BJP’s Jharkhand unit before her elevation as the national vice-president. She was also named as BJP’s Haryana co-in charge. Devi is the second Union minister from Jharkhand apart from Arjun Munda. Another Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi is also a member of Rajya Sabha from Jharkhand.Also Read | Sonowal’s second stint in Delhi ends speculation about his future roleDevi, who was born into a Bengali-speaking family in Dumka, has a master’s from Ranchi University. She joined politics after the death of her husband and RJD legislator Ramesh Yadav. She won a state assembly by-poll in 1998 and became a minister in the RJD government of undivided Bihar. She was re-elected as an assembly member in 2000, 2005, and 2009. She became a minister in Jharkhand in 2013 before losing assembly polls a year later. Devi has emerged as the Other Backward Class (OBC) face of the BJP especially after the BJP’s loss in the 2019 assembly polls under Raghubar Das’s leadership.BJP insiders said the elevation of Devi and her rapid rise in the BJP indicates the central leadership is banking on her in Jharkhand. “Belonging to a Yadav family, Annapurna Devi could play a crucial role in wooing the OBC vote bank, especially in the districts bordering Bihar that have a large number of Yadav voters. She could also play a crucial role in wooing Bengali-speaking voters in Santhal areas bordering Bengal,” said a Jharkhand BJP leader, who did not want to be named.A ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha leader acknowledged Devi’s impact in the Dumka Lok Sabha election in 2019. “... our leader Shibu Soren lost. Though she was new to the BJP, she campaigned in the Masiliya area and actually made an impact among the Bengali-speaking population. Though she did not speak much against our leader, her presence made a difference in the result,” said the leader on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/annapurna-devi-s-elevation-marks-her-growing-stature-in-bjp-101625720123955.html
08-07-2021||India||Sonowal’s second stint in Delhi ends speculation about his future role||Sarbananda Sonowal’s induction into the Union council of ministers has ended speculation about his role two months after he was replaced as chief minister even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) returned to power in Assam for a second time in a row under his leadership. His former state Cabinet colleague Himanta Biswa Sarma succeeded Sonowal, 58, as the chief minister in May.Sarma was among those who congratulated Sonowal over his induction. “We are grateful to you for steering so successfully for five years. Your enormous administrative experience and acumen shall immensely benefit the government,” Sarma tweeted on Wednesday.This will be Sonowal’s second stint in the Union ministry. He was the minister of state (independent charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports in the first government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from 2014 to 2016. He returned to Assam to head the first BJP-led coalition government in the state in 2016.Also Read | PM Modi’s Cabinet reshuffle: Scindia, Puri, Sonowal among bigwigs inductedSonowal, who will now be in charge of the ministries of Ports, Shipping, Waterways as well as the Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Siddha, Sowa-rigpa, and Homeopathy, is known as jatiya nayak (hero of the community) for his role in Supreme Court’s scrapping of Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act in 2005. He petitioned the top court against the law, which was applicable only to Assam. The law shifted the onus of proving one is an undocumented immigrant on the accuser and police and not the suspected foreigner. In the Foreigners Act, applicable across India, the onus of proving one‘s citizenship lies on the person suspected to be an undocumented immigrant.A graduate in arts, law, communication, and journalism from Dibrugarh and Gauhati universities, Sonowal headed the All-Assam Students Union from 1992 to 1999. He was the chairman of the North-East Students Union from 1994 to 2004 before he joined Asom Gana Parishad and went on to become a Lok Sabha member.Sonowal, who was first elected to the state assembly in 2001, joined the BJP in 2011 and quickly rose to become the party’s state chief the next year. He was serving his second term as BJP’s Assam chief when he led the party to power in 2016. Sonowal is seen to be deeply religious, soft-spoken and someone with a clean image. He is known for his physical fitness and for being very particular about his health.Sonowal, who was elected from the Majuli assembly seat in Assam this year, is expected to get the Rajya Sabha seat Biswajit Daimary vacated this year. Daimary is now the state assembly Speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonowals-second-stint-in-delhi-ends-speculation-about-his-future-role-101625717784104.html
08-07-2021||India||Nishank resigned as education minister just ahead of NEP completing a year||Ramesh Pokhriyal stepping down as education minister on Wednesday came just ahead of the Modi government completing a year of its biggest education reform, the National Education Policy (NEP), this month. The 61-year-old former chief minister of Uttarakhand officially cited ill-health for his resignation, as he had spent over a month at the All India Institute of Medical sciences(AIIMS) recovering from coronavirus disease.“He has not been well at all,” said a staff member in his office.Popularly known as Nishank, a pseudonym he used as a poet, he took charge of the crucial education ministry in the second term of the Modi government in 2019. Right from the start, the choice was considered unusual because Nishank was known more for his belief in astrology and in championing the use of Sanskrit in the development of computers. However, HT has learnt that the immediate reason for his exit is that the minister was seen as too slow to take decisions which would help the government implement the NEP. Even the Sangh, which refused to comment, had one of its affiliates talk about the need to speed up its implementation.Also Read | Dharmendra Pradhan is the new Education Minister“The education policy was good, and the work done by them---but the implementation needs to be done at a great pace. NEP talks about great many changes needed at Central and government levels, work is needed on that. It will be a year since the policy was introduced; there needs to be a review,” said Atul Kothari of Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nyas, an RSS affiliate body.NEP, which was introduced last year by the Modi government, may have been under Nishank’s watch, but was mostly devised by domain experts and a team of bureaucrats. It has been hailed by educationists and even opposition leaders with concepts like pre-school education and using mother tongue as a mode of instruction for students up to Class 5.“It’s a great document. However, it also requires a lot of work because how are you going to get the human resource to teach pre-school children? You can’t get anganwadi workers to do this,” said a former education secretary who requested anonymity. “Also in the last few years, the allocation for education has also been going down.”Another education official said that Nishank was also perceived as someone who was not quick to take decisions. For instance, one major problem that is yet to be sorted by the government is a common entrance exam for Delhi University. Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) is used by 15 central universities and the government is keen that Delhi university adopt it too, but that clearance is yet to come. This isn’t the only one and according to one official, there is a long list of pending decisions at the minister’s office. Other than that, there are a whole host of universities across the country that are operating without a Vice-Chancellor.“Basically, the government has gone for an image makeover. Nishank invited controversy,” said a senior bureaucrat. Soon after he became education minister in 2019, Nishank went to the IIT Bombay convocation and claimed that NASA had acknowledged Sanskrit’s potential as a scientific language. It turned out to be a hoax that was viral on the internet. The new education minister Dharmendra Pradhan is expected to be at the IIT directors’ meeting as one of his first appointments of his new assignment on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nishank-resigned-as-education-minister-just-ahead-of-nep-completing-a-year-101625716103969.html
08-07-2021||India||India registers 45,892 Covid-19 cases, 817 deaths in 24 hours||India on Thursday recorded 45,892 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 817 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. With this, the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally went up to 3,07,09,557 and the total death toll was pushed to 405,028.The health ministry data further showed that the number of active cases went up to 46,07,04, or 1.50% of the total cases and the total number of recoveries stood at 29,843,825, with 44,291 people being discharged in the last 24 hours. The number of tests done during the previous day was 19,07,216.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe country's weekly positivity rate fell to 2.37% and the daily positivity rate stood at 2.42%, less than 3% for the 17th consecutive day, the health ministry said. The testing capacity was ramped up and as many as 42.52 crore tests have been conducted so far, the ministry added.Meanwhile, the cumulative vaccinations against Covid-19 reached 36,48,47,549, with 33,81,671 people being inoculated on Wednesday.India reports 45,892 new #COVID19 cases, 44,291 recoveries, and 817 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Health MinistryTotal cases: 3,07,09,557Total recoveries: 2,98,43,825 Active cases: 4,60,704Death toll: 4,05,028Total vaccinated: 36,48,47,549 (33,81,671 in last 24 hrs) pic.twitter.com/KFEi9MClz4As the country's second seems to subside, speculations are rife about the third wave arriving in August. According to a report by the State Bank of India (SBI), India may see the third wave from August and it would reach its peak in September.The country's infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. The tally went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-45-892-covid-19-cases-817-deaths-in-24-hours-101625713292081.html
08-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle: Here’s what new ministers said after PM Modi’s reset||Prime Minister Narendra Modi expanded his Cabinet on Wednesday and 36 new ministers were inducted into the council while 7 junior ministers were promoted. As many as 15 of these 43 ministers will be part of the Union Cabinet while 28 will hold the charge as Ministers of State.Here is what some of the new inductees into the Union Cabinet said after taking oath:Bhupendra Yadav (environment; labour & employment): Under PM’s guidance, I believe, we will be able to take India to great heights of development. Thank you once again for reposing trust in me and my abilities to be part of #Govt4GrowthJyotiraditya Scindia (civil aviation): I express my gratitude to all the senior leaders for giving me this opportunity. I will try to keep intact the belief that they have shown in me.Sarbanda Sonowal (AYUSH; ports, shipping and waterways): With the blessings of my late parents and the people of Assam, took oath as a member of PM @narendramodi’s Cabinet. It’s a rare honour to serve the Nation once again at a historic juncture under the dynamic leadership of ModiPashupati Paras (food processing industries): This is a matter of pride for workers because I worked for my party for 30 years. I have been given a responsibility and I will work.RCP Singh (steel): This is a matter of great pride for any politician. I have fulfilled many responsibilities, will fulfil this one also. At Centre & state [Bihar], the govt will run strongly. “I express my heartfelt thanks to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, National BJP President Shri JP Nadda ji and Hon’ble Home Minister Shri Amit Shah ji as well as all national BJP leaders for giving me a chance to serve as the Minister of our great nation India.” Shobha Karandlaje (agriculture, MoS): My heartfelt gratitude to Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, and JP Nadda for reposing faith in me and giving me such huge responsibility! Special thanks to the people of Udupi-Chikmagalur & all the well-wishers. It’s a privilege to serve Maa Bharati in a new role.Anupriya Patel (commerce and industry, MoS): Our party is in alliance with NDA in UP since 2014. I have worked as State Health Minister but whatever portfolio PM decides, I will do justice with it. Apna Dal will continue to work for the welfare of people:Meenakshi Lekhi (external affairs; culture): I want to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, and party president JP Nadda for believing in me and giving me this opportunity. I will sincerely carry out all the duties I get.Pankaj Choudhary (finance, MoS): We will collectively make our contribution in taking the country forward on the path of development under the guidance of Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-ministers-thank-pm-modi-for-induction-into-new-cabinet-101625715623581.html
08-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Himachal Pradesh gets tough against overcrowding at tourist spots||Himachal Pradesh government has taken strong cognisance of the violation of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol due to a huge influx of visitors. At a review meeting on Wednesday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur directed deputy commissioners and superintendents of police to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour at prominent tourist destinations.There was public outrage after pictures and video emerged on social media of traffic congestion on the way to the popular sites like Manali and large a number of people - some maskless - visiting shopping districts with no social distancing.Watch: Manali flooded with tourists, social media erupts with 3rd wave warning & memesThe Union health ministry warned on Tuesday that it can re-impose restrictions as Covid protocols are not followed by people who are travelling to the hill stations."The virus is still between us... one mistake can give the virus a chance to spread among us," senior health ministry official Lav Agarwal warned during a media briefing."People travelling to hill stations are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. We can nullify the ease in restrictions again if protocols not complied with," he added.Thakur too had said earlier this week that "we are anxious" as the tourist influx has increased in Himachal Pradesh."We welcome tourists but I urge them to follow Covid norms. They should follow social distancing and wear a mask. We have also directed hotels to follow SOP strictly," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chief secretary Anil Kumar Khachi advised all the district collectors to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour and guidelines strictly.Meanwhile, Uttarakhand has been witnessing a rapid rise in the inflow of tourists after it eased Covid-19 induced curbs in the state. Tourists have been gathering in Mussoorie, the popular hill station of the state, also called 'Queen of Hills', to beat the summer in north India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-himachal-pradesh-gets-tough-against-overcrowding-at-tourist-spots-101625714773246.html
08-07-2021||India||UP reports Delta plus cases, variants of concern found in 174 districts||Delta plus, the lethal and more infectious variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has found its way to Uttar Pradesh, HT's sister publication Hindustan reported on Thursday. In a first, the state detected two cases of the Delta plus Covid-19 variant from Gorakhpur and Deoria. One of the patients has died, the publication confirmed, adding that the news has generated a considerable stir in the region.Also Read | Explained: Delta Plus variant symptoms and how to protect yourselfThe Union health ministry said on Wednesday that 'variants of concern' of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus have been detected in as many as 174 districts across 35 states and Union territories. The highest number of these cases have been from Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal, and Gujarat, according to the health ministry.The Delta plus Covid-19 variant in eastern UP was detected through samples of Covid-19 patients earlier sent for genome sequencing to the Council of Scientific Industrial Research (CSIR) at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi. The reports of the genome sequencing test were received last Tuesday, where it was seen that over 80% of the samples had tested positive for the Delta variant -- or B.1.617.2 -- while around 6% detected the alpha variant, first detected in the UK.Also Read | Contact tracing in Delta variants a challenge: KarnatakaOnly two samples tested positive for the Delta plus variant, stirring up panic among the locals. These belonged to a 66-year-old patient in Deoria and a 23-year-old MBBS student at a medical college in Gorakhpur. Of these two victims, the elderly victim, who had tested positive on May 17, passed away during the course of receiving treatment.The news has generated considerable excitement in the region because it is said that the Delta plus Covid-19 variant may drive a potential third wave of the pandemic in India. The Delta variant was the key driver behind the last wave, which was almost twice as deadly as the first. About 20,000 people were found infected by the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, while the second wave hit around 36,000 people in India, reports said. There was a scramble for government beds, medical oxygen, ventilators, and other pieces of equipment across the country, even while the death toll and infections continued to rise exponentially.The rate of infection was so fast during the second wave that on average, around 1000 people were reported to be getting infected by Covid-19 daily during the months of April and May, while the 'real' death toll was believed to be far beyond the official tally. Now that the second wave of the pandemic is finally showing signs of receding, news of a potential third wave, driven by the Delta plus variant, has pushed the country to a frenzy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-latest-to-report-delta-plus-cases-variants-of-concern-found-in-174-districts-101625711002100.html
08-07-2021||India||Andhra CM Jagan Reddy's sister YS Sharmila to launch political party today||YS Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, is set to launch a new party on Thursday. The launch is expected to take place at a private function in Hyderabad, the capital city that Andhra Pradesh and Telangana share. Sharmila will also release the party's agenda and a flag at the event, which is expected to be a low-key affair due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The day of the launch coincides with the birth anniversary of S Rajasekhara Reddy, former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh and father of Jagan Mohan and Sharmila.Along with party loyalists, mother YS Vijyamma is expected to be present at the launch event scheduled for 3pm, multiple media reports said.Sharmila had announced the launch of her party in April. Speaking then, Sharmila said she wants to walk on the same path as YSR, hence she is stepping into politics for the first time. "Exactly, on April 9, 18 years back from Chevella, YS Rajasekhara Reddy began his Pada Yatra and he walked for 22 kilometres each day. Listening to the problems of the people, YSR has walked through places and that is the inception of various schemes that were later brought in by YSR." She also said that she wants to walk on the same path as YSR, hence she is stepping into politics for the first time.Noting that the state lacks an opposition, Sharmila also said that she aims to "bring back the same reign of YSR."The Assembly polls for 119 seats in Telangana state are scheduled to be held in 2023. In the 2018 Assembly polls, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi under the leadership of K Chandrashekar Rao emerged victorious, securing 88 seats in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-s-sister-ys-sharmila-to-launch-political-party-101625713083208.html
08-07-2021||India||Maharashtra records 9,558 fresh Covid cases; CM calls for vaccine awareness||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 9,558 new Covid-19 cases, even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed authorities to ensure economic activities across the state are not disrupted in the eventuality of a third wave. Thackeray also asked his officials to spread awareness about vaccination among the masses and not let their guard down due to the decline in the number of cases.Thackeray, while addressing the collectors and commissioners of various districts, asked them to hold dialogues with the various industrialists in their districts to keep their units running in case of a third wave. “Those who are able to house their workers in their premises itself should be encouraged and if that is not possible, they should be accommodated in the nearby premises. The officials should offer all possible help to them,” said Thackeray.Also Read | Schools in no-Covid zones in Maharashtra can reopen for classes 8 to 12 starting July 15 “The two waves were very challenging and we were able to restart the economic activities to some extent. However, in view of the third wave, it was necessary to maintain the momentum of the economic activities and hence the movement of the workers needs to be curtailed,” said Thackeray.Currently, an overwhelming number of businesses are facing huge losses due to the restrictive business timings and lack of sales. The Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), the apex body of traders in the manufacturing and retail sector, welcomed the move, but wanted the government to ease current restrictions. “It is a good move, but we need to assess how much it will succeed. However, the state needs to extend timings of the retail shops as the current one, of 7am to 4pm, is not enough. They should also allow common people to travel on trains,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-9-558-fresh-covid-cases-cm-calls-for-vaccine-awareness-101625712503655.html
08-07-2021||India||No traces of coronavirus in Ganga, study finds: Report||A government-directed study has found no traces of coronavirus in Ganga waters after dead bodies were taken out from the river in some districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19, news agency PTI reported.The study was conducted by the National Mission for Clean Ganga under the Jal Shakti Ministry in collaboration with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research's (CSIR’s) Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), Lucknow, the Central Pollution Control Board and the state pollution control boards.According to PTI, the study was conducted in two phases with the samples being taken from Kannuj, Unnao, Kanpur, Hamirpur, Allahabad, Varanasi, Balia, Buxar, Ghazipur, Patna and Chhapra. “None of the samples collected had traces of SARS-CoV2,” the news agency reported, quoting people associated with the study.The virological study extracted the RNA of the viruses from the water samples to conduct an RT-PCR test to determine the viral load. The study also included checking the biological characteristics of the river.Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were badly hit when the second wave of coronavirus swept the nation. There was also a fear whether the bodies, possibly of Covid-19 infected patients, had led to the contamination of the river water which is a major source of drinking for the population in the districts along it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-traces-of-coronavirus-in-ganga-study-finds-report-101625710296476.html
08-07-2021||India||SC to hear Facebook MD's plea challenging summons from Delhi assembly||The Supreme Court is scheduled to deliver its verdict on Thursday on a plea filed by social media company Facebook challenging the summons issued by the Delhi Assembly's peace and harmony committee. The notices were issued in a case related to last year's riots in northeast Delhi.The plea was filed by vice president and managing director Ajit Mohan, Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd and Facebook Inc. It challenges the September 10 and 18 last year notices issued by the committee that sought Mohan's presence as a witness before the panel which is probing the Delhi riots in February and Facebook's role in the spread of alleged hate speeches.The verdict in the case was reserved by a bench comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy on February 24.During the arguments before the apex court, Mohan’s counsel had said that “right to silence” is a virtue in present “noisy times”. The counsel also questioned the jurisdiction of the Delhi assembly, saying it has no legislative power to set up a panel to examine the issue of peace and harmony.Senior advocate Harish Salve is representing Facebook official in the top court. He also pointed out that setting up the peace panel was not the core function of the Delhi assembly as the law and order issue fell under the domain of the Centre in the national capital.Senior advocate AM Singhvi who was representing the panel of the assembly has responded to this saying that the assembly has the power to summon.In an affidavit, the Delhi assembly also clarified that Mohan has not been issued any summons for breach of privilege. It also said that no coercive action has been taken against Mohan and he was just summoned by its committee to appear as a witness||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-facebook-md-s-plea-challenging-summons-from-delhi-assembly-101625709992757.html
08-07-2021||India||PM Modi to address IIT Directors at 11am today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the directors of various Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) at 11am on Thursday.The event will take place virtually in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Newly-appointed Union education minister of India Dharmenra Pradhan will also be present on the occasion. The event comes a day after the PM expanded his cabinet to drop former education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and 11 others, including Anurag Thakur, G Kishan Reddy, Paroshottam Rupala, Kiren Rijiju and Hardeep Singh Puri.In his address at the 66th convocation ceremony of IIT Kharagpur in February, the PM had urged students to recognise their potential and move forward with confidence by following the mantras of self-confidence, self-awareness and selflessness.He also called IIT an 'institute of indigenous technology' and said the engineers should have the capability to move things from 'patterns' to 'patents'."There is no scope for hurry in the field of science and technology and innovation. A technological failure always leads to new innovation. Have patience in everything you do and what you want to achieve. There is no place for quick success in your path. Failures are the pillars of success. Only failures can create the path of success in your life. Every scientist has learned a new way of experiencing failure. Failure can form new roads towards success, " he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-iit-directors-at-11am-today-101625709243784.html
08-07-2021||India||Five militants killed in 24 hours in Kashmir, counter-terror operations continue||Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir have killed five militants in the past 24 hours, the police confirmed in an official post. Counter-terror operations in the region are still on, the cops said, as an encounter between the joint security personnel and the militants is currently underway at Puchal in the Pulwama district of the Union territory. At least two militants have so far been killed in the ongoing operation, said police officials familiar with the development. Two other militants are also believed to be trapped.Also Read | Hizbul Mujahideen commander killed day after capture in J&K"Five terrorists killed in 24 hours in Kashmir. Congratulations to the police and security forces for conducting the operations without collateral damage," said Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police (IG) of the Kashmir zone.5 #terrorists killed in 24 hours in #Kashmir. #Congratulations to Police & Security Forces for conducting ops without collateral damage: IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPoliceFrom its official handle on Twitter, the police department provides periodic updates on ongoing encounters between security forces and militants in the region. According to the latest updates on the current encounter at Puchal in Pulwama, a total of two unidentified militants have so far been killed in the ensuing gunfire.Also Read | Back-to-back attacks prompt J&K Police to review security of their menThe two slain militants remain unidentified so far -- as in, the terror outfit(s) to which they belonged has not been ascertained yet.Meanwhile, two other militants were also gunned down in a separate encounter last night at Zodur in the Kulgam district. These two militants have, however, been identified as being affiliated with the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit.More details to follow soon...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-militants-killed-in-24-hours-in-kashmir-counter-terror-operations-continue-101625706470989.html
08-07-2021||India||Twitter's deadline to inform Delhi high court about resident grievance officer ends today||American social media giant Twitter has till Thursday to inform the Delhi high court as to when it will appoint a resident grievance officer in compliance with India's new Information and Technology (IT) rules. On June 6, the high court pulled up the micro-blogging company over the non-compliance of the new guidelines, which mandates every social media company in the country to have a resident grievance officer (RGO), chief compliance officer, and nodal contact person. As of Tuesday's hearing, the company didn't have either of the officers.During the proceedings, Twitter had informed the court that it was in the process of doing so.Hearing the case against Twitter, Justice Rekha Palli also took note of the fact the court was not informed about the earlier interim appointment of the resident grievance officer (RGO). She said that it has misled the court by giving a wrong impression by not informing that the officer was on an interim basis."If he went away on June 21, the least Twitter could do was to appoint another officer in these 15 days since you knew that this matter was coming up for hearing on July 6. We are considered with the compliance. How long does your process take? If Twitter thinks it can take as long as it wants in my country, I will not allow that," the judge had said.On June 27, the company's interim resident grievance officer in India, Dharmendra Chatur, resigned amid differences with the central government over the new norms. Twitter then appointed US national Jeremy Kessel in the role, making the company in violation of the rules.The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, were announced on February 25. Social media companies operating in India, including Twitter, were given time till May 25 to comply with these. On July 5, the central government filed an affidavit in the Delhi high court, accusing the social media giant of failing to comply with the IT rules, which it described as the "law of the land."The petition against the San Francisco-headquartered company was filed in the Delhi high court on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitters-deadline-to-inform-delhi-high-court-about-resident-grievance-officer-ends-today-101625706252002.html
08-07-2021||India||Eye on next year's assembly polls, Asaduddin Owaisi to visit UP today||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi is scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, where he will inaugurate a new party office in Bahraich district. This is part of AIMIM's plan to extend its reach in Uttar Pradesh ahead of assembly polls in 2022.Hyderabad-based AIMIM is expanding its presence outside Telangana. The party had fielded its candidates in assembly elections of Maharashtra, Bihar and West Bengal.Owaisi had earlier announced that AIMIM will contest 100 seats in Uttar Pradesh polls. The Hyderabad MP is in touch with Om Prakash Rajbhar's Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and other political outfits like Shivpal Singh Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (PSP), Keshav Dev Maurya's Mahan Dal and Krishna Patel's Apna Dal.He had earlier visited Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow to take the discussions forward.Owaisi made a challenge last week that he won't let the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) return to power in Uttar Pradesh. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath accepted the challenge and said his party will form government in the state after winning "more than 300 seats".The BJP recently won 67 of the 75 district panchayat chairperson seats in the Zila Panchayat elections, which has given a boost to the confidence of party workers.In the 2017 Assembly elections, AIMIM fielded its candidates on 38 seats but could not manage to win even a single constituency. It decided not to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Uttar Pradesh, however, Owaisi campaigned against the BJP.The BJP won a landslide victory in the 2017 polls, cornering 312 in the 403-member Assembly. It secured a 39.67 per cent vote share. Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 19 while Congress could manage to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-next-year-s-assembly-polls-asaduddin-owaisi-to-visit-up-today-101625704172056.html
08-07-2021||India||Virbhadra Singh, former Himachal Pradesh CM and Congress leader, passes away||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh passed away on Thursday, Dr Janak Raj Pakhretia, the medical superintendent of Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) in Shimla told news agency ANI. He was 87.Dr Janak said that the Congress leader breathed his last at 3.40am.Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda expressed their condolences on Singh's demise, a BJP spokesperson said on Thursday.Virbhadra Singh was being treated at the IGMC since April 23.Watch | Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh passes awayOn Monday night, the condition of the Congress leader deteriorated after he suffered a cardiac arrest. Singh was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital and was on ventilator support.Singh tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) twice in two months - on April 12 and June 11.In April, he was taken to Max Hospital in Mohali. Singh was discharged on April 23 but on his arrival in Shimla, he developed breathing difficulty and was admitted to IGMC.Singh, a nine-time MLA and five-time member of Parliament, was Himachal Pradesh's chief minister for six terms - from April 8, 1983 to March 5, 1990, December 3, 1993 to March 23, 1998 and from March 6, 2003 to December 29, 2007 and for the sixth time from December 25, 2012 to December 26, 2017.Singh also remained the leader of Opposition from March 1998 to March 2003.He represented Arki constituency in Solan district in Himachal Pradesh assembly.Singh's wife Pratibha Singh and son Vikramaditya Singh are also politicians. Pratibha is former MP, while Vikramaditya is MLA from Shimla rural.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virbhadra-singh-former-himachal-pradesh-cm-and-congress-leader-passes-away-101625704929559.html
08-07-2021||NA||Breaking News: 2 Pakistani terrorists, 2 soldiers killed in encounter in J&K's Rajouri||The Union Cabinet and the Council of Ministers are expected to meet on Thursday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi carried out a major expansion and reshuffle of his ministers. Meanwhile, former chief minister of Himachal Pradesh Virbhadra Singh passed away on Thursday after. He was 87.Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:2 Pakistani terrorists killed in encounter in J&K, 2 soldiers also killedTwo Pakistani terrorists have been killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri. Two soldiers have also been killed in the operation.Jaishankar to visit Georgia on July 9, 10, says MEAExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar will visit Georgia on July 9 and 10, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said. "This will be the first visit of an Indian External Affairs Minister to independent Georgia," the MEA said in a press release.NCP leader Eknath Khadse leaves ED officeNationalist Congress Party leader Eknath Khadse has left the ED office, after being questioned by the central agency over Bhosari-Pune land deal case for nearly 9-hours. Khadse’s lawyer said they has been asked to submit certain documents and to co-operate with the ongoing investigation. No further summons have been issued yet.Amit Shah meets Ajay Kumar and Nisith PramanikUnion Home Minister Amit Shah today met Ajay Kumar and Nisith Pramanik after they took charge as Ministers of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs. pic.twitter.com/M86GrdUGb3Former IPS officer K Annamalai appointed BJP state president in Tamil NaduBJP president JP Nadda has appointed former Karnataka IPS officer K Annamalai as State president of Tamil Nadu. pic.twitter.com/bKou3S8pzvAPMCs will not be done away with: Narendra Singh TomarAgriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told ANI that APMCs will remain, even as the new farm laws come into force. "APMCs will not be done away with, even after new (farm) laws were introduced, the Centre had declared in Budget that APMC will be part of the ₹1 lakh crores infrastructure fund. APMC can benefit from the fund through loans, interest waivers," he said.'Carefully monitoring the security situation in Afghanistan', says MEAOur embassies in Kabul, Kandhar are functional. We are carefully monitoring the security situation in Afghanistan, and also looking after the security of Indian nationals in Afghanistan: MEA Spokesperson pic.twitter.com/TyfdHAXxa4Delhi Police registers FIR against app auctioning stolen photosDelhi Police Special Cell registered an FIR on Thursday against an app for auctioning off photos of muslim woman online, reported ANI. The photos were sourced from GitHub.S Jaishankar to hold talks with his Russian counterpart on July 9Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov will be holding talks with minister of external affair S Jaishankar on July 9. Discussions will cover political dialogue, security, trade, and economic, military-technical, scientific, cultural and humanitarian ties, said the Russian embassy.This has nothing to do with individual views and opinions: MoS Meity on TwitterNewly appointed Minister of State, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, said the IT ministry will sit down for a discussion on the Twitter issue with the new Union ministers to discuss the issue further. "I have just taken the charge. The Ministry doesn't operate on a unilateral basis and this has nothing to do with individual views and opinions. The Ministry will sit with the new Union Minister and address all these issues," he stated.BJP workers clash with cops in UP's BastiBJP workers and police clashed in Uttar Pradesh's Basti during the nomination filing for the upcoming block president election. Police resorted to lathi-charge in order to disperse protesters, reported ANI.'State of emergency' declared in TokyoJapan declares 'state of emergency' in Tokyo two weeks before start of Olympics, reports Reuters.Ministry of cooperation is a political game changer for 2024With Union home minister Amit Shah taking charge of the newly created ministry of cooperation, the writing is on the wall. Though the decision taken in the run-up to 2024 general elections didn’t not exactly rule the airwaves but is aimed at reviving the cooperatives in the country, and stopping the exploitation of agriculturists by the middlemen in India’ rural areas. Read MoreSouth Africa's ex-president Zuma in jailAfter days of drama and suspense, South Africa's ex-president Jacob Zuma has begun a 15-month sentence for contempt - spending his first night in jailData protection report may be delayed as House panel members become ministersThe induction of the head of the parliamentary committee examining the Personal Data Protection Bill along with its four members into the Union council of ministers is likely to delay the report on the proposed legislation that the panel is slated to submit during Parliament’s Monsoon Session beginning July 19.JD(U) may split anytime, claims LJP’s Chirag PaswanLok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan on Thursday said Janata Dal (United), JD(U), could witness a split anytime as Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had undermined his own party leaders just to keep him [Paswan] out of the Union Cabinet. Read MorePrime Minister begins work with the new cabinet ministersPrime Minister begins work with the new ministers, a day after cabinet reshuffle. He interacted with directors of centrally funded technical institutions like IIT Bombay, IIT Madras, IIT Kanpur and IISc Bangalore via video conference today. New Education Min Dharmendra Pradhan was also part of the session.'Will take 8 weeks to appoint grievance redressal officers': Twitter to Delhi high courtTwitter has informed Delhi HC that it will take 8 weeks to appoint grievance redressal officers in compliance of the IT rules. It has also told court that it is in a process of setting up a liaison office in India which will be their permanent physical contact address @htTweetsRam Chandra Prasad Singh takes charge as Union Minister of Steel.Mansukh Mandaviya takes charge as the Union minister of health and family welfare. Before assuming charged, Mandaviya offered prayers in his office temple.Annapurna Devi’s elevation marks her growing stature in BJPAnnapurna Devi, 51, who was inducted into the Union council of ministers as a minister of state for education on Wednesday, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the 2019 national polls. Read MoreSonowal’s second stint in Delhi ends speculation about his future roleSarbananda Sonowal’s induction into the Union council of ministers has ended speculation about his role two months after he was replaced as chief minister even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) returned to power in Assam for a second time in a row under his leadership. His former state Cabinet colleague Himanta Biswa Sarma succeeded Sonowal, 58, as the chief minister in May. Read MoreAshwini Vaishnaw takes charge as the Union minister of railways#WATCH | Delhi: Ashwini Vaishnaw takes charge as the Minister of Railways.#CabinetReshuffle pic.twitter.com/6zFvbT3luK"Railway is a major part of PM Modi's vision. His vision for railways is to transform the lives of the people, that everyone - common man, farmers, the poor - gets the benefit of railway. I will work for that vision," said Vaishnaw.Anurag Thakur takes charge as new I&B ministerAnurag Thakur takes charge as Minister of Information and Broadcasting."PM Modi has done terrific work in last 7 years to take India forward. The work done by people before me in I&B Ministry & responsibility given to me by the PM, I will try to meet those expectations," ANI quoted Thakur as saying.India records 45,892 new Covid-19 cases, death toll goes up to 405,028India on Thursday recorded 45,892 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 817 new deaths, according to the Union health ministry dashboard. With this, the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally went up to 3,07,09,557 and the total death toll was pushed to 405,028.Mortal remains of Congress leader Virbhadra Singh brought to his residence in ShimlaThe mortal remains Congress leader Virbhadra Singh brought to his residence in Shimla. He passed away earlier this morning at Shimla's Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital. Global Covid-19 death toll crosses 4 millionGlobal Covid-19 death toll crosses 4 million, shows John Hopkins university tracker.Virbhadra Singh, former Himachal Pradesh CM and Congress leader, passes awayFormer Himachal Pradesh chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh passed away on Thursday, Dr Janak Raj Pakhretia, the medical superintendent of Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) in Shimla told news agency ANI. He was 87. Read MoreThree rockets fired at US embassy in Baghdad: ReportsThree rockets fired at US embassy in Baghdad, news agency AFP reported citing Iraq army officials.Security forces kill 5 terrorists in 24 hours in Kashmir: IGP Vijay Kumar5 terrorists killed in 24 hours in Kashmir. Congratulations to police and security forces for conducting operation without collateral damage: IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar2 unidentified terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's PulwamaTwo unidentified terrorists were neutralised by security forces in the encounter that broke out between terrorists and security forces in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday in the Puchal area of Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama.Delhi govt to bring in colour-coded graded plan to fight Covid-19A colour-coded graded response action plan, proposed by an expert committee formed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to guide the government’s Covid-19 preparedness in case of a possible wave of the pandemic in future, will see shopping malls and shops dealing in non-essential goods and services coming under an odd-even system when the alert level is raised to ‘Yellow’ in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/breaking-news-updates-july-8-2021-101625704649520.html
08-07-2021||India||Back-to-back meetings of Union Cabinet, Council of Ministers expected today||The Union Cabinet and the Council of Ministers are expected to meet on Thursday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi carried out a major expansion and reshuffle of his ministers.Also Watch: Who gets what in PM Modi's new cabinetThe two meetings will be held back-to-back on Thursday, people aware of the developments said. While the cabinet meeting is likely to take place at 5pm, the Council of Ministers may meet at 7pm.Also Read: Modi's new cabinet is a blend of youth, skills and social engineeringPM Modi held the meeting of the Council of Ministers last month to discuss the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country. He asked the ministers to create an environment where people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get themselves vaccinated.Thursday's meeting will see many notable names missing who resigned ahead of the cabinet reshuffle. Many new names were inducted, while the portfolios of some of the ministers changed in the first such exercise since Modi government came to power for the second time in 2019.The Prime Minister has brought in Mansukh Mandaviya as health minister, Kiren Rijiju as law minister, Dharmendra Pradhan as education minister, and Jyotiratidya Scindia as civil aviation minister.Also Read: From farmer to lawyer, new faces from varied backgrounds make it to CabinetThe exercise saw induction of 15 cabinet ministers and several ministers of state. Seven ministers of state were elevated to cabinet rank.The expansion saw more representation to states which will go to the polls next year, including Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, and is aimed at infusing more young talent in the government.Smirti Irani stays as women and child development minister while the textiles portfolio that was with her has been given to Piyush Goyal, who continues as minister of commerce and industry and minister of consumer affairs. He also held the railways portfolio earlier.Forty-three ministers, including seven who were elevated as cabinet ministers, took the oath of office at a function at Rashtrapati Bhavan held with protocols related to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/backtoback-meetings-of-union-cabinet-council-of-ministers-expected-today-101625702233577.html
08-07-2021||India||Modi's new cabinet: Blend of youth, skills, social engineering||The new Union council of ministers sworn in on Wednesday has more representation from socially and economically backward communities, women and people with administrative and legislative experience. The new team is being built with an eye on the forthcoming state elections and in line with the party’s outreach towards the socially and economically deprived sections, part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) social engineering strategy.On Wednesday, 43 ministers were sworn in. Of these, 36 are new to the council of ministers; seven are ministers of state (including some ministers of state with independent charge) that have been promoted. Of the 43, seven are women and all are new to the council.The changes, and the resignation of 12 ministers from the council, takes the overall size of the new council of ministers to 77, excluding the prime minister. Of this, 11 are women, including two cabinet ministers (finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and women and child development minister Smriti Irani).
08-07-2021||India||Delhi govt to bring in colour-coded graded plan to fight Covid-19||A colour-coded graded response action plan, proposed by an expert committee formed by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to guide the government’s Covid-19 preparedness in case of a possible wave of the pandemic in future, will see shopping malls and shops dealing in non-essential goods and services coming under an odd-even system when the alert level is raised to ‘Yellow’ in the Capital.The proposed plan documents seen by HT show that shops in malls will witness a further reduction in timings under the ‘Amber’ alert and will be shut altogether, along with weekly markets, when the alert is raised to ‘Orange’. Only essential services, stand-alone shops and construction activities, with on-site labourers, will be allowed during the ‘Orange’ alert.The alerts — Yellow, Amber, Orange and Red — have been arranged in terms of their severity, taking into consideration factors such as positivity rate, cumulative new positive cases, and average weekly occupancy rate of oxygen beds, said the documents.“While ‘Red’ is the highest level of alert in terms of severity, most economic activities will come to a halt with the announcement of an orange alert itself. Further restrictions will be planned under ‘Red’ alert when the situation arises,” said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified.The plan, however, is yet to be submitted to Kejriwal or Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).A government spokesperson did not offer a comment.WARNING SYSTEMAccording to the expert committee’s plan, the Yellow alert will be issued if the positivity rate remains over 0.5% for two consecutive days, or cumulative new positive cases for seven days touches the 1,500-mark, or the average occupancy of oxygen beds in hospitals remains 500 for a week.With this alert, shops in markets and malls dealing with non-essential goods and services will be allowed to open between 10 am to 8 pm as per the odd-even formula. While one weekly market will be allowed per municipal zone at half the capacity of vendors, construction activities and industrial establishments and manufacturing units will be allowed to operate, said the government documents.An Amber alert will be issued if the test positivity rate remains over 1% for two consecutive days, or 3,500 new positive cases surface in a week, or average oxygen bed occupancy remains over the 700-mark for a week. Under this alert, construction activities and manufacturing units will be allowed though shops in markets and shopping malls will have to close by 6 pm, said the documents.The Orange alert kicks in if the city records a positivity rate of more than 2% for two consecutive days, or 9,000 cumulative new positive cases over a week, or average oxygen bed occupancy remains over the 1,000-mark for a week. This will entail closure of shopping malls and markets, except shops dealing with essential goods. Orange alert will also bring construction activities, which don’t accommodate labourers on-site, to a halt. Shops selling construction materials are not covered under essentials and, hence, they are likely to remain closed. For factories, only those producing essential commodities will be allowed if workers can live on site, the documents said.A Red alert will be issued if test positivity rate remains over 5% for two consecutive days, or the city touches the 16,000-mark for cumulative new positive cases in seven days, or average oxygen bed occupancy rate remains 3,000 or more for a week. Restrictions on economic activities under the orange alert will remain and more curbs will be introduced depending on the situation, said the senior official quoted above.Under the current plan, the committee has not yet taken a final call on phase-wise restrictions to be imposed on social activities – such as weddings, and political, religious and cultural gatherings, etc – and public transport. “However, the committee is planning to impose a 50% operational capacity curb on the metro service on an ‘Amber’ alert and on buses on an ‘Orange’ alert. The metro is likely to be closed for the general public during ‘Orange’ alert,” said the senior official.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said, “Such a strategy can be very useful in sending the right message to the masses. Currently, the government shares only numbers. Numbers that appear as a threat to me can seem relatively safe to another person. A colour-coded system can help bring in more objectivity and people can better assess what level of precautions to take at what stage. A graded action plan will also ensure better allocation of resources, protect the contact tracing and home isolation models and make triaging easy for the surveillance teams.”The colour-coded alerts in the graded response action plan for Covid-19 are similar to the system imposed by the state to tackle air pollution in the city in the winter. Under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) for pollution in the Capital, air quality scale is divided into four levels — moderate, poor, very poor, severe and severe plus or emergency -- with the government and enforcement agencies implementing a list of do’s and don’ts as and when the pollution level breaches a particular level.The graded response strategy for Covid-19 was drafted by an eight-member expert committee set up by Kejriwal on May 27. On the same day, Kejriwal formed another 13-member expert committee to guide the government on technical and healthcare-related measures in case Delhi sees another wave of the pandemic.At its peak, the Capital witnessed more than 28,300 new cases in a day on April 20, and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-bring-in-colour-coded-graded-plan-to-fight-covid19-101625696741259.html
08-07-2021||India||Two voices of govt Prasad, Javadekar left out in reshuffle||Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar, both senior ministers who emerged as voices of the government over the past seven years – the two addressed more press briefings than most other ministers put together – have been dropped from the council of ministers.Both ministers were at the forefront of the ongoing information (or narrative) wars – Prasad, with technology platforms that enjoyed as much clout and influence as media companies, and Javadekar with digital media companies – but the reasons for their exits wasn’t immediately clear. Nor was it immediately known whether the two would be inducted in senior roles in the party organisation to help the Bharatiya Janata Party prepare for five key elections next year (including Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat).It was initially believed that Prasad and Javadekar, both of whom oversee two important portfolios each, would be divested of one – Prasad was law and information technology (IT) minister, and Javadekar, environment and information and broadcasting (I&B) minister – but when Rashtrapati Bhavan sent out a list of ministers whose resignations had been accepted by the President, their names were on it.Neither Prasad nor Javadekar were immediately available for comments on the development.There is some speculation that both, or at least one of them could find space in the BJP’s parliamentary board, which currently has five vacancies, but there was no confirmation of this from the party.BJP spokesperson Nalin Kohli said it is solely the PM’s prerogative to choose the council of ministers. “The karyakartas of the party are committed towards working for the welfare of the people, either through the organisation or wherever the party assigns them. Every appointment has to be seen in that context,” Kohli said.Still, with the two ministers who emerged its voices exiting, the government will now have new ones – which is perhaps in keeping with the completely new look it now has after the reshuffle, even with clarity on portfolios likely to emerge only late Wednesday or on Thursday.Sanjay Kumar, co-director of Lokniti, Centre for Study of Developing Societies, said, “I don’t think there is an issue of prominent voices being dropped. If you drop heavyweights from the Cabinet and replace them with newer ones, it will increase the PM’s grip on the Cabinet. Dropping Prasad seems to be a product of the bad press that the government was getting. You can add Harsh Vardhan to this list.”“The dropping of three key ministers shows an attempt to regain the image the PM had globally. Nationally, Modi is also trying to send out the message that if you are the minister you have to work for the people of the country. Dropping Vardhan is a clear message that he couldn’t handle the pandemic. Prasad’s fight with Twitter also was backfiring nationally. People started thinking that real issues are getting sidelined. In order to rebuild the image of the government, these names have been dropped,” he said.Prasad and Javadekar were at the forefront of comprehensive new social media guidelines rolled out in February that demanded extra due diligence from significant social media intermediaries, such as Facebook and Twitter. The rules also brought digital news media outlets, including websites of traditional news media platforms, and over-the-top content providers such as Netflix and Amazon, under the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021.The move saw push back from many stakeholders, with eight different legal challenges being lodged in various high courts. Though some intermediaries complied with the guidelines, the government has been locked in an escalating conflict with Twitter.Prasad’s ministry threatened Twitter with the loss of safe harbour, which is provided to intermediaries under the IT Act. Twitter refused to cede space on the implementation of its policies, as it said it was defending free speech. Earlier this week, the ministry told the Delhi high court that Twitter has lost its legal shield from prosecution because it had not complied with the guidelines.Javadekar also courted controversy after many news organisations wrote to him seeking exemption from the guidelines, especially section 69(A) that allowed the government to order content to be taken down.Javadekar was also in charge of shaping public opinion in favour of the government as it struggled to cope with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that saw health infrastructure crumble and infection rates surge.His ministry also recently introduced an amendment to the cinematograph act, which allows the government to ask the censor board to reconsider a film on the grounds of public order, sovereignty, integrity of India and relationship with foreign states. The amendment triggered criticism as many filmmakers argued that it would result in a loss of freedom of creative expression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-voices-of-govt-prasad-javadekar-left-out-in-reshuffle-101625696387324.html
08-07-2021||India||Booster shot for Modi 2.0||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inducted 36 new faces into his council of ministers, promoted seven junior ministers (to independent or Cabinet roles), and dropped 12 ministers, including the ministers of health, education, information technology, law, environment and information and broadcasting, in his biggest reshuffle ever in the past seven years, and the first major one of his second term.In the new 77-member council, only 30 Cabinet ministers and two ministers of state with independent charge will manage all Union ministries as the government trained its focus on enhancing synergies between departments.The changes seem to have been motivated by performance (or lack of it); the need to accommodate allies, find room for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders who were asked to sacrifice regional aspirations, and include lateral entrants; and an eye on coming elections in major states. Of the 36 new ministers, three are from allies of the BJP.“I congratulate all the colleagues who have taken oath today and wish them the very best for their ministerial tenure. We will continue working to fulfil aspirations of the people and build a strong and prosperous India. #Govt4Growth,” tweeted Modi shortly after the swearing-in ceremony.A meeting of the Union Cabinet is likely at 5pm on Thursday, followed by a meeting of the council of ministers at 7pm, said people aware of the developments.Prominent among the new Cabinet ministers are Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, former Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Bhupender Yadav.They were inducted on the basis of their strong record as administrators and organisational capabilities.“Under the able leadership of honourable Shri Modi ji, I will follow the ideology of the party and discharge any responsibility given to me to the best of my ability and dedication,” said Scindia.“Thank you Hon’ble PM @narendramodi ji for this great opportunity to serve the Nation and for your encouraging words. Under your guidance, we will dedicate ourselves to build a strong and prosperous India,” tweeted Sonowal.And prominent among those dropped are former IT and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, former environment and I&B minister Prakash Javadekar, former health minister Harsh Vardhan and former education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’.They were dropped at a time Covid-19 has ravaged the healthcare sector and derailed education, and when India is locked in a legal tussle with prominent social media companies over the country’s new Information and Technology rules.Five themes are evident in the reshuffle, which takes the overall size of Modi’s council of ministers to 77, excluding the PM, just four short of the maximum possible 81.The first is performance appraisal, and it is exemplified in the removal of Harsh Vardhan as health minister. While no causes are ever given for ministerial reshuffles, it is no secret that Vardhan’s handling of Covid-19 has been inadequate.Experts said this is likely the closest the Modi government will come to admitting it could have managed the pandemic better.The second is the need to accommodate lateral entrants such as Jyotiraditya Scindia as well as leaders such as Sarbananda Sonawal who gave up regional leadership roles (the BJP retained Assam under Sonawal but decided to make Himanta Biswa Sarma the chief minister).The third is the imperative to accommodate allies. The Modi council, before the reshuffle, had only one representative of another party – RPI’s Ramdas Athawale.It now has four ministers from four allies (The Janata Dal (United), Lok Janshakti Party and Apna Dal are the new ones) which should go some way in blunting criticism that the BJP can’t work with allies or does not treat them well.Four, the importance of looking ahead to coming assembly elections, especially in crucial states, and to facilitate leadership transitions in some states.In Karnataka, for instance, it is widely known that the central leadership of the BJP would like the incumbent chief minister BS Yediyurappa, 78, to make way for someone else. Among the new ministers named is one of his closest aides Shobha Karandlaje.And seven of the new ministers (including Anupriya Patel from Apna Dal) are from Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls in 2022, and which is the most important state in India from the perspective of parliamentary polls.Five, the desire to reinforce the social engineering strategy of creating a Hindu bloc by consolidating Hindu voters across other backward classes (OBCs) and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SCs/STs). This has worked to the BJP’s advantage in many states.In the council, 27 are from OBCs and 20 belong to SCs/STs.Overall, this takes the total number of ministers from OBCs and SCs/STs in the 77-strong council to 47.The Congress welcomed the new ministers but took a dig at the Prime Minister.“Congratulations to the newly appointed ministers in the GoI. I am hopeful that the new cabinet will work with great integrity & honesty for the nation. I am optimistic that @PMOIndia will not wrest all the powers & ministers will be able to delegate their responsibilities freely,” said Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/booster-shot-for-modi-20-101625696064522.html
08-07-2021||India||Petrol at ₹100/ litre in Delhi, hits century in all metros||Petrol prices crossed ₹100 per litre in Delhi and Kolkata on Wednesday after fuel retailers raised prices by 35 paise per litre even as international crude oil prices slumped on Tuesday following an inconclusive meeting of the producers’ cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) -- over supply cuts.Domestic fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their respective international benchmarks of previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates. Pump rates of auto fuels rose in India on Wednesday even as international oil prices fell sharply the previous day.An impasse in the meeting of OPEC+ saw profit booking on Tuesday that led to a sharp 3.4% decline in Brent crude to $74.53 per barrel after it hit the session’s peak at $77.84, the highest since October 2018. The US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude also fell 2.4% to $73.37 that day, after hitting $76.98 during the intraday trade, its highest since November 2014.The international oil price rally resumed on Wednesday. Brent opened weak on Wednesday, but gained $1.40, or 1.88%, to $75.93 a barrel during intraday trades.The Wednesday revision of India’s domestic fuel rates is the 36th hike in last 65 days that has made petrol costlier by ₹9.81 per litre and diesel by ₹8.8 a litre since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. Petrol is now priced at ₹100.21 per litre and diesel at ₹89.59 a litre in New Delhi.While fuel rates of state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes, local levies, and transport surcharges.With the latest hike, petrol rates in all major metros have crossed ₹100 per litre. In Kolkata, petrol is priced at ₹100.23 per litre and diesel at ₹92.50 a litre. The cost of one litre of petrol in financial capital Mumbai is now ₹106.25 and diesel, ₹97.09. High fuel prices have an inflationary effect on the economy. Fuel prices have a weightage of 6.8% (fuel and light) in the consumer price index of CPI, a measure of retail inflation. The latest CPI number, for May, is 6.3%, above the Reserve bank of India’s comfort level of 6%.The highest fuel rates have been recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar where pumps are selling petrol at ₹111.50 per litre and diesel at ₹102.78 a litre.Surging international oil rates and skewed domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps.In Delhi, central levies account for 33.29% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to an official data of July 1. On diesel, central taxes account for around 35.66% while state taxes, about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.The unrelenting upward movement of fuel rates since May 4 has already seen petrol prices crossing the ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, particularly in states and Union territories (UTs) of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Manipur, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Bihar, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Some of the cities selling petrol for over ₹100 per litre are Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Salem, Thiruvananthapuram, Mohali and Darjeeling.Even as international oil prices saw volatility since May 4, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude falling to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest over the past 46 days, petrol and diesel rates went up on May 21 by 19 paise per litre and 29 paise a litre, respectively.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies are recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one UT.During the 66-day pause on price hikes, state-run retailers also reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively, in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010, and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-at-100-litre-in-delhi-hits-century-in-all-metros-101625695485779.html
08-07-2021||India||Calcutta HC judge recuses from hearing Banerjee’s plea, imposes ₹5 lakh fine||Calcutta high court judge Justice Kausik Chanda on Wednesday recused from hearing West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s petition challenging her defeat in the assembly election from Nandigram but imposed a ₹5 lakh fine on the Trinamool Congress chief for the manner in which the recusal was sought.Justice Chanda also stressed that he did not think that there was any conflict of interest if he had continued hearing the case. “The past association of a judge with a political party by itself cannot form apprehension of bias,” the judge said as he stepped away from Banerjee’s petition which will be placed before another bench.In her petition, Banerjee has alleged voting irregularities in her narrow loss by 1,956 votes to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, her first electoral loss in 32 years. The TMC had demanded a recount shortly after the results were announced in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate but the request was turned down by the Election Commission. Her case was slated to be heard by a single judge bench, Justice Chanda.Mamata Banerjee and her party asked for transferring the petition to another judge citing “apprehension of bias” since Justice Chanda had, before his elevation to the bench in 2019, represented the BJP and its leaders in court cases and was seen in photographs sharing a dais with BJP leaders including state unit chief Dilip Ghosh.Justice Chanda was upset that Banerjee did not raise their objections when he first heard the case on June 18 but her party leaders put out messages on social media, setting off what the judge described as a “media trial” with hundreds of tweets demanding that he recuse from the case.“Such calculative, psychological, and offensive attempts to seek recusal need to be firmly repulsed and a cost of ₹5 lakh is imposed upon the petitioner,” Justice Chanda said in his order on Wednesday. The money will be used to fight Covid-19.Mamata Banerjee declined to comment on the verdict. “This is a sub judice matter. I will not comment. The lawyers will decide whatever decisions need to be taken,” she said.TMC leaders hinted that the party might approach the Supreme Court over the ₹5 lakh fine.“We have full faith in the judiciary and Justice Chanda. But we had some reservations only in this matter because some pictures and old facts have come to the forefront. As far as the decision to move the SC, the party will take a decision soon,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.The BJP said it will not comment on a court order or a decision taken by a judge. “We have complete faith in the judiciary, Some political parties may not have faith,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice president.In his order, Justice Chanda emphasised that he did not agree with Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for Mamata Banerjee, that there was a conflict of interest since “I have a long, close, personal, professional, pecuniary and ideological relationship” with a political party.“The argument of Mr. Singhvi takes too sombre a view of the integrity of a judge. When a litigant raises the question of bias against a judge, who has taken the oath to discharge his duties without any fear or favour, the test has to be a real likelihood of bias or real danger of bias. The appearance of impartiality, in such a case, should not be viewed from the perspective of a common man,” he said.“If a lawyer appears in several cases for a political party, his association with the legal cell of the party or with its leaders is natural. In this country, it is almost impossible not to get a person who may not have said to have some political views. Anyone interested in politics may be said to have an “interest.” Like any other citizen of the country, a judge also exercises his voting rights in favour of a political party, but he lays aside his individual predilection while deciding a case. A lawyer’s mind is trained not to identify himself with his client and at the same time be loyal to his duty towards his client,” Justice Chanda said.“When a lawyer moves from Bar to Bench, he carries with him the same sense of detachment already in-built in him. Ironically, two leading counsel engaged in the case have well known political identities adverse to the petitioner’s party,” the judge said in his order, referring to Abhishek Manu Singhvi who was a member of the Congress but representing the TMC president along with senior lawyer SN Mookherjee who was from BJP.“It is preposterous to suggest that a judge having a past association with a political party as a lawyer should not receive a case involving the said political party or any of its members. The past association of a judge with a political party by itself cannot form apprehension of bias,” the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-judge-recuses-from-hearing-banerjee-s-plea-imposes-5-lakh-fine-101625692786105.html
08-07-2021||India||Delimitation panel continues discussions in Jammu-Kashmir||On the second day of its visit to Jammu and Kashmir, the Delimitation Commission on Wednesday met more than three dozen delegations of different political parties, civil society groups and government officials from south Kashmir’s four districts -- Kulgam, Pulwama, Shopian and Anantnag. In the evening, the commission members also met delegations from central and north Kashmir districts – Baramulla, Kupwara, Budgam, Ganderbal and Bandipore.After meeting 17 delegations in Srinagar on Tuesday, the commission members travelled to Pahalgam in Anantnag district on Wednesday and held meetings with delegations of several mainstream political parties -- including the National Conference (NC), Congress, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), People’s Conference, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) -- and groups from various districts of the Union territory. The mainstream parties were represented by their district presidents and other senior leaders. They presented their suggestions and apprehensions about the delimitation process, people aware of the developments said.“We presented them our point of view about delimitation process,” said Congress Pulwama district president Umar Jan soon after the meeting.National Conference leader Altaf Kaloo, who headed the delegation, said they presented the memorandum to the Commission. “We briefed them about the stand of our party vis a vis delimitation.”While the majority of the parties suggested that population should be the main criteria for reorganisation of constituencies, the People’s Conference and the CPI(M) demanded that the census figures of 2011 should be the benchmark for the exercise.Other delegations that met the panel in Pahalgam included members of Social and Vikas Foudnation, Anantnag , Gujjar Ethiad, Pahari Culture and Welfare Forum, Sheikh-ul –Alam Turst, Gujjar and Bakerwal Conference and Sikh Welfare Society.Former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir.The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The Centre has sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls are held there. However, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a grouping of political major parties such as the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP), said they were disappointed over the outcome of the meeting with Modi. The grouping has demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections are held there. It also criticised the lack of “confidence-building measures”.At the time of going to press, the commission members were holding meetings with delegations of political parties from north and central Kashmir districts at a hotel in Pahalgam.Mehbooba Mufti-led PDP and Awami National Conference, both constituents of the PAGD, have decided not to meet the commission, with the former saying that there was a perception that the outcome of the process was pre-planned.On Thursday, the commission will head to the Jammu division to meet delegations from Jammu, Poonch, Rajouri, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba and Reasi districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-panel-continues-discussions-in-jammukashmir-101625692655187.html
08-07-2021||India||ED arrests Eknath Khadse’s son-in-law in Pune land deal case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday arrested Girish Chaudhary, son-in-law of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse, in connection with alleged money laundering linked to a land deal in Pune’s Bhosari. Khadse joined the party last year after exiting the Bharatiya Janata Party.Officials said Chaudhary was arrested since he did not cooperate during a 12-hour interrogation on Tuesday. Chaudhary was produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court on Wednesday that sent him to ED’s custody till July 12..ED has booked Chaudhary and Khadse, a former revenue minister of the state, and is probing alleged money laundering to the tune of ₹61.25 crore in the land deal.The case pertains to the purchase of a plot on April 28, 2016 in Bhosari near Pune by Khadse’s family for ₹3.75 crore while the market rate was ₹31 crore. The plot’s ownership was contentious. The industries department acquired it in 1971, but the final award of the plot was not made, and the owner was not compensated for it.The complainant, Hemant Gawande, alleged that Khadse defrauded the exchequer in the deal. ED’s case is based on the complaint filed by Anti-Corruption Bureau, or ACB, against Khadse and his family members in 2017. The ACB closed the case in 2018 after submitting a report to the concerned court that cleared the minister of any wrongdoing. However, ED continued its investigation into the alleged financial irregularities.Khadse has maintained that investigations, including those by ACB and Income Tax department, found no irregularities. He claimed that the central agency reopened the probe against him for leaving the BJP.According to the ED’s case, Khadse and his family fraudulently purchased the said land, despite having knowledge that it was reserved for Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), so that when the MIDC acquired it, they could claim the compensation of more than double the market rate.ED said Khadse mobilised revenue officials to acquire the said land by MIDC so that his family could get compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-eknath-khadse-s-son-in-law-in-pune-land-deal-case-101625692537364.html
08-07-2021||India||Interpol issues fresh red notice against LeT chief Hafiz Saeed||Interpol, acting on India’s request, has issued a fresh red notice against Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief Hafiz Muhammad Saeed for spearheading anti-India activities from across the border, people familiar with the matter said.This is the second red notice since 2009 against the United Nations designated terrorist, currently lodged in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat prison. The first global arrest warrant against Saeed was issued on August 28, 2009 in connection with the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, in which 166 people , including 25 foreigners were killed and 235 people were injured.One of the people cited above said that NIA “sent a request to the Interpol last month seeking a fresh red notice against Hafiz Saeed listing fresh charges against him”.A red notice is a request to law enforcement worldwide to locate and provisionally arrest a person pending extradition, surrender, or similar legal action.A first-of-its-kind drone attack at Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu on June 27 was carried out by Saeed’s organisation, according to a preliminary probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).A car-bomb that exploded outside Hafiz Saeed’s residence in Lahore’s Johar town on June 23, and Pakistan has claimed that India’s spy agency, Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) was behind the attack, a charge strongly denied by Indian officials who have termed the allegation “motivated”.The 71-year-old founder of LeT and its frontal organisation, Jamat-ud-Dawa, is wanted in India for multiple attacks including December 22, 2000 Red Fort attack, December 2001 Parliament attack, ambush on Border Security Force (BSF) convoy at Udampur in August 5, 2015, and multiple other blasts in Delhi, Mumbai and other cities. He is also wanted in connection to a case on terror funding in Jammu & Kashmir, in which several separatist leaders were arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in 2017-18. Both NIA and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), have named Saeed as the mastermind in J&K terror funding probe where they believe that he, Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, separatist leaders, several businessmen in Kashmir and officials in the Pakistan high commission, were funding terrorist attacks and stone-pelters as part of a well-planned criminal conspiracy of securing secession of the state of Jammu & Kashmir from India.Despite India’s repeated requests and the United States announcing a reward of $10 million on him, Pakistan is yet to take concrete action against Saeed and he continues to carry out his activities.Although he is lodged in a Lahore jail, Indian counter-terrorism officials say this is just an “eye-wash” by Pakistan as part of its review by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), which has kept in the “grey-list” since June 2018 for failing to meet the agency’s action plan on cracking down on terror-financing.He was arrested by Pakistani authorities on multiple occasions since 2000 for terror activities, only to be released after few days.Saeed has a close relationship with Pakistan’s military and spy agency ISI, who often speak in his favour. He is also closely associated with Taliban leadership, which is reflected in the fact that he established an office of LeT in Quetta, Pakistan in June 2006 to assist Taliban in the conduct of their operations in Afghanistan, according to the UN Security Council notice against him.“In 2005, Saeed determined where graduates of a LeT camp in Pakistan should be sent to fight, and personally organized the infiltration of LeT militants into Iraq during a trip to Saudi Arabia. In 2006, Saeed oversaw the management of a terrorist camp, including funding of the camp. Saeed also arranged for a LeT operative to be sent to Europe as LeT’s European fundraising coordinator,” according to the United Nations Security Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interpol-issues-fresh-red-notice-against-let-chief-hafiz-saeed-101625692356912.html
08-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle: Rituals take back seat amid Covid protocols||With Covid-19 restrictions in place, the swearing-in ceremony of the newly inducted members of the Union council of ministers at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Wednesday was a thinly attended event with just 50 guests.At the iconic Durbar Hall, the venue of the event, the usual crowds associated with such a grand event was missing. But there were several other departures from tradition too.The newly appointed ministers sat in two different areas as opposed to the norm of all of them sitting together on the right side of the hall in front of the Prime Minister and other invitees. Apart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Union home minister Amit Shah, only a few other Union ministers came to attend the programme. A Rashtrapati Bhavan functionary said, “We have made seating arrangements keeping in mind the Covid protocol of the past few months.”Each new minister who took oath on Wednesday was requested to bring only one guest along as seats were limited. Since last year, President Ram Nath Kovind has cut down on the number of events where his physical presence is required and conducts most of his business online. In keeping with that, he received credentials of some foreign envoys through a digital platform on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-reshuffle-rituals-take-back-seat-amid-covid-protocols-101625690501772.html
08-07-2021||India||From farmer to lawyer, new faces from varied backgrounds make it to Cabinet||From a 52-year-old farmer, to a career lawyer and a former IAS officer with a business degree from one of the top schools in world, the new council of ministers has a motley mix of young, experienced and highly educated new entrants, even as it strives to remain inclusive and representative.“There are 14 Ministers below 50 years of age, including six Cabinet Ministers,” said one person familiar with the thinking behind the composition of the council.Among the new inductees is Pratima Bhoumik, 52, who is serving her first term as a member of Parliament from Tripura West. An agriculturist by profession, Bhoumik has a degree in bio-sciences from Women’s College, Agartala.A former IAS officer, Ashwini Vaishnaw hails from Odisha and joined the BJP as recently as 2019 after becoming a member of the Rajya Sabha . But Vaishnav, 51, is no stranger to the party. He served as the private secretary to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2004, after serving a brief stint with the Prime Minister’s office during Vajpayee’s term in 2002. He was educated at MBM Engineering College, Jodhpur, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and Wharton Business School. In 2006, he also served as the deputy chairman of Goa’s Mormugoa Port Trust.BJP’s state president from Tamil Nadu, L. Murugan, 44, also finds his way into the council. A Dalit leader, Murugan will have to become a member of Parliament within six months of his appointment to continue as a minister in the union cabinet. A career lawyer, he was the former vice chairperson for the national commission for schedule castes. He has a doctorate in Human Rights Law from the Department of Legal studies, University of Madras.Thirty-nine-year-old Shantanu Thakur is a member of parliament from Bagaon, West Bengal, which is a reserved constituency. He is the first non-TMC parliamentarian to be elected from the constituency ever since its delimitation in 2002. Thakur is the son of former Bengal minister for Refugee Relief & Rehabilitation (Independent Charge), Micro & Small-Scale Enterprises and Textiles Manjul Krishna Thakur. He is a member of the standing committee on Commerce at present.Bhiwandi (Maharashtra) member of parliament Kapil Patil is serving his second term in the Lok Sabha. The 60-year-old started his political career in the 1980s and became the Sarpanch of Dive-Anjur Gram Panchayat, from 1988-1992. He has also served as the Chairman of the Thane District Central Co-operative Bank Ltd, and President of Bhartiya Janata Party, Thane District. A former member of the Nationalist Congress party, Patil joined the BJP in 2014 ahead of the Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-farmer-to-lawyer-new-faces-from-varied-backgrounds-make-it-to-cabinet-101625690877235.html
08-07-2021||India||Centre merges dept of enterprises with finance ministry||The government has carved out the department of public enterprises (DPE) from the ministry of heavy industries and put it under the umbrella of the finance ministry to monitor performance of state-run firms, monetise their assets better through divestment and strategic sales, and direct their procurements policies to boost local industries.DPE has come full circle now. It came into existence in 1965 as the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) in the Union ministry of finance as a centralised coordinating unit appraising the performance of public enterprises, two officials aware of the development said requesting anonymity. In 1985, BPE was shifted to the ministry of industry. Five years later it was made a department, and subsequently put under the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises.“DPE is brought to the finance ministry for direct and better coordination. The purpose is to improve efficiency of CPSEs [central public sector enterprises], effective monetisation of their resources that are lying idle and nudge them to promote ‘Aatmnirbhar Bharat’ [Self-reliant India] by procuring goods and services from within the country, particularly from MSMEs [micro, small and medium enterprises],” one of the officials cited above said.The change should be seen in the context of this year’s budget announcement, where the finance minister placed special emphasis on asset monetisation, the second official said. Delivering her budget speech on February 1, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said: “A ‘National Monetization Pipeline’ of potential brownfield infrastructure assets will be launched.”“CPSEs have idle or underutilised assets. For example, 156 of them have over 4,000 acres of prime land in various parts of the country, which could be made productive assets. Besides, the change will also facilitate government’s disinvestment programme,” this official added.The budget on February 1 proposed monetising of land through Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs) and closure of sick or loss-making CPSEs. The government has budgeted for ₹1.75 lakh crore as receipts from disinvestment in 2021-22.Nilaya Varma, co-founder and CEO of consulting firm Primus Partners, said: “As stated by the finance minister in her Budget speech, the transfer of DPE to the finance ministry gives a strong indication of the government’s push towards disinvestments. The fiscal stress brought on by the pandemic has exacerbated the need for privatisation of public enterprises and monetisation of under-utilised assets. This move would also allow effective enablement of PSEs to align with the vision of boosting the domestic ecosystem by encouraging procurement through Indian MSMEs.”The change in ministerial control of DPE was effected through a notification issued by the Cabinet Secretariat on July 6. Accordingly, the finance ministry will now have six departments – the department of economic affairs (DEA), the department of revenue (DoR), the department of expenditure (DoE), the department of financial services (DFS), the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), and DPE. The ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises has now been renamed as the ministry of heavy industries (MHI).The ministerial restructuring was, however, made public on Wednesday, hours before a cabinet expansion. The gazette notification said that the changes “shall come into force at once.”According to the notification, DPE will coordinate matters of general policy affecting all public sector enterprises (PSEs), evaluate and monitor their performances, and review their capital expenditure plans. It will also undertake the “residual work relating to erstwhile Bureau of Public Enterprises [BPE] including Industrial Management Pool [of talented managers],” the notification said.Other functions of DPE include counselling, training and rehabilitation of employees in CPSEs under voluntary retirement scheme, rendering advice relating to revival, restructuring or closure of a state-run firm and conferring them ‘Ratna’ status.Based on financial performances such as turnover and net worth criteria, CPSEs are given ‘Maharatna’, ‘Navratna’ and ‘Miniratna’ status.MHI will continue to administer the capital goods and automobile industries. As per the notification, it will continue to oversee 44 areas including central public sector enterprises Heavy Engineering Corporation Ltd, Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd, HMT Ltd, Scooters India Ltd, Cement Corporation of India Ltd, Hindustan Newsprint Ltd, and Bharat Bhari Udyog Nigam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-merges-dept-of-enterprises-with-finance-ministry-101625690548237.html
08-07-2021||India||Eye on elections, Team Modi casts a wider net to capture fresh talent||In picking the new faces for the council of ministers, the Narendra Modi government has skilfully balanced caste and regional aspirations — key aspects of electoral politics — with the intent of bringing on board candidates who are younger, more qualified, and with administrative and legislative experience.The leitmotif of the new council, however, is the social engineering that has been attempted by giving a seat at the high table to castes considered to be at the bottom of the social and economic pyramid but that are assiduously wooed by the BJP.As per the data shared by the government, there are as many as 27 Other Backward Castes,12 Scheduled Castes and eight Scheduled Tribes in the council of ministers. Notably these include some of the castes such as Darzi, Modh Teli among others that have been represented for the first time.This clever mosaic of castes is aimed at building the Bharatiya Janata Party’s base in not just the election-bound states such as Uttar Pradesh but also in states where the party is keen to expand its footprint, such as Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Karnataka, and in states such as Rajasthan and Maharashtra where it hopes to regain the seat of power.The inclusions from UP have hogged the headlines for the possible impact it will have on the state elections in 2022. Caste is considered a key element in determining election outcomes in the state.Of the seven who took oath today from the state, three are SCs, 3 OBCs and one upper caste. The composition is being perceived to reach out to the communities, particularly the OBCs who comprise nearly 40% of the electorate and have supported the BJP but are said to be upset over a slew of issues, including the lack of employment avenues. “The talk of sub-categorisation of OBCs, for instance, has not gone down well in UP, where larger groups like Kurmis feel their share of the reservation pie will be reduced,” said a senior BJP leader and a former minister on condition of anonymity.To make up for the alienation, the BJP has included Anupriya Patel, a Kurmi leader in the council, along with B L Varma from the Lodh community, and SP Singh Baghel, Bhanu Pratap Verma and Kaushal Kishore who are Dalits.“The BJP has been focusing on consolidating the non-Yadav OBCs, who are essentially Samajwadi Party supporters, and the choice of ministers is in keeping with that,” the leader quoted above said.BJP’s former MP Bizay Sonkar Shastri, however, said the number of inclusions from UP should not be seen from the electoral prism alone. “The state is geographically large and has a larger constituency of people from many castes and communities. It makes sense to have more faces from UP to represent these sections,” he said.From Gujarat that also goes to polls in 2022, the party has included Darshana Jardosh and elevated Parshottam Rupala and Mansukh Mandaviya as cabinet ministers.Similarly, Anurag Thakur from poll-bound Himachal Pradesh has also been elevated to the cabinet and Ajay Bhatt from Uttarakhand included in the council as minister of state. Manipur that will also pick a new assembly in 2022 has been represented by a first-time MP, Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, who has been given a cabinet berth.In Jharkhand where the BJP is also not in power anymore, the party has picked Annpurna Devi, a former close aide of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav, to be part of the council of ministers. Annapurna Devi is considered to have considerable clout among the Yadavs in Jharkhand. Similarly, the inclusion of Pashupati Kumar Paras is a move to consolidate its position among the Dalits in Bihar where the party is in a coalition government with the Janata Dal (United).Will the choice of ministers accrue benefits for the party? Political commentator Abhay Deshpande said, “The BJP has been careful in picking the caste combination that will impact not just the election-bound states of Uttar Pradesh but also the outcome in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The party has chosen to focus on states which have the maximum number of Lok Sabha seats and also where it has the maximum strike rate.”Dropping senior ministers ostensibly for reasons of performance is also an indication that the party is trying to project leaders with the clout among communities, Deshpande said.“The party is clear that it wants leaders who can bring votes from a particular community or a region for maximum benefit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-elections-team-modi-casts-a-wider-net-to-capture-fresh-talent-101625689951246.html
08-07-2021||India||2 ex-IAS officers added to new team||The Modi government’s new Cabinet now comprises five former bureaucrats and diplomats with the induction of two former Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers, Ashwini Vaishnaw and Ramchandra Prasad Singh, on Wednesday.While power minister Raj Kumar Singh was elevated as a Cabinet minister from Minister of State rank, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and external affairs minister S Jaishankar are already a part of the Union council of ministers.Vaishnaw, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Odisha in 2019, is a former IAS officer of 1994 batch. He had served as deputy secretary in the office of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2004 after serving a brief stint with the Prime Minister’s Office during Vajpayee’s term in 2002.Vaishnaw is expected to bring managerial expertise to the Modi government. He completed his MTech from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, and also attended a management programme at Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania.As a bureaucrat, Vaishnaw had earned praise for his handling of relief and rehabilitation of people affected by cyclones in Odisha.Janata Dal (United) lawmaker Ramchandra Prasad Singh, who was also allotted a Cabinet berth on Wednesday, is a former IAS officer of 1984 batch, from the Uttar Pradesh cadre. He is also the national president of his party.Singh had served as principal secretary to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar in one of his earlier terms. He availed voluntary retirement in 2010 before his nomination to Rajya Sabha in the same year.Raj Kumar Singh is a former secretary of home affairs. He is a Lok Sabha MP from Arrah in Bihar and was selected for the IAS from Bihar cadre in 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-ex-ias-officers-added-to-new-team-101625689923837.html
08-07-2021||India||NDA ties may be on the mend as BJP allies find space in new Cabinet||The Bharatiya Janata Party has signalled that its ties with its partners in the National Democratic Alliance are on the mend by including three leaders (one each) from the Janata Dal (U), Apna Dal, and the Lok Janshakti Party in the Union council of ministers that was sworn in on Wednesday. Of these, two were sworn in as Cabinet ministers.This is the first time that the council will have representation from the JDU, an ally with whom the BJP runs a coalition government in Bihar. There was speculation that there were differences between the two allies over the number of ministerial berths, but as things stood, RCP Singh of the party was sworn in as Cabinet minister.Also sworn in as Cabinet minister was the LJP’s Pashupati Kumar Paras who is entangled in a feud with his nephew and Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan for control of the party. Paswan has already approached the Delhi high court saying Paras cannot be sworn in as a member of the LJP because he (Paswan) represents the partyStill, Paras’ inclusion has cleared the air on LJP-BJP ties, which came under a cloud ahead of the Bihar election after Paswan attacked JDU leader and chief minister Nitish Kumar.Anupriya Patel, a Kurmi leader of the Apna Dal, which is a crucial ally of the BJP in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, was also sworn in. She was the minister of state for health and family welfare in the council of ministers in 2014 when the BJP first came to power at the centre in 2014. Patel’s entry is seen as an outreach to other backward classes in Uttar Pradesh which goes to the polls next year.After the exit of two of its oldest allies, the Shiv Sena in 2019 over the issue of power sharing in Maharashtra and the Shiromani Akali Dal in 2020 following a fall-out over the farm laws, the BJP was accused of not taking on board views from the partners.The absence of allies from the council of ministers cemented the perception that there were fissures within the National Democratic Alliance. After the passing of LJP supremo Ram Vilas Paswan in 2020 the Union cabinet had no representation from the allies, the only non BJP member in the council of ministers was RPI’s Ramdas Athawale.Political commentator Abhay Deshpande said the BJP is making an effort to strengthen ties with its allies because they will need partners for the 2024 general elections.“Right now they have the mandate but after 10 years, there will be a number of issues that the BJP will have to face such as anti-incumbency, the impact of Covid on economy and in such a scenario, they will need the allies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-ties-may-be-on-the-mend-as-bjp-allies-find-space-in-new-cabinet-101625689236822.html
08-07-2021||India||New Cabinet portfolios overlap to boost work efficiency||Thirty Cabinet ministers and two ministers of state with independent charge will handle all Union ministries as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government moved on Wednesday to create synergies between departments with similar or overlapping domains and break silos to boost work efficiency.Union home minister Amit Shah will manage the newly created ministry of cooperation, the statement added.Among the new Cabinet ministers, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia will be in charge of the ministry of civil aviation, technocrat-turned-politician Ashwini Vaishnaw will handle the ministry of railways, the ministry of communications; and the ministry of electronics and information technology, and former Maharashtra chief minister Narayan Rane will manage the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises.To facilitate synergy, the Union ministries of health, and chemicals and fertilisers, were brought under one minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, to better coordinate the two critical departments in helping the government fight the Covid pandemic. Pharmaceuticals and chemicals essential for drugs are key to medical infrastructure.Similarly, the Union ministries of education, and skill development and entrepreneurship, were clubbed under Dharmendra Pradhan to help the departments work in unison to bring the Covid-ravaged sector back on track.“These are among the most important ministries…It was thus imperative that these be handled by the same minister so that the same can work in unison for achieving common objectives,” said a government functionary aware of developments.Mandaviya, who was earlier in charge of the ministries of ports and shipping and chemicals and fertilisers, played a key role in resolving a supply crisis of Remdesivir. “Health and pharma are being allocated to the same Cabinet minister to bring critically needed synergy between the two in the middle of a global pandemic,’’ explained a senior official in the government.The official quoted above said that the clubbing of ministries under Pradhan was done to “implement the PM’s vision of overhauling the education landscape.”The distribution of portfolios was announced hours after 43 ministers were sworn in and the new council of ministers was a mix of fresh faces and experienced hands with a focus on harnessing effectiveness.In all, the 77-member new Union council of ministers will have 30 cabinet ministers, two ministers of state with independent charge and 45 ministers of state, said a statement from Rashtrapati Bhavan.HT learnt that the Prime Minister felt that the IT ministry was best handled by ”professional technocrats”. The former minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, had several run-ins with social media companies over new intermediary guidelines this year.Former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal will handle the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways, and the ministry of Ayush. Rajya Sabha member Bhupender Yadav will look after the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, and the ministry of labour and employmentAmong ministers who were promoted to cabinet rank, Anurag Thakur will handle the ministry of information and broadcasting; and the ministry of youth affairs and sports; Hardeep Puri will look after the ministry of petroleum and natural gas; and the ministry of housing and urban affairs; and Kiren Rijiju will be in charge of the ministry of law and justice.Among the BJP’s allies, Lok Janshakti Party’s Pashupati Kumar Paras was named the cabinet minister for food processing industries, Janata Dal (United) leader RCP Singh was given the ministry of steel and Apna Dal (Sonelal) leader Anupriya Patel was appointed minister of state in the ministry of commerce and industry.The textile ministry was moved from Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani to commerce minister Piyush Goyal, who was relieved of the railways portfolio. The rural development ministry and panchayati raj ministry were shifted from Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to Giriraj Singh.Virendra Kumar was appointed the Union social justice minister and Parshottam Rupala the minister for culture; tourism; and development of north eastern region. New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi was named minister of state in the ministry of external affairs and ministry of culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-cabinet-portfolios-overlap-to-boost-work-efficiency-101625688771613.html
08-07-2021||India||SC seeks status on vacancies under RTI Act in four weeks||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday gave four weeks to the Centre and states to report the status on vacancies in Central Information Commission (CIC) and State Information Commissions after three transparency activists complained of huge pendency of cases under the Right to Information Act 2005 on account of the vacancies.A bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari passed the order while hearing an application filed by three RTI activists – Anjali Bhardwaj, Commodore (retd) Lokesh K Batra and Amrita Johri, in a pending public interest litigation (PIL) filed by them. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, who argued the application, told the court that the pendency of cases at the CIC has crossed 36,000 while in Maharashtra, it has crossed 75,000 cases due to continuing vacancies of information commissioners.In February 2019, the Supreme Court ordered the government to start the process to fill vacancies two months before a post is to fall vacant. Later, in December 2019 when the top court saw that many posts were still vacant in the CIC, the court fixed a three-month deadline to fill up the posts.The CIC has 10 sanctioned posts of information commissioners and one chief information commissioner.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Madhavi Divan, appearing for the Centre, said the Centre complied with the top court’s order and even filed a compliance report in April 2020. It has seven information commissioners and one chief information commissioner. Bhushan informed the court that as per the February 2019 ruling, the Centre was also required to disclose its criteria to shortlist candidates for appointment to CIC and State information Commissions. He said that though 324 applications were received for the posts of information commissioners (IC) and chief information commissioner at CIC, the search committee headed by Cabinet Secretary did not disclose on what basis seven names were shortlisted for ICs and two names for Chief IC. Prashant Bhushan referred to a dissent note of October 24, 2020 by Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chaudhary, who as a member of the selection committee under the RTI Act, was critical of the manner in which only retired bureaucrats were shortlisted for these posts along with a journalist who never applied in the first place. “The government initially does not fill up vacancies and if they do, they do it with party acolytes, one of them being a bogus journalist and bureaucrats. They (Centre) are destroying the RTI Act,” Bhushan said. He requested the court to direct the Centre to disclose the selection criteria and the dissent note by Chaudhary. ASG Divan objected to the use of the term “bogus journalist” and said that it was not proper for Bhushan to make statements against members without filing an affidavit to this effect. The bench flagged the crucial issue of vacancies and said that since April 2020, no fresh affidavit had come from Centre, it would like to be apprised of the current situation.The issue of vacancies at CIC and SICs was viewed with anguish by the apex court in its February 2019 judgment where the court said, “This Right to Information Act is enacted not only to sub-serve and ensure freedom of speech. On proper implementation, it has the potential to bring about good governance which is an integral part of any vibrant democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-status-on-vacancies-under-rti-act-in-four-weeks-101625687782680.html
08-07-2021||India||Gangs of Bengaluru: How IT boom changed the face of gang wars||Bengaluru:On 27 July 2012, traffic came to a standstill on the busy Tumkur Road on the National Highway 4, but this logjam wasn’t the one residents of Bengaluru encounter often. Little did people stuck in the traffic know that ahead on the road, a politician was being butchered by a group of machete-wielding, gun-holding gangsters.Around 8.45 pm, BEML Krishnappa, a resident of Nelamangala and Congress member of Bangalore Rural Zilla panchayat, was heading home after attending a business meeting at Basaveshwara Circle near Vidhana Soudha. He was accompanied by an armed bodyguard in his SUV when he realised around 30 men armed with guns, machetes and other lethal weapons were on his tail. Moments later, his car came to a screeching halt after being blocked by a truck, as planned by the gangsters, who first opened fire at him and then to be sure he had died, hacked him.For Bengaluru, which had moved on from the gang violence of the 90s, this was a chilling déjà vu. The murder was part of a gang rivalry between two Bettanagere cousins Srinivas alias Seena and Shankar alias Shankara.While gang rivalries in the decades from 1970 to 90 were mainly over illegal sale of liquor, kerosene and oil, in the new liberalised Bengaluru, claim over lucrative real estate became the primary lure for gang wars.Praveen Sood, the current Karnataka Police chief, who served in Bengaluru in the early 2000s in various roles including the city police commissioner and additional commissioner of police, traffic, said liberalisation led to the property value in the city shooting up. “Before the IT boom, it was the licence raj that was the source of quick money for gangsters. They battled to gain control over whatever became scarce because of the licences. That’s the reason we had gangsters like Oil Kumar, who had control over the oil supply of Bengaluru. This seems like a small thing, but then it provided profit,” Sood added.As the city expanded, most of these gang activities moved to the outskirts. “Post-liberalisation, rowdy activities shifted towards real estate. If you look at Bengaluru’s development as concentric circles and if you draw a line on the extend of gangster activities from 1990 to 2020, you will see the activities moving towards the outermost edge, where new layouts were coming up and land disputes were common. Here, gangsters used their muscle power,” said MN Anucheth, a 2009-batch IPS officer, who is currently posted as the DCP central.The story of the Bettanagere brothers and their growth coincided with the real estate boom in Nelamangala, Devanahalli and other north Bengaluru areas in the last decade.In 2005, Seena and Shankara, the Bettanagere cousins, were jailed in connection with the murder of Balekai Bassavaiah, who had defeated Hanumanthaiah, Seena’s father, in the taluk milk producers’ co-operative elections in 2004.The rivalry began when Shankara managed to get bail and walked out of the prison, while Seena remained in jail. The rivalry resulted in nine murders, including that of Krishnappa. The murders were the result of the disputes over real estate deals and Seena’s political ambitions.Political ambitions were another trait of the post-90s gangsters. “In the earlier days, being a gangster meant fame and fear that would help them hold on to their territories. But in the 2000s, most rowdies aspired to get political powers and not come into the limelight as much. They believe that political power gave them legitimacy and more power,” said a serving police officer, who didn’t want to be named.“If politicians used gangsters to further their agenda, a look now at the criminal background of several politicians, especially at corporator level, one can see being a rowdy was a steppingstone,” the officer added.In 2005, Seena was serving as a gram panchayat member and Shankara was opposed to his cousin’s political ambitions. Krishnappa is said to have helped Shankara get bail and soon the two joined hands.In 2008, Krishnappa allegedly got his rival and member of Nelamangala Taluk Panchayat, Hadiyaala Devi, killed by Shankar’s gang. Devi was Seena’s brother-in-law.The gang war between both gangs left a trail of blood. The first to be killed were advocate Devaraj and farmer Krishnamurthy, who were eyewitnesses to Basavaiah murder. Since Devaraj was killed in front of his father Bylappa, he was murdered too. Devaraj’s son-in-law, Gangondanahalli Ramamurthy, a local politician, too was murdered when he tried to take revenge on the cousins.In retaliation of Devi’s murder, Seena’s gang is said to have murdered realtor Lohith Gowda, who was close to Shankara. The gang rivalry eventually resulted in the mid-highway murder of Krishnappa in 2012.A month later, in September 2012, Seena was killed in a police encounter.In November 2003, Rowdy Rajendra alias Bekkina Kannu (cat eye) Rajendra was hacked to death by a gang of five persons near Chalukya hotel in High Grounds police station limits. Years before his murder, Rajendra had been involved in the real estate and cable business.He was also a contractor for the Bengaluru Development Authority and Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, thus enjoying close contact with several politicians in the city. One of the suspects in his murder, another gangster Silent Sunil, is on top of the police list, said officials of the Central Crime Branch (CCB).Another gang rivalry over real estate was reported in June 2016, when a gang of four men, armed with swords and choppers, barged into a Cafe Coffee Day outlet and attacked a realtor and history-sheeter, Mahesh, killing him on the spot.The investigation revealed that the public attack was the fallout of the murder of a 28-year-old gangster Harsha, who was hacked to death in Vijaya Nagar on April 27 this year by 10 men. The assailants are suspected to be Harsha’s associates. The rival gang suspected Mahesh of financing Harsha’s murder.In March 2019, Lakshmana, 42, allegedly involved in several cases of murder and land grab, was hacked to death by a five-member gang in Mahalakshmi Layout, near Iskcon Temple.Police suspect the killing to be the fallout of a gang rivalry. Lakshmana, who lived in Sunkadakatte, is the twin of Rama, was also a gangster. The duo, known as the Rama-Lakshmana brothers in Bengaluru’s rowdy sheets, had specialised in grabbing land from people by using threats and violence.Some gangsters tried to create an underworld in line with the Mumbai’s underworld in the 1990s. A prominent one being gangster Ravi Poojari. One of the first cases against him was for his alleged involvement in a fatal shootout against builder Subbaraju in 2001 in Bengaluru. He has been charge-sheeted in the case but is yet to stand trial. He is also charge-sheeted for the shootout at realty firm Shabnam Developers, which left two dead in February 2007.His henchmen allegedly carried out a shootout at UTV, the Bollywood production company’s office in 2009, and at the office of Mantri Developers in 2010, both in Bengaluru. The last shootout he was allegedly involved in was against Bharati Builders in Mangaluru in 2014.However, he was unable to establish control over Bengaluru and was eventually taken into custody in February 2020.According to police, while earlier gangs tried to keep control over the entire city, in the later years, the war of domination was localised and limited to areas in the outskirts of the city. “The nature of crime has changed before and post-liberalisation. Even though not as brazen as the 90s, gang rivalries continue to be a top priority in policing, especially in Bengaluru,” said DG and IGP Sood. “Unlike the 90s, the rivalries are more decentralised and localised. Still, it poses a big challenge,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangs-of-bengaluru-how-it-boom-changed-the-face-of-gang-wars-101625686701506.html
08-07-2021||India||TN runner Revathi overcomes poverty and patriarchy to secure a place in Olympics||Chennai: V Revathi sprinted 400 metres in 53.55 seconds coming first in the trials on Sunday and be picked for the Tokyo Olympics in the mixed 4x400 metres relay. But, her journey toward this achievement had been arduous, overcoming poverty and patriarchy. She was 7-year-old when her father died and a year later she lost her mother. Revathi and her younger sister, a football player, were raised by their maternal grandmother, Arammal.The sisters lived and studied in a government-run hostel cum school in the district, while their septuagenarian grandmother worked as a labourer under the MGNREGA scheme in Madurai’s Sakkimangalam village. Arammal was key to Revathi pursuing competitive athletics. “She sent us to study from a hostel because of our poverty,” says Revathi, who is training at Sports Authority of India’s centre at Patiala in Punjab. She has been training for the Olympics from the Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports for the past two years. “She used to visit us at least once a month. Everyone else had parents who visited the hostel every week. My sister and I used to feel very sad looking at that. And, today this wouldn’t have been possible for me without paati (grandmother in Tamil).”Revathi, now 23, had won several medals from track events in school. It was when she was in class 12 during a zonal competition where her talent was identified. “We obviously couldn’t afford shoes so I used to run barefoot. After the event Kannan sir came up to me and said, ‘I will buy shoes for you. Will you come for training every morning and evening?’” Revathi recalls. She declined because she couldn’t afford a bus fare of ₹40 to the Sports Development Authority stadium in Madurai’s Race Course where K Kannan was the coach.So Kannan made another offer to fund her college education and hostel accommodation at Lady Doak College which was walking distance from the stadium. Revathi’s grandmother agreed and she graduated with a BA in Tamil. “Every time I won a medal, paati used to show it to the villagers but they in turn scolded her for letting a girl run like a boy,” says Revathi. She adds that they would suggest her grandmother to rest at home by either getting the sisters married or sending them to work. Revathi didn’t face much of these pressures directly as she had been living in hostels since class 2. “I really don’t know how paati stood up to them. Most of them in my village aren’t educated. But she wanted us to study and she told us that we should do what we want to do.”Arammal has toured cities like Chennai to watch her granddaughter run. “She cried every time,” says Revathi. “She’d ask, ‘Do you have to run under the scorching sun? Do you have to run so fast?”. Kannan had helped the family financially over the years. Revathi’s fellow runners did too. “My peers would put in whatever money they could to help me fund my travel tickets for competitions. Everyone around us helped,” she says. Financially, things are looking up for the family now after Revathi got a job last year in southern railways as a Commercial Clerk-cum-Ticket Collector. Her sister joined the Chennai police force.“Until now we didn’t have any means. There was no other way other than running and saving prize money. So we kept running,” says Revathi. “Now even if I have some sports injury, I’ve a job to rely on.” Revathi had a right-knee injury last year which put her off action for three months. She has been training now without a day off from a German coach. Arammal works as a cook with Kannan for five of his student athletes who live with his family. “All your hard work has been rewarded,” Arammal is said to have broken down and told Revathi over the phone after her selection. Arammal hadn’t understood what Olympics meant until Revathi had to shift base to Punjab for training. 53.55 seconds is her “personal best” so far, she says and is training to better it at the Olympics where she will compete.Revathi is among five track runners-- Subha Venkatesan, S Dhanalakshmi, Arokia Rajiv and Naganathan Pandi--who have qualified from Tamil Nadu for the Olympics, announced on Tuesday. Chief minister MK Stalin issued a ₹5 lakh incentive for each of them on Tuesday after the announcement. Seven others including sailors, table tennis players and fencers had qualified earlier from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-runner-revathi-overcomes-poverty-and-patriarchy-to-secure-a-place-in-olympics-101625686345853.html
08-07-2021||India||Madras HC grants conditional bail to former AIADMK minister in rape case||Chennai: The Madras high court on Wednesday granted conditional bail to former All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) minister M Manikandan who was arrested on a slew of charges including rape and cheating in a case filed by a Malayasian citizen who had acted in Tamil and Malayalam movies. Justice M Nirmal Kumar ordered that the petitioner be released on bail by surrendering his passport, executing two sureties of a sum of ₹10,000 and to appear before the investigating officer everyday for two weeks and whenever he is called. According to the complainant, the accused had sexual relations with her on the pretext of marriage after divorcing his wife. The actress complained that she also got pregnant thrice and was forced to abort during this period. The court had granted Manikandan interim protection from June 3 to 9 which were reserved on the 9th but the court had dismissed his anticipatory bail on June 16. Police arrested Manikandan from Bengaluru on June 20 under Sections 417, 376, 313, 323 and 506(i) of IPC and Section 67-A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. Upon his arrest, police recorded his confession and recovered two of his mobile phones. The accused was also taken to Madurai where the duo had stayed often in an apartment from where a phone was also recovered. The senior counsel for the accused pointed out that a substantial portion of the investigation was over and assured the court that he will “not evade from justice and shall abide by any condition”. He stated that the case was filed out of political vendetta. After hearing both sides of the argument, the court noted that they were in a relationship from May 2017 to April 2021 was not in dispute. There were differences of opinion when she got pregnant thrice and he had arranged for abortions against her wish. The court said that the complainant had the intelligence to understand what she was consenting to. “The defacto complainant was well aware of the consequence that the marriage between her and the petitioner would not take place,” the court said in its orders. “Thus leading to the inference that she freely, voluntarily and consciously consented to have sexual intercourse with the petitioner and her consent was not in consequence of any misconception of fact and they were living together as man and wife. Thus, there is a clear distinction between rape and consensual sex.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-grants-conditional-bail-to-former-aiadmk-minister-in-rape-case-101625686285372.html
08-07-2021||India||Centre merges dept. of enterprises with finance ministry||The government has carved out the department of public enterprises (DPE) from the ministry of heavy industries and put it under the umbrella of the finance ministry to monitor performance of state-run firms, monetise their assets better through divestment and strategic sales, and direct their procurements policies to boost local industries. DPE has come full circle now. It came into existence in 1965 as the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) in the Union ministry of finance as a centralised coordinating unit appraising the performance of public enterprises, two officials aware of the development said requesting anonymity. In 1985, BPE was shifted to the ministry of industry. Five years later it was made a department, and subsequently put under the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises.“DPE is brought to the finance ministry for direct and better coordination. The purpose is to improve efficiency of CPSEs [central public sector enterprises], effective monetisation of their resources that are lying idle and nudge them to promote ‘Aatmnirbhar Bharat’ [Self-reliant India] by procuring goods and services from within the country, particularly from MSMEs [micro, small and medium enterprises],” one of the officials cited above said.The change should be seen in the context of this year’s budget announcement, where the finance minister placed special emphasis on asset monetisation, the second official said. Delivering her budget speech on February 1, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said: “A ‘National Monetization Pipeline’ of potential brownfield infrastructure assets will be launched.”“CPSEs have idle or underutilised assets. For example, 156 of them have over 4,000 acres of prime land in various parts of the country, which could be made productive assets. Besides, the change will also facilitate government’s disinvestment programme,” this official added. The budget on February 1 proposed monetising of land through Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs) and closure of sick or loss-making CPSEs. The government has budgeted for ₹1.75 lakh crore as receipts from disinvestment in 2021-22.Nilaya Varma, co-founder and CEO of consulting firm Primus Partners, said: “As stated by the finance minister in her Budget speech, the transfer of DPE to the finance ministry gives a strong indication of the government’s push towards disinvestments. The fiscal stress brought on by the pandemic has exacerbated the need for privatisation of public enterprises and monetisation of under-utilised assets. This move would also allow effective enablement of PSEs to align with the vision of boosting the domestic ecosystem by encouraging procurement through Indian MSMEs.” The change in ministerial control of DPE was effected through a notification issued by the Cabinet Secretariat on July 6. Accordingly, the finance ministry will now have six departments – the department of economic affairs (DEA), the department of revenue (DoR), the department of expenditure (DoE), the department of financial services (DFS), the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam), and DPE. The ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises has now been renamed as the ministry of heavy industries (MHI).The ministerial restructuring was, however, made public on Wednesday, hours before a cabinet expansion. The gazette notification said that the changes “shall come into force at once.” According to the notification, DPE will coordinate matters of general policy affecting all public sector enterprises (PSEs), evaluate and monitor their performances, and review their capital expenditure plans. It will also undertake the “residual work relating to erstwhile Bureau of Public Enterprises [BPE] including Industrial Management Pool [of talented managers],” the notification said.Other functions of DPE include counselling, training and rehabilitation of employees in CPSEs under voluntary retirement scheme, rendering advice relating to revival, restructuring or closure of a state-run firm and conferring them ‘Ratna’ status. Based on financial performances such as turnover and net worth criteria, CPSEs are given ‘Maharatna’, ‘Navratna’ and ‘Miniratna’ status.MHI will continue to administer the capital goods and automobile industries. As per the notification, it will continue to oversee 44 areas including central public sector enterprises Heavy Engineering Corporation Ltd, Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd, HMT Ltd, Scooters India Ltd, Cement Corporation of India Ltd, Hindustan Newsprint Ltd, and Bharat Bhari Udyog Nigam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-merges-dept-of-enterprises-with-finance-ministry-101625685741289.html
08-07-2021||India||Health minister changed over Covid-19 crisis||Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday was dropped as India’s minister for health and family welfare, a decision that appeared to stem from his inadequate handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, leading to an erosion of trust in the government as health facilities were overrun particularly during the second national wave.Harsh Vardhan (66), an ENT specialist who practised in east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar until early 1990s, also held the science and technology, and earth sciences portfolios.The second Covid wave, which took a heavy toll from early April to early June -- with the total number of cases and deaths peaking at 414,188 and 4,192 respective in terms of seven-day averages -- exposed the health ministry’s inability to predict such as massive surge, and gaping holes in country’s health care delivery system. A significant number of patients literally died gasping for breath in their homes for want of a hospital bed (both general and ICU), and essential supplies such as oxygen or medicines.Experts said the preparedness for, and handling of, the second wave was inadequate.“We celebrated a little too early; there was insufficient learning from our failures that was quite obvious during the second wave. Health was the core line ministry, and its job should have been to see what was promised regarding health systems was followed through. In the second wave there was a huge gap between what was needed and what was there, which eroded the trust in the government, especially during the second wave,” said Dr Chadrakant Lahariya, a senior public health expert.Another part of the pandemic response that could not keep pace with the requirements imposed by rise in cases was the pace of vaccination.While India offered doses in a graded manner in four phases, its procurement policy and delivery mechanism, coupled with vaccine hesitancy and what appeared to be mixed messages by the health ministry, resulted in a roll-out that appeared suboptimal.For example, in the first three and half months of the campaign (from January 16 to April 30), India administered first doses to 125.38 million people, of which 88% were above the age of 45, while remaining 12% were given to health care and frontline workers in the 18-45 age group. When it expanded the drive to all adults from May 1, India administered 73.04 million first doses to people in the 18-45 age group until June 20. In all, until another policy shift on June 21, 275 million doses were given (225.2 million first and 49.8 second), accounting for 24% of the adult population covered by at least one dose over a five-month period.To be sure, vaccination picked up after June 21, reaching a high of 6.4 million daily doses (7-day average) on June 26. This pace has slowed down again over the past week to just above 4 million daily doses on average, though India remains confident of achieving 100% vaccination by the year-end.“The government should have put in advanced purchase orders; what they did instead is purchase what the manufacturers had on their shelves. So the companies produced the doses at their own pace instead of the government dictating how many doses they need and by when. Now, the vaccination drive needs to focus on people who are likely to die if they get the infection; something which we were doing in January and February when we should have been carrying out large scale vaccination campaign to prevent the second wave,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.Doctors also complained about the lack of adequate support from the government.“As the health minister of this country, he should have led from the front, especially when dealing with safety concerns of people from the medical fraternity who were managing the crisis in adverse conditions. He couldn’t give assurances to health care professionals that their safety will be ensured. The PM himself had to intervene and speak to doctors at least twice, the recent being on the doctors’ day. Ideally, this should have been done through the health minister,” said Dr JA Jayalal, president, Indian Medical Association.The health minister also made several gaffes in the form of statements that did not stem from adequate scientific knowledge.In March 2021, he said that India was in the “endgame” of Covid-19 pandemic. “We are in the endgame of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. Unlike most other countries, we have a steady supply of Covid-19 vaccines that are safe with proven immunogenicity and efficacy.”A month later, cases were at an all-time high.During his tenure, Harsh Vardhan also received flak for endorsing alternative therapy products. He was present at the relaunch of Coronil termed to be “first evidence-based medicine for coronavirus”; and endorsed Ayurvedic Covid-19 treatment and Ayush 64.“We could have done much better than what we have done; a lot of unnecessary animosity could have been avoided,” said Jayalal.Harsh Vardhan did not comment on the matter till the time of print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-changed-over-covid-19-crisis-101625685072619.html
08-07-2021||India||A gentleman actor whose intensity shone on screen: Waheeda Rehman on Dilip Kumar||Dilip saab was suffering for a long time and we all knew that this day would come. But we also knew that when he leaves us, we would feel really upset. This is the strangeness of human reactions, you see.My first film with Dilip saab was Dil Diya Dard Liya (1966), and while on the set with him, I realised that despite being such a big star and a great actor, he was extremely friendly. On the first day of our shoot, I was a bit nervous. As a new actor, when you work with someone so big and established, it’s natural to feel like that. But, he himself walked over to me and asked, ‘How are you feeling?’, and that put me at ease. He was that sort of a person.I did three more films with him — Ram Aur Shyam (1967), Aadmi (1968), and Mashaal (1984) — and we both shared a good bond and were very comfortable with each other.Dil Diya unfortunately, did not do well at the box office. So, when we started working on Aadmi, Dilip saab told me, “I promise you, abki baar achhi picture banaunga, aur yeh jaroor chalegi” [This time around, we’ll make a good film and it will do well.] I told him, “Dilip saab koshish toh sabhi karte hain, kabhie kabhie miss ho jata hai” [Everyone tries their best. It’s a miss, sometimes.] But he insisted and said, “No, no, no! It has to be a good movie!”He was very, very intense. At that time, no one else depicted that degree of intensity on the screen. He was a combination of a great star and a great actor, which is so rare. At the same time, he was a gentleman: very polite, full of tameez.Back then, there was barely any socialising outside of work. In fact, never. Actors used to work together on the set and then go back to their respective homes. I was friendly only with Sunil Dutt and Nargis. I last met Dilip saab some nine or 10 years ago. It was at the celebrations of his birthday at his home and it was a big bash, like a wedding. He had already started to lose his memory, so at first, he could not recognise me. He was sitting on the sofa and when I went to greet him and said aadaab, and he looked at me with a quizzicla expression. So, Saira, his wife, said, “Saab yeh Waheeda ji hain” [This is Waheedaji]. His brother, Ehsaan also reminded him.I could see that he was struggling to place me, but he wasn’t able to. He got tears in his eyes and seeing him struggle, I also got teary-eyed. It wasn’t just me. Whoever came and shook hands with him, he struggled to recognise them. His expression seemed to say: ‘I know this person but what is their name?’ It felt terrible and made me very sad. I felt bad for him that the people he has worked with, laughed and made memories with, now he is struggling to recognise them. After that I never met him.However, Sairaji used to call sometimes, but we seldom met. The film industry is such a place that the moment the film is over, you don’t meet your co-stars at all, unless and until, god forbid, someone falls is very sick, so you call up that person to check on them. It is a very strange industry. We work day and night, sometimes months together, shoot outdoors also, but once the project is over, we start working on new productions, new films, and with new people.We will miss Dilip saab. Back in the day, whenever a newcomer came into the film industry, the only thing they would say is, “We want to become Dilip Kumar.” If someone said this before me, I would respond: ”It is not impossible to be like Dilip Kumar but you will have to work really hard, dedicate and devote your heart into what you do.” But then, we all know, there was only one Dilip Kumar. The name that he has left behind, no one can ever come close to that. And it would never get erased from the history of the Hindi film industry. May god bless his soul.-- As told to Monika Rawal Kukreja||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-gentleman-actor-whose-intensity-shone-on-screen-waheeda-rehman-on-dilip-kumar-101625684755298.html
08-07-2021||India||Doctors raise demand for Protection Act in meeting with union DGHS||New Delhi: The union director general of health services met with representatives of doctors’ associations to come up with measures to prevent violence against healthcare providers. A central act making violence against healthcare worker punishable was suggested by the doctors and nurses present in the meeting. A previous attempt in 2019 to draft a similar law that made violence against doctors punishable by up to 10 years imprisonment was stalled after home ministry said a special law was not feasible as health is a state subject. Dr Sunil Kumar, the director general of health services, stressed on preventing overcrowding of patients and relatives, filling up of vacancies, and allowing nurses to optimise their work, according to the representatives of Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA) present in the meeting. Dr Manish Kumar, president of Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) said, “Almost all the demands made by us, including the Central Act, was accepted in the meeting. We are waiting for the minutes of the meeting.” This comes after the doctors held a nation-wide black ribbon protest in June after several instances of violence were highlighted. On June 1, a doctor posted at a Covid Care Centre in Assam was assaulted by the relatives of a patient who succumbed to the virus. On April 26, relatives of a deceased patient vandalised the emergency ward and injured several employees of Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo hospital. “Currently, 21 states have local laws but what we need is a strong central law to protect doctors from violence...,” the Indian Medical Association during the protest had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-raise-demand-for-protection-act-in-meeting-with-union-dghs-101625684901231.html
08-07-2021||India||Take quick decision on appeal by life convicts: SC to 3 states||New Delhi: Governments in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh will have to decide applications for premature release of life convicts who have served 14 years within eight months of the requests being filed, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday, ordering the three states to implement a scheme drafted by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) on an experimental basis. The top court involved NASLA in January this year after a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta came across a case in Chhattisgarh where a convict who completed 14 years imprisonment had to wait another three years for his remission plea to be decided. NALSA got back to the top court in February this year, telling the bench that there were 1,649 prisoners languishing in prisons awaiting a decision on their requests. Besides, it said, there were 431 prisoners who were eligible to file a request but hadn’t applied, 83 prisoners sought legal aid to apply and 752 prisoners had their applications rejected.The findings convinced the bench to ask NALSA to study state policies and come up with a uniform scheme to deal with remission applications.Advocate Gaurav Agrawal who appeared for NALSA informed the court that a uniform scheme would be problematic since states had different policies, criteria on the eligibility of prisoners and the period that life convicts need to serve. Even the authority empowered to approve remission requests were different. In some states, the jail officials are empowered while some others require a recommendation of an advisory committee.One common factor, NALSA’s analysis concluded, was that there were no deadlines for the authorities. The NALSA scheme approved by the Supreme Court on Wednesday involves three steps. It gives states three months for identification and collection of data about eligible prisoners by prison authorities, three months for a recommendation by Sentence Review Board (SRB) or Advisory Board, and two more months to the state government for missing the final orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-quick-decision-on-appeal-by-life-convicts-sc-to-3-states-101625684782555.html
08-07-2021||India||Juhi Chawla’s pleas against fine frivolous: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday termed as “frivolous” and said that it was shocked at pleas by Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla seeking waiver of ₹20 lakh cost imposed on them for their plea challenging 5G wireless network technology.Justice J R Midha, who retired from the Delhi high court on Wednesday, said that he had never seen such a frivolous application in his judicial career.“I was shocked to see such an application. This court took a lenient view and did not issue contempt when a clear case was made out... I was inclined. You say the court had no power to impose costs (but) the court has the power to issue contempt,” the court said as it took strong exception to the application.Chawla had filed applications for waiver of costs and replacing the word “dismissed” in the judgment with “rejected”.The court’s reaction came after Chawla’s counsel, senior Advocate Meet Malhotra, after withdrawing the application for waiver of costs, said that costs would either be deposited in a week or ten days or legal remedies against the same would be taken.“I’m yet to see a person in my judicial career who is not willing to pay court fees,” it added.“On one hand you move the frivolous application and on the other hand, you withdraw the application and plaintiffs are not even willing to gracefully deposit the costs,” the court said.The court, however, granted one week to Chawla to deposit the fine.Advocate Deepak Khosla appearing for Chawla said that the court fee has already been deposited. Malhotra clarified that the stand was not that the costs would not be paid, and did not even press the application for its waiver. In June, the high court had dismissed the lawsuit by Chawla and others against the setting up of 5G wireless networks in the country and slapped a cost of ₹20 lakh.The court had described the plea as “defective”, “abuse of process of law” and filed for “gaining publicity”. The judge had also issued a show-cause notice to a “disruptor” who started singing songs from Chawla’s movies, halting the proceedings thrice on June 2 in the matter.It had also asked the Delhi police to identify the person and take action against him.An unidentified person disrupted virtual proceedings of the Delhi high court thrice on June 2... until he was muted and finally thrown off the online proceedings because the participant did not stop singing songs from popular movies of actor Juhi Chawla -- one of the plaintiffs in the plea being heard by the judges.On his farewell on Wednesday, Justice Midha played a song from a Bollywood movie Sadak 2 as the last thanksgiving to his own life.“The last thanksgiving I want to give is to my own life for giving me this opportunity,” he said.At the full court reference, Midha said that he is retiring with a lot of satisfaction.“A judge’s job is to impart justice. I’m demitting office today with the fullest satisfaction of having discharged my responsibility as per the constitution, be it the district court or this Court,” he said.Justice Midha was appointed as an Additional judge from April 11, 2008, and a permanent judge from July 6, 2011.He had recently given a landmark judgment that allowed the citizens to feed community or stray dogs ending a long-lasting fight between the neighbours. He also formulated Special Scheme for Motor Accident Claims and also gave a ruling that conviction of the husband for the offence of murder amounts to cruelty to the wife and held to be a valid ground for divorce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/juhi-chawla-s-pleas-against-fine-frivolous-delhi-hc-101625684541191.html
08-07-2021||India||Monsoon likely to revive from today, says IMD||After a hiatus of around 10 days, the monsoon is likely to revive gradually from Thursday onwards and spread across northwest India over the weekend, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. There has been a 5% deficiency in the rain in the country since June 1. Central India is 7% rain deficient, northwest India 13%, and east and northeast 2%.IMD scientists are expecting active monsoon conditions in northwest India around July 16-17 when a low-pressure system is expected to move there. Moist easterly winds in the lower levels from the Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. They are likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10. Accordingly, the southwest monsoon is likely to advance into the remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, more parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Delhi around July 10, IMD said in its bulletin on Wednesday.A deviation in the predicted weather pattern has led to delayed and scanty rainfall in most parts of the country. The subdued monsoon has coincided with the critical period of sowing and paddy transplantation. It is likely to impact agricultural activities such as sowing and transplantation of crops, irrigation scheduling, and power requirements.A western disturbance is also likely to impact the Western Himalayas and parts of northwest India around July 10. “There will be rain over northwest India on July 10 and 11 and then an active spell of monsoon is likely around July 16. This is because a low-pressure system is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal on July 11 which will travel north-westwards covering central India and move towards Rajasthan. It is likely to bring a lot of rain in its path,” said DS Pai, who heads IMD’s climate research and services. “A western disturbance is also likely to affect the region around July 10, but it may not weaken the monsoon winds. Sometimes monsoon winds interact with westerlies to bring heavy rain.”RMSI, a global disaster risk management firm, said on Tuesday that the mid-latitude westerly winds and westerly trough approaching northwest India would hold back the rapid monsoon advancement during the next week. So, Delhi and other north-western areas would not get much rain as should normally be the case after the arrival of the monsoon.Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather, said western disturbances have been forming one after the other but they are feeble. “The Madden Julian Oscillation (characterised by a band of rain clouds moving across the tropics) is likely to be in the Indian Ocean in the next couple of days which will enhance monsoon flow. So, we do not expect the monsoon to weaken.”IMD said scattered to widespread rainfall was very likely in Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh from July 8 onwards. Isolated very heavy rainfall was also very likely in Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on April 8, West Madhya Pradesh on April 11, and East Madhya Pradesh on July 10. IMD said scattered to widespread rainfall was also very likely in northwest India from July 9 onwards. It added isolated heavy rainfall was also very likely in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh from July 9 and in East Rajasthan from July 10 onwards. IMD said due to the strengthening of monsoon over the Arabian Sea and likely formation of a low-pressure area over the west-central Bay of Bengal around July 11, enhanced rainfall activity was very likely along the west coast from July 9 onwards.Due to the revival of monsoon from July 8, rainfall intensity and distribution is very likely to decrease over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, and Tripura from July 9 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-revive-from-today-says-imd-101625684421248.html
08-07-2021||India||SC orders CBI probe in Haryana land case||NEW DELHI The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the culpability of Haryana government functionaries and officials for releasing nearly 400-acre land in Rohtak from acquisition, and granting colonisation licences on 280 acres to real estate developer Uddar Gagan Properties in 2005-06, when Bhupinder Singh Hooda was the chief minister.A three-judge bench headed by Justice Uday U Lalit expressed dissatisfaction with the inquiries conducted by the Haryana government, saying it was time to hand over the probe to the central agency for a thorough investigation into illegalities and the role of officials in releasing the land to Uddar Gagan.This the second instance of the CBI investigating the alleged complicity of Haryana government officials and private builders in tainted land deals when Bhupinder Singh Hooda was the chief minister between 2005 and 2014. The CBI, which was probing the land deal in Gurugram’s Manesar at the instance of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, was told by the Supreme Court in March 2018 to also look into substantial sums allegedly paid to “middlemen” for the Manesar deal.The bench, which included Justice Ajay Rastogi and Justice Aniruddha Bose, expressed anguish at the government’s inaction in fastening the responsibility of its officials for their role in releasing 400 acres of land in Rohtak.“This court delivered a judgment in 2016, and five years down the line, we are still groping in the dark. We wanted the fraud to be unearthed, and we wanted those involved should be proceeded against. But the whole thing looks like a subterfuge now,” observed the bench.It lamented that the latest inquiry report by an IAS officer, Anurag Rastogi, flagged just a “systemic failure” and did not fix anyone’s responsibility.“According to you, everything is a systemic failure and nothing is wrong. But there will naturally be somebody and more people behind this whole thing,” the bench told Haryana’s senior additional advocate general Anil Grover.The judges accepted the submission of senior advocate and amicus curiae Joydeep Gupta that the present case warrants a CBI probe since all inquiries by the state governments have failed to pinpoint the culpability of any official of the state government. Advocate Kanika Agnihotri, who represents real estate developer Uddar Gagan Properties, was present during the hearing.Anil Grover, on behalf of the state government, opposed a CBI probe, saying that the facts of this case were entirely different from the facts of Manesar’s land acquisition case where middlemen were said to be involved. He supported the findings of the inquiry reports by Rastogi and the previous report by retired high court judge RS Madan.But the court turned down the submission and recorded in its order: “Having considered the submissions of the amicus and his contentions about the previous order in Rameshwar Vs Haryana, in our view the matter must be made over to CBI to consider all the issues pertaining to direction 33.9 in Uddar Gagan judgment (relating to the role of persons responsible).”The bench clarified that it has not pronounced upon the merits of the matter which shall be looked into by the CBI independently and the agency will submit a report in the court.Nearly 850 acres of land was proposed to be acquired in 2002 for residential and commercial sectors in Rohtak by the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA). However, the award was passed for around 422 acres in April 2005.In March 2005, realtor Uddar Gagan Properties Ltd entered into a collaboration agreement with some farmers, whose land was acquired to develop a colony. The builder applied for a licence to develop a colony on 280 acres.The licences were granted by the town and country planning director in June 2006, and the corresponding land was released from acquisition. The licences were addressed to the owners but remitted to the builder.Upholding the land acquisition process, the top court had in May 2006 ordered that the land will vest in HUDA free from all encumbrances, adding all land-release orders in favour of the builder for the land covered stood quashed.The Manesar case pertained to the alleged purchase of 400 acres of land from farmers for ₹100 crore when the actual worth (according to market rate) was ₹1,600 crore. The purchase, according to the CBI, was made during 2004-2007, under the “threat and false apprehension of acquisition of the land by the state government” while the officials continued giving licences to the private realtors for developing the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-cbi-probe-in-haryana-land-case-101625684361335.html
08-07-2021||India||In memoriam Dilip Kumar: The thespian’s last bow||For most of us, the passing of Dilip Kumar is a tragic event, the end of an era. We know that he was one of the greatest actors — in international terms, even — of the 20th century.But what we may forget is that Dilip Kumar was much more than an actor. In many ways, he was an embodiment of the hopes and aspirations of a post-Independence generation that dreamt of an India that overcame the divisions of religion and progressed to take its place as one of the great nations of the world.In the 1950s, when the term nation-building was in vogue, and Dilip Kumar was already a big star, Jawaharlal Nehru enlisted him for the task of helping build up morale in the young nation. He fronted several social welfare programmes, starred in patriotic short films and appeared at events designed to promote national integration or to raise funds for the armed forces. He did all this for free; it never occurred to him to ask for money when it came to patriotic causes.There was, of course, always an elephant in the room. In the years immediately following Partition, Dilip Kumar was the most popular Muslim in India. He was as popular as all of today’s Khans put together and far more respected. Nehru used him to demonstrate that though Pakistan was a Muslim homeland, India was a secular country where Muslims could rise to the very top and be loved by all Indians regardless of their religion.Dilip Kumar was happy to help but always slightly awkward when people mentioned his religion. How did it matter that he was a Muslim? Why couldn’t he just be treated as another Indian, he would ask?But, of course, it did matter. He was born Yusuf Khan and all his friends called him Yusuf. He changed his name, it was widely believed, to appeal across the religious divide. He always denied that interpretation. Many names had been considered, he said, and he almost chose the name Jehangir, but Dilip Kumar just sounded better.Well perhaps.But it is hard to deny that throughout his career, his Muslimness never ceased to matter. I first met him when I was a small boy and the censors were demanding scores of cuts in his film Ganga Jamuna. My father was his lawyer and he was shocked to find that one of the cuts demanded was that the last words of the character played by Dilip Kumar should be cut. The words were “Hey Ram” and the censors said they could not accept him saying those words on screen.My father pushed the point and the censors finally came back with a weak explanation. Well, they said, the character was a dacoit. How could he use the same last words as Gandhiji? Finally, and with bad grace, the censors conceded the point.For all this, Dilip Kumar never took the easy way out. I have been searching my memory but I cannot come up with a single Muslim he played on screen with the exception of Salim in Mughal-e-Azam. He was an Indian, he said, and he would not be tied to any particular religion or community.But that was not how everybody else saw it. In the early sixties, the Calcutta police arrested a young man who they said was a Pakistani agent. They recovered a diary from him which included the names of many Muslims, including Dilip Kumar. A team arrived in Mumbai, raided the house of these Muslims on the grounds that they might all be spies. Even Dilip Kumar was not spared. They came to check if there was a secret transmitter in his house that he used to communicate with his Pakistani handlers! For a time, it even seemed possible that he would be arrested.It is worth remembering that all of this happened when Nehru was prime minister. Even then, there was no dearth of prejudice. Decades later, the Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Nirupam launched an attack on Dilip Kumar’s so-called divided loyalties and said to me in an interview that Dilip Kumar’s expenses were met by Pakistan. Nirupam’s reward was to be granted admission to the Congress, where he became Rahul Gandhi’s favourite.So no single party has a monopoly on communal prejudice.The last time I interviewed Dilip Kumar was for HT Brunch when Mughal-e-Azam was re-released a decade or so ago. His health was already failing but he was eager to talk. As always, he did not dwell on the bad times and the prejudice. He had earned the love of Indians across all communities, he said. Why talk about his bad times?He had, almost throughout his life, a curiously detached view of his career. He often acted as though Dilip Kumar the star was a different person from him. I met him in the early 1980s on the sets of Kranti, one of the films that launched his comeback as a sort of character-actor. I asked him why he took the role. (The film was horrible). He said, “Well, I thought about it. And if it is the beginning of a new chapter for Dilip Kumar, then it has to be the kind of cinema that works today.”In his heyday, he was famously choosy, making just one film a year and (it was said) taking control of the movie from the director and the scriptwriter. This meant that he made some very good movies. But there were also many stinkers.Often his reasons for turning down films seem flawed in retrospect. The British director David Lean pushed him to play Sharif Ali in Lawrence of Arabia. Dilip Kumar turned down the film arguing that he would not be convincing as an Arab. The part went to Omar Sharif who became a star.When I asked him if he regretted that decision, he was philosophical. “How do you know the film would have been a hit if I had taken the role?” he smiled. “I would have been so unconvincing that I could have sunk the film!”He outlived all of his contemporaries but even at the end, when he was old and frail, lovingly cared for by his wife Saira Banu (“ever since I was a school girl”, she once told me, “my ambition was to marry Dilip Kumar”), he never gave up on the things he believed in.He still talked about patriotism, about the future of India and about communal harmony. By then ‘nation-building’ had become a punch line and ‘secularism’ had fallen from favour.But not for Dilip Kumar. Till his last breath, he believed.Vir Sanghvi writes a column called the Taste for the Hindustan TimesTRIBUTES TO THE ACTOR
08-07-2021||India||Petrol at ₹100/L in Delhi, hits century in all metros||Petrol prices crossed ₹100 per litre in Delhi and Kolkata on Wednesday after fuel retailers raised prices by 35 paise per litre even as international crude oil prices slumped on Tuesday following an inconclusive meeting of the producers’ cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) -- over supply cuts. Domestic fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their respective international benchmarks of previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates. Pump rates of auto fuels rose in India on Wednesday even as international oil prices fell sharply the previous day. An impasse in the meeting of OPEC+ saw profit booking on Tuesday that led to a sharp 3.4% decline in Brent crude to $74.53 per barrel after it hit the session’s peak at $77.84, the highest since October 2018. The US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude also fell 2.4% to $73.37 that day, after hitting $76.98 during the intraday trade, its highest since November 2014. The international oil price rally resumed on Wednesday. Brent opened weak on Wednesday, but gained $1.40, or 1.88%, to $75.93 a barrel during intraday trades. The Wednesday revision of India’s domestic fuel rates is the 36th hike in last 65 days that has made petrol costlier by ₹9.81 per litre and diesel by ₹8.8 a litre since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. Petrol is now priced at ₹100.21 per litre and diesel at ₹89.59 a litre in New Delhi. While fuel rates of state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes, local levies, and transport surcharges. With the latest hike, petrol rates in all major metros have crossed ₹100 per litre. In Kolkata, petrol is priced at ₹100.23 per litre and diesel at ₹92.50 a litre. The cost of one litre of petrol in financial capital Mumbai is now ₹106.25 and diesel, ₹97.09. High fuel prices have an inflationary effect on the economy. Fuel prices have a weightage of 6.8% (fuel and light) in the consumer price index of CPI, a measure of retail inflation. The latest CPI number, for May, is 6.3%, above the Reserve bank of India’s comfort level of 6%. The highest fuel rates have been recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar where pumps are selling petrol at ₹111.50 per litre and diesel at ₹102.78 a litre. Surging international oil rates and skewed domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps. In Delhi, central levies account for 33.29% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to an official data of July 1. On diesel, central taxes account for around 35.66% while state taxes, about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The unrelenting upward movement of fuel rates since May 4 has already seen petrol prices crossing the ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, particularly in states and Union territories (UTs) of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Manipur, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Bihar, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Some of the cities selling petrol for over ₹100 per litre are Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Salem, Thiruvananthapuram, Mohali and Darjeeling. Even as international oil prices saw volatility since May 4, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude falling to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest over the past 46 days, petrol and diesel rates went up on May 21 by 19 paise per litre and 29 paise a litre, respectively. According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies are recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one UT. During the 66-day pause on price hikes, state-run retailers also reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively, in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010, and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-at-100-l-in-delhi-hits-century-in-all-metros-101625684304137.html
08-07-2021||India||UP approves Kanwar Yatra amid pandemic||Lucknow/Varanasi: The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government has decided to allow the annual Kanwar Yatra from July 25, senior government officials said on Wednesday. But enforcing Covid-19 guidelines and arranging Ganga water for the devotees with Uttarakhand blocking access to Haridwar will be the major challenges. Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal said detailed guidelines regarding the yatra will be issued soon. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked us to coordinate with neighbouring Bihar and Uttarakhand and ensure Covid guidelines are followed during the yatra,” Sehgal said. Another senior government official said on condition of anonymity that top officials were figuring out how to coordinate with the Uttarakhand authorities after the government there cancelled the yatra again due to the pandemic and asked the devotees not to come to Haridwar to collect Ganga water. “We are thinking of different options if devotees are not allowed to visit Haridwar to collect Ganga Jal. One option could be to provide water from Haridwar through tankers to the devotees in UP; the other could be to persuade the devotees to collect Ganga water by staying within UP,” the official cited above said. The Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage carried out by the devotees of Lord Shiva who collect water from River Ganga (usually at Haridwar in Uttarakhand) and offer that at Shiva temples in their respective states. The devotees, called kanwariyas, come from far-off places, covering hundreds of kilometres on foot, and visit places along the Ganga. Apart from Haridwar, they visit Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand and Sultanganj in Bihar. Last year, the pilgrimage was not held in Uttar Pradesh due to the pandemic restrictions. Nearly 50 lakh devotees have participated in this annual pilgrimage in the past, including around 10 lakh people only from the districts of west UP that are closer to Haridwar.However, kanwar yatras in the past have been mired in communal violence too. This time, said UP additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar, directions have been issued to ensure that no meat shops operate along the yatra routes to prevent any communal flare-up. Kumar also said that a plan has been chalked out to ensure no law-and-order problems are created due to restrictions imposed by the neighbouring states. “We are in touch with Uttarakhand state authorities and trying to sort out the issue. We are also trying to coordinate with the Bihar authorities,” Kumar said. The ADG also said that the police have been asked to make all necessary arrangements like preparing route charts for the devotees, intensifying patrolling, maintaining aerial surveillance through drones on the yatra route, etc. District police chiefs have also been asked to impart behavioural training to the personnel on ground to deal with the devotees. In Varanasi, which is another preferred spot to offer Ganga water to Lord Shiva at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, preparations have already been done following which Varanasi commissioner of police (CP) A Satish Ganesh held a meeting with senior police officials. In Varanasi, over 30 lakh kanwariyas visit the Shiva temple to offer Ganga Jal and Sangam Jal (water from the confluence of the Ganga,Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati rivers in Prayagraj).The Varanasi police commissioner said any decision regarding Kanwar Yatra taken by the government will be implemented. He said police personnel deployed for the security of Kashi Vishwanath Temple and Gyanvapi Mosque would be imparted behavioural training to deal with the devotees. Over 50,000 devotees visit the Kashi Vishwanth Temple daily on other days in the Hindu month of Shravan, while the number goes up to 3 lakh on all Mondays during the month. They include kanwariyas from Prayagraj, Jaunpur, Bhadohi, Mirzapur, Ghazipur and various other districts. In 2020, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, only around 30,000 devotees offered prayers at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple on the Mondays of Shravan. The figure was about 10,000 daily on the other days of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upapproves-kanwar-yatra-amid-pandemic-101625684303459.html
08-07-2021||India||Health minister Harsh Vardhan changed over Covid-19 crisis||New Delhi: Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday was dropped as India’s minister for health and family welfare, a decision that appeared to stem from his inadequate handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, leading to an erosion of trust in the government as health facilities were overrun particularly during the second national wave.Harsh Vardhan (66), an ENT specialist who practised in east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar until early 1990s, also held the science and technology, and earth sciences portfolios.The second Covid wave, which took a heavy toll from early April to early June -- with the total number of cases and deaths peaking at 414,188 and 4,192 respective in terms of seven-day averages -- exposed the health ministry’s inability to predict such as massive surge, and gaping holes in country’s health care delivery system. A significant number of patients literally died gasping for breath in their homes for want of a hospital bed (both general and ICU), and essential supplies such as oxygen or medicines.Experts said the preparedness for, and handling of, the second wave was inadequate.“We celebrated a little too early; there was insufficient learning from our failures that was quite obvious during the second wave. Health was the core line ministry, and its job should have been to see what was promised regarding health systems was followed through. In the second wave there was a huge gap between what was needed and what was there, which eroded the trust in the government, especially during the second wave,” said Dr Chadrakant Lahariya, a senior public health expert.Another part of the pandemic response that could not keep pace with the requirements imposed by rise in cases was the pace of vaccination.While India offered doses in a graded manner in four phases, its procurement policy and delivery mechanism, coupled with vaccine hesitancy and what appeared to be mixed messages by the health ministry, resulted in a roll-out that appeared suboptimal.For example, in the first three and half months of the campaign (from January 16 to April 30), India administered first doses to 125.38 million people, of which 88% were above the age of 45, while remaining 12% were given to health care and frontline workers in the 18-45 age group. When it expanded the drive to all adults from May 1, India administered 73.04 million first doses to people in the 18-45 age group until June 20. In all, until another policy shift on June 21, 275 million doses were given (225.2 million first and 49.8 second), accounting for 24% of the adult population covered by at least one dose over a five-month period.To be sure, vaccination picked up after June 21, reaching a high of 6.4 million daily doses (7-day average) on June 26. This pace has slowed down again over the past week to just above 4 million daily doses on average, though India remains confident of achieving 100% vaccination by the year-end.“The government should have put in advanced purchase orders; what they did instead is purchase what the manufacturers had on their shelves. So the companies produced the doses at their own pace instead of the government dictating how many doses they need and by when. Now, the vaccination drive needs to focus on people who are likely to die if they get the infection; something which we were doing in January and February when we should have been carrying out large scale vaccination campaign to prevent the second wave,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.Doctors also complained about the lack of adequate support from the government.“As the health minister of this country, he should have led from the front, especially when dealing with safety concerns of people from the medical fraternity who were managing the crisis in adverse conditions. He couldn’t give assurances to health care professionals that their safety will be ensured. The PM himself had to intervene and speak to doctors at least twice, the recent being on the doctors’ day. Ideally, this should have been done through the health minister,” said Dr JA Jayalal, president, Indian Medical Association.The health minister also made several gaffes in the form of statements that did not stem from adequate scientific knowledge.In March 2021, he said that India was in the “endgame” of Covid-19 pandemic. “We are in the endgame of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. Unlike most other countries, we have a steady supply of Covid-19 vaccines that are safe with proven immunogenicity and efficacy.”A month later, cases were at an all-time high.During his tenure, Harsh Vardhan also received flak for endorsing alternative therapy products. He was present at the relaunch of Coronil termed to be “first evidence-based medicine for coronavirus”; and endorsed Ayurvedic Covid-19 treatment and Ayush 64.“We could have done much better than what we have done; a lot of unnecessary animosity could have been avoided,” said Jayalal.Harsh Vardhan did not comment on the matter till the time of print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-changed-over-covid-19-crisis-101625684242948.html
08-07-2021||India||12 ministers dropped in Cabinet rejig||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday dropped 12 ministers from his council, including 6 senior Cabinet ministers (the last time as many Cabinet ministers were dropped was in 1963 during the so-called Kamraj plan), effecting a significant makeover of his team based on performance; and addressing the need to accommodate allies, political imperatives, and requirements, of the next few years.One of the ministers, Thaawarchand Gehlot resigned after being named governor on Tuesday; another, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal `Nishank’ has been unwell for some time; and chemicals and fertilizers minister DV Sadananda Gowda may be needed in Bengaluru to manage the fluid political situation in the state (although there may have been other reasons for his exit as well). But the exits of health and science minister Harsh Vardhan, law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, and I&B and environment minister Prakash Javadekar came as a surprise. It wasn’t immediately clear whether Vardhan, Prasad, and Javadekar would be accommodated in the party organisation. The health minister’s exit is widely seen as a consequence of the patchy way in which India has managed Covid-19. The government has put up a brave front in the face of criticism, and maintained its response was adequate, but Vardhan’s exit may well be acknowledgement that things could have been handled better. Also dropped was Santosh Kumar Gangwar (independent charge of labour), and ministers of state Babul Supriyo, Dhotre Sanjay Shamrao, Rattan Lal Kataria, Pratap Chandra Sarangi and Debasree Chaudhuri have also been dropped. President Ram Nath Kovind has accepted all the resignations. Prasad, the law and IT minister has been removed at a time when India’s first data privacy bill is awaiting parliamentary approval, but people familiar with the matter said that his tussle with social media giants, especially Twitter, created unnecessary controversies for the government. Javadekar’s stint in the environment ministry was also marred by controversies especially when the draft environment impact assessment policy led to a fierce public storm. As Javadekar started getting hundreds and thousands of mails and protest letters, he sought to file a case under the stringent UAPA laws against young climate activists. The Opposition had also charged him for diluting major environmental laws to placate industries.Gowda started his innings in the first Modi government as the minister for law but was soon shifted to ministry for programme implementation and statistics. His regime at the chemical and fertilizers ministry may have been cut short after India reeled under shortage of crucial medicines and drugs during the second wave of the Covid. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to directly supervise availability of medicines and his office regularly called the chemical and fertilizers secretary for Covid review meetings,” said a senior official who asked not to be named. Pokhriyal tested positive for Covid19 in April , seemingly recovered, but then was admitted at AIIMS last month following complications. Union labour minister Gangwar, the people familiar with the matter said, may have paid the price for his ministry’s handling of the migrant crisis during the first wave of Covid-19. His ministry came under severe criticism as hapless migrant workers scrambled to return home last year during the lockdown. The labour ministry even failed to provide a realistic estimate of the returnees. The much-awaited labour reforms, a key agenda of the Modi government to push ease of doing business, also hit road bumps. All four labour codes — on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational health and safety — have been approved in Parliament, but none have been implemented so far. The recent assembly election in West Bengal has also cast a shadow on the reshuffle. The BJP expected to win the state, but it was the TMC that won by a landslide. The two ministers of state, Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri, from Bengal have been dropped after the BJP failed to do well in their areas. Supriyo, who brought little value as a minister in the Modi government, contested and lost the election. Dhotre Sanjay Shamrao and Rattan Lal Kataria have been dropped to accommodate fresh faces, the people familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-ministers-dropped-in-cabinet-rejig-101625684181147.html
08-07-2021||India||Blend of youth, skills and social engineering in Modi’s new Cabinet||New Delhi: The new Union council of ministers sworn in on Wednesday has more representation from socially and economically backward communities, women and people with administrative and legislative experience. The new team is being built within eye on the forthcoming state elections and in line with the party’s outreach towards the socially and economically deprived sections, part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) social engineering strategy. On Wednesday, 43 ministers were sworn in. Of these, 36 are new to the council of ministers; seven are ministers of state (including some ministers of state with independent charge) that have been promoted. Of the 43, seven are women and all are new to the council. The changes, and the resignation of 12 ministers from the council, takes the overall size of the new council of ministers to 77, excluding the prime minister. Of this, 11 are women, including two cabinet ministers (finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and women and child development minister Smriti Irani). There are 27 ministers from 19 other backward class (OBC) communities spread across 15 states; there are eight ministers from the scheduled tribes (ST) from across seven communities and 8 states; and there are 12 ministers from scheduled castes (SC) from across 12 communities and eight states. Five of the ministers from OBC communities and five from SCs/STs are of cabinet rank. There are also five ministers from minority communities (1 Muslim, 1 Sikh, 1 Christian, and 2 Buddhists), including 3 of cabinet rank. “The BJP walks the talk on inclusivity. We choose to go with the constitutional definition of who can be defined as a minority, while the opposition parties only consider Muslims as minorities. It is for the first time probably that proper representation has been given to all communities,” said former MP and spokesperson Bizay Sonkar Shastri. The emphasis on OBCs and SCs/STs -- together, a total of 47 members of the 77-strong council of ministers are from these -- isn’t surprising. The BJP’s success in many states has come from consolidating the traditionally fragmented Hindu vote across OBCs and by appealing to SCs/STs. For example, three of the four ministers inducted from Bengal -- Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik, Alipurduar MP John Barla, and Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur -- are from SC/ST communities. Shastri however said, that electoral compulsions are not the reason for the representation to backward and socially deprived sections. “The BJP’s mantra is Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, and Sabka Vishwas. By giving proportionate representation to OBCs, SCs and STs in the council we have followed our Mantra. The decision also give people confidence that PM Modi believes in social justice and when given a chance delivers on it too,” said Shastri who is also a former chairman of the national commission for SC and ST. The average age of the council of ministers is now 58 years, against the average age of the previous council of 61 years. In all, 14 ministers are under the age of 50 years; of these, six are of cabinet rank. For instance, Pramanik is 35, Thakur 38 and Mirzapur MP Anupriya Patel 40. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always spoken of a new and aspirational India. The choice of candidates for the council of ministers is the implementation of this vision. It is the prerogative of the PM to decide the names of the council which reflects his vision,” said Nalin Kohli, national spokesperson of the BJP. According to people aware of the thinking behind the reshuffle, ministers were also chosen based on their administrative experience to address gaps that have emerged in certain areas -- health, for instance. Of all the ministers in the council, 46 have prior experience. The new council also has ministers with expertise across professional sectors. In all, of the total council of 77, there are 13 lawyers, six doctors, five engineers, seven former civil servants, three MBAs, and seven with Ph.Ds. For instance, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia is a graduate from Harvard and Stanford universities and Rajya Sabha MP Ashwini Vaishnaw is a graduate of Wharton School of Business and IIT-Kanpur. The new council also addresses the electoral need of states going to polls in 2022. Of the 36 new faces, seven are from Uttar Pradesh and three (one new and two elevated) are from Gujarat, two important states that will vote for new assemblies in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blend-of-youth-skills-and-social-engineering-in-modi-s-new-cabinet-101625684123003.html
08-07-2021||India||Delimitation panel continues discussions in J&K||Srinagar: On the second day of its visit to Jammu and Kashmir, the Delimitation Commission on Wednesday met more than three dozen delegations of different political parties, civil society groups and government officials from south Kashmir’s four districts -- Kulgam, Pulwama, Shopian and Anantnag. In the evening, the commission members also met delegations from central and north Kashmir districts – Baramulla, Kupwara, Budgam, Ganderbal and Bandipore.After meeting 17 delegations in Srinagar on Tuesday, the commission members travelled to Pahalgam in Anantnag district on Wednesday and held meetings with delegations of several mainstream political parties -- including the National Conference (NC), Congress, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), People’s Conference, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) -- and groups from various districts of the Union territory. The mainstream parties were represented by their district presidents and other senior leaders. They presented their suggestions and apprehensions about the delimitation process, people aware of the developments said. “We presented them our point of view about delimitation process,” said Congress Pulwama district president Umar Jan soon after the meeting. National Conference leader Altaf Kaloo, who headed the delegation, said they presented the memorandum to the Commission. “We briefed them about the stand of our party vis a vis delimitation.”While the majority of the parties suggested that population should be the main criteria for reorganisation of constituencies, the People’s Conference and the CPI(M) demanded that the census figures of 2011 should be the benchmark for the exercise.Other delegations that met the panel in Pahalgam included members of Social and Vikas Foudnation, Anantnag , Gujjar Ethiad, Pahari Culture and Welfare Forum, Sheikh-ul –Alam Turst, Gujjar and Bakerwal Conference and Sikh Welfare Society.Former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir. The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The Centre has sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls are held there. However, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a grouping of political major parties such as the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP), said they were disappointed over the outcome of the meeting with Modi. The grouping has demanded the restoration of the region’s statehood before elections are held there. It also criticised the lack of “confidence-building measures”.At the time of going to press, the commission members were holding meetings with delegations of political parties from north and central Kashmir districts at a hotel in Pahalgam. Mehbooba Mufti-led PDP and Awami National Conference, both constituents of the PAGD, have decided not to meet the commission, with the former saying that there was a perception that the outcome of the process was pre-planned. On Thursday, the commission will head to the Jammu division to meet delegations from Jammu, Poonch, Rajouri, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba and Reasi districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-panel-continues-discussions-in-jk-101625684122491.html
08-07-2021||India||Hizbul Mujahideen commander killed day after capture in J&K||Srinagar: A top Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) commander, Mehrajuddin Halwai, was killed in an encounter with security forces in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Wednesday, hours after he was captured, police said. Halwai was killed in an exchange of fire when he was taken to locate weapons at a hideout and he allegedly picked up his rifle and started firing at security forces, said officials familiar with the matter.“One of the oldest and top commanders of HM terror outfit, Mehrajuddin Halwai alias Ubaid, got neutralised in the Handwara encounter. He was involved in several terror crimes. A big success,” said Inspector General of Police (Kashmir), Vijay Kumar.Police said Halwai was a contemporary of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani, who was killed in 2016.Halwai was apprehended at a checkpoint at Watyen Handwara on July 6, after he allegedly behaved suspiciously, the police said in a statement, adding that a grenade was also recovered from his possession.According to the police, Halwai was taken to the village of Pazipora Renan Kralgund Handwara on Wednesday, where he tried to pinpoint the location where he had kept his arms and ammunition.“Upon reaching the disclosed hideout location, Halwai picked up his hidden AK-47 rifle and started firing indiscriminately upon the joint search party which led to an encounter. In the ensuing firefight, the said terrorist got killed,” said the statement.Police said they have recovered arms and ammunition, including one AK-47 and four magazines, from the hideout. They added Halwai was a categorized A++ militant and was the group commander of HM. A diploma holder in computer applications, Halwai was responsible for “misusing social media and new methods of communication” for militancy, police said.“He was active since 2012 and was involved in several killings in north Kashmir. He had a long terror crime history including attacks on police, other security forces, and civilian atrocities,” the statement said. It listed a series of attacks in which Halwai and his associates were involved. The statement added the attacks led to the killings of 10 persons including five policemen. “The killed terrorist was well acquainted with modern means of communication by which he would communicate with other terrorists and plan & execute different terror activities on the ground. He was instrumental in motivating and recruitment of youth into terrorist ranks besides raising funds for the promotion of terrorist activities.”This is the third such encounter since June 3.On June 29, a day after the arrest of Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat, police said he was killed in an exchange of fire on Srinagar’s outskirts.On June 3, police said Amin Malik, a resident of south Kashmir’s Tral, was killed in an overnight joint operation after his arrest on May 30. Police claimed he got hold of the service rifle of a constable and fired indiscriminately, critically wounding the constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-mujahideen-commander-killed-day-after-capture-in-jk-101625684001307.html
08-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: 2 Maldivian women oppose bail plea of ex-Kerala top cop in ISRO spy case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ISRO spy case: 2 Maldivian women also oppose bail plea of former Kerala top copTwo Maldivian women, who were arrested and later acquitted in the 1994 Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case, on Wednesday approached the Thiruvananthapuram district court opposing the anticipatory bail plea of former Kerala police chief Sibi Mathew, who was among the police personnel booked last month over the alleged conspiracy to frame scientist Nambi Narayanan in the matter. Read more.'Without a spot of corruption': Babul Supriyo is sad but was 'not asked to quit'Union minister Babul Supriyo on Wednesday resigned from the council of ministers and took to Facebook to clarify that he has resigned from the post and so to frame it like he has been asked to resign might not be proper. Read more.PM Modi's cabinet reshuffle: List of ministers who resignedAhead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet reshuffle some of the big names on Wednesday resigned, the biggest surprise among them being Union minister for health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. Read more.India has administered over 360 million Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered over 360 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, July 6, even as the Centre flagged “revenge travel” since lifting of Covid curbs. The health ministry briefing saw images from various tourist destinations to point out “gross violations” of Covid-appropriate behavior. Read more.Dilip Kumar gets state funeral, is draped in 'beautiful tricolour'. WatchDilip Kumar, one of India's most respected actors known for his roles as a tragic hero in Bollywood films, died on Wednesday morning. For his immense contribution to the world of cinema, he was accorded a state funeral by the government of Maharashtra. Read more.Virat Kohli holds on to his spots in ICC ODI and T20I rankings, KL Rahul rises in T20sIndia might not have played white-ball cricket since March this year but had little impact on the rankings of their stars. Captain Virat Kohli held on to his fifth spot while KL Rahul rose to the sixth place in T20I rankings released by ICC on Wednesday. The Indian captain was at No.2, behind Pakistan's Babar Azam in the ODI rankings, whereas white-ball vice-captain Rohit Sharma held on to his third spot. Read more.Janhvi Kapoor cuts flirty silhouette in ₹5k white swimwear, bomber denim jacketSetting the mercury soaring like never before, Janhvi Kapoor has been flooding the Internet with the trendiest sultry outfits from her summer wardrobe, be it stylish corsets or bikini looks and this week is no different. The Bollywood actor looked beach ready as she cut a flirtatious silhouette in millennial-approved uber-chic swimwear and her latest pictures in the summer outfit are proof. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2-maldivian-women-oppose-bail-plea-of-ex-kerala-top-cop-101625655892141.html
08-07-2021||NA||Breaking News highlights: RBI imposes a monetary penalty on 14 banks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to effect the first reshuffle in his Council of Ministers on Wednesday since he assumed the charge for a second term, in what is tipped to be a "major shake-up" of the government as he looks to make it more representative with an eye on political and governance challenges.Meanwhile, Germany is lifting a ban on most travellers from five countries hit by 'Delta' variant of Covid-19, including India.Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:RBI imposes penalty on 14 banks for non-complianceThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) imposed a monetary penalty on 14 banks for non-compliance regarding certain provisions of its directions.Jaishankar meets Iranian foreign minister in TehranIndia's external affairs minister S Jaishankar met with Iran's foreign minister Javad Zarif in Tehran. Bilateral relations and regional developments were discussed in the meeting, Iran's embassy in New Delhi tweeted.NCP leader Eknath Khadse summoned by ED, asked to appear at 11am on July 8Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to to appear at 11 am on Thursday, reports ANI.First case of Delta Plus Covid-19 variant found in Udham Singh Nagar district in UttarakhandDelta Plus variant of #COVID19 confirmed in one of the samples that were sent for testing, to Delhi last month. This first case of Delta Plus variant was found in Udham Singh Nagar district: Uttarakhand Health Secretary Amit NegiUttarakhand health secretary Amit Negi said that first case of the Delta Plus Covid-19 variant has been found in Udham Singh Nagar district, reports ANI.Haitian President Jovonel Moise assassinated at his home, reports AFPHaitian President Jovonel Moise was assassinated at his home on Wednesday by a commando, interim Prime Minister Claude Joseph announced. Joseph added that he was now in charge of the nation, reports AFP.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee blames PM Modi for allocating more money to BJP-ruled statesAddressing the allocation of funds to the West Bengal government by the Centre, Mamata Banerjee said that PM Modi allocates more money to BJP-led states and less to the ones ruled by opposition parties.Union health secretary writes to Kerala chief secretary to increase Covid control measuresThe health ministry said that despite reporting less cases some cases have reported a high positivity rate.43 leaders expected to take oath as ministers in Union Cabinet rejig todayAs many as 43 leaders will take oath as Union Ministers in the Union Cabinet expansion, to be held later today.Education minister Ramesh steps down from Union cabinet, cites health reasonsAhead of the planned expansion, education minister Ramesh stepped down from the Union cabinet, citing health reasons.Labour minister Santosh Gangwar says he has quit his post: ReportHours before cabinet reshuffle, labour minister Santosh Gangwar says he has quit his post, news agency PTI reported.Pakistan PM Imran Khan condoles the demise of veteran actor Dilip KumarSaddened to learn of Dilip Kumar's passing. I can never forget his generosity in giving his time to help raise funds for SKMTH when project launched. This is the most difficult time - to raise first 10% of the funds & his appearance in Pak & London helped raise huge amounts.Calcutta HC slams ₹5 lakh penalty on Mamata Banerjee for seeking recusal of judge over alleged links with BJPCalcutta HC imposes a penalty of ₹5 lakh on Mamata Banerjee for seeking recusal of justice Kausik Chanda from her election petition due to judge's links with BJP as a lawyer. Mamata's application is rejected by justice Chanda.Justice Chanda, however, decides not to hear the case any further in his personal discretion and releases the case from his bench.Dilip Kumar's funeral today at 5pmDilip Kumar's funeral to take place today at 5:00 PM at Juhu Qabrastan Santacruz, Mumbai, announcement shared via his official Twitter account, states.Jaishankar leaves for Russia via Tehran, agenda is Taliban in AfghanistanPrime Minister Narendra Modi will reshuffle his Cabinet today but it is business as usual for the government with External Affairs Minister (EAS Jaishankar leaving for a bilateral visit to Moscow via Tehran with developments in Afghanistan top of the agenda. Read More Earthquake of 5.2 magnitude hits Goalpara, AssamAn earthquake of magnitude 5.2 on the Richter scale hit Goalpara, Assam at 8.45 am today, says National Centre for Seismology.PM Modi condoles passing away of veteran actor Dilip KumarDilip Kumar Ji will be remembered as a cinematic legend. He was blessed with unparalleled brilliance, due to which audiences across generations were enthralled. His passing away is a loss to our cultural world. Condolences to his family, friends and innumerable admirers. RIP.PM Narendra Modi condoles the passing away of veteran actor Dilip Kumar, saying, "he will be remembered as a cinematic legend."Petrol price in Delhi crosses ₹100-markPetrol price in Delhi crossed ₹100-mark on Tuesday. Currently it is selling at ₹100.21 per litre and price of diesel is at ₹89.53 per litre.Kitty, wife of late P Rangarajan Kumaramangalam, murdered in DelhiKitty Kumaramangalam, wife of late former Union Minister P Rangarajan Kumaramangalam, was murdered at her residence in Vasant Vihar last night. The police have arrested a person, and searching for other two accused, DCP South-West said.Jammu districts ban storage, sale or possession of dronesDays after the twin explosion at Jammu air base, district authorities in Samba, Ramban and Baramulla have ban storage, sale or possession of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles.Cabinet expansion buzz as key leaders arrive in CapitalThe elevation of union Minister for social Justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot to a gubernatorial position on Tuesday lent credence to the speculation that an expansion of the union council of ministers is on the cards.PDP says it won’t meet Jammu-Kashmir delimitation panelThe Mehbooba Mufti-led Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) declined to meet the Delimitation Commission on Tuesday, even as leaders of other mainstream political parties in Kashmir met the members of the Centre’s panel hours after they arrived in Srinagar for a four-day tour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-7-2021-101625615127608.html
08-07-2021||India||Gangs of Bengaluru: The bloody history of gang wars in licence raj era||Bengaluru: On the morning of 25 January 1977, Gopi Thigalarpete, a wanted rowdy, was on his way to appear before a city court in Bengaluru. As soon as he entered the premises of the court number 2, a man, flanked with a dozen armed persons, approached him while concealing a sword under the shawl. In a matter of seconds, the gang brutally attacked Gopi, who ran inside the courtroom to take cover. Though Gopi survived the attack and later recorded his statement with police, the case was one of the rarest occasions where a judge became the complainant. The man involved in the murder attempt was identified as Jayaraj P, a criminal who is often acknowledged as the first don of Bengaluru. In her 2017 book ‘Bhais of Bengaluru’ (loosely translated as goons of Bengaluru), journalist Jyoti Shelar highlights how criminal gangs wreaked terror in several parts of the city. According to police, it was Jayaraj, a former employee of the Hindustan Aeronautical Limited (HAL), who started an organised underworld in the city.After being fired from HAL for skipping work, Jayaraj, who was also a bodybuilder, took to extortion as his next career option. His fate in the crime world took a leap, when D Nataraj, the son-in-law of former two-term chief minister D Devaraj Urs, took him under his wing. Also Read: Gangs of Bengaluru: How IT boom changed the face of gang wars“Nataraj, in a press statement, had once said that he wanted to model Indira Brigade on the lines of Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti (KGB)—the main security agency of the erstwhile Soviet Union. Nataraj envisioned Indira Brigade would function like a powerful and robust intelligence unit. The main aim of the brigade was to protect Indira Gandhi,” Shelar writes in her book. Jayaraj soon became the leader of the Indira Brigade, which, police say, was nothing but a gang of goons protected by some leaders of the ruling dispensation. “They were just goondas, who were at the disposal of Nataraj and chief minister Urs to be used as muscle for the political work. They started by harassing and looting couples at parks, but with political backing, they graduated to extortion, and most of them had attempt to murder or assault cases against them. The fear they created worked in the favour of the ruling party,” said a retired senior police officer, who didn’t wish to be named. Retired assistant commissioner of police BB Ashok Kumar said the gang was so notorious that they had their own torture rooms. “When we raided Jayaraj’s house in Wilson Garden once, we found a torture room in his backyard garage. In another instance, a police inspector of Wilson Garden was trying to trace Jayaraj, who had threatened him in the police station. He even kept a sword in front of the officer to scare him,” the retired officer recounted. However, his reign came to an end, with the murder attempt in the court premises. Soon after the attack in court, Jayaraj went into hiding, taking shelters in houses of several politicians. Around this time, Jayaraj also had a fallout with Nataraj, according to police officials. With Judge Chandrasekaraya’s testimony against Jayaraj, he was sentenced to 10-year imprisonment in 1979. The void created by Jayaraj’s arrest was filled by one of his old mates and a former navy sailor, Ramachandra Rao alias Kotwal Ramachandra. With Jayaraj in jail, Kotwal grew closer to the political masters. “He was a perverted character. He dressed well but he enjoyed harassing couples at parks. But over time, he took over Jayaraj’s extortion business and all the haftas (extortion money) paid to him. He was as intimidating as Jayaraj to the businessmen in the city,” said the retired officer. Jayaraj tried to control the extortion business from the prison and even sent his men around the city to ensure his presence was felt. However, Kotwal was simultaneously expanding his reach in the city. In 1984, after serving a reduced sentence of five years, Jayaraj came out of prison. Realising that Kotwal had taken over his empire, Jayaraj ordered attacks on Kotwal’s gang to send a strong message. After the battle for supremacy, which continued for over two years, on January 3, 1986, a compromise meeting was arranged between the two gangs. But instead of a compromise, Kotwal attempted to murder Jayaraj during that meeting. But the assassination attempt failed. Two months later, on March 22, 1986, Kotwal was hacked to death. Kotwal’s murder has been recounted in detail by one of the killers, Agni Sreedhar, a civil service aspirant-turned criminal, in his memoir, My Days in the Underworld—Rise of the Bangalore Mafia. Agni and his associates, Bachchan and Seetharam Shetty, were small-time criminals involved in intimidation and other minor crimes. In the book, he writes how Jayaraj approached him to execute Kotwal. Agni also writes how he made it clear to Jayaraj that the latter’s grouse against Kotwal was personal and that under no circumstances should his name be linked to the murder and the underworld. Jayaraj was ready to face murder charges as it would earn him the reputation of being the city’s most dreaded criminal. Finally, along with associates Bachchan and Shetty, Agni killed Kotwal in his sleep, at the latter’s farmhouse. Jayaraj and his men burned Kotwal’s body after the murder. In his book, Agni describes the murder by recounting Shetty’s statement to the police after he was arrested, three months later: “When the moon went behind the clouds, I looked at everyone. They all nodded. I hit Kotwal on the head with a machete. Bachchan landed blows to his neck and head. Sreedhar struck with a nunchaku. Kotwal died without offering resistance.”Following Shetty’s statement, police arrested Agni, Bachchan and Jayaraj in 1986. Agni and his associates served a jail term of 20 months under trial, before finally being released due to lack of evidence. Meanwhile, Jayaraj, who also came out of the jail on bail, realised that his power over the city had reduced over time. Police had by now cracked down on his gang, which opened an opportunity for another don to takeover Bengaluru’s underworld’s mantle. This time, the void was filled by Muthappa Rai, who worked as a clerk in the Vijaya Bank in Bengaluru. Although a clerk by title, he was involved in the loan recovery for the bank. During this time, he made contact with other criminals in the city and eventually got the job of managing a bar on Bengaluru’s MG Road, which was frequented by goons in the city. He managed to keep the bar from losing business and kept the local goons away, with help of a gang he recruited from his hometown in Dakshin Kannada district. The bar was eventually sold to Rai, who then emerged as the main don in the city. However, Jayaraj was still around. “Rai knew that taking Jayaraj out would make him the don of Bengaluru. He knew the risk involved, so he got in touch with his Mumbai contacts to arrange for firearms. They attacked him in front of the central jail in Bengaluru once and in a hospital another time. In both cases, Jayaraj escaped. During this time, Jayaraj decided to contest elections to gain more power, which made Rai and the gang desperate,” said the retired police officer, who didn’t want to be named. On 21 November 1989, one day before he would go to jail in the murder case, Jayaraj was returning from Siddapura police station after signing the register, as per the court’s order. Around 7.20 am, his car was waylaid, and he was shot dead. The attack was led by Rai and three shooters who were roped in from underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s gang from Mumbai. “Rai went into hiding after the attack, but it had made him don of Bengaluru. Rai was ambitious and authoritarian. He wanted to be the sole power centre in Bengaluru and a one-point contact. Bengaluru had several smaller groups of rowdies, who had earlier owed allegiance to Kotwal and Jayaraj. All these groups were now under Rai, and Sreedhar played the middleman as he had more ground-level contacts,” Shelar, writes in her book. In the beginning of 1990s, liberalisation opened up new opportunities for Bengaluru in the global economy. Around the time, Bengaluru police started major crackdown on various criminal elements and activities in the city. On 12 April 1993, Rai was shot in front of a city civic court, but he managed to escape. He later claimed that police had orchestrated the attack, only for the police to deny the accusation. After getting bail and realising his life was in danger, Rai fled to Dubai. When chief minister HD Deve Gowda pitched for ‘Brand Bengaluru’ to the world during his trip to Davos for the World Economic Forum in 1995, police intensified their crackdown on gangs in the city, to change the recent bloodied history of Bengaluru. While various gangs continued to thrive in the city even in the post-liberalisation era, the gang rivalries spilling out on the streets of Bengaluru were controlled to a large extent in the city for the sake of the IT boom, but more on that in the second part of this two-part series. Part II: How IT boom changed the face of Bengaluru’s gang wars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-notorious-history-of-bengaluru-s-gang-wars-and-their-political-links-101625598195739.html
