09-07-2021||India||Long delayed, monsoon likely to arrive in Delhi on Saturday: IMD||New Delhi: After slowing in mid-June, and then entering a 10-day lull, the monsoon has started reviving and is set to finally advance over Delhi on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said — almost a month after its initial prediction of June 12-15.The monsoon will also cover the remaining parts of western Uttar Pradesh and parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan in the next 24 hours, IMD added.It said the conditions were becoming favourable for the advance of monsoon over the remaining parts of the country between July 11 and 12, and to intensify further in the next three or four days. “Widespread rainfall is likely over northwest India, including Delhi, over the next five days. Besides, isolated heavy rainfall is expected in Delhi and surrounding regions from July 11 -13,” IMD said in its Friday bulletin.“The showers will intensify on July 11, with good rainfall likely across Delhi, and will continue throughout the week at least,” said a senior IMD scientist who asked not to be named. Monsoon showers are expected to hit Gurugram and Noida on Saturday as well, he added. This is already the most delayed monsoon in the Capital for at least 17 years, for which the weather office has records, going back to the 2006, when the seasonal showers hit the city on July 9. Monsoon usually arrives in the city by June 27-28.The monsoon was racing through the country in early June, and the Met predicted last month that it would hit Delhi by June 15, the earliest in the period for which data is available, before it suddenly slowed down and appeared to hit a “break” phase.Since June 1, the country has received 6% less rain than it normally does. Delhi has received only 42% of the rain it receives in that time, while Haryana has got 71%, Chandigarh has received 60%, and Punjab has got 64%, IMD data showed.“During the next 24 hours, monsoon is likely to make its onset over Delhi and other parts of northwest India. Conditions are favourable because easterlies have started coming towards this region... The circulation features and expected weather support the advance of monsoon to northwest India. We saw a spell of rain on Thursday evening as well, and there is some clouding,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.A low-pressure area is likely to form over west-central and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal around July 11, and will further intensify rains over west and central India. “When the low-pressure area develops over Bay of Bengal, good rainfall is expected in its path. To begin with, India Meteorological Department (IMD)‘s May 31 forecast for monsoon onset over Kerala raised hopes of early showers across the country. But this was revised, at the last minute on May 30, to declare the onset of monsoon for June 3. IMD, on June 11, forecast that monsoon would advance to remaining parts of the country outside south Rajasthan and Kutch during the next six to seven days. But the northern limit of monsoon has been stationary. The Northern Limit of southwest monsoon has been stationary since June 19 at Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. IMD initially forecast that monsoon would make onset over Delhi by June 15, around 12 days ahead of its normal onset date. But the weather office gradually deferred it to July 10, nearly a month later than its initial prediction. Independent weather experts backed the latest Met’s prediction.“Easterly winds have started blowing in, and will completely replace the westerly winds. There is already an increase in moisture levels due to easterly winds. During the next two weeks we expect widespread rains across the country, including northwest India,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (climate change and meteorology) at Skymet weather, a private forecaster.He added that the showers will bring Delhi some long-awaited respite from the heatwave conditions. Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 38.2 degrees Celsius on Friday, two notches above normal, but down from 41.8°C the previous day.“The day temperature will drop to around 34°C,” Palawat said.So far, Delhi has seen heatwave conditions from June 29 to July 2 and then on July 7 and 8. Palawat also said that, according to Skymet’s forecast, Delhi is likely to have a “normal” monsoon. “The monsoon will most likely be normal with 103% of long-period average (LPA),” he said. LPA is considered the normal range of temperatures and rainfall, which helps note deviation. Monsoon rainfall in the range of 96%-104% of LPA is considered ‘normal’. Easterly winds are also likely to strengthen at lower levels over northwest India in coming three or four days. Under the influence of these conditions, widespread rainfall is very likely over northwest India in the next five days, said the weather office.Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied with frequent cloud to ground lightning is very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh during next 24 hours. This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals outdoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-delayed-monsoon-likely-to-arrive-in-delhi-on-saturday-imd-101625855310932.html
09-07-2021||India||SC dismisses govt plea against hearings on IT rules in HCs||The Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Centre’s plea to restrain all high courts in the country from passing any order on the government’s new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, which has been challenged in multiple petitions by tech companies, digital news publishers and individual citizens.Refusing to pass any interim order for now, the Supreme Court said the Centre’s transfer petition for shifting all cases pending before different high courts to the top court will be heard on July 16.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna tagged the Centre’s petition with a clutch of other petitions related to regulations that cover over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix and Hotstar. The 2021 IT Rules too apply to OTT platforms, and have become contentious for how it affects social media and digital news. On March 23 this year, a three-judge bench of the top court stayed all High Courts from considering any fresh petitions in connection with the OTT regulations. It will be this bench that will now consider the transfer petition by Centre with regard to petitions challenging the IT Rules 2021 on July 16. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who appeared for Centre, informed the Court that petitions against the IT Rules were pending before the high courts of Delhi, Madras, Bombay and Kerala. These petitions include those by WhatsApp, which has challenged clauses requiring originator of a private message to be traced, news publishers and broadcasters, who have said it violates the fundamental right to free speech, and private citizens like TM Krishna, who has challenged the entirety of the rules on multiple grounds. Mehta stated that the Kerala High Court on Friday had ordered interim protection to the News Broadcasters Association from any coercive action for non-compliance under the IT Rules. The Delhi High Court, on the other hand, refused protection to another set of petitioners. Mehta urged the Court to stay proceedings before various High Courts till the next date of hearing. The bench said, “Today we are simply tagging this matter with the other pending case. That matter is pending before a bench presided over by Justice DY Chandrachud. We will not issue any order except to list this petition before the appropriate bench on July 16.” The Foundation for Independent Journalism, which runs the news website The Wire was present during the proceedings on caveat. It was the first to challenge the rules before the Delhi High Court in March this year. Later, the Quint Digital Media Limited, which runs the website The Quint, also filed a petition that is now pending with the Delhi High Court. Online legal news portal Live Law also moved the Kerala high court against the rules. Senior advocate CU Singh and advocate Liz Mathew, who appeared for the Foundation and Live Law respectively, informed the Court that the matter heard by Justice Chandrachud had nothing to do with the challenge to IT Rules 2021. “Those petitions were filed prior to the coming of the IT Rules 2021 and are on a completely different issue,” said Singh. The IT Rules 2021 were introduced in February this year. The new rules apply to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms, bringing all digital media functionaries under a three-tier oversight mechanism for regulation of content. This comprises of a grievance officer responsible to deal with complaints within 24 hours. The two remaining tiers consist of a self-regulatory body of experts headed by a former judge, and an inter-departmental committee headed by a senior bureaucrat of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The Calcutta High Court too is considering the validity of the IT Rules in a PIL proceeding while a media house has gone to the Karnataka High Court challenging the Rules in question. These petitions have largely claimed that the Rules curtail and restrict the freedom of press in India and claim the conditions imposed under the Digital Media Ethics Code and guidelines to be onerous and beyond the scope of the Information Technology Act 2000. The use of vague words such as “good taste” and “decency” in the Ethics Code are additional challenges to the Rules which, according to many of the petitioners, gave “pervasive control to state over published content”. However, the Centre has said that the Rules are intended to provide speedy redressal of complaints to enable taking down harmful content, personally intimate pictures or videos of individuals within 24 hours. The Rules also require the media functionaries to cooperate with the Government and investigating agencies for purposes of verification of identity, detection and prevention of crimes, and investigation or prosecution of offences. “The Supreme Court’s decision demonstrates that it will not simply believe the government’s assertion that the Rules are perfectly legal unless they unpack the complex regulations. Government could have prevented this situation by not rushing in with the Rules. High Courts interfered as they felt the Rules could be detrimental to online media freedom. This apprehension also stands affirmed by the top court,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia Policy director and senior international counsel at Access Now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-govt-plea-against-hearings-on-it-rules-in-hcs-101625855251531.html
09-07-2021||India||‘No major infirmity’ in purchase of low-floor AC buses, says LG panel||A probe committee appointed by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has given a clean chit to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) over the tendering and procurement of 1,000 air-conditioned (AC) low-floor buses -- an issue that was a bone of contention between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which alleged corruption in the process.The three-member panel, however, recommended floating fresh tenders for its annual maintenance contract (AMC) over what it described as “procedural lapses” arising out of a “bona fide decision-making process”.The report submitted to the L-G this week -- HT has reviewed portions of it -- stated that the committee, prima facie, did not find criminal misconduct by any public official. “The tendering process of purchase of buses warrants no interference and suffers from no major infirmity... The committee, prima facie, did not come across any material to impute criminal misconduct attributable to any public official,” the report said. “There were only procedural lapses apparently arising out of a bona fide decision making process. However, a greater effort for understanding the market and a higher degree of due diligence in assessing reasonableness of bids was required compared to what seems to have been demonstrated,” it added.“…In light of the findings outlined above, the committee recommends that the bid for AMC of buses be scrapped,” the panel, said while giving four recommendations.These included either going for a fresh bid, asking DTC to develop and strengthen in-house capabilities to maintain these buses, suggesting that a fresh bid could be floated for a turnkey operation and maintenance contract for these buses as against a simple AMC contract, and recommending that DTC could rope in experts to design suitable variants of all the stated options. DTC comes under the Delhi government.The panel urged the government take a decision soon based on its recommendations soon, so that there was no gap between the arrival of new buses and their operations. Delhi currently has at least 6,600 buses against the requirement of 11,000 buses, as mandated under various court orders. Bone of contentionIn March last year, DTC floated a tender for procurement of 1,000 CNG low-floor buses, issued another tender for allotting the AMC for these buses four months later. The BJP-led opposition in the Delhi assembly, raising the issue this March, contended that the AMC should have been included in the same tender meant for procuring the buses on the grounds that it would have been cheaper. The Delhi government was spending ₹875 crore in the procurement of the 1,000, buses and the AMC, as per the second tender, was costing the DTC ₹3,500 crore. To be sure, the purchase is a one-time expense, and the maintenance contract is valid for 12 years.Eventually, BJP leaders led by Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta, filed a complaint with the city’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) and the LG. On June 11, the Delhi government put on hold its plan to procure these buses through the DTC, saying it was open to investigation. On June 16, the state vigilance department, on the direction of LG Baijal, constituted a three-member committee headed by former bureaucrat OP Aggarwal. The other two members were principal secretary (vigilance) KR Meena, and transport commissioner Ashish Kundra. The committee, in its report, said that the tender for procurement of buses “warrants no interference”.Suppliers’ marketAt the same time, it noted that there were some deviations from the process outlined in the General Financial Rules (GFR) and Manual for Procurement of Goods in tendering for the AMC. “While separate bids for purchase and AMC can be justified with a view to get greater competition and a larger number of bids, the efforts made to get more bids is not apparent. In fact, the eligibility criteria do appear restrictive and defeat the purpose of splitting the bids. The process of discounting for a longer duration contract was not undertaken and only a total cost evaluation was done.” The panel went on to explain why the DTC may have done so, saying that various court orders limit the corporation to purchasing only low-floor CNG buses. “There are very few others who use such buses, and so DTC (in fact Delhi) has been pushed into a suppliers’ market, with very few manufacturers. These limitations may compel some deviations in the procurement process. Yet, if these deviations had become necessary, DTC should have ensured that they did some kind of reasonableness test of the rates for AMC, especially since the rates were far more than what they had in earlier contracts.” It stated that this incident should be taken as an “opportune occasion” for the transport department to take a hard look at comprehensive reforms of DTC in both the short- and the long-term. Neither the Delhi government nor the LG’s office commented on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-major-infirmity-in-purchase-of-low-floor-ac-buses-says-lg-panel-101625855131647.html
09-07-2021||India||Judges must know their limits, not act like emperors: SC||Judges must not behave like emperors, the Supreme Court observed on Friday as it condemned the practice of summoning government officials by courts “at the drop of a hat and to exert direct or indirect pressure”. The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta took a grim view that some of the high courts in the country have developed a practice of calling government officials routinely which, it said, is against public interest as many important tasks entrusted to such officials get delayed. “Judges must know their limits. They must have modesty and humility, and not behave like emperors. The legislature, the executive and the judiciary all have their own broad spheres of operation. It is not proper for any of these three organs of the state to encroach upon the domain of another, otherwise the delicate balance in the Constitution will be upset, and there will be a reaction,” the bench said, quoting from a 2008 judgment of the Supreme Court. “The line of separation of powers between Judiciary and Executive is sought to be crossed by summoning the officers and in a way, pressurising them to pass an order as per the whims and fancies of the court,” the court noted while hearing an appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government against an order of the Allahabad high court in a service matter. In the case relating to posting and back wages of a medical officer of the state, the high court had passed certain orders which are being contested by the UP government before the top court. In February, the bench had stayed the order of the high court to give back wages to the medical officer but the high court did not hold its hands and still summoned the health secretary of the state in a contempt case against the state government. Disapproving of such orders, the top court held that it is time to reiterate that public officers should not be called to the court unnecessarily. “The dignity and majesty of the court is not enhanced when an officer is called to court. Respect to the court has to be commanded and not demanded and the same is not enhanced by calling public officers,” it said. The bench emphasised that the presence of public officers comes at the cost of other official engagements demanding their attention and may eventually take a toll on the tasks they are supposed to do for the public. “The public officers of the executive are also performing their duties as the third limbs of the governance. The actions or decisions by the officers are not to benefit them, but as a custodian of public funds and in the interest of administration, some decisions are bound to be taken,” the court said. The bench added that a court can always set aside a decision which does not meet the test of judicial review but summoning officers frequently “is liable to be condemned in the strongest words.” Citing the example of the judiciary, the bench underscored that court proceedings also take time since there is no mechanism of fixed time hearing. “The courts have the power of a pen which is more effective than the presence of an officer in the court. If any particular issue arises for consideration before the court and the advocate representing the state is not able to answer, it is advised to write such doubt in the order and give time to the state or its officers to respond,” the bench maintained. The top court also set aside the orders of the high court initiating contempt proceedings against the state government as well as the directive to pay back wages to the medical officer. It noted that the high court was wrong in granting relief to the medical officer who did not join his posting for 13 years on the pretext of not receiving his joining order in 2002. The court said that it was not open to the medical officer to defy the order of transfer on the ground of non-communication when more than 100 medical officers were transferred by the same common transfer order and then he chose not to join where he was posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-must-know-their-limits-not-act-like-emperors-sc-101625854893450.html
09-07-2021||India||UCC shouldn’t remain a mere hope in Constitution: HC||New Delhi The Delhi high court has said a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) should not remain a mere hope in the Constitution, expressing regret over conflicts in society due to differences in various personal laws.A single-judge bench of justice Pratibha M Singh said there is a requirement for such a code that would be “common to all” and enable uniform principles being applied in respect of aspects such as marriage, divorce, succession, etc so that settled principles, safeguards and procedures can be laid down. In a judgment dated July 7 that was released on Friday, the bench said the need for a UCC has been reiterated from time to time by the Supreme Court.“In modern Indian society, which is gradually becoming homogenous, the traditional barriers of religion, community and caste are slowly dissipating. The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws, especially in relation to marriage and divorce.”“The hope expressed in Article 44 of the Constitution that the State shall secure for its citizens a Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope,” justice Singh said in her judgment of July 7. The court said more than three decades have passed since the apex court, in 1985, directed the law ministry to take appropriate steps. “More than three decades have passed since then and it is unclear as to what steps have been taken in this regard till date. Accordingly, let the copy of the present judgment be communicated to the Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice, Government of India, for necessary action as deemed appropriate,” the court said in a 27-page judgment.The court’s observation came while hearing a plea involving the applicability of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 in respect of parties belonging to the Meena community.The couple got married in 2012 under Hindu rites and customs and had a child in 2013. In 2015, the husband initiated a divorce petition in the trial court.Opposing the same, the wife filed an application in a city court contending that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 do not apply to the parties concerned as they are members of a notified Scheduled Tribe in Rajasthan. The trial court, while dismissing the husband’s divorce petition, held that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act would not apply to the couple, as they belonged to the Meena community.Challenging this judgment, the husband had moved to the high court where the wife argued that even though she was married under the Hindu Marriage Act, that would not take away her status of belonging to a particular community.On July 7, while setting aside this judgment, the high court said that even though the parties belonged to the Meena community, their marriage was solemnised according to Hindu rites and ceremonies and they follow Hindu customs.It said that this stance has been made clear in various documents submitted by the wife, including the marriage invitation and the FIR.The court said that if the members of a tribe voluntarily chose to follow Hindu customs, traditions and rites, they cannot be kept out of the purview of the provision of the Hindu Marriage Act. “…nothing has been placed before the court to show that the Meena tribe has a specialised court with proper procedures to deal with these issues,” the court said.“Thus, insofar as divorce proceedings are concerned, if proper tribal customs are not established or the following of Hindu customs or rites is admitted by the parties, there is no reason to hold that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 would not apply,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ucc-shouldn-t-remain-a-mere-hope-in-constitution-hc-101625854891594.html
09-07-2021||India||Trust acquires more land to expand Ayodhya temple complex||In order to expand the 70-acre Ram temple complex, the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra has purchased at least 4,514 sq metre adjoining land in Ayodhya, where some of the oldest temples, including Kaushalya Bhavan, Fikerah Ram Mandir and Deen Kuti Mandir, are situated. Around 250 to 300 years old, these temples share their boundaries with the Ram Janmabhoomi campus.Mahant Kaushal Kishore Tripathi and Mahant Yashoda Nandan Tripathi, aka Mahant Lalluji, two brothers who own the 1,881 sq metre Kaushalya Bhavan, have been paid ₹4 crore and an alternative plot.“(Trust general secretary) Champat Rai, the Ayodhya mayor and (Trust member) Anil Mishra came to meet us to request for handover of the Kaushalya Bhavan for expansion of the Ram Janmabhoomi campus,” said Mahant Yashoda Nandan Tripathi.“Since ages, people have been waiting for the Ram Mandir to come up in Ayodhya. Now, when the temple is being constructed, the Trust wants our land for expansion of the Ram Janmabhoomi. We have handed over (sold) the property to the Trust,” added Tripathi.Mahant Raghuvar Saran of 2,633 sq metre Fikerah Ram Mandir, too, has been given ₹3.70 crore and an alternative land. “My temple is inside the Ram Janmabhoomi. I had no option but to accept the Trust’s offer to sell the land for expansion of Ram Mandir,” said Saran.“But I had demanded alternative land in the Ramkot area only for my new temple. I did not want to move out of this locality,” he added.The Trust has purchased Deen Kuti Mandir for ₹30 lakh from Mahant Sant Das. Das, however, handed over the amount to his followers before his death in May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-acquires-more-land-to-expand-ayodhya-temple-complex-101625854830884.html
09-07-2021||India||WhatsApp will put policy on hold till data law is enacted||WhatsApp on Friday told the Delhi high court that it has “voluntarily agreed to put on hold” its new privacy policy till India enacts the proposed data protection law, while adding that users will not be compelled to accept new terms in a significant climbdown from its recent stance.WhatsApp, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh that it would not compel users to give consent for the new policy, but will continue to remind them about the update to the terms and conditions. The policy had also caught attention of the Competition Commission of India (CCI), which launched an inquiry against which the company filed a court appeal.“The update which triggered the inquiry of CCI is, for the present, we have voluntarily agreed to put it on hold…We will not compel people to accept…We will continue to display our updates from time to time to people who have not accepted. In addition, we will display the update whenever a user chooses relevant optional features, like when a user communicates with a business receiving support from Facebook,” Salve told the court. The controversy relates to WhatsApp making it mandatory for people to consent sharing data about their interaction with businesses (not including the actual message contents) on the app with Facebook companies if they wanted to keep using the service.“The commitment is that I will not do anything till the parliamentary law comes. Obviously, then if parliamentary law comes, you have to fit within that law. If Parliament allows me to have a separate policy for India, I will have it. If it does not allow me, then bad luck. I will then have to take a call,” said Salve.Friday’s stance is a significant departure from what the company said on May 17, when senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp on that day, told the court that user accounts can be deleted for not accepting the new privacy policy. Sibal had said that contrary to reports, WhatsApp was not deferring its update on the privacy policy and it came into force from May 15. He said that it would not straightaway delete the accounts and would rather persuade people to come on board. The contentious privacy policy also invited interventions by the Union government, which on multiple occasions urged the company to withdraw it.The court was hearing the appeals of Facebook and its firm WhatsApp against a single-judge order refusing to stop the competition regulator CCI from beginning a probe into WhatsApp’s privacy policy.Salve argued that since the policy is on hold, the basis of the probe -- the privacy policy -- has been stalled and the inquiry by CCI “had become academic”.But, the court remarked: “You are not implementing it but the policy is with you and any day it can come”. It asked Salve about the opt-out option being given to the European users and not to the Indian users. To this Salve said: “Objectionable part was ‘take it or leave it’. For present, ‘take it or leave it’ is something we are not doing. Opt in, opt out is not there. If a user gives consent to the new privacy policy, his data would be shared. If they don’t, there is no change. Everybody is using WhatsApp even if they agree or not to allow sharing of the information of the users.”He also said that WhatsApp has informed the Union government about the developments related to the implementation of the security policy after the latter sent a communication on May 13, asking them to withdraw the policy.The communication sent to it in May established that the privacy policy was already a subject matter of hearing before the Supreme Court and the high court.“Government has asked us to shut down the policy. We have said we will not enforce it till the Data Protection Bill comes out. That is open-ended because we don’t know when the Bill is going to come out.... Suppose the Bill allows me to do it, we will have completely different ramifications,” Salve submitted.Opposing WhatsApp’s stand, additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, for CCI, argued that as long as the privacy policy existed, its implications will continue to persist. He said that the matter before CCI was only at the stage of inquiry and “nothing is going to happen even if steps are taken”.“As long as policy stands, competition law issues persist... It is not as if by filing reply anything detrimental will happen until the court hears and disposes the matter,” Lekhi said, responding to WhatsApp’s contention that it should not be compelled to respond to information sought by CCI.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, contended that the Supreme Court is hearing an appeal against WhatsApp’s privacy policy and hence CCI cannot be allowed to hold inquiry above a superior constitutional authority.The court, while refusing to allow an impleadment application opposing WhatsApp’s plea, posted the matter for July 30.Experts said WhatsApp’s latest stand did not have a legal foundation. “It ultimately diverts the attention from the main issue that the privacy policy is in violation of IT Act and Rules. So rather than addressing that, what effectively WhatsApp is saying that we will continue to perpetuate our contravention under till a data protection law comes. That leads to WhatsApp losing its immunity against criminal prosecution. WhatsApp cannot wait for a new policy to justify its scheme which is in violation to the current law,” said senior advocate Pavan Duggal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-will-put-policy-on-hold-till-data-law-is-enacted-101625854110864.html
09-07-2021||India||Delhi rolls out graded plan for Covid-19 curbs||Private offices, malls, weekly markets and the Metro will be shut down in Delhi if the test positivity rate (TPR) rises above 2%, and the city will be put under a curfew if the number breaches 5%, according to a new Covid-19 action plan approved by authorities that sets clear thresholds for curbs that kick in from as low as 0.5% TPR in order to scuttle an outbreak.The graded response action plan, which harks back to a similar mechanism to fight air pollution during pre-winter months, was drafted by an expert committee formed by the Delhi government and approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). It classifies outbreak severity into four bands – yellow, amber, orange and red – with each representing a more severe outbreak and, thus, stricter curbs than the one preceding it. “In today’s DDMA meeting, ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ was approved. There will now be no confusion regarding when lockdown is to be imposed and when scaled down. In the meeting, we also had discussions on Delta+ variant. We have to protect Delhi from spread of this variant (of the virus), for which the government is taking all necessary actions,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted after the meeting. The colour-coded classifications take into account three factors: the test positivity rate over two consecutive days, new cases over a seven-day period, and the average weekly hospital occupancy rate (see box). Had such rules been in place prior to the April wave of infections in the Capital, a lockdown would have been put into place 10 days sooner than it was – the city crossed the 5% threshold for what is now the red alert category on April 9. A full lockdown was announced only on April 19. To be sure, the test positivity rate in the Capital has been 0.12% over the past two days, there have been 580 cases in the last seven days and, over the last week, the number of hospital beds occupied has reduced form a little over 620 to 450 on Friday.“Now that this plan is going to be in view of the public, there will be a sense of certainty and accountability on our part towards the people of Delhi. The plan descriptively elaborates upon when the lockdown will be imposed and when it will be lifted. This kind of a graded plan should be adopted at the national level as well… We can’t let our guard down, the preparation for the road map of an impending third (nationwide) wave (of Covid-19) is being worked upon consistently by the Delhi government,” Kejriwal said in a press statement. The chief minister is the vice-chairperson of the DDMA, which is headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. A senior official in Baijal’s office, who asked not to be named, said: “After detailed deliberations and presentations made by the health department of the Delhi government and the Indian Council of Medical Research, it was decided to notify the graded response action plan that will objectively and transparently ensure an institutional and automatic response with regards to enforcement measures, lock downs and unlock based on criteria such as test positivity rate and quantum of cases.” According to the plan, seen by HT, the first of curbs are triggered when the positivity rate crosses 0.5%, or new cases over a week exceeds 1,500, or if there are more than 500 oxygen beds occupied on average over a seven-day period. Once any of these thresholds are breached, the city is under a yellow alert mechanism in which non-essential shops are allowed to open only on an odd-even basis, a night curfew comes into force, and offices are required to move half of their staff to a work-from-home function.If test positivity, case numbers and hospitalisations rise further, the amber alert comes into effect. In this scenario, some venues and activities are completely halted: parks need to close, barber shops cannot open, and dining in at restaurants will be prohibited (as will the opening of bars). Amber alert is when TPR rises above 1%, or if there are more than 3,500 cases over a week, or if oxygen bed occupancy surpasses 700.The next alert level, orange, takes effect if TPR breaches 2%, the number of new cases in a week goes beyond 9,000, or if the average number of oxygen beds occupied over the week goes beyond 3,000. In this scenario, private offices, malls, Metro rail services and weekly markets will be shut down. In the most severe red alert category (if TPR is above 5%, cumulative weekly case above 16,000 or hospital occupancy above 3,000), there will be a 24-hour curfew with people allowed outside only for essential services. In this scenario, all offices engaged in non-essential work need to shift to a completely work-from-home functioning.The new mechanism also makes it mandatory for incoming passengers in the national capital to produce a certificate of full vaccination (both doses) or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours if Delhi is on red alert. People coming by air from states with positivity rate higher than 5%, or if they come by any mode of transport from a state with positivity rate is of 10% or more, irrespective of the alert applicable in Delhi, too, will be subjected to the same requirements. People coming from a state where a new variant is found spreading, irrespective of the nature of alert in Delhi at that point, will also need to show vaccination certificates or a negative test, the documents said.Friday’s DDMA meeting was also attended by Dr VK Paul of Niti Aayog, Dr Balram Bhargav of ICMR, Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, and Dr SK Singh of NCDC, said the official in the L-G’s office. Experts welcomed the response plan. Dr Charu Hans, the head of the department of microbiology at Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences, said: “Such anticipatory actions are likely to prevent any delays and avoid confusion, and conceivably lead to effective preventive measures in limiting the spread of Covid-19 disease. The experience gained in the last two waves of the disease and learning about mutations of the virus have enabled the government to come up with such a strategy. This strategy can play an important role in limiting the impact of a potential third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-rolls-out-graded-plan-for-covid-19-curbs-101625854051507.html
09-07-2021||India||Afghanistan must get legit govt: Jaishankar||India on Friday stressed the need for a legitimate government in Afghanistan and a reduction in violence, saying the situation in the war-torn country has implications for regional security and stability. External affairs minister S Jaishankar articulated India’s position during a joint news conference with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Moscow against the backdrop of efforts by the Taliban to project itself as a key player following a campaign of targeted assassinations and attacks on crucial districts. “Violence cannot be the solution for the situation in Afghanistan. And at the end of the day, who governs Afghanistan has a legitimacy aspect to it. I think that is something which cannot and should not be ignored,” Jaishankar said in response to a question on whether the world community could make peace with the fact that Afghanistan would be controlled by the Taliban. Expressing concern at the “direction of events in Afghanistan”, Jaishankar referred to India’s stated policy of not interfering in the internal affairs of other countries. “In many cases, when there is volatility in a society, we leave the people of that country to work it out. But Afghanistan is a very different case because now for more than 30 years, there have been international conferences, groups [and] formats to discuss how to stabilise and bring about peace in Afghanistan,” he said. “And the reason is because it has proven implications for regional security and regional stability. So the point right now we stress is that we must see a reduction in violence,” he added. In his opening remarks at the news conference, Jaishankar said the situation in Afghanistan “occupied a lot of our attention because it has a direct implication for regional security”. He added, “We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence and if we have to see peace within Afghanistan and around Afghanistan, it’s important for India and Russia to work together and ensure that much of the progress that we’ve seen in economic, social and democratic terms are maintained. We are both committed to an independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan.” Lavrov said the situation in Afghanistan was of “great concern” to Russia because the violence might spill over the borders into Central Asian states. Jaishankar’s remarks came a day after a Taliban delegation led by key negotiator Shahabuddin Delawar, which was in Moscow for talks with Russian officials, asserted that the group controls “85% of Afghanistan’s territory”. Delawar told a news conference in Moscow that the US “was forced to leave our territory” because the Taliban brought the Afghan population over to its side under the “principle of Islam”. Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted Delawar’s delegation met Zamir Kabulov, Russia’s special envoy for Afghanistan, and discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan and the peace process. Shaheen said Delawar had “maintained that all borders now in [Taliban] control will remain open and functional”, and that the group would not “target diplomats, embassies and consulates, NGOs and their staff”. India has been calling for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire to end the violence that has coincided with the rapid drawdown of US forces, 90% of which has been completed. US President Joe Biden has said the withdrawal of troops will be completed by August 31, triggering concerns in the region that resultant vacuum will add to the instability in Afghanistan and have far-reaching security implications. Though New Delhi has steadfastly backed the government of President Ashraf Ghani, it recently opened channels of communication with some Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-must-get-legit-govt-jaishankar-101625854050853.html
09-07-2021||India||India can help boost our air power: Afghan envoy||With air power emerging as a key element in the campaign by Afghan security forces against the Taliban, Afghanistan is looking to India, the US and Russia to help bolster the country’s fledgling air force, Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay said on Friday. Amid reports of intense fighting in several parts of Afghanistan and the capture of a large number of districts and some crucial border crossings by the Taliban, Mamundzay rejected assessments by some Western powers about the possible collapse of Afghan security forces. He, however, acknowledged the situation is “very dire”, with the fighting displacing more than 200,000 people and resulting in nearly 4,000 civilian deaths since mid-April. The Afghan envoy ruled out the possibility of seeking Indian boots on the ground but said New Delhi could assist Kabul with military hardware, intelligence and logistics support and financial resources in the fight against regional and international terrorist groups, including a “big percentage of foreign fighters”. Describing air support air support as a “game changer”, Mamundzay said: “Our assessment is [that] if we have the required air support, Taliban would never be able to capture any district. And just to give you one instance, should we have 15 to 20 Mi-35 helicopters, or 30 to 40 Black Hawks, they would not be able to hold ground.” He added, “Taliban have the same equipment, weapons and ammunition that we have. Our superiority lies in air support and we appreciate the support that the US has recently promised, that they would support us with more air support. We call on all responsible countries in the region, including Russia, Iran and India, to provide us the required air support.” Mamundzay said there is “active conflict” in almost 150 districts of the total of 400 districts in Afghanistan’s 34 provinces. “Taliban has been capturing a number of capitals of the districts, which has caused an outcry from the local population and the government. In the past three days, we have been able to recapture 10 districts. Now, this would continue for a number of months, we would capture districts, they would recapture it back,” he said. The drawdown of US troops, he said, “could have been handled in a more organised and planned manner”. Mamundzay described the assessment by some Western capitals about the possible collapse of Afghan forces and the government in Kabul in six to 12 months as “very unrealistic”. He said: “We outnumber Taliban by five or six times, a force of 70,000 to 75,000 cannot face a force of around 400,000...We are going through a turbulent time, but the resilience of our people and the heroic patriotism of our forces is there to defend Afghanistan.” The Taliban are delaying the peace process by not setting a time frame for returning to talks “because they want to gain more territory so that they would speak from a position of strength should we get to the negotiating table again”, Mamundzay said. The Taliban also want to prove to “their foot soldiers, ground commanders and affiliates and associates that they are back in power. We have reports that al-Qaeda, Jundullah, ETIM, LeT and JeM are celebrating Taliban’s victories,” he added. The situation has been further complicated because none of the processes aimed at kick-starting peace talks – from the “extended Troika” backed by Russia to the talks arranged by Iran and the process in Doha – have “delivered any results”, the envoy said. “We feel that Taliban are buying time for themselves to continue with their military adventurism and capture more land. And then when we get to winter, they will propose peace negotiations when fighting is difficult. And then they speak from the position of strength, that we hold XYZ percentage of the landmass, now agree to a peace deal on our terms, or else face defeat,” Mamundzay said. Describing Pakistan as the “country in the region with the most influence over the Taliban”, Mamundzay said: “We expected Pakistan to play a very constructive role to bring Taliban to the negotiating table, use that influence that the Pakistanis used to help the Americans...We expected the government of Pakistan to help us in the same manner, in the same spirit so that Kabul and Taliban reach a dignified and lasting deal. “We sadly have not seen the kind of role that we expected Islamabad to play. I hope in the weeks ahead, that calculus will change and they will begin to play a more constructive role.” Asked about what India could do to find a lasting solution in Afghanistan, Mamundzay said India could enhance the political and diplomatic support it currently provides, including helping at the UN Security Council with the listing and delisting of Taliban leaders and forging the required consensus in the region for the peace process. India should continue its economic and development assistance and also look at the possibility of “security assistance should we not reach a dignified and lasting peace deal with the Taliban”, he said. “If we get to a stage where war is imposed on the Afghan public, then we look at India for military and security assistance to protect our people and to fight terrorist groups. So we have not yet got to that stage, we’re still giving a peace a chance,” Mamundzay added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-help-boost-our-air-power-afghan-envoy-101625853570903.html
09-07-2021||India||‘Violence cannot be the solution,” Jaishankar expresses need for legitimate govt in Afghanistan||India on Friday asserted the need for a legitimate government in Afghanistan and a reduction in violence, saying the situation in the war-torn country has implications for regional security and stability.External affairs minister S Jaishankar articulated India’s position during a joint news conference with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Moscow against the backdrop of efforts by the Taliban to project itself as a key player following a campaign of targeted assassinations and attacks on crucial districts.“Violence cannot be the solution for the situation in Afghanistan. And at the end of the day, who governs Afghanistan has a legitimacy aspect to it. I think that is something which cannot and should not be ignored,” Jaishankar said in response to a question on whether the world community could make peace with the fact that Afghanistan would be controlled by the Taliban.Expressing concern at the “direction of events in Afghanistan”, Jaishankar referred to India’s stated policy of not interfering in the internal affairs of other countries. “In many cases, when there is volatility in a society, we leave the people of that country to work it out. But Afghanistan is a very different case because now for more than 30 years, there have been international conferences, groups [and] formats to discuss how to stabilise and bring about peace in Afghanistan,” he said. “And the reason is because it has proven implications for regional security and regional stability. So the point right now we stress is that we must see a reduction in violence,” he added. In his opening remarks at the news conference, Jaishankar said the situation in Afghanistan “occupied a lot of our attention because it has a direct implication for regional security”. Also read: ‘Hope Pakistan begins to play more constructive role in peace process’ - Afghan ambassadorHe added, “We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence and if we have to see peace within Afghanistan and around Afghanistan, it’s important for India and Russia to work together and ensure that much of the progress that we’ve seen in economic, social and democratic terms are maintained. We are both committed to an independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan.”Lavrov said the situation in Afghanistan was of “great concern” to Russia because the violence might spill over the borders into Central Asian states.Jaishankar’s remarks came a day after a Taliban delegation led by key negotiator Shahabuddin Delawar, which was in Moscow for talks with Russian officials, asserted that the group controls “85 percent of Afghanistan’s territory”.Delawar told a news conference in Moscow that the US “was forced to leave our territory” because the Taliban brought the Afghan population over to its side under the “principle of Islam”. Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted Delawar’s delegation met Zamir Kabulov, Russia’s special envoy for Afghanistan, and discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan and the peace process.Shaheen said Delawar had “maintained that all borders now in [Taliban] control will remain open and functional and that the group would not “target diplomats, embassies and consulates, NGOs and their staff”.India has been calling for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire to end the violence that has coincided with the rapid drawdown of US forces, 90% of which has been completed. US President Joe Biden has said the withdrawal of troops will be completed by August 31, triggering concerns in the region that the resultant vacuum will add to the instability in Afghanistan and have far-reaching security implications.Though New Delhi has steadfastly backed the government of President Ashraf Ghani, it recently opened channels of communication with some Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-cannot-be-the-solution-jaishankar-expresses-need-for-legitimate-govt-in-afghanistan-101625852791498.html
09-07-2021||India||Jaishankar begins visit to Georgia by handing over relic of revered saint||External affairs minister S Jaishankar began an official visit to Georgia on Friday by handing over a holy relic of Ketevan the Martyr, a 17th-century queen of Kakheti region revered as a saint by the Georgian orthodox church, that was found in India.Jaishankar handed over the relic placed inside an ornate wooden box to his Georgian counterpart David Zalkaliani at the airport. This was followed by a religious ceremony that was attended by Patriarch Ilia II, the spiritual leader of the Georgian orthodox church, and Prime Minister Irakli Garibashvili.There has been a persistent request from the Georgian side for the permanent transfer of the holy relics of Saint Ketevan found in India. Taking into account the historical, religious and spiritual sentiments attached to Saint Ketevan by the Georgian people, the Indian government decided to gift one part of the holy relics to the government and people of Georgia. The move is aimed at strengthening friendship and understanding between India and Georgia.“Warmly welcomed in Tbilisi by FM @DZalkaliani. Blessed to hand over the holy relics of St. Queen Ketevan to the people of Georgia. An emotional moment...,” Jaishankar tweeted, along with images of the hand-over ceremony.Also read: ‘Legitimacy aspect’ of ruling Afghanistan should not be ignored, says JaishankarKetevan the Martyr, who was the queen of Kakheti in eastern Georgia, a hilly region known for its wine, offered herself as a hostage to Persian Shah Abbas I in 1614 in a failed attempt to prevent Kakheti from being attacked by Iranian forces. She was held in Shiraz until 1624 when she was tortured and killed after refusing to convert to Islam.Two Portuguese friars of the order of St Augustine exhumed the queen’s body in 1628, and it is believed her right arm was brought to Goa in 1627 to be interred in the St Augustine complex.Her relics were found at the St. Augustine Convent in Goa in 2005 on the basis of medieval Portuguese records. Acting on a request from the Archaeological Survey of India, the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad carried out a mitochondrial DNA analysis which confirmed in 2013 that the bone fragments were consistent with being from a Georgian woman.In 2017, at the request of the Georgian government, India sent the relics to Georgia for an exhibition for six months. The relics were then personally received by Patriarch Ilia II and a large number of Georgians. The loan of the relics was extended for another six months before they were returned to India in September 2018. Jaishankar is visiting Georgia during July 9-10 at the invitation of Zalkaliani. This will be the first visit of an Indian foreign minister to independent Georgia. He will have a meeting with his counterpart that will cover different aspects of bilateral ties and issues of regional and global interest. He will also unveil the newly installed statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Tbilisi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-begins-visit-to-georgia-by-handing-over-relic-of-revered-saint-101625852732001.html
09-07-2021||India||‘We're not afraid of Covid': Tourists in Haridwar ditch masks, social distancing||The drop in the number of Covid-19 cases coupled with the scorching heat in northwestern Indian states have led to a major influx of tourists to Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh in search of some much-needed respite. It might be a welcome sign for the travel and tourism industry but it has come much to the displeasure of government officials, health experts as well as the top ministers of the government.Pictures of tourists across tourist hotspots in both these states invited widespread concern at a time when the second wave is still going on. While medical experts say that the nation is not yet out of the woods, some defiant tourists believe otherwise.Uttarakhand | Devotees throng to Har ki Pauri in Haridwar as state govt eases COVID-19 restrictions."We feel like we have come out of jail after 2 yrs. There is a huge crowd. We are not scared of COVID-19. We have come here before 3rd wave," says a tourist pic.twitter.com/o7nhZ84WdSNews agency ANI on Friday shared visuals of people bathing in the river Ganga in Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar. The tourists said that they are not afraid of Covid-19 and were confident that they ‘arrived before the third wave’.“We feel like we have come out of jail after 2 years. There is a huge crowd but we are not scared of Covid-19. We have come here before the third wave,” two young tourists were quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Haridwar city police official Abhay Singh said efforts are being made to bring awareness among people. “We are trying to make people aware and we had a meeting with hotel and vanshala unions. Everyone wants to see Har ki Pauri. After a certain limit, we are requesting remaining travellers to not go to ghat,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A post shared by Dharamshala Triund Mcleodganj™ (@dharamshalalocal)A video of a child in Dharamshala asking travellers to wear masks went viral but tourists were seen wilfully flouting Covid-19 preventative measures in all of these pictures and videos on the web. Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed his concern about the tourists flouting Covid-19 norms.#WATCH | Tourists throng Himachal Pradesh's Dharmshala, many were not wearing face masks pic.twitter.com/lmFSlmKNEM“We're concerned about the number of tourists coming to the state. Tourists are welcome here but I appeal to them to follow Covid-19 norms,” Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur said.The health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have termed these scenes from tourists spots as ‘frightening’ and said that such flouting of rules can lead to a third wave much faster than expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-not-afraid-of-covid-tourists-in-haridwar-ditch-masks-social-distancing-101625847264001.html
09-07-2021||India||When will 2nd wave of Covid in India be over? Govt's top adviser explains in 4 points||When daily Covid-19 cases fall to 10,000 in India and the figure is maintained for at least three weeks, the 2nd wave of the pandemic can be presumed to be over, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said on Friday, adding that the current decline in the daily number of cases is not an indication that the second wave is over.A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the issue of recent crowding at several tourist places in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the health ministry repeated its warning that such careless behaviour is a direct invitation to Coronavirus. The transmission of the virus can still be arrested if these travellers quarantine themselves after returning from the hills.Look at Russia, UK, Bangladesh: Government's fresh warning to revenge travellersThe 2nd wave of the pandemic is not over, Dr Paul said explaining 4 points that establish that the wave is still on.> Rate of decline in the number of cases has become slow, which shows that the situation is not to be taken lightly, Dr Paul said.> Second wave is still visible in some districts of particular two states -- Maharashtra and Kerala, and the northeastern states. "This shows that the country is not yet in the safe zone. This has happened earlier too that cases are localised at one point of time and then they suddenly explode," the adviser said.> Daily case of ranging between 35,000 and 37,000 is not a small number, Dr Paul said, adding that this number looks small because of the peak the country experienced. The present daily number is still one-third of the peak of the first wave.> The daily number is far from the baseline. "Baseline would be 10,000 cases and when it is maintained for at least three weeks, then we can say that we have brought the situation under control," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-2nd-wave-of-covid-in-india-be-over-govt-s-top-adviser-explains-in-4-points-101625847905739.html
09-07-2021||India||Gujarat schools, colleges to reopen from July 15 with 50% strength, attendance not mandatory, says CM Rupani||The Gujarat government on Friday announced that educational institutions would be reopened in the state from July 15 and would be allowed to function with half the attendance on campus. It also said that attendance will not be mandatory for students and they can attend classes on a voluntary basis.Colleges for undergraduate and postgraduate students along with schools for class 12 students would be reopened from July 15, news agency ANI reported, citing chief minister Vijay Rupani. “50% of students will be allowed to attend campuses. Students can attend physical classes on a voluntary basis. Attendance will not be mandatory,” Rupani said.Also read | Covid-19 updates: All you need to know about coronavirus right nowThe chief minister’s decision to reopen schools in the state followed the easing of restrictions in some cities announced earlier on Thursday (July 8). Night curfew would be revoked in 10 out of the 18 cities in Gujarat beginning July 10. Meanwhile, it will continue in the cities of Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar between 10pm and 6am. Commercial establishments such as restaurants, shops and beauty parlours would be allowed to remain open till 9pm. Home delivery of food has also been permitted till midnight. Attendance at weddings has been capped at 150, which was earlier 100. Public gardens are also allowed to operate until 9pm.However, the government said that despite the curfew, coaching classes for all students above class 9, post-graduate courses and also for competitive exams would be permitted with 50% attendance. Also, the occupancy allowed in public transports have been increased from 60% to 75%, the government said.According to Thursday's order, Bhuj, Morbi, Patan, Mehsana, Bharuch, Navsari, Valsad, Ankleshwar, Vapi and Gandhidham cities will have no night curfew.On Friday, 56 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Gujarat and one person succumbed to the illness, the state health department said in a bulletin. No fatalities were reported earlier on Wednesday and Thursday in the state. Cumulative cases in the state rose to 824,147 and the death toll reached 10,073. As many as 1,356 active cases of the disease have been reported as of date.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-schools-colleges-to-reopen-from-july-15-with-50-strength-attendance-not-mandatory-says-cm-rupani-101625847020151.html
09-07-2021||India||Belgium recognises Covishield vaccines, allows students to travel to country||Belgium on Friday recognised the Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. Arnaud Lion, Belgium’s ambassador to India, said that since India falls under category 3 in Belgium - which means it will only allow essential travel - students from India will be considered to travel to Belgium, according to news agency ANI.Belgium 🇧🇪 recognizes Covishield, the @AstraZeneca vaccine produced by @SerumInstIndia and distributed by COVAX.⁰An important decision for 🇮🇳🇳🇵🇧🇹🇱🇰🇲🇻 🇧🇩 in the fight against vaccine inequality! @MEAIndia @IndEmbassyBru @FMBhutan @MoFAmv @MFA_SriLanka @BDMOFA @MofaNepal. https://t.co/jf4jzLjYqMLion said that 400 long-stay visas have been issued so far to students in India. Indians vaccinated with Covishield will still have to undergo an RT-PCR test in Belgium. Only after they test negative, they will be exempted from quarantine.“Covishield is one of the main vaccines, which was, is and will be used under the Covax facility. Covishield will be used not only in India or in neighbouring countries, but also all over the world. You cannot isolate a country,” Lion was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Today our Deputy Chief of Mission/Chargé d'affaires @ArnaudLion4 spoke with @ANI on recognition of COVISHIELD by Belgium 🇧🇪. @BelgiumMFA @MEAIndia @EU_in_India https://t.co/t40dLNeV7h“India comes under Category III, which means we only allow essential travel from countries under that category. Hence students will be considered under essential travel. Since Monday, we have delivered over 100 long-stay visas in Delhi and 300 of these visas in Mumbai,” he added.Earlier, the Belgian embassy in India announced that it has recognised Covishield via a tweet. The Netherlands approved Covishield earlier this week for travellers. These two nations join Switzerland, Iceland and seven European Union countries that have recognised Covishield. Austria, Germany, Slovenia, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Estonia and Spain have recognised the SII-manufactured vaccine. The Estonian government said that they recognise all the vaccines approved by the Government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/belgium-recognises-covishield-vaccines-allows-students-to-travel-to-country-101625846342043.html
09-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt explains why pregnant women must take Covid-19 jabs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid may cause pre-term delivery: Govt on why pregnant women must take jabsThe Centre on Friday said pregnant women must take vaccines against Covid-19 without any hesitation as all scientific studies are now in favour of pregnant women getting vaccinated. Read moreI don’t understand his batting: Ramiz Raja says Pakistan all-rounder should have a ‘profile like Hardik Pandya’Pakistan were poor in the first One Day International against England. Pakistan batsmen could only score 141 runs in 35.2 overs before being bowled out by the English bowlers. Read moreAnushka Sharma, Virat Kohli come together in new video for their love for animals. WatchActor Anushka Sharma and her cricketer husband Virat Kohli have appeared in a new video in which they were seen thanking Shiv Sena leader Rahul N Kanal for his work in the field of animal welfare. Read moreThis new WhatsApp feature will let you share top quality photos from your phoneTo ensure it stays far ahead of its rivals in the messenger app space, WhatsApp is working on a number of features that are aimed at improving the overall experience of its users on the messaging platform. Read moreUSA fears Taliban attack? Why Joe Biden expedited Afghanistan exitThe Taliban is on a collision course with the Afghanistan government and forces, with violence reaching a feverish pitch. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-says-pregnant-women-can-take-covid-19-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news-101625843941876.html
09-07-2021||India||High alert in Kerala after Zika outbreak, 14 cases confirmed||Grappling with a heavy caseload of Covid-19, Kerala has been put on high alert after the Zika virus outbreak. The Union government has rushed a team of experts to the state. At least 14 cases have been confirmed, said the state health ministry.A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Parasala in Thiruvananthapuram district was the first to test positive for Zika on Thursday, later 13 others were added to the list. Of the 19 samples sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, 14 were found to be positive. Health minister Veena George later called an emergency meeting and an action plan was formulated.“We have started a vigorous vector control programme and the whole state was alerted. We are monitoring the situation closely and more testing labs will be opened,” said the minister, adding that there is no need for panic. The woman has no travel history and it is suspected that she was infected locally. Health officials said samples were sent to the NIV last week and the mother gave birth normally on July 7, both mother and child are stable. At least 60 other samples were sent to Pune and health authorities are busy making arrangements to test samples at the NIV regional centre in Alappuzha.A surveillance team, vector control experts and entomology units visited the area where the woman lived and took precautions to prevent further spread.The health authorities hoped that further spread could be contained with an utmost vigil as all the patients lived not far from the house of the initial patient. Some of the affected are health workers. “They were all working at a private hospital. We will check their travel history and take immediate action,” the minister said.In Delhi, health joint secretary Lav Agarwal said a 6-member expert team has been rushed to help the state. “The six-member team includes vector-borne disease experts and doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences,” he said. The virus is mostly spread by mosquitoes, though it can also be sexually transmitted, said experts. However, few people die from Zika and only one in five develops symptoms. The symptoms of the disease, first identified in monkeys in Uganda in 1947 and the first human reported from Nigeria in 1954, include joint pain, fever and headache. In May 2015, it was reported in Brazil and spread rapidly. It leads to shrunken brain in children and a rare auto-immune disease called Guillain-Barre syndrome, experts said, adding it was first reported in the country in Gujarat in 2017.Meanwhile, the state’s Covid-19 cases remain quite high. On Friday, Kerala reported 13,563 new cases of Covid-19 with a high test positivity rate of 10.4 per cent. For almost a month the state has been reporting the highest number of cases in the country. It also reported 130 deaths taking the toll to 14,380.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-alert-in-kerala-after-zika-outbreak-14-cases-confirmed-101625840431851.html
09-07-2021||India||Covid may cause pre-term delivery: Govt on why pregnant women must take jabs||The Centre on Friday said pregnant women must take vaccines against Covid-19 without any hesitation as all scientific studies are now in favour of pregnant women getting vaccinated. In fact, pregnant women should take vaccines for two special reasons, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said. "The impact of Covid-19 in pregnant women is not different from that of others. But for pregnant women, Covid becomes a serious disease as the physiology of pregnant women at that point of time is different," Dr Paul explained."There might be or might not be some other pregnancy-related complications. It is the question of two lives. But it is not the only reason. There are risks of pre-term delivery too if a pregnant woman gets infected by Covid. Then it affects both the mother and the premature baby. So the vaccine has been recommended as it can prevent such complications," Dr Paul said.'We should be watchful': Govt on Covid's Lambda variant in IndiaThe ministry has recently issued a guideline allowing the vaccination of pregnant women in India. All the three vaccines available in India -- Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik -- are safe for pregnant women and they should take it, the government has said.The vaccination drive in India began in January but pregnant women were not allowed to take vaccines as the clinical trials did not include pregnant women. "We took time to recommend vaccination for pregnant women as studies were going on and now as all studies are in favour of vaccination for pregnant women, we are strongly recommending it," Dr Paul said.Pregnant women do not need to undergo any test before being vaccinated, the government said adding that the vaccine is safe for menstruating women and has no effect on the fertility of both men and women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-may-cause-pre-term-delivery-govt-on-why-pregnant-women-must-take-jabs-101625839079229.html
09-07-2021||India||Shiv Sena says new cabinet move may end Pankaja Munde’s career, latter refutes claim||The Shiv Sena on Friday said the induction of Bhagwat Karad in the new cabinet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is aimed at finishing off Pankaja Munde’s political career. Karad has been junior minister the Union Finance department.Also Read: New team starts with focus on farm, healthIn an editorial published in party mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, the Sena said, “Bhagwat Karad has been made a minister of state. This is a move aimed at finishing off (the political career) of Pankaja Munde. Karad, who grew up in the shadow of BJP leader late Gopinath Munde, was made a minister instead of (Pankaja’s sister) Pritam Munde. There is room to doubt whether the move is aimed at creating a division in the Vanjara community (to which Munde and Karad belong) and to teach Pankaja Munde a lesson.”“All eyes were set on the expansion of the Union cabinet. This has been done before the monsoon session of Parliament. It has been carried out as if it is a panacea to problems like the crumbling economy, the health crisis created by the coronavirus pandemic, chaos in the education sector, inflation and unemployment,” the editorial further said.However, Pankaja immediately refuted Sena’s claims and said she is not upset with the BJP for not including her sister in the new team of ministers. “I was born in the Vanjara community and that doesn't mean I should be referred to as a Vanjara or OBC leader. I belong to the state. I am a woman leader and I represent the entire state. It would be wrong to portray me as a Vanjara leader," Munde told news agency PTI on Friday.While stating that she or her sister had not demanded a ministerial berth, Pankaja said this has, however, spread “negativity” among her supporters. "If there is an attempt to reduce anybody's clout, the clout in fact grows stronger. I admit my supporters are upset and there is some negativity, but my sister or I never sought ministerial positions," she told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-says-new-cabinet-move-may-end-pankaja-munde-s-career-latter-refutes-claim-101625837530456.html
09-07-2021||India||'Time-tested ties continue to grow': Jaishankar thanks Russia for Covid-19 aid||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday thanked Russia for its help during the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. Russia had sent at least 22 tonnes of medical supplies to the country when the pandemic was at its peak.“Despite several changes happening across the planet, both before and during the pandemic, our time-tested and trust-based relationship remains very strong and continues to grow. I express my appreciation for the support we received from Russia during the second wave of Covid-19. India is Russia’s partner in the production of Sputnik-V vaccine. We believe that this is not only good for both nations, but it also has positive implications for the rest of the world,” Jaishankar said while addressing a joint press conference with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has tied up with pharmaceutical company Dr Reddy’s to manufacture and produce the Sputnik-V vaccine in India. The RDIF has also tied up with Morepen Laboratories, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech to produce vaccines in the country.Meanwhile, Russian military aircrafts in April delivered at least 20 oxygen production units, 75 ventilators, 150 medical monitors and 2,00,000 packs of medicine.Shortly after delivering the medical aid, Russia also sent its first shipment of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V on May 1. It sent 1,50,000 doses on the same day India launched its vaccination drive against Covid-19 for people between 18 and 45 years of age. Russia on June 1 sent 3 million doses of Sputnik V vaccine to India.Jaishankar, who is on a trip to Russia, said both the countries share strong diplomatic, strategic, medical as well cultural ties. He also termed the relationship between the two nations as one of the ‘steadiest’ after the second World War.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timetested-ties-continues-to-grow-jaishankar-thanks-russia-for-covid-19-aid-101625836758187.html
09-07-2021||India||When will India be free of Covid-19? Virus will become endemic, says top ICMR official||In an indication that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may not completely go away from the country, a senior official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday that the Covid-19 virus, just like influenza, will subsequently "reach its endemic stage." This means that the virus will "always be present" among a certain population or within a region.Also Read | Look at Russia, UK, Bangladesh: Government's fresh warning to revenge travellersAccording to Dr Samiran Panda, who heads ICMR's Division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, once the virus reaches its endemic stage, annual vaccination may be required. "The Covid-19 virus will reach its endemic stage like influenza after a while. Then, the vulnerable population may have to get vaccinated annually," Dr Panda said. He continued, "Commonly known as flu, influenza was a pandemic 100 years ago but today it is endemic. Similarly, in the case of Covid-19, it is expected that it will gradually become endemic from its current stage of pandemic."Also Read | ‘Area of concern’: Health ministry on rise in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, MaharashtraDr Panda further recommended the elderly to take their flu shots every year. "There is no need to panic. As the influenza virus keeps on mutating, minor changes are made to the vaccine simultaneously," the ICMR official said.In the backdrop of concerns over a potential third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the top doctor urged those eligible for vaccination to take their shot from among the vaccines available in the country currently, instead of waiting for globally available shots to be cleared by the country's drug regulator. He also urged breastfeeding mothers to take an anti-Covid shot, explaining that "antibodies which develop in a mother due to the vaccine get passively transferred to the baby while breastfeeding."Also Read: 'We should be watchful': Govt on Covid's Lambda variant in IndiaThe vaccines, Dr Panda said, are "absolutely safe for everyone."India's second Covid-19 wave emerged in late February-early March and was at its peak in April and May. On several days during the peak, the country saw record daily fresh infections and deaths due to the viral disease. The wave has since then receded but fears over a possible third wave remain.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-india-be-free-of-covid-19-virus-may-become-endemic-says-top-icmr-official-101625833444281.html
09-07-2021||India||ICMR-NIV develops RT-LAMP technology for rapid diagnosis of Covid-19. All you need to know||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, have jointly developed “sensitive and cost-effective” RT-LAMP technology for rapid diagnosis of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to ICMR, no other sophisticated instruments are required for the interpretation of results. The medical research body said that the technology has been transferred to two companies for the manufacturing of RT-LAMP kits.What is RT-LAMP technology?Loop-mediated isothermal amplification, or LAMP, is an assay that can be used for viral RNA detection, and reverse-transcription LAMP, or RT-LAMP, allows for quicker analysis of genetic material than traditional PCR. RT-LAMP has been successfully used in the detection of the Sars-Cov-2, which helps fight the pandemic more effectively by detecting the virus quickly.ICMR-NIV developed sensitive and cost effective RT-LAMP technology for rapid diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2. @DeptHealthRes @icmr_niv #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/O5tlSRDBZKCovid-19 and RT-LAMPAfter the World Health Organization (WHO) urgently demanded an extension of screening and testing last year, researchers from the University of Oxford applied RT-LAMP to detect Sars-Cov-2 in 30 minutes. The researchers used a colourimetric change to report the results, which enables people to read the outcome of viral RNA amplification by the naked eye without the need for an expensive or dedicated instrument.They validated the method in a hospital in China, employing 16 clinic samples with 8 positives and 8 negatives. The Covid-19 test results were consistent with the conventional RT-PCR. The researchers also demonstrated how a one-step process without RNA extraction was feasible to achieve RNA amplification directly from a sample, paving way for a large screening at public domain and hospitals, particularly regional hospitals and medical centres in rural areas.The speed, accuracy, and cost-effectiveness of RT-LAMP make it ideal for the diagnosis of Covid-19. While the importance of RT-LAMP in the detection of Sars-Cov-2 was highlighted last year, it has been in the process of being commercialised since then. ICMR-NIV’s RT-LAMP technology could prove significant in the fight against the pandemic as the third wave of Covid-19, according to the experts, is around the corner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmrniv-develops-rt-lamp-technology-for-rapid-diagnosis-of-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know-101625835496801.html
09-07-2021||India||SC to hear Centre’s transfer plea on IT Rules next week||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the proceedings against the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 pending before various High Courts on a plea moved by the Centre to transfer these petitions to the top court.A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna directed the Centre’s transfer petition to be listed on July 16 before another bench that is considering regulations to rein in over the top (OTT) platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix, Hotstar, etc. The 2021 IT Rules also apply to OTT platforms.On March 23 this year, a three-judge bench of the top court had stayed all High Courts from considering any fresh petitions with regard to OTT Regulations. It will be this bench that will now consider the transfer petition by the Centre with regard to petitions challenging the IT Rules 2021 on July 16.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, informed the Court that presently, petitions against the IT Rules were pending before the High Courts of Delhi, Madras, Bombay and Kerala. As per the Rules, the digital media functionaries were to appoint a Grievance Redressal Officer within three months. That period expired in May this year.Mehta stated that the Kerala High Court on Friday had ordered interim protection to the News Broadcasters Association from any coercive action for non-compliance under the IT Rules. The Delhi High Court, on the other hand, had refused protection to another set of petitioners. Mehta urged the Court to stay proceedings before various High Courts till the next date of hearing.The bench said, “Today we are simply tagging this matter with the other pending case. That matter is pending before a bench presided over by Justice DY Chandrachud. We will not issue any order except to list this petition before the appropriate bench on July 16.”The Foundation for Independent Journalism, which runs the news website ‘The Wire’ was present during the proceedings on caveat. The Foundation for Independent Journalism was the first to challenge the Rules before the Delhi High Court in March this year. Later, Quint Digital Media Limited which publishes The Quint also filed a petition and the same is pending with the Delhi High Court.Senior advocate CU Singh and advocate Liz Mathew who appeared for the petitioners before various High Courts informed the Court that the matter heard by Justice Chandrachud had nothing to do with the challenge to IT Rules 2021. “Those petitions were filed prior to the coming of the IT Rules 2021 and are on a completely different issue,” said Singh.The IT Rules 2021 were introduced in February this year. The new rules applied to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms, bringing all digital media functionaries under a three-tier oversight mechanism. This comprised of a grievance officer responsible to deal with complaints for taking down indecent content within 24 hours of a complaint. The two remaining tiers of the oversight system consisted of a self-regulatory body of experts headed by a former judge, and an inter-departmental committee headed by a senior bureaucrat of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.Besides Delhi High Court, petitions challenging the IT Rules are under consideration of the Madras High Court in a petition filed by Digital News Publishers Association among others; Kerala High Court on a petition filed by legal news website Live Law and lately the News Broadcasters Association; and the Bombay High Court on two petitions moved by a journalist and a news portal.Even the Calcutta High Court is considering the validity of the IT Rules in a PIL proceeding while a media house has gone to the Karnataka High Court challenging the Rules in question.These petitions have largely claimed that the Rules curtail and restrict the freedom of the press in India and claim the conditions imposed under the Digital Media Ethics Code and guidelines to be onerous and beyond the scope of the Information Technology Act 2000.The use of vague words such as “good taste” and “decency” in the Ethics Code are additional challenges to the Rules which, according to many of the petitioners, gave “pervasive control to the state over published content”. However, the Centre has said that the Rules are intended to provide speedy redressal of complaints to enable taking down harmful content, personally intimate pictures or videos of individuals within 24 hours. The Rules also require the media functionaries to cooperate with the Government and investigating agencies for purposes of verification of identity, detection and prevention of crimes, and investigation or prosecution of offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-centre-s-transfer-plea-on-it-rules-next-week-101625835030803.html
09-07-2021||India||Look at Russia, UK, Bangladesh: Government's fresh warning to revenge travellers||Citing the examples of the United Kingdom, Russia, Bangladesh and South Korea, the union health ministry on Friday said the second wave of the pandemic is not yet over and at the crucial juncture while the cases are mostly going down, the adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour can't be done away with. Showing the recent viral video of the Kempty Falls in Uttarakhand's Mussoorie, Agarwal said, "Is it not an open invitation for Covid-19 virus to infect us?"The sudden crowding at places of tourist importance as soon as the restrictions are being gradually withdrawn was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's first meeting with his council of ministers on Thursday. PM Modi said that these videos and photos should instil a sense of fear but as politicians, the ministers should not spread fear among the people. Instead, an effort to strike a balance between reopening and Covid-appropriate behaviour should be made.'We should be watchful': Govt on Covid's Lambda variant in IndiaIn Friday's press briefing, the ministry linked the recent surge of cases in other countries with the nonchalance of the people in India and said such behaviour can lead to a fresh wave as it happened in many countries."Look at the UK. During Euro 2020, there was a sharp rise in the number of infections there. And now again we are seeing that the country is moving towards a distinct peak. Not only the UK, but a resurgence is also being observed in Russia, Bangladesh, South Korea, Indonesia etc," Agarwal said.According to union health ministry data, the peak of the second wave in the United Kingdom was observed when it was reporting around 59,000 daily cases. Now, with 27,000 daily cases, the UK is moving towards another peak.In Russia, the last peak was of 28,000 daily cases and now the country is recording around 23,000 cases daily.The third wave of Bangladesh has proved to be severe than the second one as now the country is witnessing 9,000 cases per day while during the second peak, the number of 7,000.South Korea had managed the pandemic well, the union health ministry said, adding that with 900 cases daily, the country is nearing its earlier peak of 1,000 daily cases. Both Bangladesh and South Korea brought back some restrictions in the wake of the resurgence."We are only giving the virus opportunities to spread by our irresponsible behaviour. It is not yet time that we can freely mingle and mix without Covid precautions. It is not yet late to be cautious as these people will come back and there will be mixing which has to be stopped," Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/look-at-russia-uk-bangladesh-government-s-fresh-warning-to-revenge-travellers-101625833639361.html
09-07-2021||India||RSS joins Koo, quotes founder Hedgewar in first post||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological fountainhead of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), joined Koo, the Indian alternative to Twitter on Wednesday. It marked its joining with a post quoting Keshav Baliram Hedgewar, who founded the RSS in 1925. “India is not just land, but a real living mother. It is Vatsalmayi, Mangalkari, Punya Bhoomi, Hindu Bhoomi. This is what we have acknowledged in our prayers.” RSS functionaries said they will now share information about their decisions in Hindi on Koo. One of its first posts on Wednesday related to RSS’s five-day meeting, which began on Thursday in Chitrakoot.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and other top leaders are attending the five-day meeting to review the work done by RSS volunteers during the pandemic.BJP and RSS leaders have joined Koo amid the government’s tussle with Twitter over non-compliance with the new Information Technology rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-joins-koo-quotes-founder-hedgewar-in-first-post-101625833710684.html
09-07-2021||India||From fame to oblivion, the story of marathon runner Budhia Singh||In 2006, at the age of four, Budhia Singh ran a gruelling 65 km distance between Puri and Bhubaneswar in a little over seven hours. He became an instant sporting phenomenon in India as people began talking about the prospect of him bringing home a medal in global sporting events. Many even said that was the next Milkha Singh.Fifteen years later, as India gears up for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics with talk about Odisha-born sprinter Dutee Chand’s medal prospects, Budhia Singh is long forgotten in mainstream discourse.In the Bharatpur slums of Bhubaneswar, where his widowed mother Sukanti and two sisters live in a cramped one-room tenement, no one has seen Budhia run in the last few years. Any enquiries about the marathon prospect are met with a dismissive nod from neighbours, while his own family would rather talk about how everyone, including the state government, “cheated” him for their own gains instead of focusing on his running prowess.Also Read | Fermented rice diet can boost immunity: AIIMS studyWhile holding up her phone displaying a recent photo of him, his older sister, Rashmi, said, “My brother is away in Delhi pursuing his graduation in arts. Since everyone from his coach Biranchi (Das) to the Odisha government exploited him, he did not want to stay in Odisha. He could have become a big marathon runner, but was just used and forgotten.”Pointing at the house, she recalls, “The government that promised that it would do everything for him could not even give him a proper house. Look at our rented home. Can a family live here?”, she asked. Rashmi and her mother Sukanti work in an engineering college in the city.Budhia had come home in May this year before leaving for Delhi in June, and is also reluctant to talk about his past. “Are you trying to talk about my past? I am not going to talk about it anymore. I have forgotten all about it,” he said, on the phone from Jodhpur in Rajasthan, refusing to share any details about his educational institution or his plans for the future.When he was born in 2002, his story would probably have ended like most slum children. After his father died, his mother Sukanti, who washed dishes in people’s homes, had allegedly sold him to a street hawker for ₹800. When Biranchi Das, then president of the Saliasahi Slumdwellers’ Association, found out about Budhia, he was livid and returned the child from the hawker by paying him ₹800. The hawker claimed that he had adopted the child. Sukanti did not deny this.It was happenstance that Das, a local judo coach, discovered Budhia’s talents when he punished him by asking him to run. When he came back after five hours, he was stunned to find him still running. This was a catapult that launched him into the game. He later made Budhia run 65 km, which helped him get into the Limca Book of Records and made him run 48 more marathons. The runs, however, came to an end after a controversy erupted over allegations that Das was exploiting the child, following which the state government put him in a sports hostel in 2007. In April 2008, Das was shot dead by two gunmen sent by a local gangster over past enmity, ending the child’s tryst with success.Also Read | From Bhima Koregaon to the death of Stan Swamy, a timeline of key eventsIn the SAI hostel of Bhubaneswar, however, Budhia did not prosper as he did not like running sprint events and lagged in other events. Often complaining about food quality and the lack of proper training, he left following a minor controversy. Odisha sports minister Tushar Kanti Behera said, “His family has cut off all relationship with the government. His mother created a controversy alleging that the state government was exploiting (the child). We don’t have any idea where he is now,” he said.In 2016, he was briefly talked about when the film "Budhia Singh-Born to Run" directed by filmmaker Soumendra Padhi and starring Manoj Bajpayee won ‘Best Children’s Film’ at the 63rd national awards. Later, in 2018, Patrick Sang, coach for fastest marathoner Eliud Kipchoge offered to guide and train him. “We could be looking at a potential athlete, depending on when he is put to test to see what distance he can do. Running at that tender age is a sign of potential,” Sang told Reuters. However, as he got older, Budhia’s running hit a dead end.Bhubaneswar-based sports journalist Sambit Mohapatra, who has tracked Budhia’s story since 2006, says the prodigy’s story is over. “We can’t compare Dutee with Budhia. While Dutee battled the adversities and was focused, Budhia did not have any focus. He could have been out in a sports hostel where young long-distance runners are nurtured. To be a medal prospect in the Olympics, one has to participate in national championships like Dutee did and then be eligible for the Olympics. Budhia did not participate in any such championships and, thus, no one knows what he could have achieved,” said Mohapatra.Rishabh Jaiswal of Sporting Ethos, a sports medicine and psychology institute in Delhi, felt that Budhia’s is a classic case of early burnout. “Budhia’s body may not have been able to take the strain of all the marathons he ran at such a young age,” he said. "When children in the age group of 11-12 years are trained hard it impacts their physical and mental health. If you are running marathons at any age you require to refuel yourself. For a child of 7 years to eat as much as they are spending becomes very difficult the moment the workload keeps on increasing. When there is a nutritional deficiency it would impact your sleep, growth and overall health."But Budhia would rather not talk about his past. “I have had enough,” he said. His family believes that he has been wronged.A Twitter page set up in Budhia’s name (@Budhiasingh_Ind) shows photos of him grown-up, running and participating in marathons. It also has a link to a fundraising page that aims to help him raise money to keep his Olympic dream alive. But so far, it has raised only ₹44,674 of the ₹1.5 million target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-fame-to-oblivion-the-story-of-marathon-runner-budhia-singh-101625833651546.html
09-07-2021||India||From Bhima Koregaon to the death of Stan Swamy, a timeline of key events||Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy died of health complications on July 5 at the age of 84. Swamy was arrested, along with several activists, for his alleged connection to the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2017 and booked under India’s stringent anti-terror law, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. His death has brought renewed focus on the UAPA and its place in India’s democracy. Here is a detailed timeline of events in the case, leading up to Swamy’s death. December 31, 2017: A coalition of several organisations conducts Elgar Parishad at Shaniwar Wada in Pune to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Bhima Koregaon. The battle was fought on January 1, 1818, between the army of Peshwa Bajirao of the Maratha confederacy, and a force of the British East India Company that included several members of the Mahar community, a Dalit sub-caste. The battle was won by the British and is seen by Dalits as a defeat of the Peshwa forces, notorious for their caste practices. On January 1, 1927, BR Ambedkar visited the memorial and popularised the celebrations.January 1, 2018: Violence breaks out at Bhima Koregaon during the 200th-anniversary celebrations. One person dies and several others are injured in the clashes.January 2, 2018: First, a First Information Report (FIR) is registered at Pimpri Police Station in Pune under the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act alleging the involvement of religious leaders Sambhaji Bhide and his associate Milind Ekbote.Also Read | Activists, politicians gather at Bagaicha, vow to take Stan’s ‘fight’ forwardJanuary 8, 2018: The Vishrambaug Police Station in Pune registers a second FIR based on a complaint lodged by local builder Tushar Damgude. He alleges that members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) and Kabir Kala Manch, a cultural group, spread hatred through provocative songs, plays, and speeches at Elgar Parishad and conspired to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon.April 17, 2018: Pune Police search the residences of eight people: activist Rona Wilson (Delhi), lawyer Surendra Gadling (Nagpur), activist Sudhir Dhavale (Mumbai), activist Harshali Potdar (Mumbai), activist Sagar Gorakhe (Pune), activist Deepak Dhengale (Pune), activist Ramesh Gaychor (Pune) and activist Jyoti Jagtap (Pune). The computers of Wilson and Gadling are seized. May 17, 2018: Sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act are added to the case after the police allege it found incriminating documents from the residence of the accused.June 6, 2018: Pune Police arrest Wilson, Dhawale, and Gadling. Police search residences and workplaces of land rights activist, Mahesh Raut, and professor and women’s rights activist, Shoma Sen. Raut and Sen too are arrested in the case.August 28, 2018: Residences of nine more people, including Stan Swamy’s house in Ranchi, is raided by Pune Police. Police make five more arrests — lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, activists Arun Ferreira and Vernon Gonsalves, poet Varavara Rao and academic Gautam Navlakha. They are kept under house arrests pursuant to Supreme Court orders.September 28, 2018: The Supreme Court rejects petitions seeking a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the arrests.Also Read | Philosophy is a non-negligible part of being a human being: Amartya SenOctober-November 2018: Bharadwaj, Ferreira, Gonsalves, and Rao are re-arrested and taken to Pune. Gautam Navlakha receives temporary protection from arrest. During this period, academic Anand Teltumbde and Swamy are added as accused in the case.November 15, 2018: Police file first charge sheet alleging a larger conspiracy and Maoist links. February 21, 2019: Police file a supplementary charge sheet, claiming that the Indian Association of People’s Lawyers, with which some of the accused were associated, is a front organisation for Maoists.June 2019: Swamy’s house is raided again.December 2019-January 2020: A coalition government of non-BJP parties comes to power in Maharashtra and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar expresses the need for an SIT to re-investigate the case.January 24, 2020: A day after a meeting between senior government officials and police officers, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) transfers the case from Pune Police to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). With the change in the investigation agency, the case gets transferred from Pune to special NIA court in Mumbai.April 14, 2020: Teltumbde and Navlakha surrender before the NIA after the Supreme Court refuses to extend their protection from arrest. July 25, 2020: NIA interrogates Swamy for nearly 15 hours at his house in Ranchi. July 28, 2020: NIA arrests Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu after raiding his house twice.September 8, 2020: NIA arrests three members of Kabir Kala Manch, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor, and Jyoti Jagtap.September 30, 2020: Swamy asked to come to Mumbai on October 5. Swamy expresses his inability to reach due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and his old age.Also Read | The Cabinet reshuffle marks a break from the pastOctober 8, 2020: NIA arrests Swamy from RanchiOctober 9, 2020: Swamy brought to Mumbai. Special court sends him to judicial custody.October 10, 2020: NIA files supplementary charge sheet.October 18, 2020: Swamy files interim bail application on medical grounds.October 22, 2020: Swamy’s plea for interim bail on medical grounds is rejected by the special court.November 2020: Swamy applies for regular bail. November 6, 2020: Swamy moves court asking for permission to allow him a straw and sipper to consume liquids as he suffers from Parkinson’s disease. November 26, 2020: NIA responds that it does not have the straw and sipper.December 4, 2020: Swamy receives a straw and sipper.March 2021: Swamy’s regular bail plea is rejected by the special NIA court.April 2021: Swamy appeals in the Bombay high court against the special court’s order.May 19, 2021: High Court directs state-run JJ Hospital to form an expert panel to examine Swamy’s health. Prison authorities inform the high court that Swamy was vaccinated on May 18 and is in good health.May 21, 2021: Swamy appears before the high court bench of justice S J Kathawalla through video conference, tells the bench his health has steadily deteriorated since he was imprisoned, and expresses his desire to go back to Ranchi.May 28, 2021: High court bench of justice SS Shinde directs shifting Swamy to Holy Family Hospital, Bandra, for 15 days. The state’s request for shifting him to Sir JJ hospital is rejected. Swamy asked to bear the cost of treatment.May 28, 2021, 9 pm: Swamy shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Holy Family hospital and put on oxygen support.May 30, 2021: Swamy’s lawyers inform prison authorities that he tested positive for Covid-19.June 10, 2021: High court extends Swamy’s stay at Bandra hospital till June 18 after it was informed that he was shifted back to ICU due to heart complications.June 17, 2021: Hospital submits the medical report of Swamy. High court extends his stay at Holy Family Hospital till July 5 due to serious medical problems.July 3, 2021: High court adjourns hearing of Swamy’s bail plea to July 6.July 4, 2021: Swamy suffers cardiac arrest at 4.30am, put on ventilator support.July 5, 2021: Dr Ian Dsouza, medical director of Holy Family hospital, informs the high court that Swamy passed away at 1.24pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-bhima-koregaon-to-the-death-of-stan-swamy-a-timeline-of-key-events-101625832450678.html
09-07-2021||India||‘Area of concern’: Health ministry on rise in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, Maharashtra||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Friday expressed concern at the current situation of the coronavirus pandemic in Kerala and Maharashtra, two states which it said had the highest contribution in total Covid-19 cases reported by the country last week.Also Read | Maharashtra’s daily Covid caseload hovers around 9K"An area of concern is that 53% of Covid-19 cases have been reported primarily from two states, Kerala and Maharashtra. While Kerala contributed 32% of the total Covid-19 cases logged by the country last week, Maharashtra's contribution of 21% was the second-highest," Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary at the MoHFW, said at a press conference on the current coronavirus pandemic situation in the country.Also Read | Covid-19 latest update: Maharashtra at top, Kerala sees uptick in new casesAgarwal mentioned another cause of concern with respect to the two states. "Maharashtra reported over 8,700 new cases on July 3 which declined steadily to over 6,700 on July 6. However, since then, the number of daily cases have been higher than those on July 6." On Kerala, he said, the state saw more than 12,800 infections on July 2 which fell to more than 8,300 on July 6 but on the following days, the number of new cases was higher."We're coordinating with the two state governments. Our effort is to contain the spread of the infection through intensive containment measures," Agarwal said further.On Thursday, Kerala witnessed 13,772 Covid-19 cases while the corresponding number for Maharashtra was 9,114, according to data provided by the respective state governments. Hence, together, the two states contributed 22,886 or 52.74% of the cases reported from across the country in the last 24 hours which, according to the Union health ministry's data on Friday morning, stood at 43,393.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/area-of-concern-health-ministry-on-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-maharashtra-101625827489618.html
09-07-2021||India||'We should be watchful': Govt on Covid's Lambda variant in India||There is no case of the Lambda variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India at present but the government is closely monitoring the global landscape of this new variant, which was first found in Peru and then spread to around 30 countries in the world, including many European countries. Had it entered India, it would have been detected by INSACOG (The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium of Genomics), Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said on Friday, during the press briefing of the health ministry."We should be watchful as the virus is under pressure across the world. Whenever the virus is under pressure, it picks up certain new characteristics," Dr Paul said adding that the full potential of the variant is yet to be ascertained globally as Lambda variant remains a variant of interest, as classified by the World Health Organization.No case of lambda Covid-19 variant detected in India so far"Lambda is the 7th variant of interest, which was notified by the World Health Organization on June 14. This variant is predominant in Peru and was first reported in Peru. Our INSACOG is monitoring the situation," joint secretary of the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal said.Lambda variant elsewhere in the worldFirst reported from Peru, this variant is now responsible for nearly 82 per cent of the Covid-19 cases in Peru. The health ministry of Malaysia said this variant is proving to be deadlier than Delta -- the variant which is driving the ongoing wave of the pandemic across the world and was responsible for India's 2nd wave.In the United Kingdom too, Lambda has been detected.In the latest development, Lambda has been detected in Canada which said that there are at least 11 cases of this variant in the country, though the actual spread of the variant is not known.Kappa variant in IndiaThe health ministry also commented on the reports of Kappa variant cases in Uttar Pradesh and said that the variant of interest is not new in India. It was detected at the same time when the Delta variant was reported. But in the course of time, Kappa got overshadowed by Delta. "If cases are detected, this means that the variant has stayed in the country. Delta is a related variant of Kappa. Kappa is much less in its intensity. There are many variants in the country. Not all cases are of Delta variant. Our watch will continue," Dr VK Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-should-be-watchful-govt-on-covid-s-lambda-variant-in-india-101625830825050.html
09-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt passes response plan to deal with another Covid wave and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi passes ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ to deal with another Covid wave: CM KejriwalDelhi has recorded 1,434,780 cases and 25,005 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease till now. On Thursday, 93 cases were reported while four more persons succumbed to the viral disease. Recoveries have climbed to 1,408,917, while active cases stand at 858. Read more here.Transfer of pleas against new IT rules: Supreme Court to hear Centre’s petition on July 16The top court said the central government’s application, seeking transfer of petitions filed in various high courts to the apex court, will be taken up for hearing along with a pending matter related to regulating OTT content. Read more here. Sanjay Manjrekar weighs in on Suryakumar Yadav's possible role for India in ICC T20 World CupMumbai cricketer Suryakumar Yadav, who made an immediate impact after making his India debut against England, will be a player to watch out for in the series between India and Sri Lanka. Read more here. Anand Mahindra shares unusual clip of cops parading on Bollywood song. WatchWhile many praised the unusual way of marching in the video shared by Anand Mahindra, several others pointed out that the contingent was from Nagaland Police. Read more here. Taapsee Pannu says 'sly' reviews of Haseen Dillruba are abuse of power: 'Who are you?'Taapsee Pannu is continuing her 'battle' against the criticism that her new film, Haseen Dillruba, has received from some quarters. Read more here. Watch: Terrorist hideout busted in Jammu & Kashmir’s Sopore; one arrested||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-passes-response-plan-to-deal-with-another-covid-wave-and-all-the-latest-news-101625829829716.html
09-07-2021||India||Centre sends 6-member team to Kerala to monitor Zika virus situation||The Union health ministry has sent a six-member team to Kerala to monitor the Zika virus situation, joint secretary of the ministry Lav Agarwal said on Friday. The outbreak comes as the state is grappling with Covid-19 cases, the number of which is steady in the state, while in the rest of the country, the situation is rapidly improving. The team comprises health experts and vector-borne disease experts. The situation is under constant monitoring of the central government, Agarwal said.On Friday, cases of Zika in Kerala went up to 14, following with the state government has sounded an alert. Among the infected was a 24-year-old pregnant woman who was diagnosed with the mosquito-transmitted disease on Thursday, which was the first case of the Zika virus in the state.Zika virus cases in Kerala: Symptoms, prevention and treatment of mosquito-borne diseaseThe symptoms are similar to dengue and they include fever, rashes and joint pain. Health Minister of the State Veena George said an action plan has been drawn up to control the spread of Zika. Pregnant women should get themselves tested if they have a fever, the minister said at a meeting of the District Medical Officers (DMOs)"The disease was reported in a 24-year-old pregnant woman from Parassala who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. On June 28, the woman was admitted to the hospital with fever, headache, and red spots. Her samples showed that she contracted Zika virus, for confirming the samples have been sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune," said the state health minister.The 24-year-old woman gave birth normally on July 7. There is no travel history outside Kerala. But their house is on the Kerala- Tamil Nadu border. A week ago, her mother had similar symptoms, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-in-kerala-health-ministry-sends-6-member-team-to-monitor-situation-101625828666397.html
09-07-2021||India||Chinese latest Type 003 aircraft carrier is a threat to Indo-Pacific||With China on the verge of the launching of what is billed as the world’s largest non-American aircraft carrier in 2021 end, the Indian national security planners are worried about the security of the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) as Beijing, as in the past in the South China Sea, is a practitioner of gunboat diplomacy with scant respect of global law.Labelled as type 003, the third aircraft carrier after Liaoning and Shandong will be followed by two more Chinese carrier battle groups (CBGs) before the end of this decade as per western intelligence reports.While western defence experts have tried to lowball the PLA Navy carrier development program citing Chinese perfidious access to technology, the Indian Navy knows that the third aircraft carrier will create instability at least in the Indo-Pacific.Also Read: Taiwan President follows PM Modi, wishes Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday“The question is not how the Chinese acquired the technology but how it will impact India and the IOR. The US narrative that CBGs can be targeted by long-distance ballistic missiles comes from a position of strength, where the US Navy has no less than 11 super carriers at its disposal,” said a former Indian Navy admiral.The PLA’s type 003 carrier is expected to be more than 85000 tonnes with an electromagnetic aircraft launch system (EMALS), which will allow the ship to launch aircraft with more fuel and weapons as well as airborne radars, anti-submarine warfare and aerial refuellers from the floating deck. This means that the range and strike of the aircraft carrier will increase manifolds. None of the Indian carriers has catapult aircraft launch system.“In the Indian context, the Chinese carrier is a potent weapon and has to be treated as such. The security of IOR will be affected if two Chinese carriers come into the area. We must remember that the Chinese are using the US playbook in almost all their force application paradigms … like the US carrier in Taiwan straits… what prevents that Chinese carrier in future from carrying out a freedom of navigation operations in Andaman Seas!, ” said a naval operations expert.While India has developed a new intermediate-range ballistic missile Agni-Prime with the wartime objective of targeting CBGs, the PLA with four aircraft carriers by 2025 will more than a match for INS Vikramaditya (presently under maintenance) and INS Vikrant, which will be commissioned by August 2022. Under the circumstances, India has no options but to build its nuclear-powered attack submarines to deter the Chinese flotilla and have one aircraft carrier operational at all times as air power at sea is an operational necessity and cannot be provided by the land-based air force. Without a protective aerial bubble, the CNG is not only exposed to incoming missiles but also to enemy aircraft.“Carriers are being looked at purely from a force on force perspective. Questions are being asked why should we not build submarines to counter the Chinese carrier groups. That is true, but then our own carrier can threaten something else and balance the operational equation. Why do we assume that one carrier needs to go into battle with only another carrier? CBGs are flexible and have a range of operations - other than addressing the enemy carrier. That must settle the Carrier or Submarine debate as both are required for protecting the IOR,” an admiral said.While many within the Indian national security set-up believe that an aircraft carrier is a World War II weapon and the era of stand-off weapon systems has dawned, the Chinese investment in building more such platforms clearly shows that the Indian Navy has a legitimate case for a third aircraft carrier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-latest-type-003-aircraft-carrier-is-a-threat-to-indopacific-101625826966663.html
09-07-2021||India||Transfer of pleas against new IT rules: Supreme Court to hear Centre’s petition on July 16||The Supreme Court said on Friday that the Union government's petition seeking transfer of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the new IT Rules from different high courts to the top court will be taken up for hearing on July 16. The plea, a bench of Justice AM Khanwilkar and Justice Sanjiv Khanna said, will be heard along with a pending matter related to regulating over the top (OTT) platforms.Also Read: Centre asks SC to transfer petitions against new IT rules from 5 high courts"We will tag the Centre's plea with the Special Leave Petition (SLP)," the bench said, referring to the SLP in which the Supreme Court, in March, stayed proceedings in high courts on petitions over regulation of OTT platforms. To Solicitor General Tushar Mehta's request that proceedings pending in the high courts be stayed, the bench said, "We're not saying anything. We're simply tagging it with the other matter."The transfer petition was filed by the central government in the apex court on Tuesday.Also Read: WhatsApp tells Delhi HC it won't ask users to accept new privacy policyThe Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code), Rules, 2021, were notified on February 25 and social media platforms operating in the country were given time till May 25 to comply with various norms as mandated by the IT Rules. Petitions challenging the rules have been filed in at least five high courts: Delhi, Madras, Bombay, Kerala and Calcutta. While most social media platforms, including Facebook and Google, have complied with at least some of the norms, it is Twitter with which the government has been engaged in a faceoff over the guidelines.Also Read: Kerala HC grants interim relief to NBA in plea challenging new IT rulesOn Thursday, Ashwini Vaishnaw, on his first day as the new Information and Technology minister, reiterated that the law of the land is supreme, and "Twitter must follow the rules."(With PTI inputs)"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transfer-of-pleas-against-new-it-rules-sc-to-hear-centre-s-petition-on-july-16-101625822550998.html
09-07-2021||India||PM reviews oxygen availability as govt looks to set up 1,500 PSA plants||The Centre is setting up at least 1,500 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants across the country to support more than 400,000 oxygenated beds, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was informed on Friday in a meeting to review oxygen augmentation and availability as India prepares for a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections.Modi asked officials at the meeting to ensure the plants are made functional at the earliest and work closely with state governments, said a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office.These plants include those being financed by the PM CARES fund as well as from various ministries and government firms,the statement added.“The PM asked officials to ensure there is adequate training of hospital staff on operation and maintenance of oxygen plants... to ensure that each district has trained personnel available,’’ the statement said.Principal secretary PK Mishra and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba were among top officials who attended the meeting.Officials familiar with developments said each plant has a daily capacity of 1.5-2 MT of oxygen. A standard hospital needs 15MT of oxygen daily in usual circumstances. A training module is being prepared by experts and they are aiming to train around 8,000 people across the country to operate the oxygen plants, the official added. During the second wave of infections this summer, India faced a debilitating shortage of medical oxygen as demand shot up from 4,000 MT to more than 10,000 MT due to a surge in infections and deaths. Unable to meet demand, many hospitals ran out of oxygen, leaving hundreds of patients gasping for breath. In response, the government banned industrial use of oxygen, airlifted oxygen trucks from industrial plants and ran oxygen trains but experts stressed on the importance of augmenting supply to avert any future crisis. The issue was taken up by high courts and the Supreme Court with daily monitoring of supply after a number of hospitals approached the courts in distress. According to the PMO statement, the PM also urged officials to ensure India uses advanced technology Internet of Things (IoT) “to track performance and functioning of these oxygen plants at a local and national level”. IoT is a system of internet-connected devices embedded with sensors that can collect and transfer data over a wireless network for computation and research purposes.“A pilot (is) being done using IoT for monitoring the performance of the oxygen plants,” officials told the PM, according to the statement.The decision came a day after the Union Cabinet announced a ₹23,123 crore package to augment grassroots health infrastructure and set up an emergency response system in preparation for a third wave. The ‘India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package: Phase-II’ will be implemented across 736 districts to improve medical infrastructure at primary and district health centres. Projects under the plan will be implemented within nine months. The Centre will provide ₹15,000 crore and states ₹8,123 crore in the package.The Prime Minister’s meeting was followed by the commerce minister Piyush Goyal holding a meeting in the evening with oxygen manufacturers, where he focussed on three aspects of oxygen supply. The minister asked how production of oxygen could be increased, how it could be stored and finally, how to increase transportation abilities of liquid oxygen, said a person familiar with the development.“RIL Jamnagar has been very efficient in converting gaseous oxygen into liquid but they are unable to increase storage. So, the minister asked if their strategy could be replicated by other manufacturers and how could they ramp up storage,’’ said the person quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-progress-of-oxygen-augmentation-availability-101625825730354.html
09-07-2021||India||Cabinet Rejig: Jyotiraditya Scindia takes charge of Civil Aviation ministry||Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday took charge of the Civil Aviation Ministry.Scindia, a prominent leader from Madhya Pradesh, was sworn in as a cabinet minister on Wednesday. He joined BJP in March 2020 and is a Rajya Sabha member.General V K Singh also took charge as the Minister of State for Civil Aviation.Scindia has taken over the charge of the ministry at a time when the civil aviation sector is facing strong headwinds due to the coronavirus pandemic which has impacted overall demand and has also resulted in financial woes for the industry players.The government is also moving ahead with the disinvestment process for the national carrier Air India.Scindia has served as a Minister of State for Communications, Commerce and Industry and power during the Congress-led UPA government. The scion of the former royal family of Gwalior was inducted into the UPA government in 2007 and remained a part of the Union Cabinet till 2014.He resigned from Congress and joined BJP in March 2020. His move triggered a chain of events that finally culminated in the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh and paved the way for the saffron party to assume power which it lost towards the end of 2018.Born on January 1, 1971, and educated in Harvard and Stanford institutions, Scindia has traversed a long way after contesting his maiden election as a Congress candidate in 2002, a bypoll in the Guna Lok Sabha constituency, which was held because of the sudden death of his father, Madhavrao Scindia, in a plane crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-rejig-jyotiraditya-scindia-takes-charge-of-civil-aviation-ministry-101625814182115.html
09-07-2021||India||What is Covid's Kappa variant found in Uttar Pradesh? All you need to know||Uttar Pradesh has reported two cases of the Kappa variant of Covid-19, which has been confirmed by the King Geroge's Medical College where the genome sequencing of 109 samples took place. Out of these 109 samples, 107 Delta variant cases have been found. Some reports claimed that there have been three cases of Kappa variant in Uttar Pradesh and the first patient, a 66-year-old resident of Sant Kabir Nagar, has succumbed to the disease.According to the Union health ministry's June data, there were 3,969 Alpha, 149 Beta, 1 Gamma, and 16,238 Delta and Kappa variant cases in India. The B.1.617 lineage was first observed in Maharashtra and was "associated with an unusual rise in several districts of the state", the ministry had said about the lineage, not specifying Delta or Kappa. On Friday, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said the Kappa variant in India got overshadowed by Delta. Not all cases in India are of Delta variant and Kappa has been there for quite some time. What is Kappa? Is it a new variant?This is not a new variant. According to the World Health Organizations's site on tracking SARS-Cov-2, the Kappa variant was first detected in India in October 2020. The variant is identified as B.1.617.1, while Delta is represented as B.1.617.2.Also Read: Lambda variant | All you need to know about fast-spreading strainIs it a variant of concern?WHO at present has not classified this variant as a variant of concern. Like Lambda, which has already spread in 30 countries across the world, Kappa is a variant of interest.Is it a double mutant?Yes, like Delta, Kappa is referred to as a double mutant because of two mutations -- EE484Q and L452R.Is this variant immune escape?It is believed that the L452R mutation may help the variant to escape the body's natural immune response. But since it is a variant of interest, its full potential remains to be explored.Are these the first Kappa cases in India?No, as the Kappa variant was found in India in October 2020, it is evident that these are not the first instances of the variant. This variant has been found in many states.Difference between Delta and KappaBoth the variants, belonging to the same lineage of B.1.617, have been found first in India in October 2020. Delta, which was a variant of interest in April 2021, became a variant of concern in May 2021. Kappa on the other hand remained a variant of interest, as designated last on April 4. Delta has emerged as a threat across the world as most of the present Covid-19 cases in the world are that of Delta variant. The second wave of the pandemic in India was also because of the dominance of the Delta variant. A further mutation of Delta called Delta Plus has now emerged in many countries, including India. Kappa is not as intense and Delta is in its effect and hence it got overwhelmed by the Delta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-covid-s-kappa-variant-found-in-uttar-pradesh-all-you-need-to-know-101625823940538.html
09-07-2021||India||Tripura to send 650 kgs of pineapples to Bangladesh PM as return gift for mangoes||Tripura will send over 650 kilograms of its queen variety of pineapple to Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Saturday as return gift for the 300 kgs of Haribhanga variety of mangoes from the neighbouring country.The consignment will be sent to the Indian high commission in Dhaka through Akhaura Integrated Check Post at the India-Bangladesh border in Agartala tomorrow, and will be handed over to Bangladesh the following day, said state officials. “Over 650 kg pineapples have been brought from Ampi, a bordering village in Gomati district. These pineapples will be sent in 100 packets with four pineapples in each packet,” said an official from Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Approximately, 1.28 lakh metric tonne pineapples are cultivated on orchards covering 8,800 hectares in different parts of the northeastern state every year. President Ram Nath Kovind had declared the queen variety of pineapple as the state’s fruit during his visit to Agartala in 2018.Bangladesh had gifted India mangoes through its deputy high commissioner posted at Agartala, Mohammad Jobayed Hosen, earlier this week. Hosen handed over the mangoes to chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb at Civil Secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-send-650-kgs-of-pineapples-to-bangladesh-pm-as-return-gift-for-mangoes-101625824050310.html
09-07-2021||India||'Don't want Tom, Dick and Harry to collect money': Bombay HC on crowdfunding for treatment of rare diseases||There has to be some government control over the money being collected via crowdfunding for treatment of rare diseases and every "Tom, Dick and Harry" cannot be permitted to raise funds like this, the Kerala High Court said on Friday. The high court said it was concerned that every "Tom, Dick and Harry" was collecting funds via crowdfunding for treatment of the children suffering from rare diseases and asked the state government whether it has any control over such transactions. Justice P B Suresh Kumar said the court does not want to interdict the crowdfunding process, but it wants the funds to go to the government instead into the account of some private individuals who may or may not give it to those who require the money. "I do not want every Tom, Dick and Harry to collect money. Is there any state control over this collection of funds via crowdfunding? We should know where the money is going," the court said and added that if private individuals and entities can collect crores of rupees in a short span of time, why the government cannot? "For providing free vaccines the state government could collect only ₹68 lakh, while 18 crores was collected in a week (for treatment of a boy suffering from spinal muscular atrophy)," the court said. "I do not want to interdict the process of crowdfunding, but I want government control over it," Justice Kumar said during the hearing of an autorickshaw driver's plea seeking free treatment for his six-month old infant son who is suffering from spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) as the medicine for it costs around ₹18 crore and he has no means to raise that kind of money. In his petition, filed through advocate P Chandrasekhar, the father - Arif - has said that while he obtained permission for importing the required medicine - Zolgensma Onasemnogene injection - he cannot afford to buy even one dose as the same costs ₹18 crore. During the hearing, the Kerala government also expressed apprehensions regarding the source of the money being collected via crowdfunding. The court also observed during the hearing that such transactions if left unsupervised could destabilize the economy. It has on its own also impleaded the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the matter. The court said it would be passing a detailed order in the matter. Arif has moved the court, claiming that he cannot ensure his son's treatment without the support of the state government. The government, in a statement filed in court earlier, had said that neither the Health Department nor the Kerala Social Security Mission (KSSM) was in a position to extend financial support for bearing the huge cost of the treatment/medicine required by Arif's son, who has been admitted in the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital and is on ventilator support. The government had also said that according to the National Rare Disease Policy,2021 of the Union Health Ministry Ministry, Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is categorised in Group 3, for which the cost of treatment is very high, and it recommends a digital crowd funding platform be leveraged for mobilizing the necessary funds. It had further said that there are around 102 patients in the state suffering from SMA, a rare genetic disorder, of whom 42 have received the treatment under the compassionate use programme extended by pharmaceutical companies. The state also said that the funds it has, Including those under We Care scheme, are not even sufficient to meet the needs of various health schemes of the KSSM, which provides assistance to the elderly, cancer patients below 18 years of age and minors requiring emergency treatment for various other ailments like heart disease. "In these circumstances, it is humbly submitted that the Health department and KSSM is not in a position to extend financial support for bearing the huge expenditure of SMA," the state had said in its statement and sought dismissal of the the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-want-tom-dick-and-harry-to-collect-money-bombay-hc-on-crowdfunding-for-treatment-of-rare-diseases-101625821040180.html
09-07-2021||India||After playing basketball, Pragya Thakur now dances and Congress is 'delighted'||For long, BJP Lok Sabha MP Pragya Thakur was in news for her ill health, which was one of the reasons she cited to stay away from court appearances in the Malegaon blast case. In March 2021 too, she complained of a breathing problem and had to be airlifted from Bhopal to Mumbai for treatment. But now, the BJP MP seems to be in the pink of her health as videos of her taking part in several physical activities are going viral. Madhya Pradesh Congress leader Narendra Saluja posted both the videos on Twitter and sad whenever he sees sister Pragya playing basketball, walking steadily and dancing -- without any assistance, he feels delighted. And then he puts a question mark.हमारी भोपाल की सांसद बहन प्रज्ञा ठाकुर को जब भी बास्केट बॉल खेलते हुए , बग़ैर सहारे के चलते हुए या इस तरह ख़ुशी से झूमते हुए देखते है तो बड़ी ख़ुशी होती है…? pic.twitter.com/MR01GumnunThe dance video is from July 7 as the MP took part in a pre-wedding ceremony which was held at her residence in Bhopal. Reports said Pragya Thakur is the guardian of these two sisters -- Chanchal and Sandhya -- whom she married off on Wednesday at her residence. The MP has also been quoted as saying that she considers these two girls as her daughters and will continue to be the guardian of the couples.The father of these two sisters had approached the MP for their wedding as he was going through financial constraints because of the lockdown. It was reported that the MP did not only bear the expenses of the wedding but allowed her bungalow to be the venue for the grand reception that was organised. She was also present at all rituals and the video of her dancing was shot at one of those.A few days ago, Sadhvi Pragya was seen playing basketball as she attended an event at Bhopal stadium. Posting that video, Saluja had written, "Have seen Bhopal BJP MP Sadhvi Thakur on a wheelchair till now, but today felt great happiness after seeing her trying a hand at basketball in Bhopal stadium. So far, we knew that owing to some injury, she could not stand and walk properly. May God keep her healthy always."The sarcasm doesn't fail to hit home as Pragya Thakur claimed to have serious injuries because of alleged custodial torture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-playing-basketball-pragya-thakur-now-dances-and-congress-is-delighted-101625820770002.html
09-07-2021||India||Curfew, cap on vehicles: Gujarat govt announces guidelines for Rath Yatra||A day after the Gujarat government gave its nod to Rath Yatra procession, the state’s home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja held a meeting with the Jagannath temple authorities to discuss the route and the precautionary measures against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) amid fears of a possible third wave.In view of the concerns related to Covid-19, the Rath Yatra will be carried out under a strict curfew in Ahmedabad. The restrictions will be imposed on the entire route of the procession from early morning till afternoon, the home minister said.The state government also restricted the number of vehicles to be allowed for the procession. "Only three chariots and two other vehicles will be allowed to carry out the Yatra," he also said after the meeting.No other vehicle or singing troupes, akhadas, elephants or decorated trucks will be permitted to take part in the procession. "We appeal to the people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and adhere to the protocols," the state home minister urged the citizens.Last year as well, only a symbolic Rath Yatra was organised in the premises of the Lord Jagannath temple in the Jamalpur area after the Gujarat high court denied permission for the usual public procession due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation.In the pre-Covid times, grand procession used to be held with lakhs of devotees taking part in the Yatra. Traditionally, it is led by the chariots of Lord Jagannath and begins at around 7am from the 400-year-old temple. It covers a distance of 19km and concludes at the temple by late evening.The procession also stops at Saraspur for an hour-long lunch break, which is also to be skipped this year.The procession used to involve decorated elephants and tableaux moving around in at least 100 trucks. This year it is expected to be done within a few hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curfew-cap-on-vehicles-gujarat-govt-announces-guidelines-for-rath-yatra-101625819672638.html
09-07-2021||India||Covid-19 updates: All you need to know about coronavirus right now||Two months since the second wave peaked on May 9, 2021, the seven-day average of daily spikes and active Covid-19 cases are on a downward trend, but the pace has slowed while the positivity rate has risen in some states. The daily number of cases have been increasing since the past few days. On June 24, the seven-day-average of daily cases in India was 53,123 and on July 7 it declined to 42,547; however, on July 9 India reported 43,393, recording an increase.Besides the slight growth in the single-day cases, another worrying trend could be noticed in the nature of the infection curve, which changed about a month ago, as new cases started declining at a much slower rate. The seven-day average of new cases, which was declining at the rate of 6.7% on June 2, have started to go down at a much slower pace now, declining at the rate 0.96% on July 7. The rate of decline of active cases has similarly decreased from 5.23% on June 9 to 1.8% on July 7.Similar patterns are being repeated in states like Kerala, which saw daily infections rise by 2,216 cases. The Union health ministry earmarked the states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh, as the top 5 states contributing the highest number of cases to India’s daily caseload.Also Read: Covid-19: Maharashtra at top, Kerala sees uptick in new casesPositivity rate has also been rising steadily in 11 states and union territories (UTs). 4 states registered a seven-day average of positivity rate higher than 10% on July 7. If the positivity rate continues to rise it would translate into a higher number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-updates-all-you-need-to-know-about-coronavirus-right-now-101625819252395.html
09-07-2021||India||50 tourists to be allowed at Uttarakhand’s Kempty Falls following Covid violations||Authorities on Friday said only 50 tourists will be allowed to visit Kempty Falls, about 15 km from Mussoorie in Uttarakhand’s Tehri Garhwal district, following violations by visitors of Covid-19 precautions at the popular tourist spot. The decision was taken amid much criticism after videos of unmasked tourists violating social distancing norms went viral.Also Read | Uttarakhand to review decision to stop Kanwar Yatra amid Covid-19Iva Ashish Srivastava, district magistrate, Tehri Garhwal, said, “From now onwards, there would be a limit of 50 tourists who would be allowed to bathe at the waterfall for only 30 minutes. After the stipulated time, a hooter would be blown to signal the batch of tourists to come out. Once all of the 50 come out, the next batch of 50 would be allowed to go.” Srivastava said police have been directed to set up a check post near the tourist spot. “It would be used to check whether tourists are following the Covid precautions. The administration would ensure strict implementation of the Covid-19 precautions...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-tourists-to-be-allowed-at-uttarakhand-s-kempty-falls-following-covid-violations-101625819070276.html
09-07-2021||India||No action for not complying with IT rules: Kerala high court||The Kerala high court on Friday restrained the Centre from taking any coercive action against members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA), for now, under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The association, which represents 25 news and current affairs broadcasters, challenged the rules on Thursday, saying they give government authorities “excessive powers” to “unreasonably and impermissibly restrict” the media’s freedom of speech and expression.Justice PB Suresh Kumar, who granted interim relief to NBA members, also issued notice to the Union government for its stand on the petition. NBA said the rules seek to create an “oversight mechanism giving the executive unfettered, unbridled and excessive powers to regulate the content of digital news media”.During Friday’s hearing, senior lawyer Maninder Singh, appearing for the NBA, drew the court’s attention to the high court’s decision to grant protection against coercive action in March to legal news portal Live Law and sought a similar shield for the news broadcasters.The NBA’s challenge is essentially focussed on Part 3 of the new IT rules that relate to digital news media and requires publishers to establish a grievance procedure, a self-regulatory body, and adhere to the code of ethics, according to news agency PTI. The self-regulatory bodies to be formed by media companies or their associations have to be headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court, high courts or an eminent person.Maninder Singh argued that a joint secretary-rank official would be heading the oversight mechanism at the ministry, which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge.Since a joint secretary-rank official will head the oversight mechanism which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge, Maninder Singh argued that this would imply that the joint secretary will supervise orders of a retired judge.“The grievance redressal mechanism created and the powers delegated have a ‘chilling effect” on the content of the media,” NBA’s petition said, contending that the rules exceeded the authority granted under the Information Technology Act and violate the constitutional rights of equality before law and freedom to practise any profession.The rules, which apply to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms, were notified by the Centre on February 25 and came into effect on May 25.It has, however, led to a storm over compliance. Petitions against the rules have been filed in several high courts including Delhi, Bombay, Madras, Calcutta and Kerala, prompting the Centre to approach the Supreme Court to request that the top court transfer all these cases to itself.These rules also require digital companies such as Twitter, WhatsApp, and Facebook to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Instant messaging WhatsApp has approached the Delhi high court over the provision that obligates social media intermediaries to identify the first originator of a message.The Centre has argued the rules are intended to provide speedy redressal of bringing down harmful content and allows users to demand the removal of personally intimate pictures or videos within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-grants-interim-relief-to-nba-in-plea-challenging-new-it-rules-101625818709993.html
09-07-2021||India||PM Modi chairs high-level Covid-19 meet, says oxygen plants should be functional at the earliest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a high-level meet to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country and the progress of oxygen augmentation and availability of medical oxygen ahead of a potential third wave of the pandemic.Officials present at the meeting told the prime minister that more than 1,500 PSA oxygen plants are coming up across the nation with the help of the contributions from the PM-CARES fund as well as various ministries and PSUs.The Prime Minister was informed that once all the PSA oxygen plants — to be set up in all states and districts of the country —are functional, they would support more than 4 lakh oxygenated beds.There were widespread reports of oxygen unavailability in India during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. A scramble for government beds, medical oxygen, ventilators, and other pieces of equipment across the country was reported, even while the death toll and infections continued to rise exponentially.The Prime Minister instructed officials to ensure that these plants are made functional at the earliest. He said that the central government officials should work closely with the state governments for the same and ensure that there is adequate training of hospital staff on the operation and maintenance of oxygen plants. Officers told the Prime Minister that they are in regular contact with officers from the state governments regarding the fast-tracking of the oxygen plants.Prime Minister Modi also directed officials to ensure that each district has trained personnel available. The government should focus on deploying advanced technology like IoT to track the performance and functioning of these oxygen plants at a local and national level, he said. The officials briefed him regarding a training module prepared by experts, which is aimed at the training of around 8,000 people across the country. A pilot is also being done for using IoT for monitoring the performance of the oxygen plants, they said.This is the Prime Minister's first such high-level Covid-19 meet after a reshuffle in his council of ministers earlier this week. The new Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, took charge of his ministry on Thursday replacing Dr. Harsh Vardhan on the post, who resigned in the middle of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-high-level-meet-pm-says-oxygen-plants-should-be-functional-at-the-earliest-101625816920029.html
09-07-2021||India||Challenges ahead for Jyotiraditya Scindia, the new civil aviation minister||Union Cabinet minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who took charge of the civil aviation ministry on Friday following the reshuffle in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers on Wednesday, faces an uphill task of reviving one of the worst-hit sectors by the Covid 19 pandemic.Scindia, whose father late Madhavrao Scindia served as the civil aviation minister in the 1990s, takes over when the Indian aviation sector is estimated to have suffered losses worth around $ 8 billion dollars in two years as a direct impact of the pandemic, according to aviation consultancy and research firm CAPA. Airlines have been seeking government stimulus since last year to tide over the losses. The aviation industry has also demanded lowering of the Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) taxation for years. It has sought the inclusion of ATF under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime as tax uniformity would lead to cost reduction.Also Read | Modi’s new Cabinet: Blend of youth, skills, social engineeringAirlines in India are estimated to post a consolidated loss of $4.1 billion this fiscal--similar to what they are estimated to have incurred in 2020-21, CAPA noted in a report released last month. Full-service carrier Air India and no-frills player IndiGo are projected to represent around $ 4.5 billion of the combined around $ 8 billion of losses, CAPA said.Kapil Kaul, the CAPA head, said the Indian aviation sector is critically placed due to back-to-back Covid impacts. He added most of the players have serious solvency risks. “The industry needs billions of dollars of solvent recapitalisation. The new minister must immediately reduce the excise duty of ATF, bring ATF under GST and provide full input credit to IGST on aircraft repairs and try to amend the AERA Act to increase the control period from 5-8 years,” he said, referring to the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Of India Act, 2008.“And simultaneously undertake a deep and thorough review of the sector and break all the regulatory/policy and fiscal barriers to allow aviation to realise its true economic potential... I expect the new minister to address all the structural issues,” said Kaul.The divestment of national carrier Air India has also been pending. To be sure, the divestment comes under the Union finance ministry’s department of investment and public asset management.Mark D Martin, MRAeS, Martin Consulting, said, “Mr Scindia has aviation in his DNA. His father was the architect of the open sky policy and airlines like Jet and Sahara and SpiceJet were all a product of that.” Martin said Scindia clearly understands aviation. “He knows where to pick up the pieces from and move on. This is his dream shot to carry forward his father’s legacy and... rationalise and make aviation radical to what his father did back in 1991, but he has a lot of challenges ahead. Among the challenges are the Pawan Hans and Air India divestment, the revamp of the DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) into a more powerful organisation… Aggressively modernising airports that are up ahead. And he has only three years to make all this happen. Only time will tell. I hope he lives up to his father’s legacy and transforms civil aviation.”The aviation ministry also has the key role of boosting the Centre’s regional connectivity scheme and leasing out airports under the Public-Private Partnership model. Both of these have slowed down during the pandemic.The Association of Private Airport Operators last month said they “are not generating sufficient cash flows to sustain operations and meet debt obligations.” Their downgraded credit ratings “have made it impossible to take further financing support from financial institutions.” The operators sought urgent relief from the government to sustain their operations and save jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/challenges-ahead-for-jyotiraditya-scindia-the-new-civil-aviation-minister-101625817749920.html
09-07-2021||India||WhatsApp won’t compel users to accept privacy policy, advocate Harish Salve tells Delhi HC||WhatsApp, an instant messaging platform owned by Facebook, told the Delhi high court on Friday it will not compel its users to opt for its new privacy policy until the enactment of the data protection bill. It also informed the court the new policy has been put on hold and will be implemented "if Parliament allows it," according to a PTI report. Until then, it will not limit the functionality of its platform to users who choose not to opt for the new privacy policy, the platform said.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was hearing the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single-judge order refusing to stay an order of competition regulator Competition Commission of India (CCI) directing a probe into WhatsApp's new privacy policy."We voluntarily agreed to put it (the policy) on hold... we will not compel people to accept it," advocate Harish Salve appearing on the behalf of WhatsApp. It would, however. continue to display the update to its users, Salve further said, according to the PTI report.Later in the day, WhatsApp also released a statement, assuring users about the privacy concerns and said the recent update "does not change the privacy of people’s personal messages." "Its purpose is to provide additional information about how people can interact with businesses if they choose to do so," it said in the statement, a copy of which is with HT."We will not limit the functionality of how WhatsApp works in the coming weeks. Instead, we will continue to remind users from time to time about the update as well as when people choose to use relevant optional features, like communicating with a business that is receiving support from Facebook," the spokesperson said.The spokesperson also said the company hopes this "approach reinforces the choice that all users have whether or not they want to interact with a business. We will maintain this approach until at least the forthcoming PDP law comes into effect.""We reiterate that the privacy of users remains our highest priority," it said.In January this year, WhatsApp updated its privacy policy, which allows the instant messaging service to share data about users' interactions with business accounts with its parent company Facebook.The move sparked major privacy concerns among users as well as outrage after WhatsApp announced it would limit the functionality of its platform in case users choose not to accept the conditions. Following criticisms, the platform pushed back the roll-out of the policy but again said in February that it will go ahead with its decision. This came despite the Indian government urging the company to abandon its plans.The Centre cited the rules in the Information Technology (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011, to contend that the updated privacy policy fails to specify the types of “sensitive personal” data being collected, and with whom the information was being shared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-won-t-compel-users-to-accept-privacy-policy-advocate-harish-salve-tells-delhi-hc-101625816882664.html
09-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chhattisgarh Police books suspended officer for sedition and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Suspended Chhattisgarh Police officer booked for seditionThe Chhattisgarh Police have booked suspended Indian Police Officer (IPS) officer GP Singh for sedition citing documents “promoting enmity” and “conspiracy against the government” allegedly recovered in the raids at his premises last week. Read MoreKalyan Singh recovering well, don't believe in rumours: KinFormer Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow, is recovering well. Read MorePinarayi Vijayan urges PM Modi to waive off tax on life-saving drug for infantPinarayi Vijayan, the chief minister of Kerala, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, requesting him to ask the finance ministry to not impose Customs duty and Integrated Goods and Services Tax on the life-saving medicine Zolgensma. Read More'No way you call any side a second string': Sri Lanka great Aravinda de Silva on Ranatunga commentFormer Sri Lanka captain Arjuna Ranatunga has been at the receiving end of a lot of flak since calling India's touring side as 'second string'. Read MoreVikrant Massey clarifies Taapsee Pannu's comment about him being 'scared' of doing intimate scenes in Haseen DillrubaActor Vikrant Massey has reacted to his Haseen Dillruba co-star Taapsee Pannu's recent comments about him and Harshvardhan Rane being 'scared' performing intimate scenes in the film with her. Read MoreDubai unveils world’s deepest 60-meter pool, videos of incredible creation go viralVideos of the newest record-breaking attraction of Dubai, the deepest dive pool in the world, have gone viral. Read MoreTikait vs Tomar again as Centre reiterates no repeal of farm laws conditionLeader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rakesh Tikait said that farmers are ready to talk with the government on the farm laws but made it clear that the discussions should be held without conditions. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chhattisgarh-police-books-suspended-officer-for-sedition-and-all-the-latest-news-101625813907864.html
09-07-2021||India||Delhi HC backs Uniform Civil Code, asks Centre to take necessary steps||The Delhi high court has backed the need for a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) in India and asked the Centre to take the necessary steps in this matter, informed those familiar with the development on Friday. The court noted that the modern Indian society is gradually becoming "homogeneous", dissipating 'traditional barriers' of religion, community, and caste, and in view of these changing paradigms, a uniform civil code is in order.The judgment was passed by Justice Prathiba M Singh on July 7 on a plea involving the applicability of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, in respect of parties belonging to the Meena community.While going over the case, Justice Singh observed that courts have been repeatedly confronted with the conflicts that arise in personal laws. People belonging to various communities, castes, and religions, who forge marital bonds, struggle with such conflicts, she observed.Also Read | Has the Supreme Court set the ball rolling for a Uniform Civil Code?"The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes, or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws," Justice Singh said, adding, "especially in relation to marriage and divorce."The Delhi high court judge said that a Uniform Civil Code in India, as envisioned under Article 44 of the Constitution, has been "reiterated from time to time" by the Supreme Court. Such a civil code would be "common to all", the court said, and would enable uniform principles to be applied in matters of marriage, divorce, and succession. This will reduce conflicts and contradictions within the society that arise from various personal laws, the court observed.The Supreme Court had in March last year sought a reply from the Centre over religion-neutral inheritance and succession laws in India. A lawyer at the top court and a member of the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), Ashwini Upadhyay, succeeded in getting five such petitions admitted by the apex court, a development that could be seen as a precursor to the Uniform Civil Code in the country.The UCC essentially refers to a common set of laws governing personal matters such as marriage, divorce, adoption, inheritance, and succession for all citizens of the country, irrespective of religion. Currently, different laws regulate these aspects for adherents of different religions and a UCC is meant to do away with these inconsistent personal laws.These laws include the Hindu Marriage Act, Hindu Succession Act, Indian Christian Marriages Act, Indian Divorce Act, Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act. However, Muslim personal laws are not codified and are based on their religious texts, though certain aspects of these are expressly recognised through laws such as the Shariat Application Act and Dissolution of Muslim Marriages Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-backs-uniform-civil-code-asks-centre-to-take-necessary-steps-101625812927126.html
09-07-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan urges PM Modi to waive off tax on life-saving drug for infant||Pinarayi Vijayan, the chief minister of Kerala, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, requesting him to ask the finance ministry to not impose Customs duty and Integrated Goods and Services Tax on the life-saving medicine Zolgensma, used in the treatment of Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), for a18-month-old Muhammed."I request you to give directions to the Union Finance Ministry to take steps not to levy Customs duty and Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) in this case involving import of the life-saving drug ‘Zolgensma’,” Vijayan wrote.Muhammed’s family, who belong to Kerala’s Kannur district, were able to afford the medicine, that costs a whopping Rs18 crore, through an online crowdfunding initiative. A treatment committee, led by MLA M Vijin, was formed to help procure medicines for the 18-month-old whose parents cannot afford the expensive treatment. The treatment committee informed the public on Monday that crowdfunding efforts have led to the collection of the money required to buy the medicines.Also Read: Crowdfunding raises ₹18 crore to treat Kerala child with rare genetic disorderVijayan in his letter urged the Prime Minister to waive off the GST in a manner in which he had done before for five-month-old Teera Kamat, who was suffering from the same rare genetic condition.“The price of the medicine which is Rs18 crore is proposed to be mobilised from willing persons and imported from USA. It is learnt from media reports that the Union Government had waived off taxes in a similar case of a 5 month old child who is suffering from SMA in Mumbai,” he wrote.Muhammad, whose 15-year-old sister also suffers from SMA, will have to be administered the medicine before he attains the age of two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pinarayi-vijayan-urges-pm-modi-to-waive-off-tax-on-life-saving-drug-for-infant-101625814124232.html
09-07-2021||India||Covid-19 latest update: Maharashtra at top, Kerala sees uptick in new cases||Most states in India registered a fall in coronavirus cases on Friday even as the active caseload continued to remain high in some of these places. Barring Kerala that saw an uptick of 2,216 cases taking the total number of infections to 1,10,616, all other states, including Maharashtra with 1,17,698 active cases, reported a mild drop in fresh infections.According to the Union health ministry bulletin that was updated on Friday 8am, the top five states with highest number of cases, at the moment, are Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka (38,752 cases), Tamil Nadu (33,665 cases) and Andhra Pradesh (31,850).Click here for latest updates on coronavirus.The number of deaths has also fallen largely across states with only Maharashtra and Kerala registering 439 and 142 fatalities, respectively, while all others saw losses in two digits.Kerala also reported the highest number of recoveries from Covid-19 during the day with 11,414 patients being discharged from hospitals and healthcare facilities, followed by Maharashtra at 8,815.As far as vaccinations against the virus in concerned, Uttar Pradesh inoculated the highest number of people with 2,98,96,371 doses being administered. Others like Maharashtra (2,80,46,874), Gujarat (2,11,86,487) and Karnataka (2,03,55,148) are also aggressively going about with its vaccination drive.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh detected the first two cases of delta plus, the lethal and more infectious variant of the virus, being registered on Thursday.ALSO READ | UP reports Delta plus cases, variants of concern found in 174 districtsThe Centre has said 'variants of concern' of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus have been found in as many as 174 districts across 35 states and Union territories with the highest number of such infections being reported from Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal, and Gujarat.On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held his first round of meeting with his new council of ministers wherein he warned against any lax that may have far-reaching effects in the nation’s fight against the pandemic.His statement came at a time when the health ministry expressed its concern over people taking to "revenge travel" while the threat of third wave loomed large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-at-top-kerala-sees-uptick-in-new-cases-101625809453720.html
09-07-2021||India||India has administered nearly 370 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered about 370 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, July 8, even as PM Narendra Modi warned his new council of ministers that complacence could derail the country’s Covid fight.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 368,576,352 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,608,940 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,793,389 were given the first dose while 171,647 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 108,214,937 persons across the country have received their first dose and 3,370,920 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | PM Modi to chair high-level meet on oxygen availability todayEight states: Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 5 million first doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the 18-45 age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.India logged 43,393 new infections in the past 24 hrs, taking the total tally of cases to 30,752,950, while the active cases have declined to 458,727, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.The death toll climbed to 405,939 with 911 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-nearly-370-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101625811029614.html
09-07-2021||India||Six arrested for smoking hookah at Uttarakhand's Har-ki-Pauri||Haridwar Police has arrested six persons for allegedly smoking 'hookah' at Har ki Pauri ghat.Speaking to ANI on Thursday, Superintendent of Police of City, Haridwar, Kamlesh Upadhyaya said, "Some tourists were found smoking hookah at Har-ki-Pauri on July 7. They have been arrested by the police.""A case has been registered and an investigation into this matter is underway. We also want to send a message to the public that we will not tolerate such behaviour here," he said.Lakhs of people visited Har-Ki-Pauri, which is regarded as one of the holiest Ghats in Haridwar. It is the place where River Ganga flowing from the Himalayas touches the plains for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-arrested-for-smoking-hookah-at-uttarakhand-s-harkipauri-101625810745033.html
09-07-2021||India||Tourists flock to Sikkim in ‘good numbers’ after state eases Covid-19 restrictions||Tourists in large numbers have been flocking to Sikkim after the state opened up initially for fully vaccinated tourists from July 5, and the government is planning to usher in more relaxations to help revive tourism. “Tourists have started visiting the state in good numbers. If everything goes fine, in coming weeks, the government will give more relaxation for revival of tourism and economy,” Kapil Meena, additional secretary of Sikkim’s tourism department was quoted as saying by ANI.Sikkim’s home department revised its guideline on Thursday allowing entry for partially vaccinated individuals if at least one member of their family has been fully vaccinated as well as unvaccinated children accompanied by vaccinated parents, if they produce a negative RT-PCR test result to be allowed admission through the Melli and Rangpo check posts.Also Read: After hundreds seen flocking Kempty Falls, Mussoorie says only 50 tourists allowed nowMeena also said that the government has launched a ‘Visit Sikkim 2022’ programme, the first meeting of which was held on Thursday.States have been gradually opening up for tourists as the number of daily coronavirus cases has been on the decline. Visuals of crowds at tourist places have emerged on social media. Pictures of tourists without a face mask crowding public places in Manali and video clips of hundreds of tourists, most of whom were also with masks, at the famous Kempty falls in Mussoorie on Thursday have been doing the rounds. Following this the Uttarakhand government came up with a fresh order restricting access to 50 tourists at a time, who cannot stay beyond half-an-hour.The Union health ministry issued warnings against “revenge travel” and warned that not conforming to appropriate Covid-19 protocol will “nullify all the gains made so far”.Sikkim reported 222 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday and one fatality, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourists-flock-to-sikkim-in-good-numbers-after-state-eases-covid-19-restrictions-101625810434687.html
09-07-2021||India||Kalyan Singh health update: Kin says former UP CM recovering well, PM Modi prays for good health||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow, is recovering well and is in a better health condition now, said his grandson Sandeep Singh. Speaking to news agency ANI, Singh urged everyone not to believe in rumours that suggest the former UP CM is not keeping well.Also Read | Yogi visits former UP CM Kalyan Singh at Lucknow's SGPGI"He (Kalyan Singh) is better and is recovering well. Rumours are rife (that he is not keeping well) and I request people not to fall for such rumours," Sandeep Singh told ANI. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also called him up earlier in the day to inquire about his grandfather's health.He (Former CM Kalyan Singh) is better, recovering well. Rumours are rife (that he is not keeping well). PM Modi also called up to enquire about his health, I request people not to fall for rumours: Sandeep Singh, Kalyan Singh's grandson clarifies on his health. pic.twitter.com/jFhLvHRBuNKalyan Singh was admitted to the ICU on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness levels. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had visited the ailing leader on Thursday.Taking to his official account on Twitter, Prime Minister Modi confirmed on Friday that he had spoken to Kalyan Singh's grandson and inquired after the health of the former UP CM. "Countless people across India are praying for the speedy recovery of Kalyan Singh Ji. Yesterday, JP Nadda Ji, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath Ji and others went to the hospital to meet him. I just spoke to his grandson and inquired about his health," the Prime Minister wrote.Prime Minister Modi said he was deeply touched to know that Kalyan Singh remembered him during the conversation with BJP president JP Nadda. "I also have many memories of my interactions with Kalyan Singh Ji," PM Modi said. "Several of those memories came back to life. Talking to him has been a learning experience," he added.Countless people across India are praying for the speedy recovery of Kalyan Singh Ji. Yesterday @JPNadda Ji, CM @myogiadityanath Ji and others went to the hospital to meet him. I just spoke to his grandson and enquired about his health.I was deeply touched to know that during his conversation with @JPNadda Ji, Kalyan Singh Ji remembered me. I also have many memories of my interactions with Kalyan Singh Ji. Several of those memories came back to life. Talking to him has always been a learning experience.Citing doctors at SGPGI Lucknow, news agency PTI also confirmed that former UP CM Kalyan Singh is presently "better" and showing "consistent improvement"."The condition of Kalyan Singh, who is admitted in ICU of Critical Care Medicine (CCM), is better. He is hemodynamically stable. He is showing consistent improvement and his vital parameters are stable," the hospital said in a statement."He is communicative and is being treated by senior faculty of CCM, Cardiology, Neurology, Endocrinology, and Nephrology," it added.Earlier, the former chief minister was undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalyan-singh-health-update-kin-says-former-up-cm-recovering-well-pm-modi-prays-for-good-health-101625808866123.html
09-07-2021||India||PM Modi to chair high-level meet on oxygen availability, review Covid-19 situation at 11:30am today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would chair a high-level meeting at 11:30am on Friday to review the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) preparations in India, news agency ANI reported on Friday, citing officials familiar with the development. PM Modi would also oversee the availability of oxygen in the country ahead of a potential third wave of the pandemic.Prime Minister Modi conducted a similar meeting with high-level government officials on June 26. There, he expressed content with the pace of the country's Covid-19 vaccination drive. In that meeting, he also reviewed the progress of Covid-19 vaccination coverage amid the current second wave of the infection.This will be the Prime Minister's first such high-level Covid-19 meet after a reshuffle in his council of ministers earlier this week. The new Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, took charge of his ministry on Thursday replacing Dr. Harsh Vardhan on the post, who resigned in the middle of the pandemic.Also Read | 'A single mistake': PM Modi's Covid-19 warning at ministers' meetIt is said that the Delta plus Covid-19 variant may drive a potential third wave of the pandemic in India. The Delta variant was the key driver behind the last wave, which was almost twice as deadly as the first. About 20,000 people were found infected by the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, while the second wave hit around 36,000 people in India, reports said.The rate of infection was so fast during the second wave that on average, around 1,000 people were reported to be getting infected by Covid-19 daily during the months of April and May, while the 'real' death toll was believed to be far beyond the official tally.There were reports of widespread unavailability of medical oxygen in India during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. A scramble for government beds, medical oxygen, ventilators, and other pieces of equipment across the country was also reported, even while the death toll and infections continued to rise exponentially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-high-level-meeting-on-oxygen-availability-at-11-30am-today-101625806042260.html
09-07-2021||India||After hundreds seen flocking Kempty Falls, Mussoorie says only 50 tourists allowed now||The Uttarakhand government announced on Friday its decision to allow only 50 tourists at Mussoorie's Kempty falls, a day after a shocking video clip that went viral showed hundreds of people thronging at the popular waterfall and flouting coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-necessitated protocols.The latest order reads that no more than 50 tourists can gather at the spot, nor can they stay there beyond half an hour. Moreover, a check-post will also be set up in the area for monitoring tourist activity, reported news agency ANI on Friday morning, citing officials familiar with the development.Also Read | Flouting Covid-19 rules, maskless tourists throng Mussoorie's Kempty falls"Now only 50 tourists are allowed at Kempty Falls in Mussoorie and they cannot stay at the spot beyond half an hour," the news agency quoted Ashish Srivastava, the district magistrate of Tehri Garhwal, as saying. "A check-post will be set up to monitor the tourists."The video clips, which went viral on social media a day ago, showed hundreds of tourists taking baths at the famous waterfall in Mussoorie. Social distancing went for a toss as people flocked together at the popular tourist spot. Not even a single person was seen wearing a mask in the videos.The Union government had earlier, too, issued warnings against overcrowding at popular tourist destinations across India, but it seems to be having little effect on tourists. Days ago, pictures of overcrowded streets emerged on social media from Manali with zero regard for physical distancing norms. Notably, the Union ministry of health and family welfare had issued a warning against ‘revenge travel’ and overcrowding of these tourist spots."People are indulging in revenge travel with restrictions being lifted. They need to understand that the virus and the disease are still here. People roaming in hill stations and markets without maintaining physical distance and not wearing masks can nullify the gains made in the management of the pandemic so far," joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said as he stressed on following Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-hundreds-seen-flocking-kempty-falls-mussoorie-says-only-50-tourists-allowed-now-101625801939974.html
09-07-2021||India||Fermented rice diet can boost immunity: AIIMS study||Pakhala, Odisha’s staple diet of fermented rice, contains a molecule that helps boost immunity, a preliminary study conducted by Bhubaneswar’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has found.Balamurugan Ramadass, the head of the institute’s Centre of Excellence for Clinical Microbiome Research who has been conducting the study since 2019, cited the preliminary research and added Pakhala contains short-chain fatty acids known to improve gut health and boost immunity.Also Read | Former IAS officer and engineer from Odisha get key portfolios in Cabinet“As at AIIMS we treat stunted children, we usually give complex carbohydrates with supplements such as short-chain fatty acids that give a lot of energy and have anti-inflammatory properties. The search was for food that is affordable and easily accessible by everybody. After a lot of research, we zeroed in on Torani, the water in the fermented rice,” said Ramadass, whose team has analysed at least 20 samples collected from households from different locations and socio-economic backgrounds.Ramadass said the study is yet to be published as he is awaiting more funds for further research. “We just have preliminary data as of now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fermented-rice-diet-can-boost-immunity-aiims-study-101625804069405.html
09-07-2021||India||India reports 43,393 new Covid-19 cases, active cases slide to 458,727||India reported 43,393 new cases and 911 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,752,950 and 405,939 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. As many as 44,459 people recovered from the viral disease in the previous 24 hours, taking the cumulative recoveries to 29,888,284. The active cases have declined to 458,727 and constitute 1.50 per cent of the caseload.Friday’s case count is 2,499 less than that of Thursday’s when 45,892 cases were reported. However, the deaths from the infection on Friday are 94 more than that of Thursday’s, when 817 people succumbed to the viral disease. On Wednesday, the country saw 43,733 cases and 930 more deaths.Also Read| Second Covid-19 wave lingering, or early signs of 3rd?A total of 427,016,605 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease so far of which 1,790,708 were tested in the previous 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/UQKAUbqBFsPrime Minister Narendra Modi told his council of ministers on Thursday that there should be no room for complacency and stressed that a single mistake would have far reaching impact and may weaken the country’s fight against the Covid-19 disease pandemic.As photographs and videos emerged of severe overcrowding in hill stations and market places across the country with no adherence to Covid-19 protocols, such as wearing masks or social distancing, Modi said this is not a pleasant sight and it should instil a sense of fear in people.Also Read| Don’t be complacent, single mistake can derail fight against Covid: Modi“PM Modi said that with the Covid-19 infection numbers being fewer than what they were in the recent months, people may want to venture out. However, everyone must remember that the threat of Covid-19 is far from over. Many other nations are seeing surges in infections. The virus is also mutating,” sources told news agency PTI on Thursday. The Prime Minister also told his ministers to urge people to take all possible precautions so that the country can move beyond the pandemic in the near future.Also Watch| Covid Flash: 43,393 new cases in 24 hours, weekly positivity rate at 2.36%﻿A total of 364,847,549 doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 have been administered to people so far of which 295,889,870 have received the first dose and 68,957,679 have received both doses. Over 3.38 million beneficiaries were inoculated in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-43-393-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-slide-to-458727-101625802526912.html
09-07-2021||India||No 'one size fits all' approach for localisation of SDGs: India at UN||India on Thursday said that there is no "one size fits all" approach for localisation of sustainable development goals (SDGs). Speaking at the United Nations's high-level political forum (HLPF) on the issue, India also noted that the countries should experience and learn from each other to implement the 2030 Agenda.The comments were made by India’s Permanent Representative the United Nations TS Tirumurti. "How can localisation of SDGs contribute to leaving no one behind?" asked Tirumurti and said, the global Covid-19 pandemic is threatening to disrupt the "decade of action"."It goes without saying that we need to work together collectively to ensure that all countries, especially the vulnerable ones, stay their course on the 2030 SDG Agenda," he further said.The 2030 SDG Agenda is the global effort to mobilise actions and commitments to achieve clean, affordable energy for all by 2030.Tirumurti added that he is convinced "due to the localisation efforts we are undertaking, our path to implementing the 2030 Agenda will be relatively smooth even in the face of the pandemic."The diplomat further said that breaking down goals and implementation to sub-national and local levels is the only way to succeed in achieving SDG targets. "Localisation also allows developing local solutions to local challenges by empowering provincial and local levels of government," the Indian envoy also said at the forum.Speaking on the same, Tirumurti also gave an example of successful implementation of localisation of SDGs as he highlighted India's aspirational districts programme which focuses on more than 100 developmentally challenged districts across five sectors such as health, education, agriculture, infrastructure, and skill development.The programme involves real-time monitoring of 49 indicators across the five focus areas on the 'champions of change' dashboard, with a monthly ranking of the best-performing districts. It has also strengthened the technical and administrative capacities of the districts through collaboration with development partners for providing technical expertise and skills training.UNDP's appraisal report released in June this year pointed out that the programme is a very successful global model of "local area development" by leveraging local structures of governance with multi-stakeholder partnerships, to ensure that localisation of the SDGs becomes a reality.(With inputs from ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-size-fits-all-approach-for-localisation-of-sdgs-india-at-un-101625802791716.html
09-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Zaila Avant-garde becomes 1st Black American to win national spelling bee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Zaila Avant-garde, 14, becomes first African-American to win Spelling BeeZaila Avant-garde, 14, won the Scripps National Spelling Bee on Thursday by correctly spelling Murraya, a genus of plants, becoming the first African American to win the 90-year-old competition, which was cancelled last year because of the coronavirus pandemic. Read MoreCovaxin to get WHO nod soon? Chief scientist says trial data 'looks good'In what potentially comes as a piece of good news for Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech, the World Health Organization (WHO) has indicated that it might just provide its much-awaited approval to Covaxin, the company's indigenous jab against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read MorePfizer-BioNTech vaccine may require third dose, companies seek approvalThe Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name 'Comirnaty', may require a third dose to work more effectively against the original strain of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read More'Rahul Dravid has the opportunity to create future champions of Indian cricket': VVS Laxman ahead of Sri Lanka seriesFormer India batsman VVS Laxman feels the legendary Rahul Dravid, as the head coach of a young Indian side in Sri Lanka, will have the opportunity to find and nurture 'future champions' of Indian cricket. Read MoreWhen Asha Bhosle practised Aaja Aaja in her car but her driver 'thought I was gasping for breath'Asha Bhosle remembered one of her hit songs and opened up on how she was not too sure of taking it up initially. Read MoreRescue helicopter airlifts horse trapped in concrete debris in California. WatchA video of what the officials of Orange County Fire Authority termed as ‘one of the most technical horse rescues’ they performed has won people’s hearts. The clip shows how the officials rescued a horse trapped in concrete debris in California. Read MoreChura Ke Dil Mera: Shilpa Shetty stuns in bold black crop top, ₹18k gold pantsSetting the mercury soaring with her sexy moves, Shilpa Shetty Kundra grooved to Chura Ke Dil Mera 2.0 as she gears up for her Bollywood comeback with Hungama 2. Read MoreWatch: After viral crowd images, Manali issues Covid rules: ₹5,000 fine or 8-day jail||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-louisiana-teen-zaila-avant-garde-becomes-first-black-american-to-win-national-spelling-bee-and-all-the-latest-news-101625801353102.html
09-07-2021||India||SC grants bail to 13 juveniles lodged at Agra jail for over 14 years||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to 13 prisoners lodged at Agra Central Jail who spent 14-22 years in jail despite being juveniles at the time of committing the crimes.The 13 convicts approached the Supreme Court last month, claiming their detention to be “illegal” as there were clear orders passed by the Juvenile Justice Board with regard to each of them at various intervals between February 2017 and March 2021, declaring them to be juvenile at the time they had committed the crime.A bench of justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian released the 13 convicts on interim bail, subject to furnishing personal bonds. It also gave the state two weeks’ time to verify the facts about their continued stay in jail despite an order establishing their juvenility.Uttar Pradesh’s additional advocate general Garima Parshad sought time to verify details about the 13 petitioners. However, the state did not object to the grant of interim bail.The 13 prisoners had stated in their petition that their continued detention in jail along with hardened criminals violated the spirit and purpose of the Juvenile Justice Act 2000 which requires juvenile offenders to be tried separately. Had the Juvenile Boards tried these cases, the accused would have secured a maximum punishment of 3 years’ stay at an observation home.Arguing the petition, advocate Rishi Malhotra said the case exposed the unfortunate and sorry state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh. According to him, there are similar persons who were juveniles at the time of committing the crime and languish behind bars for years together.This fact came to light in a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) proceeding pending before the Allahabad high court in 2012 where it was said that a significant number of prisoners lodged in UP jails were below 18 years of age at the time of commission of crime. The high court called for a report from director general (prisons) who confirmed this fact. In May 2012, the HC ordered an inquiry by Juvenile Justice Boards which resulted in orders being passed in the case of the 13 petitioners.The petition said, “There is a clear infringement and violation of the fundamental right of the petitioners envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution in as much as though the petitioners having judgments declaring them as juveniles are actually undergoing illegal detentions as on date and pray inter alia from the apex constitutional court to pass necessary orders of releasing them forthwith.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-bail-to-13-juveniles-lodged-at-agra-jail-for-over-14-years-101625801309377.html
09-07-2021||India||Monsoon starts reviving, onset likely over Delhi tomorrow||Monsoon has started reviving gradually after a “break” monsoon period of ten days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Moist easterly monsoon winds from Bay of Bengal have started to establish over eastern India. These winds are likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10.Accordingly, southwest monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10.A low pressure area is likely to form over westcentral and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts around July 11.Under the influence of these conditions, scattered to widespread rainfall very likely over northwest India from July 9 onwards and isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad , Punjab on July 11 and 12; Uttarakhand & West Uttar Pradesh during July 8 to 12; Himachal Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during July 12.Isolated very heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand on July 11 and 12. Scattered to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls very likely over Central India (Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh and Odisha) during the next five days.Due to strengthening of monsoon winds over Arabian Sea and likely formation of a low pressure area over westcentral, and adjoining Northwest Bay of Bengal around July 11, enhanced rainfall activity very likely along the west and east coasts likely to continue during the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-starts-reviving-onset-likely-over-delhi-tomorrow-101625800589238.html
09-07-2021||India||Covaxin to get WHO nod soon? Chief scientist says Covid-19 vaccine trial data 'looks good'||In what potentially comes as a piece of good news for Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech, the World Health Organization (WHO) has indicated that it might just provide its much-awaited approval to Covaxin, the company's indigenous jab against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Soumya Swaminathan, the chief scientist at WHO, told a Mumbai-based news organisation that the final phase trial data for Covaxin “looks good” and meets the safety profile of the international public health agency so far.Also Read | Covaxin booster dose: What is it? What does govt say about this?The pre-submission meeting between Bharat Biotech and WHO was held on June 23, Swaminathan told CNBC TV-18 in an interview, adding that the data packet is currently being assembled. She noted that although Covaxin's efficacy against the Delta variant of Covid-19 is a bit low, it is still not bad, while the overall efficacy is "quite high."Bharat Biotech finally made public its findings from the Phase-3 efficacy analysis of Covaxin last Saturday, where it claimed an overall efficacy of 77.8% against symptomatic Covid-19 patients. The pre-print data from "India's largest efficacy trial" showed that Covaxin demonstrates 93.4% effectiveness against severe symptomatic Covid-19 cases. On the other hand, Covaxin provides 65.2% protection against the B.1.617.2 (Delta) strain, currently the most predominant Covid-19 variant in India, it said.The World Health Organization keeps a close watch on all the vaccines which are on the pipeline for emergency listing, Swaminathan said, adding that the agency is awaiting more data for a final say on the matter.Speaking on the Covid-19 situation in India, the WHO chief scientist said that the government should focus on primary immunisation of at least 60-70% of its population. The focus should not be on booster shots but on broadening the scope of primary vaccination, she said. Only after a sizeable population has been vaccinated can India draw inspiration from countries like the United Kingdom, which have moved on to focusing on booster doses.Most of the world, except some districts in the United States, has recently seen a spurt in Covid-19 cases while there has been no reduction in the death toll, Swaminathan noted.Notably, Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin has till now not found a place in the World Health Organization's emergency-use listing (EUL) of vaccines. The lack of endorsement from WHO has been hampering travel plans for individuals as many countries are only accepting vaccines approved by the public health body.Covaxin is one of the three vaccines which are currently being used in India for inoculation of people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The vaccine is developed by Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company Bharat Biotech in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Serum Institute of India's Covishield and Russia's Sputnik V are the other two vaccines that have been administered to Indian citizens so far. Moderna's Covid-19 messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine is expected to reach India this week, reported news agencies. However, discussions are still going on over indemnity waivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-to-get-who-nod-soon-chief-scientist-says-covid-19-vaccine-trial-data-looks-good-101625796269980.html
09-07-2021||India||Former Union minister P Chidambaram likely to face court hearing today in INX media case||A Delhi court is likely to decide on hearing the money laundering case on Friday against Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram in connection with the INX media scam. The matter was earlier adjourned till July 9 by the Rouse Avenue district court in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, as the court was only hearing 'urgent' matters.The case relates to irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to the INX Media group for receiving overseas funds to the tune of ₹305 crore in 2007, at a time when P Chidambaram served as the Union minister of finance in the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case on May 15, 2017, and the former finance minister was arrested two years later, on August 21, 2019. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) also arrested P Chidambaram on October 16, later that year, in the related money-laundering case.However, the Congress leader was granted bail in the CBI case six days later on October 22 while in the ED case, he got bail on December 4, 2019. Following the clearance of his bail application by the Supreme Court, he was released from the Tihar Jail a day later, on December 5.Both P Chidambaram and his son Karti, who was also arrested in the matter in 2018 and later granted bail, were summoned by the Delhi court on April 7 this year, after it took cognisance of the ED chargesheet in connection to their alleged role in the INX Media money laundering case.The chargesheet by the ED was filed under section 3 (money laundering) read with section 70 (offenses by companies), which is punishable under section 4 (punishment) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chidambaram-likely-to-face-court-hearing-today-in-inx-media-case-101625793417887.html
09-07-2021||India||PM Modi sends condolences to Haiti over assassination of President Jovenel Moise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered condolences on Thursday to the family of Haiti President Jovenel Moise who was killed in an assassination at his home on Wednesday. "Saddened by the assassination of President Jovenel Moise and the attack on First Lady Martine Moise of Haiti. My condolences to the family of President Moise and the people of Haiti," PM Modi posted on Twitter.PM Modi also tagged the interim Prime Minister of Haiti Claude Joseph in his tweet.Moise was assassinated at his private residence by a group of unnamed gunmen on Wednesday. After the assassination, Haiti declared a state of emergency of 15 days and launched a manhunt to nab the killers.As of Friday morning, the police have arrested at least 28 people, out of which two are of American origin. Twenty-six others are Colombians, national police director-general Leon Charles said at a news conference."We will strengthen our investigation and search techniques to intercept the other eight mercenaries," Charles also said in the briefing.On Thursday, police also tracked down a house of suspected assassins near the scene of the crime at Petionville in Haitian capital Port-au-Prince, where Moise was staying with his wife.Officials in mostly French and Creole-speaking Haiti had also said that the assassins appeared to have spoken in English and Spanish.The police are also working to ascertain the motive of the killing. Moise took office in 2017, since then he has faced mass protests against his rule - first over corruption allegations and his management of the economy, then over his increasing grip on power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sends-condolences-to-haiti-over-assassination-of-president-jovenel-moise-101625794070834.html
09-07-2021||India||Mumbai, Hyderabad airports prepare for resumption of UAE flights: Report||Ahead of resuming flight services to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), airports in India are preparing contingency measures to cut the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in their premises, reports said, adding that a rush of passengers headed for Dubai and other parts of the Gulf nation is to be expected once the flights become operation. According to a report by Gulf News, the international airports at Mumbai and Hyderabad are gearing up for the UAE flight services, equipped with rapid PCR and lab testing.Flights to Dubai were set to resume on June 23 but were later rescheduled owing to the coronavirus disease situation. The UAE first suspended air travel to and from India in April as the latter battled a devastating second wave of Covid-19; the ban was later extended till July 6. According to the latest updates, flights from India to Dubai and Abu Dhabi are set to resume on July 15 and July 21.The Mumbai airport is keeping its premises sanitised at all times and has also instituted a rapid PCR-testing facility, that provides results in just 13 minutes, reported Gulf News, citing an unnamed official of the Mumbai International Airport (MIA) familiar with the development. “We also have a lab right inside the airport to help the passengers get the report at the earliest,” the report quoted the official as saying. “We already have the facilities at the departures as well as the arrivals and we have ample counters to meet requirements,” the airport official was quoted.On the other hand, the Hyderabad airport, too, has partnered up with Mapmygenome, a Covid-19 testing lab certified by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), the report said, adding that the coronavirus testing facility at the Hyderabad airport will operate 24 hours a day all seven days of the week.There is no clarity yet on whether the India-UAE travel channel will once again be pushed back, the report mentioned, citing the airport spokesperson, who said that the reopening of the airline travel route will depend on timely clearance provided by the UAE government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-hyderabad-airports-decked-up-ahead-of-restarting-uae-flights-report-101625788330114.html
09-07-2021||India||Second Covid-19 wave lingering, or early signs of 3rd?||India faced a severe second wave of Covid-19 infections starting February. The seven-day average of daily new infections rose 36 times between February 11 and May 9, which is when the second wave peaked. Daily new cases have since fallen sharply, but the latest statistics underline the need for caution. This is all the more important given the anecdotal accounts of Covid-inappropriate behaviour from many places, especially tourist destinations. Here are four charts that explain this.1. New infections are not rising, but they also are not falling fast enoughThe 7-day averages of daily and active Covid-19 cases continue their downward trend after having peaked on May 9, 2021. However, two months since the second wave's peak, the infection’s trajectory in India has seen a worrying development. There has been a slowdown in the downward trend of cases and a slight increase in positivity rate. Worse still, daily new cases have been increasing over the past few days, although it is premature to label this the beginning of the next wave without a clear increase in 7-day averages.On June 24, the 7-day-average of daily and active cases in India was 53,123 and 683,544 respectively. Two weeks later, on July 7, these numbers were 42,547 and 486,415, the lowest since the peak of the second wave. This shows that we are still on the downward path of the second wave. To be sure, the latest numbers are much higher than the lowest number of daily new cases (10,988) and total active cases (138,837) seen after the peak of the first wave.What is worrying about the current situation is that the nature of the infection's curve changed a month ago. The 7-day average of new cases was declining at the rate of 6.7% per day on June 2. New cases are declining at a much slower rate now. The daily fall in 7-day average of new cases was 0.96% on July 7. The rate of decline of active cases has similarly decreased from 5.23% on June 9 to 1.8% on July 7.2. Rise in positivity rate is a cause for concernWhile new cases continue to fall, the positivity rate has already reversed its falling trajectory. The seven-day average of daily positivity rates hit a high of 22.76% on May 9. It then declines and reached a low of 2.19% on July 2. This number has increased slightly in the past week. On July 7, the 7-day average of daily positivity rate was 2.27%. While this increase is small and recent, this definitely raises a red flag.3. The situation at the state levelThe all-India numbers hide the divergence across states. The 7-day average of new cases has been rising in six small north-eastern states and Kerala. Positivity rates have risen in 11 states and UTs over the last week. There are 4 states, where the 7-day average of positivity rate was higher than 10% on July 7, and another four where it was 5%-10% . A rise in positivity rates means the number of cases will continue to rise.4. Districts in other states too affectedOut of 707 districts for which data is compiled by How India Lives (Delhi’s districts are merged as one), the 7-day average of cases has increased in 63 districts between June 20 and July 6; 36 of them are from the eight north-eastern states, and 18 from Kerala, Maharashtra, and Odisha. But cases have increased in a few districts even in other states in the past two weeks.The lack of publicly available daily district-wise positivity rates that can be read together with the cases in those districts continues to be an important constraint in red-flagging vulnerable districts before it is too late.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-covid-19-wave-lingering-or-early-signs-of-3rd-101625785189287.html
09-07-2021||India||Give plan to comply on oath: Delhi high court to Twitter||The Delhi high court on Thursday pulled up Twitter for its delay in appointing the resident grievance officers, making it clear that the social media company cannot be given eight weeks to meet the terms of the new Information Technology (IT) rules, and said the Union government was free to take action if the company did not comply.Twitter had sought eight weeks to appoint permanent grievance officers and to set up a liaison office in India, a request the court denied.“No, no... I am not giving eight weeks,” said justice Rekha Palli, while adding: “I am not going to protect you… You have also not set up a liaison office which was another requirement under the Rules”.Senior advocate Sajan Poovaya, representing Twitter, told the court that it was not seeking any protection. “The consequence (of non-compliance) is that the protection to intermediaries falls off. I’m not seeking any protection,” he said.Poovaya said the company was reserving its right to challenge the rules for now, to which the judge said: “You have the right to challenge but till the Rules are there, they’re there for everybody.”Close to 10 entities – tech companies, news websites, advocacy groups and private individuals – have challenged the new IT rules. While some, such as Facebook-owned WhatsApp, have challenged specific clauses, others, like Carnatic musician TM Krishna, have argued that the rules in entirety violate multiple provisions of the Constitution.The government has said that the rules are an important tool to protect the rights of Indian users and compel the digital companies to respect Indian rules and regulations.“While Twitter is striving to comply with the 2021 Rules, Twitter reserves its right to challenge the legality, validity, and vires of the Rules, and Twitter’s submissions regarding compliance are filed without prejudice to its right to challenge the Rules,” a document filed by Twitter in the high court said.Twitter on Thursday informed the high court that it appointed an interim chief compliance officer (COO) on July 6 as a contingent worker through a third party contractor, who is a resident of India, and it would require eight weeks to replace the position with a permanent employee.The social media intermediary also said that it is in the process of making an appointment of an Indian resident as its interim resident grievance officer (RGO) and expects to do so on or before July 11.The company also added that it intends to employ an interim nodal contact officer within two weeks and a regular employee within eight weeks.On yet another compliance requirement, which mandates big social media companies to publish a compliance report, the company promised to do so by July 11, the government’s deadline.Twitter’s submission came after the high court on July 6 asked the social media intermediary to give a deadline for appointing the three grievance redressal officers. The court had warned Twitter “will be in trouble” if it doesn’t comply.It had also pulled up the company for “misleading” the court and giving “wrong impression” on the appointment of a regular grievance officer. The court took exception to not being informed that an earlier appointment of the resident grievance officer was only on interim basis.Proceedings in the high court started with senior advocate Poovaya telling the court that his client was making all out efforts to comply with the new IT Rules. He said that usage of “interim” would not lessen or minimise the responsibilities on these officers.The high court, however, said: “Tomorrow you may take benefit of “interim”. This (your stand) is neither in the letter (to the Centre) nor in an affidavit.”Responding to a query of court, Poovaya said the officers have been appointed in interim because they do not have a permanent address in India and some tax issues might crop up. To this justice Palli said, “Okay, but I am not going to protect you.”Additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, for the Centre, objected to the reply filed by Twitter and said that the appointments made could not be permitted through a third party.“This is not diplomatic parlance. We want accountability, full accountability of great servitude. It can’t be left in half-way house via third party…They’ve talked about making appointments through a third party. What is this third party? Where is it coming from? Let’s say I am a pharma or an IT company in the US…No court would give them leeway like this. I have to be in 100% compliance with the Rules,” Sharma argued.When Poovaya said that the Centre cannot hold them for contempt for the contents of their affidavit, the court observed: “I am not going into that right now, but you are already in contempt. You had said something in the last hearing, now you are going back on it and trying to salvage the situation maybe.”The court noted that Twitter has not filed an affidavit but has given a short memo signed by the counsel in which they stated to fully comply with the Rules, as long as there is no stay.It granted two weeks’ time to Twitter to file hard copies of the notarised affidavit of a competent officer, along with the affidavit of the officer already stated to have been appointed and the persons who are being appointed.Since early 2021, the company has had multiple disputes with the government, beginning with tweets relating to the farm protests that the government sought to be taken down. In recent weeks, former Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has publicly spoken against Twitter for its content moderation practices, while cases have been filed against Twitter’s executives over user content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-plan-to-comply-on-oath-delhi-high-court-to-twitter-101625784988511.html
09-07-2021||India||Don’t be complacent, single mistake can derail fight against Covid: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi cautioned his council of ministers on Thursday that complacency could derail India’s fight against Covid-19, and a single mistake could have far-reaching impact and weaken the fight to defeat the virus, according to people aware of the developments.At the meeting of the expanded council of 77 members, Modi also asked the ministers to be punctual, learn from their predecessors, and focus on public service. The event came a day after Modi rebooted his council, dropping 12 ministers, inducting 36 new faces, and promoting seven.Modi said India’s fight against the pandemic was on track but expressed concern at the persistently high number of cases from Maharashtra and Kerala, said a person privy to the details of the meeting.According to the person quoted above, the PM said that over the past few days, pictures and videos of crowded places were being circulated and people were seen roaming without masks or social distancing. “This is not a pleasant sight and it should instil a sense of fear in us,” Modi was quoted as saying by the person quoted in the first instance.The PM said India’s fight against the pandemic was powered by frontline workers and was underway with full vigour. He also said that India was steadily vaccinating a substantial percentage of its population and testing was also consistently high.In the past, the PM has urged people to not let their guard down against the pandemic and adhere to Covid safety protocols. At the meeting too, the PM said that everyone must remember that the threat of Covid-19 was far from over and many nations were seeing surges in infections, said the person quoted above.He told the ministers that their aim should not be to instil fear but request people to keep taking all possible precautions so that India can move beyond the pandemic.A second person aware of developments said Modi asked ministers to reach office on time and channel their energies on ministerial work.He also said new ministers should not make unnecessary statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-be-complacent-single-mistake-can-derail-fight-against-covid-modi-101625784908337.html
09-07-2021||India||New team starts with focus on farm, health||The revamped Union Cabinet announced major decisions for the health and agriculture sectors after its first meeting on Thursday, highlighting the government’s priority areas in its bid to curb a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections, and ongoing farmer protests against three central laws.The Cabinet approved ₹23,123 crore for Covid-19 emergency response and upgrading of grassroots medical infrastructure in preparation for a future surge in infections. It also cleared a proposal to extend a flagship ₹1 lakh crore fund to agriculture produce marketing committees (APMC), the backbone of farm trade in the country.“Important decisions regarding agriculture and farmers’ welfare have been taken in today’s Cabinet meeting,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The virtual meeting of the 30-member Cabinet took place a day after Modi dropped 12 ministers, inducted 36 new faces, and promoted seven in the first major reshuffle of the council of ministers of his second term.The briefing was addressed by Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, and health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Mandaviya, who took over from Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday, said the Centre will provide ₹15,000 crore and states ₹8,123 crore in the new package that will be implemented jointly across 736 districts to improve medical infrastructure at primary and district health centres. Projects under the plan will be implemented within nine months.“In April 2020, the first package of ₹15,000 crore was announced by the government; it has been utilised well and the results are also for all to see,” said Mandaviya.Around 240,000 normal medical beds and 20,000 intensive care unit beds will be created, of which 20% percent will be earmarked for children, he added. Storage facilities for oxygen and medicines will also be created at the district level.“This scheme aims to accelerate health system preparedness for immediate responsiveness for early prevention, detection and management, with the focus on health infrastructure development, including for paediatric care, and with measurable outcomes,” said a government statement. To ensure there is no oxygen supply shortage, provisions will be made in each district to have 10,000-litre storage facility.Earlier this year, the government faced criticism from the public, judiciary and opposition parties as cases and fatalities rose sharply during the second wave this summer. Hospitals ran out of oxygen supplies, leaving patients gasping and life-saving drugs were in short supply.The Cabinet also decided to extend the ₹1 lakh-crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund to APMCs, which are government-run market yards for buying and selling farm produce. The fund is primarily aimed at creating durable farm assets, from warehouses to processing plants. The fund can now be utilised by APMCs to modernise market facilities used by farmers to sell their produce.“There should be no apprehension about APMCs. Some people have said that the new farm laws will lead to the end of APMCs. This is not true. The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund can now be used to strengthen APMCs and will place more resources at their disposal,” Tomar said.The Agriculture Infrastructure Fund is designed to address longstanding investment gaps in the rural assets because of its concessional rates. All of the country’s 12 public-sector banks and nine private lenders are part of the fund.“I want to appeal to protesting farmer unions to end their protest and to hold discussions. Government is ready for discussions,” Tomar said.The fund, which figured in the ₹20 lakh crore first stimulus package to deal with the Covid crisis in 2020, aims to offer medium-to-long term debt financing for investment in farm projects.It provides loans on easy terms totalling ₹1 lakh crore over four years, starting with a sanction of ₹10,000 crore for 2020-21 and ₹30,000 crore each for the next three financial years.Borrowers get an interest subvention, where part of the interest is paid by the government, of 3% per annum up to a loan limit of ₹2 crore for a period of seven years.Tomar said that as part of changes made to the fund, investors and institutions will qualify for multiple loan accounts if they invest in more than one project up to a ceiling of 25 projects provided they are planned in different areas.“Indian agriculture has always depended more on subsidies than investments. The new fund will help correct that. It is important that the fund is managed in a way that farmers are able to achieve scale and connect with markets efficiently,” said Ananth Kumar of the TN Agriculture University.Last year, the government passed three contentious farm laws that quickly triggered a controversy with farm unions from foodbowl states alleging that the legislation will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants with greater bargaining powers at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer assured prices for cereals.The government rejected the charges, saying the laws will bring competition and widen farmers’ market access. Despite assurances, cultivators have been sitting at Delhi’s borders in protest against the laws for nearly eight months.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said farmers are ready to talk with the government but without conditions. “They are imposing conditions that we should go to them for talks. They say that they can amend the laws but will not scrap them. Farmers have not been protesting for eight months so that they can follow the government’s orders,” Tikait told ANI.As part of the health infrastructure plan, the government will support to all major central hospitals and other institutions of national importance.The hospitals include Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital; RIMS, Imphal; NEIGRIMS, Shillong; PGIMER, Chandigarh, and JIPMER, Puducherry, for repurposing 6,688 beds for Covid-19 management.National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) will also be strengthened by providing genome sequencing machines, besides sanctioning scientific control room, epidemic intelligence services and Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) secretariat support.At present, only 310 district hospitals are implementing hospital management information system that collates data coming from hospitals, and as per the plan government will provide support to all district hospitals for its implementation.“We also look at integrating digital health systems scaling up of use of telemedicine services in the country,” said Mandviya.Money will also be allocated for improving the information technology system, including strengthening the central Covid-19 war room, country’s Covid-19 portal, 1075 Covid help lines and the CoWIN platform that is the backbone of Covid-19 vaccine delivery management system, said the government statement quoted above.Dedicated paediatric units will be created in all 736 districts and also paediatric centre of excellence in each state. Of the 20,000 intensive care unit beds planned for the public health care system, 20% will be paediatric ICU beds, said the statement .“For the rest we will try to follow a hybrid model wherein ICU beds are designed in such a way that it can be utilised for both adults and children… support would also be provided to establish bigger field hospitals (50-100 bedded units) depending on the needs at tier-II or tier-III cities and district headquarters,” said Mandviya.Experts said strengthening health care delivery system at the grassroots level is crucial.“It is important to have a robust health care system in place in villages and small towns and if that gets strengthened than it will significantly reduce burden on tertiary hospitals,” said Dr KK Talwar, former director, PGI Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-team-starts-with-focus-on-farm-health-101625783922741.html
09-07-2021||India||News broadcasters association moves HC against new IT rules||The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) Thursday said it has filed a plea in the Kerala high court challenging the new IT rules on the ground that they give government authorities “excessive powers” to “unreasonably and impermissibly restrict” the freedom of speech and expression of the media.In a statement, the NBA said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines & Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, are ultra vires to the Information Technology Act, 2000 apart from being violative of Article 14 (equality before law) and 19(1)(g) (right to freedom to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) of the Constitution.It said the challenge is to Part III (Code of Ethics and Procedure and Safeguards in relation to Digital Media) of the IT rules as they create an “oversight mechanism giving the executive unfettered, unbridled and excessive powers to regulate content of digital news media”.“The grievance redressal mechanism created and the powers delegated have a ‘chilling effect’ on the content of the media. The writ (petition) also states that the executive by creating such a structure, has made inroads into judicial power and vested itself with powers reserved exclusively for the judiciary and such exercise of power is without jurisdiction,” the statement said.It said the petition has also challenged the new rules as the IT Act does not contain any provision for dealing with “content” of any programme and therefore, the rules are ultra vires the parent Act.Several digital news media platforms have already challenged the 2021 IT rules in various high courts and even the Centre has approached the Supreme Court seeking to transfer all such pleas to itself.The 2021 rules regulate the functioning of online media portals and publishers, over-the-top platforms and social media intermediaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-broadcasters-association-moves-hc-against-new-it-rules-101625783025538.html
09-07-2021||India||Kerala continues to reel under Covid||Kerala’s pandemic woes continue with the state, on Thursday, reporting 13,722 new cases of Covid-19 (a little over a third of the 45,892 cases the country recorded) with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.83%.Experts have warned the government that things could get worse unless it imposes more restrictions on movement and activities, and then enforces them.A central team visiting the state is also believed to have asked the state to do this, but state health minister Veena George on Thursday denied reports that the team expressed concern. “We have briefed them and they expressed satisfaction over our efforts,” she said.Daily cases in the state have risen by almost 50% from last week, and its TPR has stayed above 10% for at least three weeks. The national TPR is around 2.5%.For the past 10 days at least, Kerala has been the only state in the country reporting more than 10,000 daily cases.“The state has to increase tests drastically.A mere lockdown won’t do. It needs a grassroots level containment strategy,” said public health experts Dr SS Lal, who has previously worked with the World Health Organization (WHO).What is worrying health experts is that the trajectory of infections in the state has shown no downward trend . “It seems the behaviour of the virus in Kerala is turning into a nightmare for experts. We need an in-depth study and we have to compare its case pattern with other states,” said another expert Dr NM Arun.Experts blame the state’s low testing rate, its continued obsession with cheap antigen tests, and the recent assembly elections.If there’s a bright spot it is that there are no signs of overcrowding or panic in hospitals. Some of the temporary first line treatment centres were closed down for want of patients and there is no shortage of oxygen also. Doctors say many patients prefer home isolation, but health workers say that has actually contributed to the spike on account of poor quarantining and social distancing practices. Health workers said that in rural areas many jump the home quarantine and infect family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-continues-to-reel-under-covid-101625782811149.html
09-07-2021||India||Grenade found in west Delhi drain during clean-up draws NSG team from Manesar||For over nine hours on Thursday, police officers on the road outside Nasirpur, an urban village in Delhi’s Sagarpur, were on high alert. Until late Thursday evening, the police team were waiting for officers from the National Security Guard (NSG) headquarters in Manesar to reach this nondescript village in a south-western corner of the Capital.A drain cover on the footpath, with sand bags next to it, and police teams guarding it, were the focus of attention as curious passersby peeked to check what had been discovered at the spot — an old grenade, rusty on the outside, with parts of its surface chipped away by the years.It wasn’t the police who first discovered the suspicious device.On Thursday morning, a sanitation worker, cleaning drains as part of the civic body’s annual de-silting exercise before the monsoon, saw a round object in the drain.A police officer who spoke to the cleaner said the man initially thought it was some sort of a metal ball. He checked with other workers, and they thought it looked like something they had seen in Hindi films — a hand grenade with the “safety pin” on.Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police(south west), said: “At 11.55pm, we received a distress call on the 112 number about a sanitation worker discovering a grenade while cleaning a drain under the walkway. Immediately, the station house officer of the area rushed to the spot along with district bomb disposal team and found the old, corroded grenade at the spot. The district ballistics team safely placed it away from the crowded area, in an open space. Area around it has been buttressed using makeshift sandbags. A local police guard is posted there to ensure that no one goes near the grenade.”Singh said police asked for the NSG’s assistance to ascertain the make and model of the grenade. Police suspect the grenade could be several decades old. They have no idea yet how it got there.Till late Thursday evening, the NSG commandos were yet to reach the spot.“We have been told the NSG team has left Manesar. There is nothing to worry. It is totally safe. It is an old grenade. It has the marking HE 36. Our officers wasted no time in checking it out on Google. We were told it isn’t in use these days. We alerted our senior officers, issued an alert and they have asked for the NSG. The situation is kind of funny but there is a protocol, and we have to follow it,” said an officer HT spoke to around 9pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grenade-found-in-west-delhi-drain-during-clean-up-draws-nsg-team-from-manesar-101625781960125.html
09-07-2021||India||Facebook must appear before Delhi assembly riots panel, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that Facebook must appear before a Delhi assembly committee to respond to queries regarding its role and other aspects of the February 2020 Delhi riots, as it emphasised that the social media intermediary cannot escape responsibilities after becoming a “power centre” that can “polarise public debates” and “influence vast sections of opinions”.“Facebook cannot excuse themselves from appearing pursuant to the new summons issued to them on February 3, 2021... Facebook is a platform where political differences are reflected. They cannot wash their hands off the issue as this is their very business,” said the bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul.At the same time, the court clarified that the peace and harmony committee of the Delhi assembly cannot become a “prosecuting agency” which can hold people guilty and order filing of charge sheets in the riot cases. The Facebook executive will be at liberty not to answer questions relating to law and order and police, while such a refusal cannot lead to any coercive step by the assembly, said the bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy.The bench dismissed the petition filed jointly by Facebook and Facebook India head Ajit Mohan against the summons issued to Mohan by the Delhi assembly committee, which is headed by Aaam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha, noting that the committee had authority to seek attendance of “non-members” of the assembly as well and to ask them to depose on oath on a subject within its jurisdiction.Underlining that Delhi assembly was as good as any other state assembly, with the only exception of absence of legislative powers on land, police and public order, the top court rejected Facebook’s contention that it cannot be compelled by any committee of the parliament or the state assembly to participate in an inquiry and that its move to appear before a parliamentary panel last year on information technology was a “business decision”.“As per their own acknowledgement, they would only appear before any committee if it served their commercial and operational interests, as it did when they appeared before the parliamentary committee. But if their business interests are not served, they seek a right to stay away. Such a stand is completely unacceptable to us. Facebook has the power of not simply a hand but a fist, gloved as it may be,” said the bench in its 188-page judgment.It bench, however, pointed to certain statements made on the alleged collusion of Facebook in the Delhi riots by the Chadha during a press conference in August last year, and said that “such statements are hardly conducive to fair proceedings before the Committee and should have been desisted from”.While Facebook and Mohan were represented through senior advocates Harish Salve and Arvind Datar, the Delhi government had senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Rajeev Dhavan and advocate Shadan Farasat to argue for the government and the committee. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appeared for the central government, which supported Facebook in saying that the summons could not be issued for want of legislative competence - an issue that the court called “premature”.Holding that lawmaking is not the only business of a legislative assembly, the bench underscored the role of an assembly committee in assisting the legislature in various issues of governance and said that Facebook, with their expanded role as an intermediary, “can hardly contend that they have some exceptional privilege to abstain from appearing before a committee duly constituted by the assembly.”The court further termed the Facebook’s petition plea “premature” and “speculative” since the Facebook executive was yet to appear before the committee to understand the ambit of questioning, and therefore, it said, issues of privilege power, right to free speech and silence, right to privacy etc. were “pre-emptory” and a “preventive endeavour”. It further said that the privilege power of the Delhi assembly was not just a statutory power but a constitutional one, on par with any other state assembly.Highlighting that the “unfortunate violence” that broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020 had left 53 people dead and several hundreds injured, the bench underlined that the need to go into this incident, both from a legal and social perspective, cannot be belittled.“The capital of the country can ill-afford any repetition of the occurrence and thus, the role of Facebook in this context must be looked into by the powers that be..the assembly being a local legislative and governance body, it cannot be said that their concerns were misconceived or illegitimate. It is not only their concern but their duty to ensure that ‘peace and harmony’ prevails,” said the court.Thus the committee, said the court, has the power to go into the incident and issuance of summons is key to this investigative exercise, which cannot be sidestepped by Facebook on the premise that it is an “outsider” which does not want to be drawn into a political divide.“Facebook is a platform where such political differences are reflected. They cannot wash their hands off the issue as this is their very business. As noticed earlier, their role is not as innocuous as they are seeking to contend. Similarly, we cannot accept the plea that an assembly must confine itself to the core function of legislation. This would be unreasonably restricting the role of an elected body,” held the bench.About the scope of the inquiry by the committee, the court said it would undermine the very purpose of a vital democratic polity if it were to say that informed deliberation in relation to the best measures through which online mass hate and violence in their geographical jurisdiction can be addressed would not be within the committee’s area of competence.Chadha welcomed the judgment. “The court has reaffirmed and acknowledged the important role of the committee of peace and harmony. We will study the judgment, and shall thereafter continue the proceedings in terms thereof. The committee, like other legislative committees of the assembly, is keen on continuing a genuine deliberative process on issues of concerns in the NCT of Delhi with full participation of all concerned,“ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-must-appear-before-delhi-assembly-riots-panel-says-supreme-court-101625779814520.html
09-07-2021||India||Delhi weather: Another hot day ahead; mercury may drop slightly||The national Capital is likely to have another heatwave day on Thursday, as per forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, forecasters say that the maximum temperature is expected to drop slightly from today, which may bring relief from the ongoing heatwave conditions in the city.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature was 42.6 degrees Celsius (°C), six degrees above normal for this time of the year. According to IMD forecast, on Thursday also, the day temperature is likely to hover around 41°C.In the plains, heatwave days are classified as when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5°C.Scientists said that the maximum temperature is likely to subside now that the monsoon is gradually progressing over the northwest region, including Delhi.“By Friday, there are chances of thundershowers, which will intensify on July 10-11. Hence, a further drop in the day temperature is expected by July 10, bringing much relief from the soaring heat and humidity,” said a senior IMD official.The IMD had on Monday revised the dates for monsoon arrival in Delhi and parts of northwest and central India to July 10. The latest it has arrived in the past 17 years for which IMD has data is on July 9 in 2006. So, this year is likely to make a record in terms of the most delayed onset over Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-weather-another-hot-day-ahead-mercury-may-drop-slightly-101625779117658.html
09-07-2021||India||Delhiwale: Here's to companionship||Rickshaw puller Syyed lives alone.That’s not entirely correct, he clarifies. “I’m not completely alone. I have a saathi (companion).”Syyed explains that at night he sleeps on his rickshaw. “I park it on the pavement… many other rickshaw wale of the area sleep the same way, on the passengers’ seat of their (respective) rickshaws, which are parked in one long row... we are friendly with each other.”This conversation is unfolding one late morning near central Delhi’s Ansari Road.And now Syyed opens up about the aforementioned saathi—Bhuriya. “It’s not bhuriya, an old woman, but bhuriya, the brown coloured.”Syyed’s Bhuriya is a stray dog. Every night she sleeps on his rickshaw’s floor-board, or underneath the vehicle, depending on her mood.Their friendship goes back to several years ago. Syyed, a UP native from Bulandshahr, has been in the city for a decade. He arrived first in the area, and Bhuriya appeared much later. Their friendship solidified gradually. “I would give her roti and biskut, or whatever else I would be eating, and she would come to me whenever she felt hungry.” Soon, she started to come to him even when she wasn’t hungry.Bhuriya is nowhere to be seen at the moment.“Nahin nahin, she must be here somewhere.”Syyed calls out to Bhuriya. The dog appears as if out of air. She leaps towards Syyed’s rickshaw, raises her forelegs and plops her head on Syyed’s lap, who is sitting on the rickshaw’s much higher passenger seat. Syyed picks her up and places the dog on his lap. Bhuriya’s tail is flapping wildly, like a fish out of water. Tapping Bhuriya’s happy face with his hand, Syyed responds to a query, confirming that he daily buys Mother Dairy milk packets for the dog. “Bhuriya looks after me, so I look after her.”Following a long pause in which he chats with Bhuriya in their own special language, their eyes locked into each other’s gaze, Syyed says that most of his daily earnings are spent in Bhuriya’s food, and in his nightly liquor consumption. He believes money will never be a problem to him. “If I give to others, God will give to me.”He now kisses Bhuriya, who continues to look delighted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-here-s-to-companionship-101625778917463.html
09-07-2021||India||Close to 370 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far in India: Govt||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached nearly 37 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.The new phase of universalization of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21. More than 36.08 lakh (36,08,940) vaccine doses have been administered on Thursday, according to the 7 pm provisional report.The ministry said 17,93,389 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,71,647 vaccine doses given as second dose in the 18-44 age group on Thursday.Cumulatively, 10,82,14,937 people in the age group of 18-44 years across states and UTs have received their first dose and a total 33,70,920 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the 18-44 age group.Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the 18-44 age group for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/close-to-370-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-in-india-govt-101625774311688.html
09-07-2021||India||Police question activist Aisha Sultana in Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram The Lakshadweep police on Thursday questioned activist and filmmaker Aisha Sultana in Kochi in connection with the sedition case. The filmmaker, however, alleged it was part of a bigger plan to harass and torture her. She said the island police descended on her flat without any notice and questioning continued for many hours. “It was least expected. I have to rush from my shooting site after my brother informed about it. It is part of the harassment and torture plan,” she later told media persons in the port city. Two weeks back she had appeared before the island police in Kavartti and they questioned her for five days. Sultana landed in trouble after she made a remark in a TV panel discussion in early June that the union government’s decision to relax Covid-19 restrictions and appointment of the new administrator Praful Khoda Patel were a bio-weapon against the people of the archipelago. On June 11, the Kavaratti police registered a case against her under sections 124 (A) (sedition) and 153 (B) (acts against national interests) of the Indian Penal Code. The case was based on the complaint of Lakshadweep BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji who said her words were in bad taste and had hurt many. Though Sultana later expressed regrets over her words the union government took a strong position saying that her words were used widely by foreign media to portray the country in bad light. The Kerala high court had granted anticipatory bail to her but it refused to quash the case without hearing all parties concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-question-activist-aisha-sultana-in-kochi-101625774426150.html
09-07-2021||India||Court rejects plea for probe into graft charges against Karnataka CM||Bengaluru A city court on Thursday dismissed a complaint for investigation into allegations of corruption and money laundering against Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, his family and others, citing absence of valid sanction. “Private complaint filed by the complainant under Sec. 200 of Cr P.C. (Code of Criminal Procedure), and interim application filed by the complainant under Sec. 156(3) of Cr.P.C., are not maintainable in the absence of valid sanction and accordingly dismissed,” the city civil and sessions court judge said in the order. The case was filed by Abraham TJ, an activist and the president of the Karnataka Anti-Graft and Environmental Forum at Bengaluru, against Yediyurappa, his family members and senior government officials, alleging bribe payments made to the tune of ₹12.5 crore to award a private company the contract for a housing project to be taken up by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA). Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra and grandson Shashidar Maradi, cabinet minister ST Somashekar and at least two high-ranking BDA officials among others were listed as respondents in the case. Abraham, in his petition, stated that he had approached the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in November last year, but to no avail as the government probe agency closed the complaint two months later without any formal inquiry into the allegations. However, the court observed that the private complaint is not maintainable in the absence of valid sanction and, accordingly, dismissed it. Saying that he will approach the Karnataka high court in this case, Abraham told HT that he suspected the “court’s judgment was influenced by the CM.” The complainant has also alleged that the bribe money was routed through at least seven “shell companies” owned by Yediyurappa’s family in Kolkata. The petition stated that all these companies are located on the same street and have their accounts in the same branch of the Corporation Bank in south Dum Dum area of Kolkata. The petitioner has also claimed that the discovery might only be the “tip of the iceberg” and that the chief minister and his family have amassed huge amounts of ill-gotten wealth or “proceeds of crime”. The reprieve in the case has come at a time when Yediyurappa and his family have been at the receiving end of sharp criticism and allegations of large-scale corruption, some of which from his own party legislators, including Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal) and AH Vishwanath among others. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high command has been trying to sort out differences among the party leaders in the state, with insiders saying an attempt was being made to replace Yediyurappa before the 2023 assembly elections in Karnataka. While the chief minister had recently said he would accept any decision of the high command, the 78-year-old Lingayat leader has managed to handle the discontent, albeit for the time being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-rejects-plea-for-probe-into-graft-charges-against-karnataka-cm-101625774006015.html
09-07-2021||India||Virbhadra Singh: Congress stalwart, Himachal’s Raja Sahib passes away at 87||Shimla: Six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who crafted a distinguished political career spanning fifty years before getting embroiled in financial irregularity charges in his final term, died in Shimla on Thursday. He was 87. A scion of the Rampur-Bushahr royal family and popularly known as Raja Sahib, Singh was a tall leader of the Congress and also served as a Union minister. The veteran leader breathed his last at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla at 3.40 am, senior medical superintendent, Dr. Janak Raj, said.“Popular for his affable and grounded nature, he remained close to people brought about far reaching positive changes through his administrative acumen,” Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said in her condolence message.“He was one of the tallest stalwarts of the Congress party and remained a dedicated Congressperson throughout,” she added.Born on June 23, 1934, Singh was educated at Colonel Brown Cambridge School, Dehradun, St Edward’s School, Shimla, and Bishop Cotton School, Shimla, before he graduated with an honours degree in English from St Stephen’s College, DelhiSingh began his political career at 27 with the Lok Sabha elections in 1962. He went on to serve as a member of Parliament for four more terms, in 1967, 1971, 1980 and 2009.His first stint as chief minister came in 1983 when the previous Congress government, helmed by Ram Lal Thakur, was mired in controversy. Singh successfully contested the byelections from Thakur’s turf of Jubbal Kotkhai in 1983 and 1985 and won over his loyalists.Such was his popularity that he was re-elected as chief minister in 1993, 2003 and 2012. He also won the Lok Sabha election in 2009 and served as Union minister of steel and later as minister of micro, small and medium enterprises.Singh faced corruption allegations later in his political career and faced a case for owning assets disproportionate to his known sources of income during his stint as Union minister from 2009.Singh spent most of the time in his last tenure as CM, between 2012 and 2017, shuttling between Delhi and Shimla, battling money laundering charges. He was elected to the assembly in 2017 from Arki. His son Vikramaditya Singh is the legislator from Shimla Rural constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virbhadra-singh-congress-stalwart-himachal-s-raja-sahib-passes-away-at-87-101625773886137.html
09-07-2021||India||Unfreeze 24 Pakistan-occupied Kashmir seats: J&K BJP to Delimitation Commission||A delegation of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jammu and Kashmir unit on Thursday met the delimitation commission and demanded the unfreezing of the 24 assembly seats falling in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in order to grant reservation to people displaced from PoK, Kashmir Pandits, SCs and STs.Led by J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina, the delegation also sought adequate representation for Jammu in the assembly.“We demanded reservation for PoJK refugees by unfreezing the 8 assembly seats from the POJK quota, 3 seats for Kashmiri Pandits, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other neglected people. Jammu, too, must get adequate representation in the assembly,” Raina said.The panel, led by Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai, is on a 4-day trip to J&K to interact with leaders and officials before the mega exercise of redrawing constituencies in the union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfreeze-24-pakistan-occupied-kashmir-seats-j-k-bjp-to-delimitation-commission-101625770827598.html
09-07-2021||India||Afghanistan situation to figure in India-Russia talks today||The situation in Afghanistan, forthcoming India-Russia meetings, and bilateral cooperation in security and defence will figure in talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Moscow on July 9.Jaishankar is currently on a three-day visit to Russia, during which his discussions with his interlocutors are expected to cover the entire range of bilateral issues, including cooperation in the fight against Covid-19, and various regional and international developments.The talks with Lavrov will be Jaishankar’s main engagement in Moscow, and the Russian foreign ministry said on Thursday the two sides will compare notes on “major global and regional issues, including the political process in Afghanistan, settlement in Syria [and the] situation around the Iranian nuclear program”.The two sides will also discuss cooperation at the UN, Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) and Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) “in the RIC format”, the Russian foreign ministry said, referring to the Russia-India-China grouping.In an indication of the differences between India and Russia on the Indo-Pacific concept, the Russian foreign ministry said the discussions are also expected to touch up “approaches to the formation of reliable and indivisible security architecture in the Pacific and Indian oceans”.Lavrov has been openly critical of the Indo-Pacific concept, which now forms a key part of India’s foreign policy and cooperation under the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue format (which includes the US, Japan and Australia). Last December, Lavrov had said Western powers have adopted an “aggressive and devious” policy to engage India “in anti-China games by promoting Indo-Pacific strategies”.India has dismissed these concerns by saying the Indo-Pacific is an inclusive concept that can even be joined by Russia.The Russian foreign ministry noted that interaction with India was “successfully developing in all areas in line with a special and privileged strategic partnership, including political dialogue, security, trade and economic, military-technical, scientific, cultural and humanitarian ties”.It added that the foreign ministers are expected to discuss “key directions of the Russian-Indian relations, taking into account the previously reached agreements and upcoming contacts, in particular at the highest and high levels”.The annual India-Russia Summit is slated for later this year, while a meeting of the bilateral inter-governmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation will be held in Delhi in August, and a meeting of the inter-governmental commission on military and military-technical cooperation will be held in Moscow in November.The Russian foreign ministry further said the two countries share a similar vision of a “model of an emerging more fair and equitable polycentric world order”, and “demonstrate the similarity or proximity of positions on the most important issues of peace and security”.Jaishankar’s visit to Moscow is a follow-up to the trip by Lavrov to New Delhi in April.Besides holding talks with Lavrov, Jaishankar will also meet deputy prime minister Yuri Borisov, his counterpart for the inter-governmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation, and the chairman of the state Duma committee on international affairs, Leonid Slutsky.Jaishankar also delivered a speech on “India-Russia ties in a changing world” at the prestigious Primakov Institute of World Economy and International Relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-situation-to-figure-in-india-russia-talks-tomorrow-101625773058901.html
09-07-2021||India||Six terrorists eliminated in three encounters in J&K||Six terrorists, including three from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), were killed in three separate encounters with security forces in Kulgam, Pulwama and Rajouri on Thursday. Two soldiers, including a junior commissioned officer, were killed in a fierce gun battle in Rajouri, while they were foiling a major infiltration bid along the Line of Control, officials said. The terrorists opened fire and lobbed hand grenades at the search-and-destroy patrol seeking proactive engagement with the terrorists in Dadal forest area, leading to a gunbattle in which two terrorists from Pakistan were killed, the spokesman said.In the operation, naib subedar Sreejith M and sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Reddy received fatal injuries. 4 militants killed in Pulwama, Kulgam Four militants, including three from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), were killed in two separate encounters with security forces in South Kashmir’s Pulwama and Kulgam districts. Based on specific input about the presence of terrorists in the Puchal area of Pulwama, a joint cordon and search operation was launched by police, CRPF and the Army on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, a police spokesperson said.“During the search operation as the presence of terrorists was ascertained they were given repeated opportunities to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which retaliated leading to an encounter,” he said. In the ensuing encounter, two militants were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of the encounter, the spokesperson said.They have been identified as Kifayat Ramzan Sofi, affiliated with the LeT, and Inayat Ahmad Dar, affiliated with Al-Badr outfit. An AK-47 pistol and a pistol was recovered from their possession. The militants killed in Kulgam were planning to carry out attack on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway. “During naka checking, when a suspicious vehicle was signalled to stop by the naka party, two terrorists who were boarding the vehicle came out from the vehicle and started firing indiscriminately upon the joint naka party. However, the alert party retaliated the fire effectively, leading to the elimination of two terrorists on the spot,” the spokesperson said.The slain militants were identified as Nasir Ahmad Pandith and Shahbaz Ahmad Shah, both affiliated with the LeT.“As per police records, all the killed terrorists were part of groups involved in various terror crimes regarding which several terror crime cases stand registered against them. Arms, ammunition and other incriminating materials were recovered from both the encounter sites,” he said.Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar has congratulated the police and security forces for conducting successful operations in a professional manner without any collateral damage.On Wednesday, a Hizbul Mujahideen(HM) militant commander, Mehrajuddin Halwai , was killed hours after his detention by security forces in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Police said that he was killed in an encounter after he was taken to locate his hidden weapon from a hideout where he allegedly picked up his rifle and started firing on forces personnel.Since January, around 68 militants have been killed in Kashmir in different operations with the forces including some top commanders of different militant groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-terrorists-eliminated-in-three-encounters-in-jk-101625773106802.html
09-07-2021||India||‘Baseless propaganda’: India on Pak claim on Lahore attack role||New Delhi: India on Thursday dismissed as “baseless propaganda” Pakistan’s claim that a bombing in Lahore last month was masterminded by India’s Research & Analysis Wing, and said that Pakistan should instead focus on rooting out terrorism emanating from its soil.Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf contended on Sunday that the “main mastermind” of the car bomb attack near Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) founder Hafiz Saeed’s home in Lahore on June 23 belonged to RAW. Yusuf also accused India of sponsoring terror activity on Pakistani soil.Asked about these allegations at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “It is not new for Pakistan to engage in baseless propaganda against India.”Bagchi added, “Pakistan would do well to expend the same effort in setting its own house in order and taking credible and verifiable action against terrorism emanating from its soil and terrorists who have found safe sanctuaries there.”The world community, he said, is “well aware of Pakistan’s credentials when it comes to terrorism”.Bagchi said, “This is acknowledged by none other than its own leadership which continues to glorify terrorists like Osama bin Laden as martyrs.”The remark was an apparent reference to Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s refusal to answer a question during an interview last month on whether he considered slain al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden a “martyr”.Three people were killed and more than 20 others injured in the car bombing near Hafiz Saeed’s home at Johar Town in Lahore last month. No group has so far claimed responsibility for the attack.Pakistan’s NSA Yusuf told a news conference on Sunday that there allegedly links to India in the financing and execution of the attack. However, he didn’t provide any detailed information to back up his contentions, and only said that Pakistan had gathered “concrete evidence and intelligence” in this regard.Yusuf, who addressed the media along with Pakistan’s information minister Fawad Chaudhry and Punjab police chief Inam Ghani, further claimed that reports of a drone attack on the Jammu air force station last month were an apparent attempt to deflect the world community’s attention from the car bombing in Lahore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baseless-propaganda-india-on-pak-claim-on-lahore-attack-role-101625772928532.html
09-07-2021||India||Abhilash Tomy seeks funds to reattempt race that nearly proved fatal for him||In the 75th year of the country’s Independence, a champion Indian sailor will attempt a feat that almost killed him three years ago --- an enormously challenging solo and non-stop circumnavigation race that bars the use of modern technology.But Abhilash Tomy’s quest for sailing glory faces a funding hurdle; he needs to raise up to ₹4 crore to get through to the 2022 edition of the quadrennial Golden Globe Race (GGR).Struggling to find sponsors for the around-the-world race, the former navy commander has decided to take a shot at crowdfunding to be able to compete in the gruelling event, an endurance test like no other in the world of competitive sailing.“I could not finish the 2018 edition of the race because of an accident. It’s been in my head for a long time. I am ready for the unfinished business. I have launched a crowd-funding campaign to arrange funds for a boat and several other associated expenses,” Tomy said over phone from Goa.He has launched a fundraising campaign on the Ketto crowdfunding platform, and fondly describes his supporters as “crew” who stand a chance “to be a part of a race around the world.”Tomy suffered a debilitating back injury on September 21, 2018, after rough seas and powerful winds in the southern Indian Ocean , one of the remotest spots on Earth, crippled his yacht, SV Thuriya. He was rescued 70 hours later.“I did not suffer from any post-traumatic stress disorder after the accident. There are no fear issues. I was doing fairly well until the storm took Thuriya down. I regard my participation in GGR-22 as a fitting tribute to the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence,” he said.Before the September 21 accident, Tomy was in the third position among 11 international participants and had sailed more than 10,500 nautical miles since the race began on July 1, 2018, from a port in France.That was the 50th year of the race that commemorates Robin Knox-Johnston’s feat in 1968, with participants required to operate under the same conditions, even navigating using charts and the stars.“This time it’s going to be even harder as participants will be given only 25 litres of fuel compared to 120 litres in 2018. I kept all the fuel for power generation. This time I will be dependent on sun and winds to charge batteries. The good thing is that participants will be allowed to carry cameras this time,” said Tomy, who took premature retirement from the navy in January 2021.Tomy became the first Indian to circumnavigate the globe on board his previous boat Mhadei, solo, non-stop and unassisted, in 2013. At the end of the five-month-long voyage, the President of India received Tomy and his boat at the Gateway of India in Mumbai. He was awarded India’s second-highest peace-time gallantry award, Kirti Chakra, for the achievement.Tomy has raised around ₹1.5 lakh on the crowdfunding platform over the last two days against a goal of ₹3 crore. He launched the campaign on July 6.“It all boils down to how much money I can raise. There are costs associated with getting a boat, its refit, entry fee for the event, technical managers and other expenses. I have approached some corporate houses too but haven’t had any response so far,” he said.Tomy first announced that he would take part in GGR-22 at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit-2019. Speaking at the 17th edition of the summit, he gave details of the harrowing moments that abruptly ended his participation in GGR-18 but thrust him into the spotlight for surviving an ordeal that tested the limits of human endurance.“When the boat turned upright after the second knockdown, my wrist was stuck on wires connecting the mast. At one point, the strap of my watch broke, and I fell nine metres on a piece of aluminium called the boom. Then I fell to the deck on my back. I cleaned up some of the broken equipment, but half an hour later, I could not stand,” said Tomy of the moments that turned out to be the point when he broke his spine in four places.When a rescue team --- a coordinated effort of four nations --- finally reached him, his first thought was that he was hallucinating.“After 48 hours of sleep deprivation, hallucination is common. When I heard the knock, I thought this could be a hallucination and I must be prepared for that. But then they were there, real people — and I told them you are like angels to me,” he said at the summit.Now he needs more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhilash-tomy-seeks-funds-to-reattempt-race-that-nearly-proved-fatal-for-him-101625772647522.html
09-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle may delay first data privacy law||India’s first data privacy law faces further delays as several members of a parliamentary committee, including its head, have been made ministers, weeks before its crucial report was expected to be presented to parliament during the Monsoon Session.The draft Personal Data Protection law was introduced in parliament in December, 2019 and is meant to provide the legal framework for the right to privacy of Indian citizens. But it was soon referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee to iron out several contentious issues.Members of the committee, people aware of the process and legal experts say replacements will now need to be appointed before the JPC report can be tabled.“The draft report remains to be circulated among members of the panel,” said a person aware of the developments, asking not to be named.The 30-member committee (which has two vacancies) includes Meenakshi Lekhi, who is the head, Ajay Bhatt, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Bhupender Yadav, and Ashwini Vaishnaw. These five were inducted in the government as ministers on Wednesday, which means they no longer can be part of the committee.The JPC got an extension first till the Winter Session last year, then until the first week of the second half of the Budget Session this year, and finally until the Monsoon Session this month. The committee has met various stakeholders, including industry representatives and civil society members.The bill covers the cross-border transfer of data and the use of personal data by government and private companies, and lays down penalties for entities that jeopardise the right to privacy of Indian citizens, which was held as a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in August, 2017.The scope of the report is believed to have been expanded to cover not just personal data protection but also non-personal data. The panel’s report will aim to address “reasonable purposes for data sharing, exemptions for government agencies and sensitive personal data”, a person familiar with the matter said.Congress MP Manish Tewari, who is a member of the panel, alleged the report is stuck because “there is pressure on the government” from social media companies. “It has been seven months since deliberations of the committee closed. The chair made the committee members sit during the worst phase for Covid because she wanted to complete the report early. The draft is yet to be circulated not because she has not made the draft report, but obviously, since there is pressure from the social media companies on the government to not have a data protection law,” he said.“Ravi Shankar Prasad (former electronics and information technology minister) has been sacrificed at the altar of pleasing the social media giants. It is clear that social media companies are more powerful than the government.”Lekhi and Prasad did not respond to requests for a comment on these positions.Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh said he requested for the draft report of the bill to be circulated to its members. “Now, chairperson has become a minister along with 3 members. What happens now to committee & draft report? The new ministers had much to say on the Bill!” he said.Former Lok Sabha secretary general PDT Achary said since it is a committee report, there is a sense of urgency to it. “If the Speaker wants, he can appoint a new chairperson today.”He added the procedure to be followed will depend on whether the chairperson has directed the secretariat to circulate the report. Achary said in that case, it will have to circulate a copy before a new chair is appointed.“Otherwise, the new chairperson will have to issue the directions,” he said. “The vacancies in the panel will be filled up once the parliamentary affairs minister gives the names of the new members to be added to the panel.”According to Asia-Pacific policy director at Access Now, Raman Chima, “A reminder that if an MP is appointed a Minister, they have to immediately leave any parliamentary committee and new folks appointed,” he said. “Ultimately of course, it’s a topic of extreme contestation as to whether on the really big issues of the present Government of India the individual ministers have much say beyond what the civil service and establishment connected to the PM’s office, Home Ministry, CabSec want.”Kazim Rizvi, founding director, The Dialogue, concurred with Chima and said that there might be a delay in appointing a new chairperson, “but we cannot ascertain for sure”.“Vacancies in the Committee can be filled by appointment or election by the House, based on a motion or the nomination by the Speaker,” he said. “Since ministers cannot hold membership to the standing committees, we will have a new chairperson of the JPC. The chairperson of the Committee has to be appointed by the Speaker from amongst the members.”HT reached out to the ministry of electronics and information technology but did not get an immediate response. This copy will be updated once the ministry responds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-reshuffle-may-delay-first-data-privacy-law-101625772399368.html
09-07-2021||India||Experts count on Bhupender Yadav to tackle environmental challenges||Environmentalists and former bureaucrats on Thursday welcomed the appointment of Bhupender Yadav as the new Union minister for environment, citing his understanding of complex issues surrounding the environment and the climate crisis.On Thursday morning, Yadav started his first day in office by participating in a plantation drive, following which he held a meeting with senior officials of the ministry to review ongoing projects and issues.“Assumed charge of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (@moefcc) today. The PM Sh @narendramodi ji’s govt is committed to sustainable development. I wish to be able to ensure India [attains] those goals,” he said in a Twitter post.A senior environment ministry official said: “He seems soft spoken and more understanding of complex issues surrounding environment and climate change.”A lawyer and former national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Yadav is also called the “Committee Man” due to his history of chairing several parliamentary committees on critical issues such as the Rajya Sabha Select Committee on Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019, and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015, among others.Yadav co-authored a book, titled “Supreme Court on Forest Conservation”, with environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta in 2011 on the legal aspects of forest conservation in India.“Its good that a lawyer has taken charge of the ministry. The ministry was circumventing the parliamentary process through various office memorandums and orders. I really hope he addresses that first. Given his background in law, he can help improve the functioning of the ministry. He has been associated with various environmental movements and has taken up environmental cases so he knows the issues very well. He has chaired the highest number of parliamentary committees also,” said Dutta.Over the past few years, the Prakash Javadekar-led ministry, faced widespread public backlash over various controversial decisions.The draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification, published on March 23, 2020, has been in the eye of the storm over certain clauses, which can weaken the process of environmental appraisal of industries and infrastructure projects. On July 8 last year, the Delhi Police had sent a notice to youth climate group Fridays for Future, under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), for sending multiple emails to Javadekar against the draft EIA 2020. Later, the Delhi Police termed the notice a clerical error.The ministry has, so far, received over 200,000 objections and comments on the draft EIA 2020, which are being assessed by a committee.“With the change in guard in the MoEFCC, let’s hope that the high-handedness and arrogance will give way to humility and rational decision-making benefitting forestry,” said Anup Nayak, former member secretary, national tiger conservation authority (NTCA) in a Twitter post.At present, several large infrastructure projects, including township planning in the fragile Andaman and Nicobar Islands; the Char Dham road project through Himalayas in Uttarakhand; hydropower projects in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley and mining in Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand forests, are being considered by the environment ministry.According to officials, the ministry has also started amending almost all environmental legislations to ensure they meet current requirements.The ministry’s wildlife division has prepared a cabinet note to amend the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 which is yet to be cleared by the cabinet; a similar note on the amendment to Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 has also been finalised after circulating it internally among ministries.Recently, the ministry called for expressions of interest from consulting agencies, firms, and joint venture consortiums to prepare a new draft amendment to the Indian Forest Act, 1927. A private law firm is preparing a draft environmental management act which will subsume the Air Act 1981, Water Act 1974, and the Environment (Protection) Act 1986 and serve as an overarching law particularly for all infrastructure and industry projects.“I think we have reasons to maintain hope. He is an advocate with knowledge of environmental law and being one of the cadres he may listen to people’s voices. It’s an opportunity for the NDA to clean up the damage done through various dilutions in the past seven years,” said Sudiep Shrivastava, Chhattisgarh based lawyer who is working on cases related to Hasdeo Arand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-count-on-bhupender-yadav-to-tackle-environmental-challenges-101625772391387.html
09-07-2021||India||Will ex-ministers get roles in states, party?||Wednesday’s ministerial council reshuffle, in which 12 faces were dropped from the Union council of ministers, has led to speculation that some of them could be given organisational roles in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).According to party functionaries aware of the details, some of the former ministers could be offered gubernatorial positions, a few may have roles in the party’s national team, while others are likely to continue as members of Parliament and contribute to party work in their respective states.“There are a few gubernatorial positions where the incumbents are set to complete their term over the next few months such as in Punjab and Delhi and later in 2022 in states such as Assam and Tamil Nadu. Some of the senior members could be considered for these posts,” said a functionary who asked not to be named.Thawar Chand Gehlot, 73, one of the senior most leaders who was in charge of the social justice and empowerment ministry and the leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, was appointed Governor of Karnataka on Tuesday; and there is speculation that two other senior ministers, Prakash Javadekar (70) and Santosh Gangwar (72) may also be elevated as Governors.“Gangwar is a seasoned party man with considerable influence among the OBCs in Uttar Pradesh, so in the next few months the party is likely to use his expertise in drawing up the election blueprint in the state. Javadekar could also be roped in to help with the state elections coming up in 2022, as he has the experience of being in-charge of state polls,” said a second functionary on condition of anonymity.However, the functionaries also indicated that Javadekar may be given a role among the party’s national office-bearers.The people cited above said that the BJP leadership is counting on the organisational experience of some of the senior members to strengthen the organisation and its outreach. “Some of the ex-ministers joining the national team will bring heft to it,” said the first functionary.Former minister for Law & Justice, Ravi Shankar Prasad, is also among those who may get a position in the national office-bearers team. With the elevation of national general secretary Bhupender Yadav as Cabinet minister, there is a key vacancy in the team of national general secretaries. There are eight national general secretaries in the BJP and, as per the party constitution, there can be nine.“The party follows the norm of one person, one post. So the slots that will fall vacant in the national team can be filled with the ex-ministers. The party can have 15 national vice presidents and currently there are only 12; with the elevation of Annpurana Devi as minister, the number will now be 11. Similarly, there are 12 national secretaries instead of 15,” said the second functionary.There was no clarity on whether former health minister Harsh Vardhan will be made a part of the national team, or drafted to help the party unit in Delhi, where the BJP has lost heavily to the Aam Aadmi Party in the last two assembly elections. Vardhan held the position of Delhi unit president in 2014, and was the party’s chief ministerial candidate for that year’s state polls.Former HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and Sanjay Dhotre, who are said to be in poor health, are expected to be given time to recuperate. While a former minister said it is for the party to take a call on how it wants to use them, the first functionary quoted above said not getting organizational roles, will not mean a “demotion”.“There is a system of allowing younger and newer people to step ahead. Besides in 2004, after the BJP did not return to power at the centre, seniors who had been ministers such as Arun Jaitley, Pramod Mahajan and Rajnath Singh were included as national general secretaries in M. Venkaiah Naidu’s national team. It is a process,” said the second functionary.The party will also have to name a new leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha after Gehlot’s elevation. The senior-most leaders in the Upper House, who are in contention for the post are BJP president JP Nadda, and Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan and Nirmala Sitharaman. “There has been a precedent that the post is given to a Cabinet minister; we will have to see if the party follows that,” said a third functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ex-ministers-get-roles-in-states-party-101625772026808.html
09-07-2021||India||Twitter must follow law of the land: IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw||The government’s new minister for electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday said the law of the land is supreme, and Twitter will have to fall in line with the new social media and intermediary guidelines.Vaishnaw’s remarks suggest he could continue his predecessor’s strong stance against the US-based company, which is yet to complete compliance requirements mandatory under the new rules.“Law of land is supreme, Twitter must follow rules,” the Union minister said, according to a ministry spokesperson.“Whoever is a citizen of India and those who stay in India will have to abide by the laws of the country,” he said while addressing journalists at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) headquarters.Twitter, separately, told the Delhi High Court that it will appoint a grievance redressal officer in keeping with the new guidelines within eight weeks after the bench asked it to put on oath its stand in the matter, giving it two weeks’ time.The ministry submitted in the court that if it did not comply, it will lose the safe harbour protection for user content under section 79, of the IT Act – which means it could become liable for content that users create.Minister of state for MeitY Rajeev Chandrashekhar also told reporters that the issue will be addressed by the ministry and the new minister. “I have just taken the charge,” he said. “The ministry doesn’t operate on a unilateral basis and this has nothing to do with individual views and opinions. The ministry will sit with the new Union minister and address all these issues.”Vaishnaw’s predecessor Ravi Shankar Prasad was locked in an escalating conflict with the social media company for over a month and half now. All clauses of the new guidelines came into effect on May 25, which included the appointment of an India-based grievance redressal and nodal officer and a compliance officer.The ministry asserted that Twitter failed to appoint a compliance officer, and its grievance officer and address were not in keeping with the rules which demanded an Indian resident and local address. Prasad’s ministry threatened Twitter with the loss of safe harbour, which provides the company protection from action against third party content.The government’s battle with Twitter began over blocking access to several accounts that carried a controversial hashtag, including accounts of activists and media professionals. Twitter refused to cede space on the implementation of its policies, as it said it was defending free speech.The company, in turn, raised concerns regarding “intimidation tactics by the police” and with the “core elements” of the new social media and intermediary guidelines, prompting a strong response from the government which called the remarks an “attempt to dictate its terms”.Twitter was also targeted by the government when it tagged posts by prominent BJP politicians Sambit Patra and Vinay Sahasrabuddhe as manipulated media, and briefly locked out Prasad from his account over an alleged copyright infringement.The new IT minister joined the BJP as recently as 2019 after becoming a member of the Rajya Sabha. Vaishnaw, 51, has served as the private secretary to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2004, after serving a brief stint with the Prime Minister’s Office during Vajpayee’s term in 2002. He was educated at MBM Engineering College, Jodhpur, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and Wharton Business School. In 2006, he also served as the deputy chairman of Goa’s Mormugoa Port Trust.“Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modiji’s vision is to transform the lives of the poor, marginalized communities, farmers, middle classes, youth, women and weaker sections of the society... Railways, Communication and Technology touch the lives of all Indians. I will work to fulfil the Prime Minister’s vision,” a government statement quoted Vaishnaw as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-must-follow-law-of-the-land-it-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-101625771832237.html
09-07-2021||India||ED probe against him politically motivated, says NCP’s Eknath Khadse||Another senior leader from Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is in trouble. Eknath Khadse, former revenue minister, was questioned by the enforcement directorate (ED) for nine hours in the alleged money laundering case on Thursday.Khadse joined the NCP in October last year and has been facing investigation by the central agency since December 2020, two months after leaving the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Wednesday, his son-in-law Girish Choudhary was arrested by ED in the same case. “In my view all this started after I joined NCP by leaving BJP… The case is politically motivated. Efforts are made to frame me in it by any means. For the last eight days, a message has been going viral on social media in Jalgaon (district) that something related to me is about to happen. The way (BJP) activists are aware of the ED action in advance indicates that it is a conspiracy but I’m ready to face it,” Khadse told reporters outside ED office on Thursday morning.He said that Maharashtra and the entire country is watching what is going on. The case has been probed five times by different agencies. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has given him a clean chit by submitting a C-summary report. “The land I bought is privately owned and not of MIDC. The corporation has not completed the process of acquisition. They have neither paid the compensation nor taken its possession,” Khadse stressed.“Khadse’s induction in NCP has irritated the BJP which is using central agencies to frame him in a case. He is innocent and we are sure he will come out clean,” said Jayant Patil, state NCP chief. Patil said that a commission formed by the erstwhile the BJP-led government has also given him a clean chit.Khadse is under scrutiny for allegations of graft and conflict of interest in a land deal in Bhosari near Pune. The plot was bought by his wife Mandakini and son-in-law in 2016 for ₹3.75 crore against the prevalent market rate of ₹30 crore. According to the ED officials, Khadse and his family fraudulently purchased the said land, despite having knowledge that it was reserved for Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), so that they could claim the compensation of more than double the market rate when the MIDC acquired it.He would be the third NCP leader who would be going behind the bars on corruption charges, if arrested. Before him, senior NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal and Gularao Deokar have faced arrest over corruption charges. Bhujbal is currently out on bail and is holding food and civil supplies portfolio in the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government in the state.Besides, one more NCP leader and former home minister Anil Deshmukh is also facing an investigation by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED over charges of extortion made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh has moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from coercive action in a money laundering case.In 2016, Bhujbal, also former deputy chief minister, was also arrested in a money laundering case and was in jail for two years before he got bail on health grounds in May 2018. He was arrested by ED for allegedly receiving kickbacks worth crores for awarding various government contracts, including the Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi.Before him, Deokar, former minister and a NCP leader from Jalgaon district, was arrested in May 2012. He spent around three years behind bars before getting bail. He was found involved in a 1997 housing scam related to the construction of 11,000 low-cost houses in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra and was convicted by a sessions court in 2019, along with 47 others. Deokar was a member of the Jalgaon Municipal Council from 1995 to 2000 when the scam took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-probe-against-him-politically-motivated-says-ncp-s-eknath-khadse-101625771514415.html
09-07-2021||India||Tripura CPM alleges 2 of its offices vandalised by BJP||Agartala: Two party offices of the opposition Communist Party of India (Marxist) were ransacked and set on fire in two places in Tripura including one in former chief minister Manik Sarkar’s constituency, the CPM said on Thursday.The CPM alleged that the ruling BJP cadres vandalised the furniture and party flags at CPM office at Baranarayan, the neighbourhood where newly-appointed Union minister of state Pratima Bhowmik lives, before another party office at Dhanpur was targeted.The party office at Dhanpur, the constituency of former chief minister Manik Sarkar, had been closed since 2018 when the CPM lost power to the BJP. It was reopened recently.Both Baranarayan and Dhanpur fall in the Sonamura sub division of Sepahijala district. “Our party offices at Baranarayan and Dhanpur were destroyed after Pratima Bhowmik took oath as Union minister. We need not to say more,” said Left Front convener Bijan Dhar.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee said: “Why didn’t they file a complaint in the police station? We guess that their own people did this to blame us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cpm-alleges-2-of-its-offices-vandalised-by-bjp-101625771608764.html
09-07-2021||India||Modi stresses need for modern, flexible education models||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with directors of top centrally-funded technical institutions and stressed on the need to develop “innovative” and “flexible” education models to meet future needs, and make India a “hub for research and development”.A statement issued by the Prime Minister Office (PMO) said Modi emphasised the need to adapt higher and technical education to keep in tune with the changing environment and emerging challenges.“This requires the institutions to reinvent and re-evaluate themselves, develop alternative and innovative models in accordance with the present and future needs of the country and society... There is a need to progress towards education models that are flexible, seamless, and able to provide learning opportunities as per requirements of the learners,” Modi said at the virtual interaction, adding that access, affordability, equity and quality should be the core values of such education models.The interaction was attended by over 100 heads of institutes, including the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the Indian Indian Institute of Science. It was also joined by newly-elected Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and ministers of state for education.Officials who attended the meeting said Modi was briefed on the ongoing research and development (R&D work) at these institutions and on the improvement in the Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) in higher education in the past few years.“Digitisation of higher education can play a big role in increasing GER, and students will have easier access to good quality and affordable education,” Modi said.GER is a statistical measure used in the education sector to determine the number of students enrolled in school at several different grade levels (like elementary, middle school and high school), and use it to show the ratio of the number of students who live in that country to those who qualify for the particular grade level.The Prime Minister lauded the R&D work carried by these institutions towards meeting challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.“Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan will form the basis of dreams and aspirations of India in the coming 25 years when we celebrate 100 years of Independence. We need to focus on developing futuristic solutions in fields of education, healthcare, agriculture,defense, and cyber technologies,” he said.The Prime Minister also spoke on the need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages.“Had an enriching interaction with Directors of leading IITs and @iiscbangalore during which we exchanged thoughts on a wide range of subjects including making India a hub for R&D (Research and Development), innovation and popularising science among the youth,” Modi tweeted after the interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-stresses-need-for-modern-flexible-education-models-101625771312532.html
09-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand to review decision to stop Kanwar Yatra amid Covid-19||Uttarakhand on Thursday decided to review its decision to stop all Kanwar yatra devotees from entering the state this year, prompting experts to caution about a steep surge in Covid infections if safety protocols are violated.The decision on the yatra, which sees millions of people travel through several states by foot to the holy town of Haridwar, came a day after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath cleared the event and asked Uttarakhand to allow the procession.On Tuesday, the state government had decided not to allow the yatra over fears of a third Covid wave and increasing cases of delta variant in the state. The last Kanwar yatra was held in 2019 and roughly 30 million pilgrims reached Haridwar, as per official records.A senior official privy to the developments said chief minister Pushkar Dhami met senior officials on Thursday to discuss Kanwar yatra.“It was decided that state government will first hold talks with other states from where Kanwariyas come on how to conduct the yatra amid fears of the third wave, how the millions of pilgrims would be tested and whether there should be a cap on the numbers this time. The final call [on how to allow the yatra]will be taken after talks in a day or two,” said the official quoted above.Ashok Kumar, director-general of police (DGP) Uttarakhand, who was present in the meeting, said that Kanwar yatra was discussed in the meeting. “Various aspects of the yatra were discussed and pros and cons were weighed,” he said.This is the first major administrative decision by Dhami, who took charge on July 4. His predecessor, Tirath Singh Rawat, resigned on July 2 amid controversy over his administration’s decision to allow the Mahakumbh in Haridwar and large-scale fraud in testing during the holy event.Both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party and are scheduled to go to the polls early next year.On Tuesday, the state government had issued an order stating that Kanwar pilgrims from neighbouring states won’t be allowed to enter Haridwar.Uttarakhand Police also held meeting with senior police officials of Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Punjab. Kumar had told his counterparts to publicise the government order on the ban and ask pilgrims from their states not to come to Haridwar.The state police had also decided to seal the borders of the state from July 22 to ensure Kanwariyas don’t enter Haridwar from Uttar Pradesh or Himachal Pradesh.But on Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh allowed the yatra from July 25. Adityanth also asked UP officials to coordinate to Uttarakhand administration and resolve any lingering problems.The fortnight-long Kanwar yatra is an annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees -- known as Kanwariyas -- to Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand to fetch the water of the Ganga and carry it back to local temples. Devotees come from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh to Uttarakhand.The yatra was cancelled last year due to Covid and is usually held from July 23 to August 6.Uttarakhand government received sharp criticism from experts and the judiciary over its decision to allow full-scale organisation of the Mahakumbh, which saw 9.1 million people participate in violation of Covid norms and distancing guidelines. Roughly six million of these was in April at the height of the second wave and officials in many other north Indian states traced local infection surges to Kumbh returnees. The administration is probing if 100,000 rapid antigen tests at the event were faked.On June 28, the Uttarakhand high court also lashed out at the state government for allowing the Char Dham yatra and stayed its cabinet decision in this regard.Dr DD Choudhary, senior member of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Uttarakhand said allowing Kanwar Yatra at this juncture will be a disaster. “The Kanwar yatra has the potential to spread the third wave like wildfire. It just needs few infected Kanwars to spread the Delta plus variant, which has also been detected in Uttarakhand now,” the doctor said.Rajesh Shivpuri, Garhwal-based political observer, said allowing millions of pilgrims when the country is readying to battle the third wave can be dangerous. “Every aspect should be considered before allowing Kanwar pilgrimage. It won’t be easy to manage Kanwariyas even if Kanwar yatra specific SoP is issued and restrictions are put in place,” he said.Suryakant Dhasmana, senior vice president of Uttarakhand Congress, criticised the state government’s U-turn. “Everyone knows what happened in Mahakumbh, what mess they have left behind, and how they endangered the lives of millions of people through fake Covid tests. During Kanwar yatra, which is mostly unorganised, with people come from different states, how can they manage such huge numbers at a time when they should be readying for third wave?” he asked.However, traders in Haridwar welcomed the decision. “All religious, festive baths and pilgrimages are being held in UP, then why not in our Uttarakhand. Right now, the Covid wave has come down sharply and the state is reporting few daily cases. There is no rationale in keeping the ban on the yatra,” said Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal Haridwar district president Sunil Sethi.(With inputs from Sandeep Rawat from Haridwar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-review-decision-to-stop-kanwar-yatra-amid-covid19-101625770859293.html
09-07-2021||India||Quash UP police notice against me, Twitter India head urges HC||Bengaluru Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari on Thursday sought the quashing of a notice issued by the Uttar Pradesh police seeking his physical presence in connection with a case registered for uploading and circulating a “communal sensitive” video on the platform.His counsel C V Nagesh told the Karnataka high court that the notice under Section 41 -A of the CrPC was issued “without jurisdiction, without the sanction of law.” “..the investigating officer invoked the powers under Section 41-A of the CrPC, which is not right”, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quash-up-police-notice-against-me-twitter-india-head-urges-hc-101625770672535.html
09-07-2021||India||Officials in rail minister’s office to work in 2 shifts to keep up with him||New Delhi: Railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw ordered officials and staffers in his office to work in two shifts to keep pace with him. The first shift will start at 7am, an order by his office said hours after he took charge on Thursday.“Hon’ble MR (Minister of Railways) has directed that all the officers and staff of MR Cell will work in two shifts i.e. 7:00 hrs-16:00 hrs and 15:00 hrs -12:00 midnight with immediate effect,” the order said, formalising nine-hour shifts in his office.The 50-year-old bureaucrat-turned-politician from Odisha was inducted into the cabinet in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet reshuffle exercise nearly two years after he was elected to the Rajya Sabha on a Bharatiya Janata Party ticket.Vaishnaw, who is known to work till midnight, was allocated the ministry of railways, the ministry of communications, and the ministry of electronics and information technology.“There are lots of synergies in the three and I will be working to ensure that his (PM Modi’s) vision is implemented,” Vaishnaw told reporters as he took charge.Vaishnaw, an engineer by training, worked as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer for over 15 years after getting masters degree from the Indian Institute of Technology (Kanpur). He later went to Wharton University in the USA to pursue an MBA and after some time after completing the course quit government service so that he could quickly pay off the loans.On his return, after working for top firms, he set up his own automotive components manufacturing units in Gujarat and at one point, even lived out of a container “as I wanted that factory to come out in record time”, he told HT in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-in-rail-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-s-office-to-work-in-2-shifts-to-keep-up-with-him-101625770526494.html
09-07-2021||India||Have right to suspend any account that violates terms: Twitter to high court||Social media firm Twitter on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it can suspend the account of any individual user found in breach of their service agreement, and that it has a “contractual obligation” to do so.The company, in response to a plea by senior advocate Sanjay Hegde challenging the suspension of his Twitter account, said that its services are “purely in the nature of a voluntary service” which it “provides to its users in a commercial capacity”.The social media intermediary also said there was no element of public function involved, and it was not obligated to render its service to further the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Indian Constitution.“…the provision of services on Twitter is pursuant to a contractual obligation which the petitioner (Hegde) has signed up for, and the said contract gives Respondent No 2 (Twitter) the right to suspend an account if it is in violation of the user agreement and its policies. This shows that Respondent No 2 is merely discharging its contractual obligations,” Twitter said in an affidavit filed on Wednesday.“…the provision of service of Twitter is in no matter relatable to any function of the State carried out in its sovereign capacity; Its service is not in any manner a State protected monopoly, since there are multiple other such service providers which are intermediaries discharging similar functions,” the reply added.It also said that its services extended beyond the territorial boundaries of India, and it cannot be said that the platform owed a duty to the Indian public to facilitate free speech and expression.“For any activity to be classified as a public duty, it is necessary that a positive obligation is cast to discharge that duty. Efforts which are purely voluntary cannot be said to have the necessary public element in them,” Twitter told the high court.In December 2019, Hegde moved the high court challenging the permanent suspension of his account --“@sanjayuvacha”, from November 5, 2019 — alleging that the move was “arbitrary”, illegal as contrary to Twitter’s rules.According to the petition, Hegde’s account was suspended for allegedly re-tweeting two posts on the micro-blogging site.One of the posts was that of Kavita Krishnan, secretary of All India Progressive Women’s Association and member of CPI(ML) politburo who had shared Gorakh Pandey’s poem “Unko phaansi de do” in 2019.Hegde had re-tweeted the post with the caption “Hang Him”, an English translation of the poem’s title, the plea read.The second post was a picture of August Landmesser which Hegde was using as his profile header/ cover photo for over a year.The plea also contended that the suspension of account was a violation of his right to free speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19 (1) (a)of the Indian Constitution.Advocate Pranjal Kishore, appearing for Hegde, sought directions to the Centre to frame guidelines to ensure that online speech is not arbitrarily censored by social media firms such as Twitter. He also sought restoration of the account.The petitioner argued that since Twitter imparts a public function, which is being a social media platform, facilitating the exchange of information and ideas, the plea was maintainable.Opposing this stand, Twitter said that its services were covered under the Information Technology Rules, and there was a mechanism provided under it, in case a user is aggrieved by any act or omission by an intermediary.Twitter has been in the eye of controversy over the past few months. On May 20, it labelled a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Sambit Patra “manipulated media” prompting a Delhi Police investigation. The special cell of Delhi Police questioned Manish Maheshwari, managing director of Twitter in India, in late May.The company then missed a May 25 deadline to comply with the new guidelines for intermediaries and social media firms, and an official in the IT ministry previously told HT that the company would lose the protection it enjoyed as an intermediary under the country’s IT law as a result.The Ghaziabad Police has been wanting to question Maheshwari over a video clip that went viral last month. The police believe Twitter did not do enough to halt the circulation of the clip which they believe misrepresents the nature of an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a communal hate crime. The Karkataka high court gave the Twitter executive protection from arrest and told the Ghaziabad Police that they could question him virtually, a ruling that has since been challenged in the Supreme Court.“Respondent No 2 (Twitter), in accordance with the IT Act and applicable rules has a grievance redressal mechanism and the petitioner’s recourse is to file a complaint on the said portal. The petitioner (Hegde), by filing this writ petition, is attempting to give a purely contractual dispute the colour of a public function allegedly being performed by it solely to make it amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the Court,” the reply by the social media firm said.Senior advocate Pavan Duggal said that even though the two parties are engaged in a contractual obligation, the agreement would not hold water in any court if it is in violation of the laws and the rights guaranteed under the Indian Constitution. If Twitter has suspended any account, then the IT Rules mandate that it has to be transparent and the site must spell out the reason for suspension, he said.The matter will now heard on August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-right-to-suspend-any-account-that-violates-terms-twitter-to-high-court-101625769948730.html
09-07-2021||India||Tomy seeks funds to reattempt race that nearly proved fatal for him||NEW DELHI: In the 75th year of the country’s Independence, a champion Indian sailor will attempt a feat that almost killed him three years ago --- an enormously challenging solo and non-stop circumnavigation race that bars the use of modern technology. But Abhilash Tomy’s quest for sailing glory faces a funding hurdle; he needs to raise up to ₹4 crore to get through to the 2022 edition of the quadrennial Golden Globe Race (GGR). Struggling to find sponsors for the around-the-world race, the former navy commander has decided to take a shot at crowdfunding to be able to compete in the gruelling event, an endurance test like no other in the world of competitive sailing. “I could not finish the 2018 edition of the race because of an accident. It’s been in my head for a long time. I am ready for the unfinished business. I have launched a crowd-funding campaign to arrange funds for a boat and several other associated expenses,” Tomy said over phone from Goa. He has launched a fundraising campaign on the Ketto crowdfunding platform, and fondly describes his supporters as “crew” who stand a chance “to be a part of a race around the world.” Tomy suffered a debilitating back injury on September 21, 2018, after rough seas and powerful winds in the southern Indian Ocean , one of the remotest spots on Earth, crippled his yacht, SV Thuriya. He was rescued 70 hours later. “I did not suffer from any post-traumatic stress disorder after the accident. There are no fear issues. I was doing fairly well until the storm took Thuriya down. I regard my participation in GGR-22 as a fitting tribute to the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence,” he said. Before the September 21 accident, Tomy was in the third position among 11 international participants and had sailed more than 10,500 nautical miles since the race began on July 1, 2018, from a port in France. That was the 50th year of the race that commemorates Robin Knox-Johnston’s feat in 1968, with participants required to operate under the same conditions, even navigating using charts and the stars. “This time it’s going to be even harder as participants will be given only 25 litres of fuel compared to 120 litres in 2018. I kept all the fuel for power generation. This time I will be dependent on sun and winds to charge batteries. The good thing is that participants will be allowed to carry cameras this time,” said Tomy, who took premature retirement from the navy in January 2021. Tomy became the first Indian to circumnavigate the globe on board his previous boat Mhadei, solo, non-stop and unassisted, in 2013. At the end of the five-month-long voyage, the President of India received Tomy and his boat at the Gateway of India in Mumbai. He was awarded India’s second-highest peace-time gallantry award, Kirti Chakra, for the achievement. Tomy has raised around ₹1.5 lakh on the crowdfunding platform over the last two days against a goal of ₹3 crore. He launched the campaign on July 6. “It all boils down to how much money I can raise. There are costs associated with getting a boat, its refit, entry fee for the event, technical managers and other expenses. I have approached some corporate houses too but haven’t had any response so far,” he said. Tomy first announced that he would take part in GGR-22 at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit-2019. Speaking at the 17th edition of the summit, he gave details of the harrowing moments that abruptly ended his participation in GGR-18 but thrust him into the spotlight for surviving an ordeal that tested the limits of human endurance. “When the boat turned upright after the second knockdown, my wrist was stuck on wires connecting the mast. At one point, the strap of my watch broke, and I fell nine metres on a piece of aluminium called the boom. Then I fell to the deck on my back. I cleaned up some of the broken equipment, but half an hour later, I could not stand,” said Tomy of the moments that turned out to be the point when he broke his spine in four places. When a rescue team --- a coordinated effort of four nations --- finally reached him, his first thought was that he was hallucinating. “After 48 hours of sleep deprivation, hallucination is common. When I heard the knock, I thought this could be a hallucination and I must be prepared for that. But then they were there, real people — and I told them you are like angels to me,” he said at the summit.Now he needs more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tomy-seeks-funds-to-reattempt-race-that-nearly-proved-fatal-for-him-101625769927125.html
09-07-2021||India||Kitty Kumaramangalam’s murder: Laundryman got ‘tempted’ by locker in almirah||The one mistake that cost south Delhi resident Kitty Kumarmangalam (70) her life was to trust her laundryman enough to allow him inside the house whenever he returned with the elderly woman’s clothes, investigators said on Thursday. Laundryman Raju Lakhan Kanojia, arrested for the murder of Kitty Kumarmangalam, wife of former Union minister P Rangarajan Mangalalam, told police that he often went inside her house and kept the clothes in her almirah. What he saw inside became a source of envy that ultimately triggered him to become a murderer, a police officer, who questioned Kanojia (24), said on Thursday. Kitty’s husband was the Union minister of power between 1998 and 2000 during the first National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. Raju told police he knew the woman was a minister’s wife and thought she had money stored in a small detachable locker inside the almirah. On Tuesday night, Raju and his two accomplices, Rakesh Raj and another person Suraj (identified by his single name in police records), murdered Kitty, assaulted her domestic help, and fled with cash, jewellery and the small locker. Police arrested Raju and Rakesh Raj,34, while Suraj is on the run. Rakesh and Suraj work as drivers. Till late Thursday night, police were conducting raids in different places across the city to arrest Suraj. “He said he was always curious about the small detachable locker in the almirah. He stole that too on Tuesday. The elderly lady (Kitty) did not believe that Raju, who she had seen for so many years, could rob her. Maybe this is why, the kind lady trusted him and allowed him inside. Usually, people don’t. Raju said that he had seen cash and the locker, whenever he put the cleaned clothes back in the almirah. Greed had struck him in the past. This greed, coupled with intoxication from drinking with his friends at the PVR Priya market, emboldened him to murder and rob her,” the investigating officer cited above said on condition of anonymity. The questioning of the two arrested men revealed that after the murder, the three rode to a wooded area on Nelson Mandel Marg and shared the stolen cash and jewellery. They shared around ₹80,000 each. While hiding in the bushes, the three also used a stone to break open the small locker but found only papers inside. “We have recovered the stolen locker along with the papers. It is a part of case property and is strong evidence that we have gathered against them,” the officer added. The murder came to light around 10.10pm on Tuesday when Kitty’s domestic help, Mithila,33, whom the three men had strangled with a belt and left for dead, woke up and called her husband. Her husband alerted the neighbours, who then informed the police. Mithila told police that at 8.10pm the three men entered Kitty’s second floor house in A block, overpowered the two women, strangled her with a belt in one room, and smothered Kitty to death with a pillow in another. Kitty died on the spot.While prime accused Raju is in police custody, his family members who live in the nearby Bhagwan Singh camp -- a slum cluster next the posh Vasant Vihar area -- refuse to believe that the 24-year-old could be a murderer. Police said Raju confessed he and his friends Rakesh and Suraj needed money, so they readily agreed to assist him. Raju’s mother, Geeta Kanojia, said, “We earn about ₹20,000-25,000 from washing and ironing clothes. We are told that he stole about ₹2 lakh. My son could not have done this. We refuse to believe he is a murderer.”But police believe they have all the evidence to pin the murder on the three men. Police will file a charge sheet against the three men in the next 60 days. Laundryman Raju and his accomplice Rakesh are currently at the Vasant Vihar police station. A city court on Thursday sent them to three days’ police custody. Other laundrymen who live and work in the bylanes of A block in Vasant Vihar are in fear. They believe they will forever be seen with suspicion. Geeta Ram,74, who runs a small ironing shop in the bylane next to Kitty’s house, said, “I have lived here for more than 50 years. All my life, my wife and I have climbed the stairs in these buildings and taken clothes for laundry. This is the first time that a laundryman murdered his own employer. Because of this one case, we will be viewed with suspicion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kitty-kumaramangalam-s-murder-laundryman-got-tempted-by-locker-in-almirah-101625769926443.html
09-07-2021||India||Violence mars filing of papers for block panchayat chief in UP||Incidents of firing, clashes, verbal duels between opponents and accusations of obstructions in filing papers were reported in 17 different blocks in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, when filing of nominations for the post of block panchayat heads at 825 blocks across 75 districts were held, senior police officials said.Additional director general of police (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar, however, said the incidents were reported from only 14 places.He added that directives have been issued to district police authorities to ensure stern action against troublemakers. Stating that incidents of violence were reported away from nomination centres, Kumar admitted that it did cause law and order trouble, following which cases were filed.The ADG also said that extra police arrangements have been ordered for Friday, when candidates can take back their nominations, and on Saturday, when voting will take place to elect the block panchayat chiefs.Another police official said major trouble was reported from Sitapur’s Kasmanda block, where supporters of Bharatiya Janata Party and independent candidates scuffled while returning from the nomination centre. He said the incident led to firing between the supporters, in which three people suffered bullet injuries and were rushed to Lucknow for further treatment.A local resident in the area, however, alleged that the incident took place even as police personnel were present at some distance from the nomination centre. A video of Sitapur violence, which has gone viral, purportedly shows police personnel running for shelter amid indiscriminate firing by troublemakers. HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video.In an incident, reported in Unnao’s Purwa block, the son of a BJP candidate alleged that the Samajwadi Party candidate in the block along with her supporters attacked and robbed him while he was returning home on Wednesday night. It led to a confrontation between supporters of the BJP and SP outside the nomination centre.In Ambedkar Nagar, former Bahujan Samaj Party minister Lalji Verma accused BJP candidate Tejaswi Jaiswal of snatching nomination form from his hand and misbehaving while he was going to extend support to another candidate at Tanda block.In Bahraich and Kannuaj, there were reports of stone-pelting between opponent groups, but no major injuries were reported, police said. Similar confrontations and verbal duels were also reported from Mainpuri, Siddarthnagar, Jaunpur, Ayodhya, Bulandshahr, Bijnor, Siddarthnagar, Amroha, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Pilibhit and Basti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-mars-filing-of-papers-for-block-panchayat-chief-in-up-101625769543309.html
09-07-2021||India||Give plan to comply on oath: HC to Twitter||The Delhi high court on Thursday pulled up Twitter for its delay in appointing the resident grievance officers, making it clear that the social media company cannot be given eight weeks to meet the terms of the new Information Technology (IT) rules, and said the Union government was free to take action if the company did not comply.Twitter had sought eight weeks to appoint permanent grievance officers and to set up a liaison office in India, a request the court denied.“No, no... I am not giving eight weeks,” said justice Rekha Palli, while adding: “I am not going to protect you… You have also not set up a liaison office which was another requirement under the Rules”.Senior advocate Sajan Poovaya, representing Twitter, told the court that it was not seeking any protection. “The consequence (of non-compliance) is that the protection to intermediaries falls off. I’m not seeking any protection,” he said. Poovaya said the company was reserving its right to challenge the rules for now, to which the judge said: “You have the right to challenge but till the Rules are there, they’re there for everybody.” Close to 10 entities – tech companies, news websites, advocacy groups and private individuals – have challenged the new IT rules. While some, such as Facebook-owned WhatsApp, have challenged specific clauses, others, like Carnatic musician TM Krishna, have argued that the rules in entirety violate multiple provisions of the Constitution. The government has said that the rules are an important tool to protect the rights of Indian users and compel the digital companies to respect Indian rules and regulations. “While Twitter is striving to comply with the 2021 Rules, Twitter reserves its right to challenge the legality, validity, and vires of the Rules, and Twitter’s submissions regarding compliance are filed without prejudice to its right to challenge the Rules,” a document filed by Twitter in the high court said.Twitter on Thursday informed the high court that it appointed an interim chief compliance officer (COO) on July 6 as a contingent worker through a third party contractor, who is a resident of India, and it would require eight weeks to replace the position with a permanent employee.The social media intermediary also said that it is in the process of making an appointment of an Indian resident as its interim resident grievance officer (RGO) and expects to do so on or before July 11.The company also added that it intends to employ an interim nodal contact officer within two weeks and a regular employee within eight weeks.On yet another compliance requirement, which mandates big social media companies to publish a compliance report, the company promised to do so by July 11, the government’s deadline. Twitter’s submission came after the high court on July 6 asked the social media intermediary to give a deadline for appointing the three grievance redressal officers. The court had warned Twitter “will be in trouble” if it doesn’t comply.It had also pulled up the company for “misleading” the court and giving “wrong impression” on the appointment of a regular grievance officer. The court took exception to not being informed that an earlier appointment of the resident grievance officer was only on interim basis.Proceedings in the high court started with senior advocate Poovaya telling the court that his client was making all out efforts to comply with the new IT Rules. He said that usage of “interim” would not lessen or minimise the responsibilities on these officers.The high court, however, said: “Tomorrow you may take benefit of “interim”. This (your stand) is neither in the letter (to the Centre) nor in an affidavit.”Responding to a query of court, Poovaya said the officers have been appointed in interim because they do not have a permanent address in India and some tax issues might crop up. To this justice Palli said, “Okay, but I am not going to protect you.”Additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, for the Centre, objected to the reply filed by Twitter and said that the appointments made could not be permitted through a third party.“This is not diplomatic parlance. We want accountability, full accountability of great servitude. It can’t be left in half-way house via third party…They’ve talked about making appointments through a third party. What is this third party? Where is it coming from? Let’s say I am a pharma or an IT company in the US…No court would give them leeway like this. I have to be in 100% compliance with the Rules,” Sharma argued.When Poovaya said that the Centre cannot hold them for contempt for the contents of their affidavit, the court observed: “I am not going into that right now, but you are already in contempt. You had said something in the last hearing, now you are going back on it and trying to salvage the situation maybe.”The court noted that Twitter has not filed an affidavit but has given a short memo signed by the counsel in which they stated to fully comply with the Rules, as long as there is no stay.It granted two weeks’ time to Twitter to file hard copies of the notarised affidavit of a competent officer, along with the affidavit of the officer already stated to have been appointed and the persons who are being appointed.Since early 2021, the company has had multiple disputes with the government, beginning with tweets relating to the farm protests that the government sought to be taken down. In recent weeks, former Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has publicly spoken against Twitter for its content moderation practices, while cases have been filed against Twitter’s executives over user content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-plan-to-comply-on-oath-hc-to-twitter-101625769868227.html
09-07-2021||India||Experts count on Bhupender to tackle environmental challenges||New Delhi Environmentalists and former bureaucrats on Thursday welcomed the appointment of Bhupender Yadav as the new Union minister for environment, citing his understanding of complex issues surrounding the environment and the climate crisis.On Thursday morning, Yadav started his first day in office by participating in a plantation drive, following which he held a meeting with senior officials of the ministry to review ongoing projects and issues.“Assumed charge of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (@moefcc) today. The PM Sh @narendramodi ji’s govt is committed to sustainable development. I wish to be able to ensure India [attains] those goals,” he said in a Twitter post.A senior environment ministry official said: “He seems soft spoken and more understanding of complex issues surrounding environment and climate change.”A lawyer and former national secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Yadav is also called the “Committee Man” due to his history of chairing several parliamentary committees on critical issues such as the Rajya Sabha Select Committee on Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019, and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015, among others.Yadav co-authored a book, titled “Supreme Court on Forest Conservation”, with environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta in 2011 on the legal aspects of forest conservation in India.“Its good that a lawyer has taken charge of the ministry. The ministry was circumventing the parliamentary process through various office memorandums and orders. I really hope he addresses that first. Given his background in law, he can help improve the functioning of the ministry. He has been associated with various environmental movements and has taken up environmental cases so he knows the issues very well. He has chaired the highest number of parliamentary committees also,” said Dutta.Over the past few years, the Prakash Javadekar-led ministry, faced widespread public backlash over various controversial decisions.The draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification, published on March 23, 2020, has been in the eye of the storm over certain clauses, which can weaken the process of environmental appraisal of industries and infrastructure projects. On July 8 last year, the Delhi Police had sent a notice to youth climate group Fridays for Future, under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), for sending multiple emails to Javadekar against the draft EIA 2020. Later, the Delhi Police termed the notice a clerical error.The ministry has, so far, received over 200,000 objections and comments on the draft EIA 2020, which are being assessed by a committee.“With the change in guard in the MoEFCC, let’s hope that the high-handedness and arrogance will give way to humility and rational decision-making benefitting forestry,” said Anup Nayak, former member secretary, national tiger conservation authority (NTCA) in a Twitter post.At present, several large infrastructure projects, including township planning in the fragile Andaman and Nicobar Islands; the Char Dham road project through Himalayas in Uttarakhand; hydropower projects in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley and mining in Chhattisgarh’s Hasdeo Arand forests, are being considered by the environment ministry.According to officials, the ministry has also started amending almost all environmental legislations to ensure they meet current requirements.The ministry’s wildlife division has prepared a cabinet note to amend the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 which is yet to be cleared by the cabinet; a similar note on the amendment to Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 has also been finalised after circulating it internally among ministries.Recently, the ministry called for expressions of interest from consulting agencies, firms, and joint venture consortiums to prepare a new draft amendment to the Indian Forest Act, 1927. A private law firm is preparing a draft environmental management act which will subsume the Air Act 1981, Water Act 1974, and the Environment (Protection) Act 1986 and serve as an overarching law particularly for all infrastructure and industry projects.“I think we have reasons to maintain hope. He is an advocate with knowledge of environmental law and being one of the cadres he may listen to people’s voices. It’s an opportunity for the NDA to clean up the damage done through various dilutions in the past seven years,” said Sudiep Shrivastava, Chhattisgarh based lawyer who is working on cases related to Hasdeo Arand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-count-on-bhupender-to-tackle-environmental-challenges-101625769325839.html
09-07-2021||India||Afghanistan situation to figure in India-Russia talks tomorrow||New Delhi: The situation in Afghanistan, forthcoming India-Russia meetings, and bilateral cooperation in security and defence will figure in talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Moscow on July 9. Jaishankar is currently on a three-day visit to Russia, during which his discussions with his interlocutors are expected to cover the entire range of bilateral issues, including cooperation in the fight against Covid-19, and various regional and international developments. The talks with Lavrov will be Jaishankar’s main engagement in Moscow, and the Russian foreign ministry said on Thursday the two sides will compare notes on “major global and regional issues, including the political process in Afghanistan, settlement in Syria [and the] situation around the Iranian nuclear program”. The two sides will also discuss cooperation at the UN, Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) and Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) “in the RIC format”, the Russian foreign ministry said, referring to the Russia-India-China grouping. In an indication of the differences between India and Russia on the Indo-Pacific concept, the Russian foreign ministry said the discussions are also expected to touch up “approaches to the formation of reliable and indivisible security architecture in the Pacific and Indian oceans”. Lavrov has been openly critical of the Indo-Pacific concept, which now forms a key part of India’s foreign policy and cooperation under the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue format (which includes the US, Japan and Australia). Last December, Lavrov had said Western powers have adopted an “aggressive and devious” policy to engage India “in anti-China games by promoting Indo-Pacific strategies”. India has dismissed these concerns by saying the Indo-Pacific is an inclusive concept that can even be joined by Russia. The Russian foreign ministry noted that interaction with India was “successfully developing in all areas in line with a special and privileged strategic partnership, including political dialogue, security, trade and economic, military-technical, scientific, cultural and humanitarian ties”. It added that the foreign ministers are expected to discuss “key directions of the Russian-Indian relations, taking into account the previously reached agreements and upcoming contacts, in particular at the highest and high levels”. The annual India-Russia Summit is slated for later this year, while a meeting of the bilateral inter-governmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation will be held in Delhi in August, and a meeting of the inter-governmental commission on military and military-technical cooperation will be held in Moscow in November. The Russian foreign ministry further said the two countries share a similar vision of a “model of an emerging more fair and equitable polycentric world order”, and “demonstrate the similarity or proximity of positions on the most important issues of peace and security”. Jaishankar’s visit to Moscow is a follow-up to the trip by Lavrov to New Delhi in April. Besides holding talks with Lavrov, Jaishankar will also meet deputy prime minister Yuri Borisov, his counterpart for the inter-governmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation, and the chairman of the state Duma committee on international affairs, Leonid Slutsky. Jaishankar also delivered a speech on “India-Russia ties in a changing world” at the prestigious Primakov Institute of World Economy and International Relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-situation-to-figure-in-india-russia-talks-tomorrow-101625742745162.html
09-07-2021||India||India must adapt to changing times, adopt new tech: Hardeep Puri||New Delhi India needs to adapt to changing times, adopt new technologies and be in consonance with the transition taking place across the world, said Hardeep Singh Puri as he took charge of the Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas on Thursday.“As we transform towards a $5 trillion economy, energy availability and consumption will be of paramount importance. My focus will be on increasing domestic production of crude and natural gas, in line with the Prime Minister’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I will also work towards development of a natural gas-based economy in the country and increase the share of natural gas in the primary energy mix of the country to 15% by 2030 as announced by the PM,” said Puri, who is also the Union minister in charge of housing and urban affairs.Puri, a 1974-batch Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer, has been put in charge of the nation’s energy security as the country undergoes an energy transition, with several new-age fuels in play.“The work of this ministry touches each and every citizen in the country directly or indirectly. The energy issues in this ministry have immense potential and several challenges. The need to adapt to changing times, adopt new technologies and to be in consonance with the energy transition taking place across the world, provides a fascinating opportunity,” he added.A Rajya Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh, Puri took charge of his new office in the presence of his predecessor Dharmendra Pradhan, who has now been given the education portfolio.“Today, I feel honoured by the trust reposed in me by the Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi ji, who has made me the Cabinet minister of this important ministry. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan ji’s are big shoes to fill,” said Puri.“In the last seven years, a number of path-breaking reforms and initiatives have been ushered in the sector. I would strive to take them forward, and fulfil the expectations of the Prime Minister, our people and the country,” he added.The new minister of state in the petroleum and natural gas ministry, Rameswar Teli, also took charge of his new office on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-adapt-to-changing-times-new-tech-hardeep-puri-101625736144659.html
09-07-2021||India||Twitter must follow law of the land: IT minister||New Delhi: The government’s new minister for electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday said the law of the land is supreme, and Twitter will have to fall in line with the new social media and intermediary guidelines.Vaishnaw’s remarks suggest he could continue his predecessor’s strong stance against the US-based company, which is yet to complete compliance requirements mandatory under the new rules. “Law of land is supreme, Twitter must follow rules,” the Union minister said, according to a ministry spokesperson. “Whoever is a citizen of India and those who stay in India will have to abide by the laws of the country,” he said while addressing journalists at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) headquarters. Twitter, separately, told the Delhi High Court that it will appoint a grievance redressal officer in keeping with the new guidelines within eight weeks after the bench asked it to put on oath its stand in the matter, giving it two weeks’ time. The ministry submitted in the court that if it did not comply, it will lose the safe harbour protection for user content under section 79, of the IT Act – which means it could become liable for content that users create. Minister of state for MeitY Rajeev Chandrashekhar also told reporters that the issue will be addressed by the ministry and the new minister. “I have just taken the charge,” he said. “The ministry doesn’t operate on a unilateral basis and this has nothing to do with individual views and opinions. The ministry will sit with the new Union minister and address all these issues.”Vaishnaw’s predecessor Ravi Shankar Prasad was locked in an escalating conflict with the social media company for over a month and half now. All clauses of the new guidelines came into effect on May 25, which included the appointment of an India-based grievance redressal and nodal officer and a compliance officer. The ministry asserted that Twitter failed to appoint a compliance officer, and its grievance officer and address were not in keeping with the rules which demanded an Indian resident and local address. Prasad’s ministry threatened Twitter with the loss of safe harbour, which provides the company protection from action against third party content. The government’s battle with Twitter began over blocking access to several accounts that carried a controversial hashtag, including accounts of activists and media professionals. Twitter refused to cede space on the implementation of its policies, as it said it was defending free speech. The company, in turn, raised concerns regarding “intimidation tactics by the police” and with the “core elements” of the new social media and intermediary guidelines, prompting a strong response from the government which called the remarks an “attempt to dictate its terms”. Twitter was also targeted by the government when it tagged posts by prominent BJP politicians Sambit Patra and Vinay Sahasrabuddhe as manipulated media, and briefly locked out Prasad from his account over an alleged copyright infringement. The new IT minister joined the BJP as recently as 2019 after becoming a member of the Rajya Sabha. Vaishnaw, 51, has served as the private secretary to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2004, after serving a brief stint with the Prime Minister’s Office during Vajpayee’s term in 2002. He was educated at MBM Engineering College, Jodhpur, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and Wharton Business School. In 2006, he also served as the deputy chairman of Goa’s Mormugoa Port Trust.“Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modiji’s vision is to transform the lives of the poor, marginalized communities, farmers, middle classes, youth, women and weaker sections of the society... Railways, Communication and Technology touch the lives of all Indians. I will work to fulfil the Prime Minister’s vision,” a government statement quoted Vaishnaw as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-of-land-supreme-twitter-will-have-to-follow-rules-it-minister-101625735484916.html
09-07-2021||India||Karnataka veteran who made it to Modi’s council||Bengaluru: When Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Parliament member A Narayanaswamy was denied entry into Paavgada village in Karnataka’s Tumakuru district in May 2019 because he is a Dalit, he refused to file a police complaint despite the humiliation. Narayanaswamy insisted it was more important to educate people than arrest them and won the village residents over. The residents welcomed him back to the village a day later as the lawmaker from the reserved constituency of Chitradurga, around 200 km from Bengaluru, wanted to highlight the poor condition of the schools in the region and encourage works under the Corporate Social Responsibility there.Narayanaswamy, 62, who is otherwise known for maintaining a low profile, hit the headlines through his gesture. He was back in the news on Wednesday when he was named as the minister of state for social justice and empowerment as part of the biggest reshuffle ever in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s council of ministers.Born on May 16, 1957, Narayanaswamy served as a four-time member of the Karnataka assembly between 1998 and 2013. He was also the chief whip of the BJP in the assembly for a year in 1998. Narayanaswamy was first made a state Cabinet minister in 2010. He has also served as a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Water Resources.“In these constituencies, elected legislators cannot afford to antagonise the upper castes. So that is probably among the reasons why he (Narayanaswamy) could have toned down his response to it. This dynamic is something that Dalit and ST MLAs reckon with across reserved political constituencies in the country,” Chandhan Gowda, a social scientist from Institute For Social and Econmic Change (ISEC) said. Ashwathnarayan’s elevation is seen as part of the attempt to provide representation to Dalits in Karnataka, where 2,327 cases of murder and other cases of atrocities were reported against the members of Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities from April 2020 to March 2021 as per the official data. In 2019, 1,504 such cases were registered, according to data from the National Crime Records Bureau.Karnataka is known for its prowess in technology, start-ups, aerospace, but the dark underbelly that the caste discrimination represents particularly in the state’s rural areas often goes unnoticed. The number of atrocities cases registered is believed to be low and the conviction rates are even lower. Due to the mediation by powerful and influential leaders, such cases often go unreported.Five of the 28 Lok Sabha constituencies are reserved for SCs and two for STs in Karnataka, where polls are due in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/known-to-keep-a-low-profile-narayanswamy-gets-a-place-in-union-cabinet-101625734345097.html
09-07-2021||India||Cabinet reshuffle may delay 1st data privacy law||India’s first data privacy law faces further delays as several members of a parliamentary committee, including its head, have been made ministers, weeks before its crucial report was expected to be presented to parliament during the Monsoon Session. The draft Personal Data Protection law was introduced in parliament in December, 2019 and is meant to provide the legal framework for the right to privacy of Indian citizens. But it was soon referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee to iron out several contentious issues. Members of the committee, people aware of the process and legal experts say replacements will now need to be appointed before the JPC report can be tabled. “The draft report remains to be circulated among members of the panel,” said a person aware of the developments, asking not to be named.The 30-member committee (which has two vacancies) includes Meenakshi Lekhi, who is the head, Ajay Bhatt, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Bhupender Yadav, and Ashwini Vaishnaw. These five were inducted in the government as ministers on Wednesday, which means they no longer can be part of the committee. The JPC got an extension first till the Winter Session last year, then until the first week of the second half of the Budget Session this year, and finally until the Monsoon Session this month. The committee has met various stakeholders, including industry representatives and civil society members. The bill covers the cross-border transfer of data and the use of personal data by government and private companies, and lays down penalties for entities that jeopardise the right to privacy of Indian citizens, which was held as a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in August, 2017. The scope of the report is believed to have been expanded to cover not just personal data protection but also non-personal data. The panel’s report will aim to address “reasonable purposes for data sharing, exemptions for government agencies and sensitive personal data”, a person familiar with the matter said.Congress MP Manish Tewari, who is a member of the panel, alleged the report is stuck because “there is pressure on the government” from social media companies. “It has been seven months since deliberations of the committee closed. The chair made the committee members sit during the worst phase for Covid because she wanted to complete the report early. The draft is yet to be circulated not because she has not made the draft report, but obviously, since there is pressure from the social media companies on the government to not have a data protection law,” he said. “Ravi Shankar Prasad (former electronics and information technology minister) has been sacrificed at the altar of pleasing the social media giants. It is clear that social media companies are more powerful than the government.”Lekhi and Prasad did not respond to requests for a comment on these positions.Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh said he requested for the draft report of the bill to be circulated to its members. “Now, chairperson has become a minister along with 3 members. What happens now to committee & draft report? The new ministers had much to say on the Bill!” he said.Former Lok Sabha secretary general PDT Achary said since it is a committee report, there is a sense of urgency to it. “If the Speaker wants, he can appoint a new chairperson today.” He added the procedure to be followed will depend on whether the chairperson has directed the secretariat to circulate the report. Achary said in that case, it will have to circulate a copy before a new chair is appointed. “Otherwise, the new chairperson will have to issue the directions,” he said. “The vacancies in the panel will be filled up once the parliamentary affairs minister gives the names of the new members to be added to the panel.”According to Asia-Pacific policy director at Access Now, Raman Chima, “A reminder that if an MP is appointed a Minister, they have to immediately leave any parliamentary committee and new folks appointed,” he said. “Ultimately of course, it’s a topic of extreme contestation as to whether on the really big issues of the present Government of India the individual ministers have much say beyond what the civil service and establishment connected to the PM’s office, Home Ministry, CabSec want.”Kazim Rizvi, founding director, The Dialogue, concurred with Chima and said that there might be a delay in appointing a new chairperson, “but we cannot ascertain for sure”. “Vacancies in the Committee can be filled by appointment or election by the House, based on a motion or the nomination by the Speaker,” he said. “Since ministers cannot hold membership to the standing committees, we will have a new chairperson of the JPC. The chairperson of the Committee has to be appointed by the Speaker from amongst the members.”HT reached out to the ministry of electronics and information technology but did not get an immediate response. This copy will be updated once the ministry responds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-report-may-be-delayed-as-house-panel-members-become-ministers-101625727144414.html
