10-07-2021||India||‘No deliberate under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths’: Kerala CM||There is no under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in Kerala and the state has been following the death protocol in letter and spirit while the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has lauded it several times, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said while addressing the media on Saturday.“Reporting all deaths under such trying circumstances is difficult. We haven’t done deliberate under-reporting. If there are complaints we will look into them,” he saidHis reply at a time when many complaints surfaced regarding the under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in the state. A section of media stated that the government reported only 404 Covid-19 deaths officially in May while the actual figure was more than 10,000. Local bodies’ death registration figures contradicted the official data in the last three months, media reports based on the reply obtained under the Right to Information Act, indicated.The CM cited the case of a north Indian state and said when more than one lakh died in that state, the official toll was only 2,461. He said such things will never happen in a state like Kerala. “Such a situation never arose in Kerala. We reported at least one death out of three. There is no deliberate attempt towards this,” he said.But the opposition Congress said its workers have started compiling details of all Covid-19 deaths and it will release it if the government failed to do so by next week.Though the CM expressed concern over the high test positivity rate (TPR), he said there is no need to panic about this. Vijayan said in many states, the second wave started in March and peaked immediately but in Kerala, it began in May and its progression is slow. Meanwhile, the state reported 14,087 new cases on Saturday with a test positivity rate of 10.7 per cent. The average TPR of the last seven days in the state was 10.4, health ministry statistics show. Kerala has an active caseload of 1,15,226 infected patients. For almost a month, the state has been reporting almost one-third of the total Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deliberate-under-reporting-of-covid-19-deaths-kerala-cm-101625941295161.html
10-07-2021||India||Zika virus not spread by contact, not cause of concern right now: Health expert||The Zika virus, of which 14 cases have been reported in Kerala, is not spread by aerosols or contact and is not a major cause for concern at this time, said Dr Mathew Varghese, Public health expert and former director of St Stephens Hospital in Delhi.While speaking to ANI, Dr Varghese, however, warned that epidemiologists and the state health department should be concerned about the resurfacing of the virus."Zika virus is not spread by contact or aerosols. It is spread by mosquitos. That is a different epidemiology. I would not worry about it at this point in time. Epidemiologists and the Kerala Public Health dept has to be concerned that from somwhere Zika has come, and find a way to control the virus and mosquitoes. We should not create a scare among the people," he said.Kerala has reported 14 cases of the Zika virus, the state health department informed on Friday, adding that an action plan has been formulated for its prevention. A high alert has been flagged in all districts, especially for pregnant woman, were confirmed infected with the mosquito-borne virusWhile speaking about the rapid pace of virus mutations in the country, the public health expert said that it is normal for viruses to mutate and people have to prepared to have these in the environment."It is normal for viruses to mutate. They will keep mutating. This is the norm, it's not unusual. We have to be prepared for various types of variants in the environment and have to be careful," Dr Varghese said, adding that length and extent of carefulness are important.Asked about the massive crowds witnessed at hill stations over the last few days amid the pandemic, Varghese said that people should be allowed to go out to open tourist spaces but they should follow protocol very strictly, including face masks and frequent sanitisation."Tourist spots are getting crowded because people are getting more and more fed up with the closed lockdown life, and I think we need to grant it to them. Allow them to have open spaces but they must follow precautions very strictly, especially in indoor spaces," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-not-spread-by-contact-not-cause-of-concern-right-now-health-expert-101625938700152.html
10-07-2021||India||15 confirmed Zika virus cases in Kerala: Tamil Nadu, Karnataka intensify measures||The total number of persons infected with the Zika virus in Kerala has gone up to 15, with the state health ministry confirming one more case on Saturday. The samples of a 40-year-old man from Nanthancode which was sent to the National Institute of Alappuzha has been found to be positive. Neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have upped the guard, though Zika can mostly spread from one person to another through a mosquito bite.Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore administration has intensified vehicle checks on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border, where e-passes were already mandatory.Karnataka's health department has asked officials to intensify vector control measures and identified Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chamarajanagara as districts that need to be more vigilant. "In view of reporting of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the neighbouring state of Kerala, it is crucial to intensify the vector control measures in Karnataka also. The current monsoon season supports the widespread proliferation of Aedes mosquito, which is a vector for Zika Virus Disease," a circular by the Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare Services said.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Zika cases are not unexpected as it is the same Aedes Aegypte that causes dengue and chikungunya are responsible for Zika.Aedes aegypti is prevalent in Karnataka as well and that is why routine surveillance has to be intensified, the Karnataka government has said.Pregnant woman first case in KeralaThe first case of Zika was reported in Kerala on Thursday. That the number has now risen to 15 shows that the virus has somewhat spread in the state. The 24-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with fever, headache and red spots on June 28. As her sample was sent for examination, Zika was confirmed, On July 7, the woman gave birth normally. She did not travel outside the state but went to meet her mother who stays near the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. Her mother too had similar symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-confirmed-zika-virus-cases-in-kerala-tn-nadu-karnataka-intensify-measures-101625935846035.html
10-07-2021||India||Watch: DK Shivakumar allegedly slaps a man for this reason||A video of Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar allegedly slapping a man went viral on social media after BJP leaders shared the video and sought an answer for Shivakumar's behaviour from party leader Rahul Gandhi. "Have you given DKS the licence for violence?" BJP National general secretary CT Ravi asked Rahul Gandhi in a tweet that had the video.Reports said Shivakumar got irritated with the man as he tried to put his arms around him when Shivakumar went to Madhya to inquire about the health of veteran leader G Made Gowda.After the incident, he reportedly asked the cameraman to delete the footage and asked the person to be responsible, PTI reported.Shivakumar later commented on his action and did not deny slapping the party worker who tried to come close to him. "...what to say if one puts his arms around? What will the people say? Can we allow such a thing because he is a karyakarta (worker)? What will others looking at it say?" Shivakum asked.Karnataka CONgress President @DKShivakumar SLAPS his party worker in full public view.If this is how the "former shishya" of Kotwal Ramachandra treats his party worker, one can imagine what he would do with Others.Have you given DKS the "licence for violence", @RahulGandhi? pic.twitter.com/JuuSBsALwG"Karnataka CONgress President @DKShivakumar SLAPS his party worker in full public view. If this is how the "former shishya" of Kotwal Ramachandra treats his party worker, one can imagine what he would do with Others. Have you given DKS the "licence for violence", @RahulGandhi?" CT Ravi tweeted.The BJP Karnataka Twitter handle dug out an old video of DK Shivakumar allegedly assaulting someone for trying to click a selfie with him and said Shivakumar should quit public life if his "underworld-like behaviour" is unavoidable.ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕವಾಗಿ ಹೇಗೆ ನಡೆದುಕೊಳ್ಳಬೇಕೆಂದು ಕೆಪಿಸಿಸಿ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷ @DKShivakumar ಮೊದಲು ಅರಿತುಕೊಳ್ಳಬೇಕು.ಈ ಹಿಂದೆ ವಿದ್ಯಾರ್ಥಿಯೊಬ್ಬ ಸೆಲ್ಫಿ ತೆಗೆದ ಎಂಬ ಕಾರಣಕ್ಕೆ ಆತನ ಮೇಲೆ ಹಲ್ಲೆ ನಡೆಸಿದ್ದರು.#ಮಹಾನಾಯಕ ಡಿಕೆಶಿಯವರೇ ಭೂಗತ ಜಗತ್ತಿನ ರೀತಿಯ ವರ್ತನೆಗಳು ನಿಮಗೆ ಅನಿವಾರ್ಯ ಎಂದಾದರೆ ಸಾರ್ವಜನಿಕ ಜೀವನ ಬಿಟ್ಟುಬಿಡಿ.#ರೌಡಿಡಿಕೆಶಿ pic.twitter.com/Daq4bon2rQIn its criticism, BJP termed DKS as a former disciple of Kotwal Ramachandra who was an underworld don of then Bangalore in the 1970s and '80s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-dk-shivakumar-allegedly-slaps-a-man-for-this-reason-101625931187869.html
10-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir administration dismisses 11 employees from service over alleged terror links||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sacked 11 of its employees, including sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, for allegedly working as over ground workers (OWGs) for terrorists, officials said on Saturday. The dismissed employees are from the Jammu and Kashmir Police, the education, agriculture, skill development, power and health departments, as well as the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), officials further said.Among those sacked, Syed Ahmed Shakeel and Shahid Yousuf, are Salahuddin’s sons. While one was employed with the SKIMS, the other was working for the education department. Explaining their termination, officials said the National Investigation Agency (NIA) tracked terror funding trails of the duo, and found them involved in raising, recovering, collecting and transferring funds through non-banking transactions for terror activities of their father’s organisation.Of those dismissed from service, four are from Anantnag, three from Budgam, and one each from Baramulla, Srinagar, Kupwara and Pulwama. Their dismissal took place under Article 11 of the Constitution, under which no inquiry is required, and those sacked can only approach a high court to seek relief.Officials explained how action was recommended against those sacked from service. “The designated committee in the Union territory, which scrutinises such cases, in its third and fourth meeting, recommended the dismissal of three and eight employees, respectively, from government service,” they explained, adding that of those recommended for dismissal in the third meeting, one was allegedly an OGW for the Lashkar-e-Taiba while the other two were found involved in “anti-national” activities.From the eight employees recommended for dismissal in the fourth meeting, officials said, two were constables in the Jammu and Kashmir Police, and allegedly provided inside information and logistical support to the terrorists.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-dismisses-11-employees-from-service-over-alleged-terror-links-101625930271517.html
10-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre reviews measures taken by states to check Covid amid tourist influx and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.What are hill stations doing to check Covid amid tourist influx? Centre reviewsThe Centre on Saturday reviewed the steps taken by the state governments to check the spread of the Covid-19 cases in hill stations and tourist locations amid a heavy influx of tourists. Read more'Shocked to the core': Maneka Gandhi's message as she shuts her centre after dog cruelty video goes viralSanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre in Delhi will be shutting down from August 1 for a complete overhaul, former minister and Lok Sabha MP Maneka Gandhi tweeted on Saturday. Read moreTaliban calls China a 'friend', promises not to host Uyghur militants in Afghanistan: ReportThe Taliban has said the group sees China as a “friend” to Afghanistan, hoping Chinese investment for reconstruction work in the war-torn country, according to a media report. Read moreAnanya Panday, sister Rysa are consoled by mother Bhavana Pandey at grandma's funeral; Chunky performs last ritesAnanya Panday was inconsolable at the death of her grandmother Snehlata Panday. Pictures from the funeral show the actor and her sister Rysa crying as their mother Bhavana Pandey consoled them. Read moreVVS Laxman's contract as batting consultant extended by CABVVS Laxman's contract as batting consultant of the Bengal cricket team has been extended by the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) on Saturday. Read moreNo needle in the haystack this! Rancher uses Apple Watch to find his iPhone in a haystackApple has released a new video advert that showcases one of the pretty cool features you can find on the Apple Watch and the iPhone. In the ad called “Haystack” Apple has shown how you can find your smartphone with the help of your watch. Read moreWatch: Kappa variant of Covid: Cases in Uttar Pradesh, transmissibility | Key details||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-centre-reviews-measures-taken-by-states-to-check-covid-amid-tourist-influx-and-all-the-latest-news-101625928923030.html
10-07-2021||India||New Covid strains can emerge, virus will keep mutating, says top health expert||With the fear of a possible third wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) looming over, and amid the rising cases of Delta variant across the globe, a top public health expert has cautioned that several new kinds of variants may emerge in the future as it will keep mutating.Speaking to news agency ANI, Dr Mathew Varghese, public health expert, and former director, St. Stephen’s Hospital, New Delhi, said, “Mutation is normal for viruses and they will keep mutating as long as their viruses are multiplying. That is the norm.”Dr Varghese added that people need to be prepared for various types of mutants in the future, and stressed on the need to remain vigilant and keep following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.His remarks come at a time when tourists have been spotted crowding the northern hill states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand to beat the heatwave. Visuals of several of these travellers surfaced on social media where they flouted Covid-19 norms, including roaming around without masks and not maintaining social distance.Dr Varghese also pointed out that India’s Covid-19 vaccination hasn’t covered as much population as it has in the UK and the US. “Our population hasn't been immunised to the level that we have seen in the US where 50 per cent of the population is immunised. In the UK more than 50 per cent have received two doses. Presently, the numbers that have been immunised in our country are less,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.The expert pointed out that the number of persons who have contracted the coronavirus in the popular tourist places where overcrowding is being seen is less because they haven’t been affected by the virus outbreak to that extent.Dr Verghese further stressed that India has only recently “gone through a massive surge in the second wave,” at the beginning of June, and thus, people need to be careful.Tips to avoid getting infected with Covid-19According to Dr Verghese, vigilance needs to be maintained, particularly in areas that are witnessing a rush of tourists. He also suggested wearing masks, washing hands and social distancing while visiting tourist places.“Don’t touch the mask and if you touch it, then sanitise it. Mask is your essential shield, covering both your nose and mouth,” she added.Dr Verghese said that soap is always more efficient than sanitiser, and even while sanitising, one should always wash their entire hands and fingers. He has also recommended constant wearing of masks when outside in public areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-strains-can-emerge-virus-will-keep-mutating-says-top-health-expert-101625929779871.html
10-07-2021||India||Sabarimala temple to open for devotees from July 17-21, but conditions apply||The Sabarimala temple will open for devotees for its monthly puja from July 17 to 21, the temple authorities informed on Saturday. As the temple will be opening for the devotees amid the coronavirus pandemic, people are required to strictly adhere to Covid safety protocol to prevent the spread of the virus.Rules for visiting the temple include:Devotees who are completely vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are allowed to visit the temple. Devotees should have a complete Covid vaccination certificate.People with negative RT PCR reports, issued within 48 hours, will be allowed to visit.A maximum of 5,000 devotees will be allowed through the online booking system.The Covid-19 situation in Kerala has not moved much as the state is still reporting around 15,000 daily cases. As many as 14,087 people were found to be infected with the virus in Kerala on Saturday, while 109 succumbed to the disease, according to the state government data, PTI reported.Also read: Kerala on alert after 14 Zika cases, Centre sends expertsThe new additions pushed the state's infection tally to more than 3 million (3,053,116) and the death toll to 14,489. More than 11,000 were cured of the viral infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 2.9 million (2,922,921), the state data in a PTI report showed.Malappuram recorded the highest number of cases (1883), followed by Thrissur (1705), Kozhikode (1540), Ernakulam (1465), Kollam (1347), Palakkad (1207) and Thiruvananthapuram (949), as per the report.Of the total new cases reported in the past one day, 53 are health workers, 98 came from outside the state and 13,240 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 696 cases, the release said, PTI reported.The temple was closed to devotees in view of rising coronavirus cases in the country. The temple of Lord Ayyappa in Sabarimala was opened on April 10 with restrictions for an eight-day Vishnu festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-to-open-for-devotees-from-july-17-21-but-conditions-apply-101625926673546.html
10-07-2021||India||What are hill stations doing to check Covid amid tourist influx? Centre reviews||The Centre on Saturday reviewed the steps taken by the state governments to check the spread of the Covid-19 cases in hill stations and tourist locations amid a heavy influx of tourists. While Himachal Pradesh and Uttrakhand have seen a deluge of careless tourists in the past few days, the Centre also enquired about the actions being taken by other states like Goa, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal --- a mix of states which are reporting a higher number of cases and states which are flooded with tourists.In a meeting, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla warned the states and said that the second wave of the pandemic is not over and the local authorities have to ensure that Covid-appropriate protocols are strictly adhered to.Tourist influx, fresh threatWith the easing of lockdown restrictions, tourists have started flocking to hill stations of Shimla, Manali, Mussoorie, which has emerged as a fresh threat to the declining Covid-19 trend in the country. Photos and videos circulating on social media platforms show that they are not maintaining social distancing. They are not even wearing masks. The recent video from Mussoorie's Kempty Falls showed hundreds of unmasked people revelling at the falls with no social distancing. The union health ministry has taken note of these photos and videos and said these are open invitations to Covid-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first meeting with the council of ministers raised the issue and urged his ministers to sensitise people without spreading fear.Look at Russia, UK, Bangladesh: Government's fresh warning to revenge travellersThe threat of a fresh rise will increase if these tourists do not quarantine them upon returning from these vacations. What are hill stations doing to control crowds?The onus lies on the local administration as a complete lockdown at this point of time will hurt local businesses.> After the viral photo, the Uttarakhand government on Friday capped the number of visitors at Mussoorie's Kemply falls to 50. It has also said that these 50 people can not stay at the falls beyond half an hour.> The district administration of Dehradun has made negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for people visiting Mussorie.> Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has asked Dehradun and Nainital hotels to cap occupancy at 50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-are-hill-stations-doing-to-check-covid-amid-tourist-influx-centre-reviews-101625925919676.html
10-07-2021||India||Monsoon to reach Delhi, northwest India in a day, says IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to reach northwest India in the next few days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday predicted fairly widespread to widespread rainfall in isolated parts of northwest India including Delhi, Haryana and Punjab during the next five days as the easterly winds have made conditions favourable for the advancement of southwest monsoon.The lower-level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal have extended northwestwards, reaching up to Delhi, Haryana and east Rajasthan as on Saturday, the Met department said, adding that low-level relative humidity has also increased over the region.Also read: IMD forecasts 'good' rainfall in Madhya Pradesh from July 11 to 16"Hence, the conditions continue to remain favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh and some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours," the IMD said.Under the influence of these conditions, the department said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is very likely over northwest India during the next five days.It also projected isolated heavy rainfall in Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand during July 10-13. Heavy rainfall is expected over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and west Uttar Pradesh during July 11-13 and over east Rajasthan during July 10-12."Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh & Uttarakhand during 10th-13th July; over Punjab during 10th-13th July; over Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh during 11th-13th July; over East Rajasthan during 10th-12th July," the department tweeted.It also added that the conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over remaining parts of the country during the subsequent 48 hours.This is reported to be the most-delayed monsoon in Delhi in the last 15 years, according to the officials, reported PTI.Monsoon had reached Delhi on July 7 in 2012 and July 9 in 2006, as per the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre Kuldeep Srivastava, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-reach-delhi-northwest-india-in-a-day-says-imd-101625919294372.html
10-07-2021||India||'Shocked to the core': Maneka Gandhi's message as she shuts her centre after dog cruelty video goes viral||Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre in Delhi will be shutting down from August 1 for a complete overhaul, former minister and Lok Sabha MP Maneka Gandhi tweeted on Saturday. This move comes after a video of a para vet of the centre assaulting a dog after it bit him went viral on social media. Founded in 1980, this animal care centre is India's oldest and Delhi's largest all-animal centre. As its website says, the centre was founded in 1980 from a legacy bequeathed by Mrs Ruth Cowell of New South Wales, Australia to Sanjay Gandhi.On July 5, a video on social media went viral. The video did not claim that the incident took place in Maneka Gandhi's centre, but alleged the same. In her statement issued on Saturday, Maneka Gandhi took the onus and admitted that the video was indeed from her centre and she is shocked to the core."The incident has shocked us all to the core -- I have been personally seething with rage and have been sick to my stomach since I watched the horrifying video. We immediately filed an FIR against the para-vets and they have been arrested. The doctor in-charge of the section has been given a notice to leave. But this is not enough," Maneka Gandhi wrote.Announcing that the centre will remain closed for a complete overhaul, Maneka said that the centre will not rescue animals during the overhaul period and the existing animals of the centre will be rehabilitated."We will rebuild this institution again -- physically and more importantly, in terms of staffing," the BJP MP said. The internal policies and incentive mechanisms will be reviewed and the entire dog section will be rebuilt, Maneka Gandhi said.What was the video?Poor Sick Dog Thrashed On Floor And Beaten On Mouth While The Staff Laughs💔 I received a series of Horrifying videos today from an anonymous reporter about this brutality at Sanjay Gandhi Animal Hospital 😥 Its tormenting to the soul to even watch it! @pfaindia @Manekagandhibjp! pic.twitter.com/Qoz4jS5Y0DThe video showed a blood-stained room of a dog rescue centre where a dog was trashed on the floor and then beaten up after it bit one of the caregivers. Later, the dog succumbs to the injuries.As Maneka Gandhi clarified in her statement, the two para vets who were dealing with the dog were newly appointed. The dog was naturally agitated and she was in extreme pain."We will overhaul the hospital management and its staff completely, while ensuring everyone working there is provided with animal-sensitivity training. It is time to rebuild this institution from the ground-up, and ensure that such an incident is never repeated again," Maneka said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-maneka-gandhi-s-post-as-she-shuts-centre-after-viral-dog-cruelty-video-101625921913673.html
10-07-2021||India||'Allow tourists but...' Govt's adviser has a suggestion to tackle revenge travellers||Public health expert and a member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation Dr Matthew Varghese said people have been fed up staying indoors during the lockdown and hence the tourist spots are getting crowded. Offering a way out of this situation, the doctor said it will not be right to completely restrict them, but such congregations should take place in the open, and once they return, they must have to maintain social distancing. "Mutation is normal for viruses and they will keep mutating as long as their viruses are multiplying. That is the norm. We should be prepared for various variants and have to be careful. The length and the extend of carefulness is important," Dr Mathew told news agency ANI.As tourists spots have started opening up, visitors are thronging these places without adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. The issue was even raised at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's first meeting with his revamped council of ministers on Thursday, where PM Modi mentioned that the photos and videos of these crowded places should instil fear.The Union health ministry has been reiterating that the second wave of the pandemic is not yet over. This is when utmost care should be taken as the case trajectory is declining in the maximum areas of the country.Photos and videos of the crowd from Manali, Mussoorie's Kempty Falls have gone viral on social media sending shockwaves to the local administrations which are now bringing back restrictions at a local level. RT-PCR will be mandatory for Mussoorie-bound tourists while Uttarakhand has capped hotel occupancy at 50 per cent.Threats of the third waveThe shocking instances of crowding come when 66 districts of the country are reporting more than 10% test positivity rate, and experts have said that the third wave of Covid-19 is almost "inevitable", though it may not be as severe as the 2nd wave.The health ministry has flagged that the risk does not stop at crowding only as these people, if infected, will spread the infection to many when they come back to their cities and towns from these tourists places.Why open spaceAs Dr Matthew has said crowding at open space has lesser risk than in an enclosed space. This is because the SARS-COV-2 virus gets dispersed in a well-ventilated place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-tourists-but-govt-s-adviser-has-a-suggestion-to-tackle-revenge-travellers-101625918911506.html
10-07-2021||India||‘Directed states to ensure strict compliance with Covid-19 directives’: Centre responds to Delhi high court notice||The central government on Saturday filed a status report in the Delhi high court, informing the court that it has directed all state and Union territory governments to ensure strict compliance with the national directives for management of the coronavirus pandemic, adding that states and UTs can take necessary actions under the Disaster Management Act (DMA).Also Read: Delhi high court warns of deadly third wave“MHA issued order dated 29.06.2021 directing state/UT governments and state/UT authorities to consider the implementation of targeted and prompt actions for Covid-19 management till 31.07.2021 as conveyed through MoHFW advisory dated 28.06.2021, and also take necessary measures under DMA, 2005,” the Centre said in response to the high court’s notice.In its response, the Centre also defended the opening up of activities following a decline in daily Covid-19 cases, calling it an “essential” process; however, it further said that the states and UTs should ensure that the “whole process is fully calibrated.” The national directives for Covid-19 management, it stated, include face covering, social distancing, not spitting in public faces, work from home, staggering of business/work hours, screening and hygiene, and frequent sanitisation.The report further clarified that the decision to impose or ease restrictions has to be based on the assessment of the ground situation. It also informed the high court about the “framework for implementation of prompt and target action,” which, it said, was shared by the Centre with states and UTs. “The framework also emphasises that Covid-19 management can succeed only through a whole of government and whole of society approach,” the report said.The status report was filed in response to a notice issued by the Delhi high court on June 18 to the Union government and the Delhi government, seeking their response over the violations of Covid-19 protocols in Delhi’s markets. A vacation bench of Justice Navin Chawla and Justice Asha Menon, which took suo moto cognisance of the violations, had observed that such breaches would only “hasten the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.”The bench took notice of the violation after a doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) shared with one of the judges photographs of street vendors defying Covid-19 protocols in city’s markets.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/directed-states-to-ensure-strict-compliance-with-covid-19-norms-centre-responds-to-delhi-high-court-notice-101625917693816.html
10-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Experts warn as UK sees highest daily Covid-19 cases since January and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will get worse’: Experts warn as UK reports highest new Covid cases since Jan 22As the United Kingdom prepares for dropping most of the pandemic-induced restrictions on July 19, experts are concerned about the government's approach amid rising cases of Covid-19. Read moreOutgoing Jharkhand governor says new governor to take a call on TAC rowJharkhand’s outgoing governor Droupadi Murmu said Article 244 of the Constitution gives special powers to the governor and it should be respected by all. Read moreBCCI, SLC announce revised schedule for India vs Sri Lanka ODIs and T20IsThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) on Saturday announced the revised schedule of India’s upcoming tour of Sri Lanka. Read more‘Relevant, riveting, real’: Smriti Irani shares video featuring Dilip Kumar, leaves netizens emotionalLegendary actor Dilip Kumar passed away on July 7 at the age of 98. Since his demise, netizens are sharing tributes on different social media platforms. Read moreGeeta Basra and Harbhajan Singh welcome a baby boy: 'Our lives are complete'On Saturday, cricketer Harbhajan Singh announced that he and actor Geeta Basra have been blessed with a baby boy. The couple is already parents to a daughter, Hinaya Heer Plaha. Read moreIndia reaffirms commitment to Syria-led UN-facilitated political processIndia reaffirmed its commitment to a Syrian-led & owned UN-facilitated political process. India said that this was to help bring long term security in the conflict-ridden region. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-experts-warn-as-uk-sees-highest-daily-covid-19-cases-since-january-and-all-the-latest-news-101625914482064.html
10-07-2021||India||Doyen of Ayurveda Dr P K Warrier dies at 100||Dr P K Warrier, who popularised Ayurveda, died in Kerala’s Kottakal on Saturday a month after celebrating his 100th birthday on June 8, his family said. Decorated with the country’s third and fourth highest civilian awards -Padma Bhushan in 2010 and Padma Shri in 1999 - Warrier was also a freedom fighter. He was known as a connoisseur of arts, an author and a teacher. Warrier remained the managing trustee of Kottakal Aryavaidya Sala till his death. He took over the family-run company at a young age and made Aryavadiya Sala a well-known brand.The youngest of six siblings, Warrier was born in 1921. He joined the freedom movement while he was still in college. He dropped out to join the Quit India movement on Mahatma Gandhi’s call in the 1940s. Warrier later grew closer to the Communist movement before quitting politics to take care of the family business. He became a trustee of the Aryavaidya Sala, founded by his uncle in 1902, at 24. He was the in-charge of its medicine-making unit and later became the managing trustee of the group after his elder brother, P M Warrier, died in an air crash in 1953.P K Warrier, who is survived by his two children, treated patients till the Covid-19 pandemic struck. He was also infected and later recovered from Covid-19, his family said.Warrier is known to have been instrumental in modernising the packaging of Ayurveda medicines, which were earlier available in the forms of kashayam (concoction) and choornam (herbal powder). He helped develop its tablet and tonic forms. An authority on medicinal plants and herbs, he also set up an R&D unit in the 1960s to help modernise the traditional form of medicine. When he took over, the firm’s turnover was ₹9 lakh. It is now over ₹500 crore, and the firm has branches in almost all major cities of the country. The firm runs five major hospitals, an R&D centre, two medicine factories, 1500 retail outlets and two herbal gardens. The firm was instrumental in making rejuvenation therapy famous and attracted many film stars and leaders to Kottakal, which has become synonymous with Ayurveda.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan, and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled Warrier’s death. “His contribution to popularise Ayurveda will always be remembered,” Modi tweeted. Khan said as a physician, Warrier was committed to the scientific pursuit of Ayurveda. “He will be remembered for the matchless contribution to the modernisation of Ayurveda,” said Khan. Vijayan said Warrier was instrumental in taking ancient science to global fame. “From the heads of the state to the poor, he treated everyone on par.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doyen-of-ayurveda-dr-p-k-warrier-dies-at-100-101625915554408.html
10-07-2021||India||What is two-child policy? What Assam and Uttar Pradesh have proposed||Legislation that bars people from availing of government subsidies and other government benefits if they have more than two children is known as a two-child policy. India does not have a national child policy but two BJP states Uttar Pradesh and Assam have moved towards this direction.Assam's population control policy proposalAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has been a strong supporter of the two-child policy. The government is likely to bring new legislation for this policy in the state Budget session starting from July 12.In 2017, Assam had brought in the Population and Women Empowerment Policy in which government employees were asked to strictly follow the two-child norm. The new law may bring loan waiver and other government schemes under this population rule. But Sarma has said that tea garden workers and SC/ST community will not be included in that.In the first week of July, Sarma met the indigenous Muslim community and said that similar such discussions with Bengali-speaking Muslims will also be held. "Population explosion in some parts of Assam has posed a real threat to the development of the state," Sarma said.Uttar Pradesh two-child policy proposalUttar Pradesh's law commission has come up with a similar proposal where any person having more than two children will be barred from getting government subsidies. The proposal is on the lines of what the Assam government already has -- a person with more than two children can not apply for a government job or contest local body election."The personal law governing A allows polygamy. A has three wives B, C and D. A and B, A and C, and A and D shall be counted as three distinct married couples so far as the status of B, C and D is concerned but as far as the status of A is concerned, it shall be counted as one married couple for the purpose of calculation of the cumulative number of children," the draft says.Two-child policy in other statesWhile these two states are new in this direction, there are several other states which have this rule for specific things like contesting in local body elections etc.In Rajasthan, if a person has more than two children, they are disqualified from contesting the local elections. A similar provision barring people with more than two children from contesting local elections exist in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-two-child-policy-what-assam-and-uttar-pradesh-have-proposed-101625911705691.html
10-07-2021||India||Mother Dairy to hike milk prices by ₹2 per litre from Sunday. Details||Milk supplier Mother Dairy on Saturday announced that the price of its liquid milk will go up by ₹2 per litre in Delhi-NCR with effect from Sunday. The new prices that are being revised after more than a year will be applicable for all new milk variants.The hike in milk prices comes as the cooperative is experiencing inflationary pressure on overall input costs that have risen multifold in last year. Mother Dairy said it is "compelled to raise" the prices. "Mother Dairy is compelled to raise its liquid milk prices by ₹2/litre in Delhi NCR with effect from July 11, 2021. The new prices will be applicable for all milk variants. The milk prices were last revised about 1.5 years ago in December 2019," Mother Dairy said in an official release, according to news agency ANI.Also read: UP law panel proposes 'two-child' population policy. All you need to knowIn the last year, farm prices have increased up to 8-10 per cent, with a surge in operational costs of processing, packaging, logistics etc. It is pertinent to note that the farm prices of milk alone have firmed up by about 4 per cent in the last three to four weeks, the official release read, said the ANI report.The milk prices are also being raised across other major markets like East and Central Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, Nagpur, Kolkata, etc from Sunday to the tune of ₹2 per litre on the current MRP in the respective markets.Mother Daily sells around 30 lakh litres of milk per day in Delhi-NCR, while the total sale is 35 lakh litre per day, as per PTI.It further said that despite paying higher prices towards milk procurement, the consumer prices were kept intact. With the new revision, the milk prices are undergoing a change of 4 per cent.The milk cooperative also said that the hike in farm prices is only being partially passed on to the consumers, thereby securing the interests of both the stakeholders. It passes close to 75-80 per cent of the sales realization from milk towards the procurement of milk.Prior to this, Mother Dairy's competitor Amul also raised milk prices across all cities by ₹2 per litre on July 1.Revised prices here:Bulk vended milk (token milk) to be sold at ₹44 per litre from Sunday against its current price of ₹42 per litre.Full cream milk to be sold at ₹57 per litre from Sunday.Toned milk will be available at ₹47 and double toned milk (Live Lite) to be available at ₹41 from Sunday.Cow milk to cost ₹49 Sunday onwards.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-dairy-to-hike-milk-prices-by-rs-2-per-litre-from-sunday-details-101625907720164.html
10-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 lockdown extended till July 19; shops to open till 9pm||The Tamil Nadu government announced on Saturday that the state's Covid-19 induced lockdown is being extended by a week till July 19. The government also announced further relaxations which, it said, will come into effect at 6am on Monday when the existing guidelines, which were announced last Friday when the lockdown was extended till July 12, come to an end.According to an order issued by chief minister MK Stalin-led government, restaurants, tea shops, roadside shops, snacks shops and bakeries can now open for one more hour, till 9pm, at an occupancy of 50%. Last week, the Tamil Nadu government allowed these to open till 8pm, from the earlier deadline of 7pm.Additionally, the government has also allowed competitive exams for state and Union government services to be held, though officials will have to ensure strict compliance with the standard operating procedure (SOP). Examination agencies will be required to inform respective district administrations in advance.Also, in continuation with last week's order, schools, colleges, theatres, bars, swimming pools, swimming pools, zoos, biological parks etc. will remain closed. All social/political/cultural events, too, will remain prohibited. Several other relaxations, which were announced last week, will also continue to stay in force.On Friday, a total of 3,039 new Covid-19 cases and 69 deaths due to the infection were detected in Tamil Nadu, according to a health department bulletin on the day. With this, the state's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has risen to 2,513,098 including 33,322 related fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-lockdown-extended-till-july-12-shops-to-open-till-9pm-101625907866718.html
10-07-2021||India||UP law panel proposes 'two-child' population policy. All you need to know||The Uttar Pradesh law commission formulated a proposal for population control and welfare, rewarding couples that adhere to a 'two-child policy'. The UP law commission said that the policy will be voluntary — it will not be enforced upon anyone. However, if any person decides to "voluntarily" keep the number of their family members limited, they will be eligible for government schemes. On the other hand, if someone doesn't follow the policy, they will face restrictions in government jobs, availing ration, and other benefits.The Uttar Pradesh law commission has made several proposals in the draft population control act. The commission has also sought recommendations for changes to be made in the draft -- which can be sent via e-mail or post by July 19."We have proposed that any couple that follows a two-child policy will be given all government benefits," said UP law commission chairman Aditya Nath Mittal. "They will be able to avail all government welfare schemes."Mittal said that if someone does not follow the 'two-child' policy aimed at population control, they won't be eligible for such government schemes. "Their ration cards will be restricted to four units, they will not be able to apply for government jobs and if they are already government employees, then they won't get a promotion," said the chairman of the UP law commission.The 'two-child' population control policy will be voluntary, he said. "If a person voluntarily keeps the number of his family members limited, they will be eligible for government schemes," the UP law commission chairman added.The commission is planning to present the policy by the second week of August, Mittal said. Earlier, the law panel had said that it was examining various family units besides their ‘polygamy and polyandry aspects’. The recommendations will be made to the state government and it is up to it to accept or reject the recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-law-panel-proposes-two-child-population-policy-all-you-need-to-know-101625905036415.html
10-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir appoints nodal officers to help Delimitation Commission||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday appointed 20 nodal officers, one in each district, to help the Delimitation Commission reorganise new constituencies in the next nine months, said a government order.“The nodal officers shall be responsible for assisting deputy Commissioners in providing timely information as may be sought by the Commission. Receiving representations from stakeholders for submission to the Commission and any other work as may be assigned by the Commission,” reads the order issued by Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, commissioner secretary to the UT government.Former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai heads the commission that was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in Jammu & Kashmir. The commission on Friday assured that the exercise to carve out new assembly constituencies in the union territory will be conducted transparently and tried to allay fears of any gerrymandering. It rejected People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) allegations that it was pre-decided and aimed to disempower people to realize the ‘political vision of a particular political party’.During its stay in Jammu and Kashmir, the commission met 280 delegations comprising 800 people in Srinagar, Pahalgam, Kishtwar and Jammu. However, the PDP stayed away from the commission.The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from Jammu & Kashmir on June 24. The Centre has sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls are held there. However, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a grouping of mainstream political parties such as the National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP), said they were disappointed over the outcome of the meeting with PM.All major political parties, except the PDP and the ANC, have met the commission and submitted memoranda of suggestions and demands on the delimitation exercise in Jammu and Kashmir.While the majority of the parties have suggested that population should be the main criteria for reorganisation of constituencies, the People’s Conference and the CPI(M) demanded that the census figures of 2011 should be made the benchmark for the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-appoints-nodal-officers-to-help-delimitation-commission-101625905414210.html
10-07-2021||India||Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw embraces engineer on finding out they are alumnus of the same college||Ashwini Vaishnaw, who took charge as the Union railway minister on July 8 after the cabinet reshuffle, was seen embracing an engineer form the Indian Railways signal department after finding out they both belonged to MBM Engineering College in Jodhpur.In a video clip, the new minister can be seen embracing a Railways employee, after someone from the department pointed out that they both belong to the same college. Vaishnaw can be heard saying “Come, let us hug”.Vaishnaw, a former Indian Administrative Services officer of the 1994-batch, graduated with a B.Tech degree from MBM Engineering College in Jodhpur and a M.Tech degree from Indian Institute Technology, Kanpur. He is also an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of business.Also Read: Modi cabinet 2.0 has 42% ministers with criminal cases, 90% crorepatis: ReportVaishnaw also talked about how the juniors in his college referred to their seniors as “boss”, and jocularly asked his former college mate to refer to him as the boss. “You should call me boss from today," the minister joked.#railwaysminister @AshwiniVaishnaw meeting an engineer of signal dept at @RailMinIndia When he found that one employee is from the same college as him, minister said “aao Gale lagte hain! humare college main junior senior boss bolte hain.” pic.twitter.com/Vf8bu1hwlHVaishnaw, 51, will also be heading the ministries of Electronics and Information Technology and Communications along with the Railways. He has built an illustrious career working for General Electric Co. and Siemens AG before becoming an entrepreneur. After venturing into politics, he was elected to the Rajya Sabha and has also been a part of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s administration.His classmate from Wharton, Nipun Mehta, who is the chief executive officer of a fintech start-up Ula was all praises for his batchmate. He told Bloomberg that “Ashwini was one of the most brilliant people in my Wharton MBA class. He was older than most of us and had accomplished so much before coming to Wharton so the class learned quite a lot from him,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-embraces-engineer-on-finding-out-they-are-alumnus-of-the-same-college-101625903758565.html
10-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rakesh Tikait asks for 'impartial' probe on R-Day violence and all the latest news||'Should we go to UN?': Rakesh Tikait seeks 'impartial' probe into Republic Day violenceBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the incident of violence on Republic Day this year needs an "impartial investigation", for which the farmers may have to knock on the doors of the United Nations (UN). Read MoreOPD footfall dipped by 57%, surgeries by 43% at one of Delhi’s biggest hospitalsThe number of patients at the out-patient department (OPD) of one of the biggest private hospitals in Delhi dropped almost two-thirds (57.6%) last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MoreActivists assail Goa coastal management plan at marathon hearingsActivists and environmentalists pointed out several discrepancies in the draft of the controversial Goa coastal zone management plan during the much delayed public hearings on Thursday, with many alleging it was unlikely to protect and restore the coast. Read MoreHappy Birthday Sunil Gavaskar: BCCI pays tribute to the original Little Master as Indian cricket legend turns 72The month of July marks the birthdays of three of Indian cricket's biggest icons. Read MoreWhen Raj Kapoor shouted at Rishi Kapoor for not giving Dilip Kumar's intense look: 'Mujhe Yousuf chahiye'Raj Kapoor had once shouted at Rishi Kapoor for being unable to give the intense expression of a despondent lover that Dilip Kumar would give. Read MoreAnand Mahindra has this to say about Harleen Deol’s brilliant catchIf you’re a cricket fan, chances are you have already seen the jaw-dropping catch by Indian cricketer Harleem Deol in the first T20I against England. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rakesh-tikait-asks-for-impartial-probe-on-r-day-violence-and-all-the-latest-news-101625901194330.html
10-07-2021||India||Covid-19 in India: All you need to know about the top updates of this week||India, which is currently battling the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and is staring at a possible third wave of infections, has so far registered 30,795,716 cases and 407,145 deaths due to the viral disease. The total recoveries have climbed to 29,933,538 and the national recovery rate is at 97.2%. While the active cases stand at 455,033 and constitute 1.48% of the caseload.This week, the highest single-day spike in cases was on July 8, when 45,892 people were detected Covid-19 positive. The lowest single-day tally this week was on July 6 when 34,703 cases were recorded, the lowest in nearly four months.As many as 1,206 people succumbed to the viral disease on Saturday, the highest so far this week, while 553 deaths were recorded on July 6, the lowest tally for the week.Even though the daily infections in the country have not spiked since May 7, when more than 414,000 cases were seen, the threat of the viral disease is still looming with the emergence of delta and kappa variants.The easing of Covid-19 restrictions, lockdowns by states and Union Territories (UTs) to revive economic activities has come at a cost as people are not adhering to the virus-related protocols including wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing. Recently, scenes of massive crowds at hill stations and other tourist destinations with no adherence to Covid norms, has stoked fears that the third wave of the pandemic will be the most severe than the previous two.Here are the most important Covid-related updates during this week> The state of Tripura has detected at least 138 cases of the delta plus variant of Covid-19. A total 151 samples were sent to a laboratory in West Bengal for testing of which 138 were found with delta plus variant, 10 with delta variant and the remaining three with alpha variant, a state government official said.> Maharashtra is expected to bring in a few relaxations in its ongoing Covid-19 restrictions. The state government may ease curbs in a few districts which have a low test positivity rate and high vaccination coverage.> No devotees are allowed to participate in this year’s Rath Yatra in Odisha’s Puri. Only those Chariot pullers who have been fully vaccinated and have a negative RT-PCR test report will be allowed to attend the Yatra.> Several states, including Haryana and Gujarat will be opening their schools and colleges soon amid a downfall in their daily Covid-19 disease cases.> Amid the severe overcrowding of hill stations in India, specifically in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the Centre said on Friday that such behaviour is an open invitation for Covid-19 to spread.> The Union health ministry said on Friday that no cases of the Lambda variant of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in the country till now. However, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said Lambda is a variant of interest and hence its total significance is still being explored.> Two cases of the Kappa variant have been detected in Uttar Pradesh after genome sequencing of 109 samples was done at King George’s medical college in Lucknow. The remaining 107 cases have been detected with the Delta plus variant.> The Delhi government has passed a ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ to deal with the third wave of the pandemic. Four levels of alerts have been issued on the basis of which economic activities in the national capital will be restricted.> Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reviewed the progress of oxygen augmentation and its availability in the country. During the meeting, Modi was informed that the Centre is setting up over 1,500 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants across the country, which will support over 400,000 oxygenated beds.> On July 5 (Monday), Germany lifted a ban on travellers from India, Nepal, the United Kingdom, Portugal and Russia, which have been hit by the delta variant of Covid-19.> India will now provide CoWin, a vaccine registration platform, as a digital public good to other countries to conduct their own vaccination drive against Covid-19. Fifty countries including Mexico, Canada, Uganda, Nigeria are interested in adopting CoWIN to run their inoculation drives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-in-india-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-top-updates-of-this-week-101625898869789.html
10-07-2021||India||Activists assail Goa coastal management plan at marathon hearings||Activists and environmentalists pointed out several discrepancies in the draft of the controversial Goa coastal zone management plan during the much delayed public hearings on Thursday, with many alleging it was unlikely to protect and restore the coast. “The plan has several omissions of fishing villages, fishing sites and traditional access routes to the coast have not been shown. We are demanding that the plans submitted by the coastal villages which accurately reflect local knowledge, be accepted and incorporated into the final plan,” Abhijit Prabhudesai, an activist said. The plan, which is a statutory document under the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification of 2011, was initially meant to have been ready by 2015 but has seen several delays forcing the National Green Tribunal to ban fresh permissions for coastal development or business until the plan is finalized. Environmental activist group Goa Foundations said the draft contained “no management plan for the sand dunes anywhere, no management plan for the turtle nesting beaches, no management plan for the khazan lands [and] no management plan for the mangroves.”“The local communities for whom the notification was designed and intended to benefit have not been consulted in its preparation. They are now being asked to acquiesce in the draft prepared by experts who have little credible knowledge of local conditions and have made huge errors. The draft plan, therefore, focuses only on geomorphological descriptions of the coastal area,” the Goa Foundation, which refrained from participating in the public hearing, but submitted written submissions, said. Among the foremost complaints, the activists have said that Goa’s khazan lands, which are an intricate system of low lying lands that are inundated during high tides, have been either only partially marked or erroneously classified in different villages. “A Khazan Management Plan should have been under preparation from January 2011. This was nowhere done and the department of Environment and the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority should be held criminally responsible for this lapse,” the Goa Foundation said. According to Dr Antonio Mascarenhas, a scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography, the plan misses out on a dune conservation policy including its management, restoration and rebuilding. “A robust CZMP must contain a dune conservation and restoration package,” he said. Activist Avinash Tavares alleged only a fraction of the total sand dunes were shown on the plan leaving others open for construction and destruction along the coast. “The sand dunes shown in the draft CZMP are but a subset of the total number of sand dunes in Goa. The sand dunes shown are those which have not been covered by vegetation, landscaping, encroached upon by temporary or permanent structures and on areas where the owner has applied for development permission. All coastal sand dunes and sand dune areas must be shown inspite of any legal/illegal structure before and after 1991,” he said. Stakeholders also pointed out omissions of other marine ecosystems ranging from coral reefs to turtle nesting sites. “The CZMP maps have not included all areas in Goa known to support coral reefs, including areas north of Grande Island and around Pequeno Island. Turtle nesting sites have also not been accurately marked. This is particularly concerning considering that the identification of these sites will determine the kind of development permitted in their vicinity,” a group of researchers said in their submission. They have called for the creation of specific management plans for each ecosystem that take into account ecological value as well as the usage of these systems by various stakeholders. “We suggest the following ecosystems are included: coral reefs, seagrass meadows, dolphin foraging sites, rocky intertidal areas, seaweed dominated areas and important bird habitats. Each of these is important for the ecology and biodiversity of the state, and many can be easily degraded and overexploited. We recommend that during the drafting of these plans all stakeholders, including tourism operators and researchers, are extensively consulted,” they added. Activists and ecologists who participated in the hearing alleged that thetwo sessions held simultaneously in North and South Goa seemed more like an official formality than a sincere attempt to hear public opinion.While only 45 out of more than 700 registered could speak at the South Goa hearing, in North Goa, the hearing concluded well past midnight with speakers not allowed more than 15 minutes each. “To add to this, so many speakers just could not continue till this late. It seems that they just wanted to tick a box and say that the hearing was done. The disregard for the people of Goa and the people in Goa was obvious,” Albertina Almeida an activist, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-assail-goa-coastal-management-plan-at-marathon-hearings-101625898993714.html
10-07-2021||India||'Should we go to UN?': Rakesh Tikait seeks 'impartial' probe into Republic Day violence||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the incident of violence on Republic Day this year needs an "impartial investigation", for which the farmers may have to knock on the doors of the United Nations (UN). He clarified that leaders of the movement had not talked about going to the UN over the farm laws, and had only brought up the issue in relation to the January 26 incident."Is there any agency here that can conduct an impartial investigation? If not, should we take this matter to the UN?" asked Tikait, a prominent leader of the ongoing protests by farmers at the border areas of the national capital.Tikait, however, clarified that the leaders of the movement had never mentioned taking the issue over the farm laws to the international agency."We had not said that we will take up the issue of new farm bills at the United Nations. We had only responded to a question over the January 26 incident," Tikait said.If the Centre wants discussion on farm laws, we're ready for talks. From July 22 onwards, 200 of our people will hold protests near Parliament: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitOn January 26, a section of farmers protesting against the Centre’s contentious farm laws clashed with police after the tractor rally planned by them diverted from the designated route and stormed into the Red Fort. They hoisted a religious flag and that of the farmers’ union on its domes.While one of the protesters was killed, as many as 394 police personnel and several farmers sustained injuries in the clash.The Delhi Police has till now filed two charge sheets in connection with the violence at Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally. The first charge sheet, filed on May 17, concerned the violence at Red Fort and the video evidence against each person on the day of the incident. The supplementary charge sheet, filed on June 17, has statements from Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel who were the first witnesses to the violence and were also allegedly attacked by rioters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-we-go-to-un-rakesh-tikait-seeks-impartial-probe-into-republic-day-violence-101625896727162.html
10-07-2021||India||‘Covid testing enough for global travel, not vaccine discrimination’: Jaishankar||Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday the international travel on the basis of coronavirus (Covid-19) testing is “good enough” even as some countries have introduced the requirement for vaccination, and called for the need to reach an understanding.“People who are tested before for international travel and tested on arrival is a good enough basis for travel, but some countries have now introduced the issue of vaccination,” he said while addressing a joint press conference after meeting his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov.Jaishankar added that he and Lavrov had discussions on how travellers of their respective countries are not “discriminated against” and how “understandings” regarding the travel of Indians and Russians to each other’s countries can be reached.The external affairs minister also stated that the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has allowed Russia and India to demonstrate the strength of their cooperation, and the production of Sputnik vaccine is one of them. “I think we have to protect our population and help the world, and the two go together that they are part of the same issue,” Jaishankar added during the conference.Moreover, Lavrov pointed out that Russia is ready for a discussion with India regarding coordinating their possibilities pertaining to citizens vaccinated against Covid-19. “I think that we can reach an agreement here, and it will serve as an example to other states,” he added.The Russian foreign minister also highlighted that both Russia and India are against politicisation of vaccines, and that he is “confident” the majority of countries will share this approach.Jaishankar also thanked Russia for the nation’s aid to India during the latter’s fight against the coronavirus crisis. Russia had sent at least 22 tonnes of medical supplies to the country during the peak of the pandemic.“Despite several changes happening across the planet, both before and during the pandemic, our time-tested and trust-based relationship remains very strong and continues to grow,” the external affairs minister said.Jaishankar also stated that India is Russia’s “partner in the production of Sputnik-V vaccine” and that this approach is not only good for both the countries, but also for the rest of the world.Notably, The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has joined hands with India pharmaceutical firm ‘Dr Reddy’s’ to manufacture and produce Sputnik-V vaccine in India. The RDIF has also inked collaboration with Stelis Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Virchow Biotech, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, and Morepen Laboratories to produce Covid-19 vaccines in the India.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-testing-enough-for-global-travel-not-vaccine-discrimination-jaishankar-101625896504715.html
10-07-2021||India||India blacklists New Zealand vlogger Karl Rock, cancels his visa. Here's why||India blacklisted Karl Rock, a YouTuber of New Zealand origin for one year over visa violations, news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing officials at the Union ministry of home affairs who confirmed the development. The vlogger had earlier claimed that the government added him to the blacklist without giving him a reason after he left India to travel to Dubai and Pakistan, thereby separating him from his wife and family in New Delhi.The Centre's stance on the matter was also confirmed by news agency PTI a day ago. Citing unidentified officials familiar with the development, reported that the Union home ministry blacklisted Karl Rock for violating visa conditions since the vlogger was found doing business on a tourist visa."New Zealand origin vlogger Karl Rock has been blacklisted by the Government of India for violating multiple visa norms," a ministry official told ANI on this day, "He was found doing business on a tourist visa and has been barred for one year; his visa has been cancelled."Karl Rock said that his wife Manisha Malik hails from Haryana and that by blacklisting him, the government is separating him from his wife and family. In a tweet addressed to New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern, Rock highlighted his "struggle" and a petition that he launched in this regard. He also tagged a bunch of senior diplomats, journalists, as well as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's official handles on the tweet.✍ Please help us by signing our petition https://t.co/Atn7hxiBRbIn a video posted from his YouTube channel, the vlogger also claimed that he had not seen his wife in "269 days".Rock, who was once praised by Kejriwal for donating plasma on recovering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), started an online petition alleging that the Indian government stopped him from returning to India by unfairly adding his name to the ministry of home affairs' blacklist."I left India to go travel Dubai and Pakistan in October 2020 and upon leaving they cancelled my visa at the airport. They wouldn't tell me why. So, in Dubai, I applied for a new visa. They called me in for a meeting and told me I had been blacklisted and, therefore, they couldn't issue me a visa to go home," Rock wrote in his petition."Before someone is added to the blacklist they're meant to be given the reason, and time to reply," he said, adding, "I wasn't".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blacklists-new-zealand-vlogger-karl-rock-cancels-his-visa-here-s-why-101625889522191.html
10-07-2021||India||Manipur extends curfew till July 20||A night curfew will be imposed from 7 pm to 5 am till July 20 across Manipur as the state government on Friday extended the pandemic-related restrictions. Officials said the Covid situation in the state continues to be of concern and warrants restrictions to control the spread of the infection.In an order, chief secretary Rajesh Kumar said service centres of personal computers and mobiles can open from 10 am to 2 pm on the days when grocery shops are closed. “Further, opening up will depend on the Covid scenario and the progress in vaccination,” the order said. “Vegetable vendors (district administration should ensure that spots for vendors are clearly marked and complied) and grocery shops will open as per earlier arrangement on July 12, 15, and 18 from 7 am to 10 am.”The order said the high court may decide permissible activities based on various measures taken up by the government. It added deputy commissioners and superintendents of police should take necessary action to implement the orders strictly.On Friday, Manipur reported 10 Covid 19 fatalities, taking the state’s toll to 1,251. The state reported 852 Covid 19 cases. It has so far reported 76,032 cases. Manipur has 6,610 active cases and a recovery rate of 89.66%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-curfew-till-july-20-101625891613292.html
10-07-2021||India||138 Delta Plus variant cases detected in Tripura||At least 138 cases of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 have been detected in Tripura, a health department official said.“We sent a total of 151 Covid-19 samples to laboratory at Kalyani in West Bengal. Among them, the Delta Plus variant was detected in 138 samples. The rest 10 have been found to be plain Delta variant and another three as an Alpha variant,” said Tripura’s state surveillance officer Deep Kumar Debbarma. He said Tripura’s largest--West District-- has reported the maximum number of Delta Plus variant cases--115. Eight cases were detected in Sepahijala district followed by five cases in Gomati, four cases in Unakoti, two cases each in South and North districts, and one case each in Khowai and Dhalai.“Delta Plus variant is highly infectious than plain Delta. It can infect the lungs. I appeal to people to follow corona guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus,” said director (health services) Subhasish Debbarma. The state government has announced a weekend curfew from 12 pm on Saturday till 6 am on Monday across areas under 13 local urban bodies including Agartala Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/138-delta-plus-variant-cases-detected-in-tripura-101625890833443.html
10-07-2021||India||Fuel prices hiked for 38th time in 68 days, diesel touching ₹90/litre in Delhi||Fuel rates were hiked for the 38th time in 68 days with petrol prices rising by 35 and diesel by 26 paise per litre on Saturday despite international benchmark Brent crude prices falling by $1.61 a barrel or 2.06% at the Friday close, compared to its peak of $77.16 on Monday.The latest revision of India’s domestic fuel rates have made petrol costlier by ₹10.51 per litre and diesel by ₹9.15 a litre since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared. Petrol is now priced at ₹100.91 per litre and diesel at 89.88 a litre in New Delhi.While fuel rates of state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Petrol prices have already crossed ₹100 per litre in five metros – Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bangalore.The cost of one litre petrol in Mumbai is now ₹106.93 and diesel ₹97.46. The highest fuel rates have been recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar where pumps are selling petrol at ₹112.24 per litre and diesel at ₹103.15 a litre.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high fuel rates at pumps. Domestic retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their respective international benchmarks of the previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates.International oil prices have shown extreme volatility this week. While an inconclusive meeting of producers’ cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) – over restraining output on Monday pulled down crude prices initially, falling US inventories and indications of strong demand from China and India saw prices rising again in the last two days of the week.Benchmark Brent that surged to $77.16 a barrel on the first day of this week, highest since October 2018, fell over 4.8% in the next two sessions. It, however, gained 0.94% or 69 cents on Thursday and rallied 1.93% further on Friday to close the week at $75.55 per barrel, still lower than the Monday high.India imports more than 80% crude it processes, hence international oil prices impact pump rates of auto fuels. High domestic taxes are the other reason for high rates of petrol and diesel.In Delhi, Central levies account for 33.29% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to an official data of July 1. On diesel, Central taxes are over 35.66% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the Central government and the states raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up finances hit by the pandemic.The unrelenting upward movement of fuel rates since May 4 has already seen petrol cross ₹100 mark in various cities across the country including Delhi, Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Salem, Thiruvananthapuram, Mohali and Darjeeling.Even as international oil prices saw volatility, since May 4, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude plunging to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest in these 46 days; petrol and diesel rates in the country went up the next day by 19 paise and 29 paise a litre, respectively.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.During the 66-day pause on rate hike, state-run retailers had also reduced politically sensitive petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-prices-hiked-for-38th-time-in-68-days-diesel-touching-rs-90-litre-mark-101625888733298.html
10-07-2021||India||Covid-19: India clocks 42,766 single-day cases, 1,206 fresh fatalities recorded||India recorded 42,766 number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on Saturday, pushing the total tally of cases to 3,07,95,716. In the previous 24 hours 1,206 people also succumed to the viral infection, and the overall death toll now stands at 407,145, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard updated at 8am.Saturday’s tally marks a decrease over the 43,393 cases the country had recorded on Friday, and 45,892 cases on Wednesday. The number of fatalities recorded on Saturday also went up.The health ministry informed on July 9 that the cumulative vaccine coverage in India has surpassed 37 crore, of which 10,98,62,585 doses were administered for the first time to those in the 18-44 age group while 35,08,932 got their second dose. The health ministry issued guidelines for vaccinating pregnant women, and urged expecting mothers to get vaccinated with any of the three vaccines presently authorised for use in India -- Covishield, Covaxin, and Sputnik V.Also Read: Covid may cause pre-term delivery: Govt on why pregnant women must take jabsAs states have started to gradually open up reports of citizens flouting Covid-19 induced protocols started to emerge. This comes against the backdrop of the World Health Organisation (WHO) notifying a new strain of the virus, called Lambda, as a ‘variant of interest’ on June 14.Also Read: 'We should be watchful': Govt on Covid's Lambda variant in IndiaThe health ministry said that so far India has not recorded any cases of Lambda virus but urged everyone to exercise caution. "We cannot lower our guard. A new risk is being seen at tourist spots where a gathering of crowds being seen, social distancing and mask protocol is not being followed. This is a serious cause of concern," said Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, during a media briefing on Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clocks-42-766-single-day-cases-1206-fresh-fatalities-recorded-101625885878728.html
10-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: No devotees allowed in this year's Rath Yatra in Puri and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No devotees allowed to participate in this year’s Rath Yatra in PuriThe Rath Yatra festival in Odisha’s Puri this year will be celebrated without the participation of devotees, similar to the previous year, along with strict adherence to coronavirus disease protocols (Covid-19) in order to curb the spread of the viral disease, the Jagannath temple administration said on Friday. Read moreTripura sent 151 samples for testing. More than half are positive for Delta plusTripura confirmed on Friday that more than half of the samples that the state sent for genome sequencing to West Bengal have, in fact, turned out to be positive for the Delta plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2, which is feared to potentially drive a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. Read moreOdisha hikes MGNREGA workers' wage, announces ₹532 cr packageOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a Covid assistance package of ₹532 crore for 32 lakh Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers in the state who have worked in the last 3 months of this year. Read moreMagnitude 6.1 earthquake hits Indonesia, no tsunami warning issuedA 6.1-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Indonesia's Sulawesi island Saturday, the United States Geological Survey said, but no tsunami warning was issued and there were no immediate reports of damage. Read moreEuro 2020, Italy vs England: Sunil Chhetri predicts a 'cagey final', explains why Italy may have an advantageIndia football team captain Sunil Chhetri believes the Euro 2020 final between England and Italy could be a 'cagey' affair as both the teams would be focusing on defending and scoring on counter-attacks. Read moreJaved Ali says contestant on a show he judged won just because of how he talked: 'People want masala'Singer Javed Ali is the latest celebrity to speak about singing reality shows. Singer and RJ Amit Kumar sparked a controversy a couple of months ago when he spoke about how he was asked to praise contestants when he visited the sets of Indian Idol season 12. Read moreSwipe right on security: How to stay safe on dating appsEver since the pandemic locked us in our homes, technology has become even more important in our lives. From ordering in essentials to finding someone significant, the apps are doing all the heavy lifting. Read moreKareena Kapoor announces book Pregnancy Bible in ₹2k strappy camisole dressBollywood star Kareena Kapoor Khan delighted her followers when she announced her new book titled Kareena Kapoor Khan's Pregnancy Bible online.The actor called it her 'third child'. Read moreTweeple are relating hard to this post about eating idli too quicklyA Twitter user's hilarious description of what happens when you eat idli too quickly has left people laughing out loud. The share has been collecting several reactions from tweeple, many of whom are sharing how the post is extremely relatable. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-no-devotees-allowed-in-this-year-s-rath-yatra-in-puri-101625887004052.html
10-07-2021||India||Not in favour of military action, committed to Syria-led political process: India at UN||After voting in favour of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Syrian Humanitarian Resolution, India on Friday reaffirmed its commitment to a Syrian-led and Syrian-owned UN-facilitated political process, to help bring long term security in the conflict-ridden region."We also remain convinced that there can be no military solution to the Syrian conflict and reaffirm our commitment to advancing a Syrian-led and Syrian-owned UN facilitated political process in line with the UN Security Council Resolution 2254,” said India's Permanent Representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti.The Indian diplomat also expressed concern over the presence of external actors in Syria. "We are deeply concerned with the involvement of external actors in Syria which is making the situation worse,” Tirumurti said.Syria has been witnessing violence and terror for almost a decade. Once the fulcrum of Arab culture and a leading voice of the region, the country is now a cesspool of disaster. More than 13 million people across the war-torn nation need humanitarian assistance in one form or another.Also Read: Haiti tells US, UN to send troops as fears of instability growCalling for enhanced efforts at providing humanitarian assistance to all Syrians, and not just in northwest Syria, without discrimination, Tirumurti said, "Syrian women, children and the elderly have been severely impacted in disproportionate ways. Today’s adoption, therefore, will reassure 3.4 million people in the northwest of Syria.”He stressed that both the UN Secretary General and Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) have spoken about the worsening humanitarian operations in Syria.Resolution 2254, which called for a ceasefire and political settlement in Syria, was invoked by Russia, Turkey, and Iran.The Indian ambassador stressed, “There is an urgent need for an active engagement between the international donor community, humanitarian agencies, and financial institutions with Syria, consistent with the sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity of Syria to address the humanitarian situation and reconstruction needs,”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-in-favour-of-military-action-committed-to-syria-led-political-process-india-at-un-101625887655036.html
10-07-2021||India||No devotees allowed to participate in this year’s Rath Yatra in Puri||The Rath Yatra festival in Odisha’s Puri this year will be celebrated without the participation of devotees, similar to the previous year, along with strict adherence to coronavirus disease protocols (Covid-19) in order to curb the spread of the viral disease, the Jagannath temple administration said on Friday.Rath Yatra, an annual festival associated with Lord Jagannath, is held for centuries in Puri in July. The Odisha government announced in June that the Yatra this year will begin on July 12.Also Read| Puri artist creates miniature chariot of Lord Jagannath with ice cream sticks“No devotees are allowed to participate in Rath Yatra. Chariot pullers with negative RT-PCR test reports and those who have been fully vaccinated will be permitted to attend the Yatra. Around 1,000 officials excluding police personnel will be deployed,” Ajay Jena, the administrator of the Puri Jagannath Temple, told news agency ANI on Friday.Jena added that 3,000 servitors and 1,000 temple officials will be allowed for the rituals and RT-PCR tests are being conducted at all four places in Puri since Thursday.Earlier this week, the Supreme Court refused to allow Rath Yatra in other cities of Odisha apart from Puri and said that the people should worship at home at a time when the country is reeling under Covid-19 disease pandemic.Also Read| Supreme Court refuses nod for Rath Yatra outside PuriDismissing a number of applications to allow the Yatra in Baripada, Sasang, Nilagiri and Kendrapara areas of the state, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said on Tuesday, “You want to pray to the God. You can do it at home. I also wanted to go to Puri, but I have not been able to go in the past one-and-half years because of the pandemic. This is not the time. I pray at home.” The three-member bench led by CJI Ramana pointed out that this year more people died due to Covid-19 as compared to last year.The bench was also categorical that the Odisha government had taken a considered decision by not allowing Rath Yatra in any other city apart from Puri, Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, meanwhile, on Thursday reviewed preparations for the Rath Yatra and sought cooperation of all stakeholders including devotees for the smooth conduct of the festival in line with Covid-19 protocols. Patnaik expressed his gratitude to the people for their cooperation in successfully organising the Yatra last year. He said the devotees can watch the celebrations on TV and social media platforms this year, according to an official statement.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-devotees-allowed-to-participate-in-this-year-s-rath-yatra-in-puri-101625885537055.html
10-07-2021||India||Odisha hikes MGNREGA workers' wage, announces ₹532 cr package||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a Covid assistance package of ₹532 crore for 32 lakh Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers in the state who have worked in the last 3 months of this year.A release from panchayati raj department said each of the 32 lakh workers will receive an additional ₹50 for each day of work done during the months in addition to the daily wage of ₹207 that National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) workers get in the state. The state panchayati raj department officials said 50.3 million persondays were created in 2020-21 (till July 1, 2020) against 75.9 million by the same time in the financial year 2021-22.NREGA is the largest wage employment programme in the world and aims to enhance the livelihood security of households in rural areas by providing at least 100 days of guaranteed work a year to every household whose adult members volunteer to work.The latest package comes on the heels of a ₹1,690 crore package announced for landless farmers, construction workers, particularly vulnerable tribal groups, SC/ST students and physically handicapped students last month. A ₹29 crore package for street vendors too was announced last month.Recently, Non Governmental Organisation (NGO) Khadya Adhikar Abhiyan demanded that blocks should ensure enough work under Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) was sanctioned to cover as many habitations as possible. “Gram panchayats should be allowed to add works to the shelf of up to ₹10 lakhs without having to use the SECURE (Software for Estimate Calculation Using Rural Rates for Employment which is adjusted to take account of state specific workflow and rates) application. In each village, there should be 4-5 works operational so that the workers can be distributed among them,” the NGO had demanded.Last year, tribal-dominated Keonjhar district increased the wage rate for all NREGA workers from District Mineral Foundation from ₹207 to ₹298.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-hikes-mgnrega-workers-wage-announces-rs-532-cr-package-101625882072809.html
10-07-2021||India||‘Tourists are welcome here, but...’: Himachal CM Thakur amid overcrowding at hill stations||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur on Friday appealed to the tourists arriving in the state to follow all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols. “We are concerned about the number of tourists coming to the state. They are welcome here but I appeal to them to follow Covid-19 norms,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.For the past few days, scores of people have been flocking to tourist spots and hill stations across India including those in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand to beat the scorching heat of north India.Underlining the fact that it is crucial to save the tourism industry, the Himachal Pradesh chief minister said on Friday that he held a virtual meeting with district officials and ordered them to monitor and regulate crowds, adding the Covid-19 disease pandemic is not over yet. “Hotels are being asked to follow SOPs,” Thakur further said.Pictures and videos that emerged on social media platforms showed gross violation of Covid-19 protocols. Most people were seen without a mask and also defying physical distancing norms. The instances of overcrowding have led to fears that the upcoming third of the pandemic in the country might be more severe than earlier imagined.On Friday, hundreds of tourists were seen without masks in Himachal Pradesh’s Dharamshala and social distancing went for a toss. The increasing number of tourists in the state has also posed a greater challenge for the government to ensure adherence of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour amid fears of the upcoming third wave of the pandemic.Himachal Pradesh has so far recorded 203,245 cases and 3,486 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease till now. The recoveries are nearing 199,000 while the active cases stand at 1,307. Vaccination is currently suspended for beneficiaries between 18-45 years, which poses a risk of a massive spike in cases amid the overcrowding in tourist spots in the state.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-not-over-yet-appeal-to-tourists-to-follow-norms-himachal-cm-thakur-101625879947975.html
10-07-2021||India||Tripura sent 151 samples for Covid-19 testing. More than half found positive for Delta plus||Tripura confirmed on Friday that more than half of the samples that the state sent for genome sequencing to West Bengal have, in fact, turned out to be positive for the Delta plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2, which is feared to potentially drive a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. Of the 151 total samples that were sent for testing, as many as 90 came back positive for the Delta plus strain, medical professionals in the state confirmed.Also Read | More Delta Plus cases reported in India: How this variant is rapidly spreading"Tripura had sent 151 RT-PCR samples for genome sequencing in West Bengal," said Dr Deep Debbarma, a Covid-19 nodal officer in Tripura, on Friday. "Of these, more than 90 samples were found to be Delta plus variants," he said, adding, "It is a matter of concern."Tripura had sent 151 RT-PCR samples for genome sequencing in West Bengal. Of these, more than 90 samples were found to be Delta Plus variants. It is a matter of concern: Dr Deep Debbarma (in white shirt), COVID nodal officer (09.07) pic.twitter.com/KAo2gkwCR7The health ministry said earlier this week on Wednesday that 'variants of concern' of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus were detected in as many as 174 districts across 35 states and Union territories. Among them, the highest number of cases were reported from Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal, and Gujarat.In a first, Uttar Pradesh reported two cases of the Delta plus Covid-19 variant — one from Gorakhpur and the other from Deoria — on Thursday. A day later, the state said that the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 was again found in as many as 107 samples. Meanwhile, two cases of the 'Kappa' variant of Covid-19, a new strain, have also been detected in the state, an official statement confirmed.Also Read | Delta Plus strain has to be tackled with urgent, additional measures: WHOIt is said that the Delta plus Covid-19 variant may drive a potential third wave of the pandemic in India. The Delta variant was the key driver behind the last wave, which was almost twice as deadly as the first.The rate of infection was so fast during the second wave that on an average, around 1,000 people were reported to be getting infected by Covid-19 daily during the months of April and May, while the 'real' death toll was believed to be far beyond the official tally. Now that the second wave of the pandemic is finally showing signs of receding, news of a potential third wave, driven by the Delta plus variant, has pushed the country to a frenzy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-sent-151-samples-for-covid-19-testing-more-than-half-found-positive-for-delta-plus-101625879040026.html
10-07-2021||India||Covid-19 negative report must for tourists flocking to Mussoorie||Hours after restricting the number of tourists to be allowed at a time to popular destinations in Dehradun, following reports of largescale violation of appropriate norms necessitated to restrict the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Uttarakhand administration further tightened the belt and made negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for those entering Mussoorie from outside the state.The local administration said the travelers would be required to make online booking of their accommodation in Mussoorie after getting negative reports of RT-PCR tests. Those without a Covid-19 negative report would be denied entry beyond Kolhukhet.“Tourists in large numbers are flocking the hill station to beat the summers in the plains. However, most of them are defying Covid-19-induced protocol. In the light of these violations, the district administration had to adopt a strong measure. Anyone without a negative RT-PCR test report won’t be allowed to enter Mussoorie,” said Narendra Pant, a local police officer.ALSO READ | ‘We're not afraid of Covid': Tourists in Haridwar ditch masks, social distancingThe instances of overcrowding have led to fears that the upcoming third of the pandemic in the country might be more severe than earlier imagined.On Friday, the government imposed several measures to restrict tourist activities in the state. It put a cap on 50 people at a time in Mussoorie’s Kempty Falls and the maximum duration of their stay at 30 minutes, after a shocking video clip that went viral on Wednesday showed hundreds of tourists taking bath at the popular waterfall in close proximity and without face masks.The district administration in Nanital – another popular destination for tourists visiting Uttarakhand – also imposed a ban on the entry of the two-wheelers on weekends to reduce traffic congestion and restrict the number of travelers flocking to the hill station.Earlier this week, the Centre voiced concerns over overcrowding at tourist destinations across India. Days ago, visuals of overcrowded streets emerged on social media from Manali with no people defying physical distancing norms. The Union health ministry then issued a warning against what it called ‘revenge travel’ and crowding of these tourist spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-negative-report-must-for-tourists-flocking-to-mussoorie-101625879528282.html
10-07-2021||NA||Breaking News: Congress workers stage protest against LPG price hike, throw cylinders in lake||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update?Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Zika virus not spread by contact, says health expertThe Zika virus is not spread by aerosols or contact and is not a major cause for concern at this time, as Dr Mathew Varghese, Public health expert and former director of St Stephens Hospital, Delhi said on Saturday. "Zika virus is not spread by contact or aerosols. It is spread by mosquitos. That is a different epidemiology. I would not worry about it at this point in time. Epidemiologists and the Kerala Public Health dept has to be concerned that from somwhere Zika has come, and find a way to control the virus and mosquitoes. We should not create a scare among the people," ANI quoted Dr Varghese as saying.Congress workers stage protest against LPG price hike, throw cylinders in lakeMP Congress workers staged protest against hike in LPG prices by throwing gas cylinders in Dewas' Meetha Taalab on Saturday."PM Modi is not able to control inflation in the country. He should resign. We demand immediate rollback of LPG price hike," ANI quoted a youth Congress worker as saying.Uttar Pradesh: Large gathering of devotees violate Covid norms at Banke Bihari temple#WATCH COVID19 guidelines violated due to the presence of large number of devotees at Mathura's Banke Bihari temple today pic.twitter.com/wGv0zQHIsAMaharashtra registers fall in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths; 8,296 fresh infections and 179 fatalities recordedMaharashtra logged 8,296 new Covid-19 cases and 179 fatalities in the last 24 hours. More than 6,000 people recovered from the disease since the previous day.HP Police deploys extra force to enforce Covid safety norms in tourist hot spotsHimachal Pradesh Police has deployed extra dedicated force to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in tourist hot spots like Shimla, Manali, Dharamshala, Rohtang Tunnel, Kasauli and Dalhousie, reported ANI.Former Himachal Pradesh CM Virbhadra Singh cremated with full state honoursHimachal Pradesh | Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh was cremated with full state honours at Rampur todayHe passed away on 8th July in Shimla after a prolonged illness. pic.twitter.com/ExTAT4sUBbDelhi reports 76 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate falls to 0.09%Delhi on Saturday reported 76 new cases, one death and 81 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The positivity rate has declined to 0.09 per cent.Home secretary Ajay Bhalla chaired a meeting to review steps taken by states to check spread of Covid-19 in hill stationsUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday reviewed the steps taken by state governments for checking the spread of Covid-19 in hill stations and tourist locations. States should ensure strict adherence to the protocols prescribed in respect of wearing masks, social distancing, etc, the home secretary said during the meeting.UP CM Yogi Adityanath says BJP victorious in block panchayat polls; credits win to PM Modi’s ‘pro-people’ outreachUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday credited BJP's win in panchayat polls to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visionary policies and pro-people outreach.Karnataka Congress chief slaps party worker for trying to put hand on his shoulder#WATCH Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar slaps a party worker for trying to put his hand on his shoulder in Mandya yesterday pic.twitter.com/6ldIB08mdwAssam to get independent department of indigenous faith and culture: CMAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said the state will have a new independent department of indigenous faith and culture, reported ANI.Always open to discussion but don't encroach our land: Assam CMAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said some tension is going on in both Assam-Nagaland and Assam-Mizoram borders and state police has been deployed to protect the constitutional boundary. "Being gateway to the northeast, we are always open to discussions but do not encroach on our land," ANI quoted him as saying.Uttarakhand CM meets home minister Amit Shah in DelhiUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi.Himachal Pradesh: Police maintains strict vigil over Covid norms amid tourists inflowHimachal Pradesh | Police maintains strict vigil to enforce COVID19 norms like wearing of masks and social distancing as tourists flock to the hill town of Shimla pic.twitter.com/dgsdeSehKH2 terrorists killed in Anantnag encounter, operation in progress: Kashmir Zone Police#AnantnagEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. #Operation in progress. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/uI0o1gRGgI14 Zika virus positive cases in Kerala, department on high alert: State health ministerKerala health minister Veena George on Saturday said the state has a total of 14 positive cases of Zika virus. "Our department is on high alert and monitoring the situation closely. For Covid, we have always tried to keep number of cases below medical capacity. No one died in Kerala due to lack of oxygen supply," ANI quoted George as saying.Assam CM reshuffles portfolios in state cabinetAssam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma reshuffles portfolios in the state cabinet. Urkhao Gwra Brahma given charge of handloom & textile, soil conservation, Welfare of Bodoland. Ranuj Pegu will handle Education, Welfare of Plain Tribes and Backward Classes departments. pic.twitter.com/0m97oSkUEUIndia-Vietnam partnership to continue to get stronger: PM Modi to Vietnamese counterpartPM Narendra Modi congratulated Pham Minh Chinh on his appointment as PM of Vietnam during a phone call on Saturday. PM Modi expressed confidence that India-Vietnam Comprehensive Strategic Partnership will continue to become stronger under his able guidance, reported ANI.NCW takes suo moto cognizance of Lakhimpur Kheri incident of alleged attack on womanThe National Commission for Women (NCW) on Saturday took suo motu cognizance of an incident wherein a woman was allegedly attacked and misbehaved with and her saree was pulled in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh. Chairperson Rekha Sharma urged the Director-General of Police, Uttar Pradesh to immediately intervene in the matter and take strict action against the men involved.Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 19Lockdown in Tamil Nadu extended till July 19th with further relaxations.Hotels, tea shops, bakeries, roadside shops, snack shops can function with 50% of customers till 9 PM. Schools, colleges, theatres, liquor bars, swimming pools, zoos will remain closed.The ongoing lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease has been extended till July 19. Clash breaks out between BJP and SP workers in UP's HamirpurHamirpur: A clash broke out between BJP and SP workers in Sumerpur area. Police resorted to baton charge to remove the workers from the spot. Voting for Uttar Pradesh block panchayat presidents is taking place today. pic.twitter.com/xGZnCZFRSEAs voting began for the UP Uttar Pradesh block panchayat presidents on Saturday morning, a clash broke out between workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) in Sumerpur area of Hamirpur city, according to news agency ANI. 'Should we go to UN?': Rakesh Tikait seeks 'impartial' probe into R-Day violenceBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the incident of violence on Republic Day this year needs an "impartial investigation", for which the farmers may have to knock on the doors of the United Nations (UN). Read moreDelhi govt revises noise pollution rules, to slap ₹10k fine for loudspeakersDelhi Pollution Control Committee revises penalty for violation of noise rules: ₹10,000 for noise through loudspeakers/public address systems, ₹1 Lakh for Diesel Generator sets of over 1000 KVA; ₹50,000 for sound-emitting construction equipment. The equipment will be seized pic.twitter.com/YvY2PxK3jTThe Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Saturday revised the penalty for noise pollution rules. According to the committee's order, a fine of ₹10,000 will be imposed for pollution through loudspeakers, while a fine of ₹1,00,000 will be imposed for diesel generator sets of over 1,000 KVA. Covid-19: Indonesia faces oxygen crisis, reaches out to countries for helpIndonesia, the world’s fourth most-populated country, is currently grappling with a severe shortage of oxygen supplies to treat critical patients infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more PM Modi to chair meet with revamped council of ministers on July 14Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be chairing a meeting with the revamped council of ministers on July 14, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. Delhi likely to experience rainfall, thunderstormsThe India Meteorological department said on Saturday that light rain or thundershowers are likely in Delhi as monsoon is expected to reach the Capital today. This will be the most delayed monsoon in Delhi in the previous 15 years. Covid-19: Maharashtra may see a few relaxations soonAmid stabilisation of the daily caseload and pressure from citizens for more relaxations, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to review the Covid-19 situation in the next few days. Read moreIndia blacklists New Zealand YouTuber Karl Rock for one yearProminent YouTube vlogger Karl Rock has blacklisted by the Indian government for violating multiple visa norms. Karl, who is originally from New Zealand, was found doing business on a tourist visa, a Union home ministry official told news agency ANI, adding he is barred for one year and his visa has been cancelled. India adds 42,766 new Covid-19 cases, 1,206 more deathsIndia's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 3,07,95,716 on Saturday after 42,766 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. As many as 1,206 people succumbed to the viral disease on Saturday, taking the toll to 407,145. Read moreOfficials recover bodies of 6 pilgrims who drowned in Ayodhya's Saryu river, search on missing 3#UPDATE | Ayodhya: 6 bodies recovered so far & 3 people rescued from Guptar Ghat where 12 people were drowning y'day while trying to rescue 15 devotees. Search underway for 3 missing people, SDRF, NDRF & PAC teams are carrying out the operation: Lucknow NDRF Commander Vinay Kumar pic.twitter.com/r1QDylmemCNo devotees allowed to participate in this year’s Rath Yatra in PuriThe Rath Yatra festival in Odisha’s Puri this year will be celebrated without the participation of devotees, similar to the previous year, along with strict adherence to coronavirus disease protocols (Covid-19) in order to curb the spread of the viral disease, the Jagannath temple administration said on Friday. Read moreOdisha hikes MGNREGA workers' wage, announces ₹532 cr packageOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a Covid assistance package of ₹532 crore for 32 lakh Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers in the state who have worked in the last 3 months of this year. Read moreFuel prices in India hike for 7th time this monthThe price of petrol & diesel in #Delhi is at ₹100.91 per litre & ₹89.88 per litre respectively todayPetrol & diesel prices per litre - ₹106.93 & ₹97.46 in #Mumbai; ₹109.24 & ₹98.67 in #Bhopal; ₹101.01 & ₹92.97 in #Kolkata respectively pic.twitter.com/hhBZijIHvGFuel prices in India were once again hiked on Saturday and breached the ₹100-mark in many cities. Covid-19 not over yet, appeal to tourists to follow norms: Himachal CMHimachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur on Friday appealed to the tourists arriving in the state to follow all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols. Read moreHaiti tells US, UN to send troops to stabilize countryAfter Haiti President Jovenel Moise was found assassinated at his private residence on July 7, the government has now asked the United States and the United Nations to send troops to secure the country's ports, airport and other strategic sites, a minister told news agency AFP on Friday. "We thought that the mercenaries could destroy some infrastructure to create chaos in the country. During a conversation with the US Secretary of State and the UN we made this request," elections minister Mathias Pierre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-10-2021-101625876783682.html
10-07-2021||India||Schools, colleges set to reopen in these states with drop in Covid-19 cases. All details here||As coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases begun to witness a declining trend in India, preparations are on to reopen schools and colleges across different states. Haryana announced on Friday that government and private schools for students of classes 9 and 12 will reopen from July 16 with written permission of parents allowing their wards to physically attend classes. The Gujarat government, deciding to reopen educational institutions from July 15 onwards, also made a similar announcement on Friday. Preparations to resume classes are underway in Bihar as well.Also Read | ‘Tweaking Class 10 marking plan will hurt our image’: CBSE tells high courtAccording to the notification issued by the Haryana school education directorate, high school students can physically attend classes from July 16, while classes for middle-school students -- classes 6 to 8 -- will begin from July 23. Everyone on the premises will need to mandatorily adhere to the appropriate Covid-19 related protocols, according to the order, which added that the decision regarding the reopening of primary schools will be taken later.However, the option of an online mode of study will continue for students unwilling to attend the school their attendance won’t have an impact.In Gujarat, schools for class 12 students are reopening from July 15, along with colleges for undergraduate and postgraduate students, reported news agency ANI. "However, the option of an online mode of study will continue for students unwilling to attend the school and the attendance will not be enforced," the agency quoted Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani as saying.These colleges would be allowed to function with half the attendance on campus, but students are free to physically attend the classes on a voluntary basis.However, no decision has yet been taken on the reopening of classes for primary school students in any of the states, even though physical classes for high school or middle-school students gradually look to reopening. Any decision taken in this regard will be informed in time via a government notification, it was said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-set-to-reopen-in-gujarat-haryana-bihar-with-drop-in-covid-19-cases-all-details-here-101625874365829.html
10-07-2021||India||Afghanistan must get legit govt: Jaishankar||India on Friday stressed the need for a legitimate government in Afghanistan and a reduction in violence, saying the situation in the war-torn country has implications for regional security and stability.External affairs minister S Jaishankar articulated India’s position during a joint news conference with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Moscow against the backdrop of efforts by the Taliban to project itself as a key player following a campaign of targeted assassinations and attacks on crucial districts.“Violence cannot be the solution for the situation in Afghanistan. And at the end of the day, who governs Afghanistan has a legitimacy aspect to it. I think that is something which cannot and should not be ignored,” Jaishankar said in response to a question on whether the world community could make peace with the fact that Afghanistan would be controlled by the Taliban.Expressing concern at the “direction of events in Afghanistan”, Jaishankar referred to India’s stated policy of not interfering in the internal affairs of other countries.“In many cases, when there is volatility in a society, we leave the people of that country to work it out. But Afghanistan is a very different case because now for more than 30 years, there have been international conferences, groups [and] formats to discuss how to stabilise and bring about peace in Afghanistan,” he said.“And the reason is because it has proven implications for regional security and regional stability. So the point right now we stress is that we must see a reduction in violence,” he added.In his opening remarks at the news conference, Jaishankar said the situation in Afghanistan “occupied a lot of our attention because it has a direct implication for regional security”.He added, “We believe that the immediate need of the day is really a reduction in violence and if we have to see peace within Afghanistan and around Afghanistan, it’s important for India and Russia to work together and ensure that much of the progress that we’ve seen in economic, social and democratic terms are maintained. We are both committed to an independent, sovereign, united and democratic Afghanistan.”Lavrov said the situation in Afghanistan was of “great concern” to Russia because the violence might spill over the borders into Central Asian states.Jaishankar’s remarks came a day after a Taliban delegation led by key negotiator Shahabuddin Delawar, which was in Moscow for talks with Russian officials, asserted that the group controls “85% of Afghanistan’s territory”.Delawar told a news conference in Moscow that the US “was forced to leave our territory” because the Taliban brought the Afghan population over to its side under the “principle of Islam”. Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted Delawar’s delegation met Zamir Kabulov, Russia’s special envoy for Afghanistan, and discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan and the peace process.Shaheen said Delawar had “maintained that all borders now in [Taliban] control will remain open and functional”, and that the group would not “target diplomats, embassies and consulates, NGOs and their staff”.India has been calling for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire to end the violence that has coincided with the rapid drawdown of US forces, 90% of which has been completed. US President Joe Biden has said the withdrawal of troops will be completed by August 31, triggering concerns in the region that resultant vacuum will add to the instability in Afghanistan and have far-reaching security implications.Though New Delhi has steadfastly backed the government of President Ashraf Ghani, it recently opened channels of communication with some Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-must-get-legit-govt-jaishankar-101625870934691.html
10-07-2021||India||WhatsApp will put policy on hold till data law is enacted||WhatsApp on Friday told the Delhi high court that it has “voluntarily agreed to put on hold” its new privacy policy till India enacts the proposed data protection law, while adding that users will not be compelled to accept new terms in a significant climbdown from its recent stance.WhatsApp, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh that it would not compel users to give consent for the new policy, but will continue to remind them about the update to the terms and conditions.The policy had also caught attention of the Competition Commission of India (CCI), which launched an inquiry against which the company filed a court appeal.“The update which triggered the inquiry of CCI is, for the present, we have voluntarily agreed to put it on hold…We will not compel people to accept…We will continue to display our updates from time to time to people who have not accepted. In addition, we will display the update whenever a user chooses relevant optional features, like when a user communicates with a business receiving support from Facebook,” Salve told the court.The controversy relates to WhatsApp making it mandatory for people to consent sharing data about their interaction with businesses (not including the actual message contents) on the app with Facebook companies if they wanted to keep using the service.“The commitment is that I will not do anything till the parliamentary law comes. Obviously, then if parliamentary law comes, you have to fit within that law. If Parliament allows me to have a separate policy for India, I will have it. If it does not allow me, then bad luck. I will then have to take a call,” said Salve.Friday’s stance is a significant departure from what the company said on May 17, when senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp on that day, told the court that user accounts can be deleted for not accepting the new privacy policy.Sibal had said that contrary to reports, WhatsApp was not deferring its update on the privacy policy and it came into force from May 15. He said that it would not straightaway delete the accounts and would rather persuade people to come on board.The contentious privacy policy also invited interventions by the Union government, which on multiple occasions urged the company to withdraw it.The court was hearing the appeals of Facebook and its firm WhatsApp against a single-judge order refusing to stop the competition regulator CCI from beginning a probe into WhatsApp’s privacy policy.Salve argued that since the policy is on hold, the basis of the probe -- the privacy policy -- has been stalled and the inquiry by CCI “had become academic”.But, the court remarked: “You are not implementing it but the policy is with you and any day it can come”. It asked Salve about the opt-out option being given to the European users and not to the Indian users.To this Salve said: “Objectionable part was ‘take it or leave it’. For present, ‘take it or leave it’ is something we are not doing. Opt in, opt out is not there. If a user gives consent to the new privacy policy, his data would be shared. If they don’t, there is no change. Everybody is using WhatsApp even if they agree or not to allow sharing of the information of the users.”He also said that WhatsApp has informed the Union government about the developments related to the implementation of the security policy after the latter sent a communication on May 13, asking them to withdraw the policy.The communication sent to it in May established that the privacy policy was already a subject matter of hearing before the Supreme Court and the high court.“Government has asked us to shut down the policy. We have said we will not enforce it till the Data Protection Bill comes out. That is open-ended because we don’t know when the Bill is going to come out.... Suppose the Bill allows me to do it, we will have completely different ramifications,” Salve submitted.Opposing WhatsApp’s stand, additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, for CCI, argued that as long as the privacy policy existed, its implications will continue to persist.He said that the matter before CCI was only at the stage of inquiry and “nothing is going to happen even if steps are taken”.“As long as policy stands, competition law issues persist... It is not as if by filing reply anything detrimental will happen until the court hears and disposes the matter,” Lekhi said, responding to WhatsApp’s contention that it should not be compelled to respond to information sought by CCI.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, contended that the Supreme Court is hearing an appeal against WhatsApp’s privacy policy and hence CCI cannot be allowed to hold inquiry above a superior constitutional authority.The court, while refusing to allow an impleadment application opposing WhatsApp’s plea, posted the matter for July 30.Experts said WhatsApp’s latest stand did not have a legal foundation.“It ultimately diverts the attention from the main issue that the privacy policy is in violation of IT Act and Rules. So rather than addressing that, what effectively WhatsApp is saying that we will continue to perpetuate our contravention under till a data protection law comes. That leads to WhatsApp losing its immunity against criminal prosecution. WhatsApp cannot wait for a new policy to justify its scheme which is in violation to the current law,” said senior advocate Pavan Duggal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-will-put-policy-on-hold-till-data-law-is-enacted-101625870473614.html
10-07-2021||India||No action for not complying with IT rules: Kerala high court||The Kerala high court on Friday restrained the Centre from taking any coercive action against members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA), for now, under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The association, which represents 25 news and current affairs broadcasters, challenged the rules on Thursday, saying they give government authorities “excessive powers” to “unreasonably and impermissibly restrict” the media’s freedom of speech and expression.Justice PB Suresh Kumar, who granted interim relief to NBA members, also issued notice to the Union government for its stand on the petition. NBA said the rules seek to create an “oversight mechanism giving the executive unfettered, unbridled and excessive powers to regulate the content of digital news media”.During Friday’s hearing, senior lawyer Maninder Singh, appearing for the NBA, drew the court’s attention to the high court’s decision to grant protection against coercive action in March to legal news portal Live Law and sought a similar shield for the news broadcasters.The NBA’s challenge is essentially focussed on Part 3 of the new IT rules that relate to digital news media and requires publishers to establish a grievance procedure, a self-regulatory body, and adhere to the code of ethics, according to news agency PTI. The self-regulatory bodies to be formed by media companies or their associations have to be headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court, high courts or an eminent person.Maninder Singh argued that a joint secretary-rank official would be heading the oversight mechanism at the ministry, which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge.Since a joint secretary-rank official will head the oversight mechanism which would supervise the self-regulatory body headed by a retired judge, Maninder Singh argued that this would imply that the joint secretary will supervise orders of a retired judge.“The grievance redressal mechanism created and the powers delegated have a ‘chilling effect” on the content of the media,” NBA’s petition said, contending that the rules exceeded the authority granted under the Information Technology Act and violate the constitutional rights of equality before law and freedom to practise any profession.The rules, which apply to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms, were notified by the Centre on February 25 and came into effect on May 25.It has, however, led to a storm over compliance. Petitions against the rules have been filed in several high courts including Delhi, Bombay, Madras, Calcutta and Kerala, prompting the Centre to approach the Supreme Court to request that the top court transfer all these cases to itself.These rules also require digital companies such as Twitter, WhatsApp, and Facebook to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.Instant messaging WhatsApp has approached the Delhi high court over the provision that obligates social media intermediaries to identify the first originator of a message.The Centre has argued the rules are intended to provide speedy redressal of bringing down harmful content and allows users to demand the removal of personally intimate pictures or videos within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-action-for-not-complying-with-it-rules-kerala-high-court-101625870288516.html
10-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: HC dismisses student activist’s claim of illegal detention||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed student activist Gulfisha Fatima’s claim of illegal detention in connection to the northeast Delhi riots, saying it was “completely misplaced” and “not maintainable”.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the writ of habeas corpus does not apply in respect of a person who is in judicial custody. A habeas corpus petition is filed seeking direction to produce a person who is missing or illegally detained.“The facts will show that the petitioner is in judicial custody and detention, therefore, cannot be termed as illegal,” the bench said.It further said if Fatima is aggrieved by court orders passed in judicial proceedings before the trial court, she can challenge them before the appropriate forum in proper proceedings.“This petition is completely misplaced and not maintainable. Same is accordingly dismissed,” the bench said.Fatima was arrested on April 11 last year and is currently under judicial custody. Besides this case, she is also accused in three other riots related cases.In the habeas corpus petition, Fatima, through her sibling, claimed that her custody in an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case relating to the alleged larger conspiracy that led to the northeast Delhi riots last year was illegal, and that she should thus be released.During the hearing, the bench asked advocate Jatin Bhatt, representing Fatima, whether he was willing to withdraw the plea as it was of the view that the writ of habeas corpus was not maintainable in this case. To this, the counsel said his instructions were not to withdraw.Advocate Amit Mahajan, representing Delhi Police, said the habeas corpus petition filed by Fatima was not maintainable and that it deserves to be dismissed with cost as it is nothing but a blatant abuse of the process of law.He also told the court that a habeas corpus petition by Fatima’s brother seeking the same relief was dismissed by the high court last year.On July 5, another bench of the high court refused to hear the matter after taking strong exception to Fatima’s advocate Mehmood Pracha, for taking recourse to “heckling” and placing reliance on facts that were not on record.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24, 2020, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-hc-dismisses-student-activist-s-claim-of-illegal-detention-101625864615392.html
10-07-2021||India||For 2024: BJP’s 3-fold economic challenge||The Cabinet reshuffle on July 7 comes almost at the half-way point of the second term of the Modi govt. The reshuffle has come just in time to change things, both on the ground and in terms of the narrative, ahead of the next set of state elections: Uttar Pradesh in early 2022 and Gujarat in late 2022 are the most important among these. Social and regional considerations aside, here are three things that will shape the economic narrative when the BJP seeks a third consecutive mandate in 2024.1. Stock market rally can sustain a 'feel-good’ sentiment among the richBSE Sensex, India’s benchmark stock market index, reached yet another all-time high of 53054.76 on July 7. Indian equity markets have been the only silver lining in what are otherwise gloomy, if not grim, economic prospects. However, the exceptional performance of stocks markets is based more on optimism than objective performance. This is borne out by the fact that the P-E multiple — the ratio of stock prices and earnings per share — has been rising steadily.Surging stock markets have helped sustain India’s image as an investment destination in external markets. The foreign investment which comes is also a source of comfort on the external account front.Capital gains in stock markets have created a sustained positive wealth effect for Indians who are invested there. Stock markets have provided immunity to a section of the well-off population against the economic downturn which existed even before the pandemic hit. This includes many promoters and entrepreneurs whose wealth is a function of their company’s stock prices.The market capitalisation of the BSE S&P index has increased by 2.6 times between the quarter ending March 2014 and March 2021. India’s nominal GDP has increased by 1.9 times during this period. However, any significant correction, which might even be justified, given the present valuations, could be a big dampener of economic sentiment. But if stock markets continue to rally till 2024, they might sustain a feel-good narrative among the relatively well-off.2. …but a fall in already stagnant private sector earnings across classes will hurtThe reason capital gains offer limited political gains is simple. One has to have capital to invest in order to enjoy future capital gains. This skews capital gains benefits towards the already rich. This is why income gains are more important than capital gains when it comes to political goodwill in a country where most people have very little capital.It is here that the government will face its biggest challenge. The pandemic’s economic shock has inflicted severe damage to labour earnings across the board as the economy sees what is clearly a profit-led recovery. However, even before the pandemic hit, things were not very good.The Indian economy is characterised by economic dualism, where a large number of people work in subsistence level activities while a small proportion (significant in absolute numbers) is employed in high value activities. In the three decades of economic reforms, most high value activities have shifted to and then grown in the private sector.A boom in the high value part of the economy also creates tailwinds for its less productive counterpart. India’s IT boom and the real-estate boom driven by a channelisation of salary earnings into the home market is a good example of this virtual coupling. While the IT boom created millions of white collar jobs in the private sector, construction emerged as the biggest source of mass employment outside agriculture.India’s private sector growth engine suffered a shock after the 2008 global financial crisis as export growth went down. The twin-balance-sheet crisis, which was created out of irrational exuberance on part of firms and lack of prudence and poor governance structures in banks, worsened the problem.While there were periods of revival during the last phase of the second United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government and early phase of the first Narendra Modi government, the economy never really recovered its pre-2008 momentum. This had a direct impact on labour earnings. Annual growth in total compensation of employees of corporate sector companies as well as daily rural wages stagnated in the second half of the term of the first Modi government.It can be argued that total compensation of employees for corporate firms does not capture per worker earnings like rural wages. However, the total wage bill of the corporate sector is a good indicator of total income accruing to workers in the organised sector of the economy.At some point of time, a sense of discontent is bound to set in vis-à-vis the current regime’s inability to usher in a sustained high growth phase. How much of a factor it will be before 2024 will depend more on the extent and speed of recovery from the pandemic’s lows rather than a return to pre-2008 levels.3. …inflation the most important factorIt is one thing to earn the same amount of money, even a little less when prices are constant. However, well-being levels can fall drastically when incomes are stagnant, and prices are rising fast. Most people in the Indian economy find themselves in this situation.India’s GDP suffered a contraction of 7.3% in 2020-21. The Consumer Price Index (CPI), India’s benchmark retail inflation measure grew at 6.16% in 2020-21. This is the highest annual growth in CPI since 2013-14, when CPI grew at 9.38%. Inflation was at exceptionally low levels before the 2018-19 elections. Annual growth in CPI was 3.59% and 3.41% in 2017-18 and 2018-19. The current CPI series starts in 2011-12, so inflation comparisons before 2012-13 are not possible.The low inflation environment is bound to have provided a cushion to slow growth in incomes before the 2019 election. To be sure, it did have an unfavourable terms-of-trade impact on farmers, as the nominal component of agri growth collapsed at a faster pace than non-agricultural growth. The results of the 2018 assembly election results of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh were a manifestation of this rural anger. The BJP immediately made a course correction by announcing the PM-KISAN scheme, which offers .6,000 per year to every Indian farmer.Things are very different at the moment. Even if the headline inflation number comes down — RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee expects it to be 5.1% in 2021-22 – price levels are far too high for comfort. For example, if petrol prices stay at .100 till next year, petrol inflation will be zero, but the prices will still pinch. The return of inflation will also erode the value of welfare entitlements such as cash transfers under PM-KISAN. A farmer in Delhi could have bought 90.7 litres of diesel (.66.14 per litre) from the.6,000 he received under PM-KISAN on March 31, 2019. He would be able to buy only 66.94 litres at the price of.89.62 per litre on July 8, 2021.What is perhaps an even bigger threat is the possibility of a wage-price spiral. As prices rise, nominal wages will have to increase, especially for those who spend most of their income on essentials. The prices of many such many such commodities are sensitive to international prices such as petroleum products and edible oil. Then, there is always the risk of an adverse supply shock in food items because of freak weather events. India has had an exceptional good run with monsoons during the current government. A drought year could provide an inflationary shock.Inflation is where the government can be expected to be most proactive in the short-term. India has deregulated petrol-diesel prices long ago. However, they are often regulated when elections are around the corner. This could happen again as the Uttar Pradesh elections come closer. Whether such a price cut will be able to significantly bring down the inflation burden in the run up to 2024 is a difficult question to answer. A sustained rise in inflation also tends to scare investors in stock markets. An effort to curb it by raising interest rates will, in turn, give a negative stimulus to an already growth starved economy. There are no easy choices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-2024-bjp-s-3-fold-economic-challenge-101625863019195.html
10-07-2021||India||More than 25 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far in Karnataka||In a "milestone", more than 2.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in Karnataka so far, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday.The Health Department information tweeted by Sudhakar said more than 2.5 crore doses of vaccine have been administered in the state till now, which he described as a milestone. So far 2,06,01,462 first doses and 45,20,506 second doses have been administered, it said, adding that vaccines are being given at 8,207 centres, out of which 7,609 are government and 598 are private.Meanwhile, the Department of College Education has vaccinated 51.12 per cent of students and staff in the city's government degree colleges, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said here on Friday. The city comprises eight Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) zones and the total number of students and staff in government and aided degree colleges is 62,255 Out of this, 31,826 have been vaccinated as of July 8, Narayan, who is also the Higher Education Minister, said. In the student group 31,147 were vaccinated as against 59,179 which covers 52.63 per cent, while among the staff, 2,518 were vaccinated as against 3,076 which tallies to 81.86 per cent, a statement from the DCM's office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-25-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-in-karnataka-101625862635911.html
10-07-2021||India||WHO approval to Covaxin likely in 4-6 weeks, says chief scientist||The World Health Organisation is likely to approve India’s only indigenously developed vaccine in use so far, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for an emergency use listing in the next four to six weeks, said chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan.“There is a process to be followed for approval. Companies have to submit their safety data, complete trial data, and even manufacturing quality data for approval. Bharat Biotech has already started submitting the data and the dossier is being assessed. It is the next vaccine to be reviewed by our committee. There will be a decision on inclusion in the next four to six weeks,” said Dr Swaminathan during a webinar on vaccine access across the world.In a recent interview, Swaminathan said the Phase 3 trial data of Covaxin “looks good” and meets the safety profile of the international public health agency so far.Bharat Biotech announced Covaxin’s Phase-3 clinical trial data recently. As per the trial report, Covaxin has been found to be 77.8% effective against symptomatic Covid-19.Globally, Covaxin has already received emergency use authorization in 16 countries, including Brazil, Mexico, Philippines and Iran.The WHO approval, if granted, will come as a relief to Indians and citizens of at least 12 countries where the vaccine is being administered.Addressing the event, Swaminathan also discussed the recent meta-analysis data on anti-parasitic drug Ivermectin as a possible Covid-19 treatment.“The quality of studies were poor so when we put it in meta-analysis they did not suggest any evidence to use Ivermectin. The drug should be used only in clinical trials. There are a lot of medicines being used without evidence,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-approval-to-covaxin-likely-in-4-6-weeks-says-chief-scientist-101625861823999.html
10-07-2021||India||Rush at hills an invitation for virus to spread, warns Centre||The Union health ministry on Friday warned people against complacency in the country’s fight against Covid-19, citing a spike in tourism across hill stations in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand in recent weeks to say that this “behaviour” can be an “invitation for the virus” to spread.A video of a crowded Kempty falls in Uttarakhand’s Mussourie was also presented at the briefing, where Niti Aayog member, VK Paul, said that although tourism was key to economic revival for some areas, not observing mask discipline and social distancing “can lead to a serious situation”.“If you see what is happening around the country, there is rampant carelessness - in markets, in recreational places, in tourist spots. We see a particular new risk at tourist places. When such mingling takes place, it’s making it easier for the virus to find new hosts,” he said.Paul, and Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Aggarwal were speaking at the government’s routine press briefing on Covid-19. The officials reiterated that the second Covid-19 wave in India was not over yet and states relaxing travel and other related restrictions does not mean people do not take necessary precautions.Aggarwal, pointing to the video of Kempty falls crowding, brought up Modi’s comments on the need for a jan andolan. “Is such a behaviour not an open invitation for the virus to infect us,” he said. “We must introspect if we have a misplaced belief that the danger of Covid is over because we are lifting restrictions”Paul said states will need to be proactive towards ensuring strict implementation of Covid-safe behavior to avoid out of control transmission. “This risky mix-mingling behavior is posing a serious concern; it is not time for that kind of tourism yet. That time will come when everything will open up normally but it has not come yet,” he said.Cases are rising in some states, and as many as 53% of the cases are being reported from just two — Maharashtra and Kerala, with 80% of the new cases being reported from 90 districts across 15 states in the country that need special focus, Aggarwal said.“If we look at past week data, in terms of contribution towards caseload, 21% of the cases have been reported from Maharashtra and 32% from the state of Kerala. From 6,740 new cases that Maharashtra had dropped to, has now gone further up to 9,083 cases. In Kerala new cases had dropped to 8,037 but now it has jumped to about 14-15,000 daily new cases. Even though it is in a limited geographical area still it is a cause for serious concern, and it is important to pay focused attention for implementing intensive containment measures,” he added.There are about 66 districts with case positivity of more than 10% for the week ending July 10, that includes 10 districts of Arunachal Pradesh and Rajasthan, nine districts of Manipur, eight of Kerala, six of Meghalaya, four of Assam and Sikkim, three of Tripura, and two districts each of Odisha, Mizoram, and Maharashtra indicating increased spread of infection.Experts said that as long as the spike is transient, it is not of a major concern.“Spikes usually reflect continuing circulation in most places, accentuated by population movement due to unlocking. The spikes also reflect testing levels; not to worry as long as these are transient,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, epidemiology head, Indian Institute of Public Health.“We are coordinating with states to ensure intensive containment measures are taken to control the infection spread,” said Aggarwal, adding that same precautions will also be needed to be followed during the upcoming kanwar yatra. “We need to balance things: on one hand if we are trying to open up things, it is important on the other hand to follow Covid appropriate behavior so that there is no surge in cases,” he added.Government’s baseline target is to bring the daily Covid-19 cases to 10,000. “Currently the rate of decline is somewhat slow and we have not completely overpowered the virus yet, which is why it is important to observe Covid safe behavior, said Paul, adding that pregnant women should also start taking the jab as there was enough scientific evidence to support that it offers adequate protection to them.“Risk of developing complications in pregnant women, especially slipping into pre-term labour and delivery, is higher; therefore, it was decided to open it up even for pregnant women,” said Paul.The officials also said vaccines for children could be available in the near future if the national drugs regulator approves of Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-d Covid-19 vaccine that was tested in children in phase 3 trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rush-at-hills-and-invitation-for-virus-to-spread-warns-centre-101625861683344.html
10-07-2021||India||Over 370 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far: Govt||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 37 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.Of these, more than 27.86 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Friday, according to a provisional report at 7 pm.The ministry said 13,28,636 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 1,24,570 as second dose in the age group of 18-44 years on Friday.Cumulatively, 10,98,62,585 persons in the 18-44 age group have received their first dose and 35,08,932 their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra -- have administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 50 lakh people in the 18-44 age group.Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-370-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-govt-101625862150953.html
10-07-2021||India||Supreme Court dismisses govt plea against hearings on IT rules in HCs||The Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Centre’s plea to restrain all high courts in the country from passing any order on the government’s new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, which has been challenged in multiple petitions by tech companies, digital news publishers and individual citizens.Refusing to pass any interim order for now, the Supreme Court said the Centre’s transfer petition for shifting all cases pending before different high courts to the top court will be heard on July 16.The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna tagged the Centre’s petition with a clutch of other petitions related to regulations that cover over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Amazon Prime, Netflix and Hotstar. The 2021 IT Rules too apply to OTT platforms, and have become contentious for how it affects social media and digital news.On March 23 this year, a three-judge bench of the top court stayed all High Courts from considering any fresh petitions in connection with the OTT regulations. It will be this bench that will now consider the transfer petition by Centre with regard to petitions challenging the IT Rules 2021 on July 16.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who appeared for Centre, informed the Court that petitions against the IT Rules were pending before the high courts of Delhi, Madras, Bombay and Kerala.These petitions include those by WhatsApp, which has challenged clauses requiring originator of a private message to be traced, news publishers and broadcasters, who have said it violates the fundamental right to free speech, and private citizens like TM Krishna, who has challenged the entirety of the rules on multiple grounds.Mehta stated that the Kerala High Court on Friday had ordered interim protection to the News Broadcasters Association from any coercive action for non-compliance under the IT Rules.The Delhi High Court, on the other hand, refused protection to another set of petitioners. Mehta urged the Court to stay proceedings before various High Courts till the next date of hearing.The bench said, “Today we are simply tagging this matter with the other pending case. That matter is pending before a bench presided over by Justice DY Chandrachud. We will not issue any order except to list this petition before the appropriate bench on July 16.”The Foundation for Independent Journalism, which runs the news website The Wire was present during the proceedings on caveat. It was the first to challenge the rules before the Delhi High Court in March this year. Later, the Quint Digital Media Limited, which runs the website The Quint, also filed a petition that is now pending with the Delhi High Court. Online legal news portal Live Law also moved the Kerala high court against the rules.Senior advocate CU Singh and advocate Liz Mathew, who appeared for the Foundation and Live Law respectively, informed the Court that the matter heard by Justice Chandrachud had nothing to do with the challenge to IT Rules 2021. “Those petitions were filed prior to the coming of the IT Rules 2021 and are on a completely different issue,” said Singh.The IT Rules 2021 were introduced in February this year. The new rules apply to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms, bringing all digital media functionaries under a three-tier oversight mechanism for regulation of content.This comprises of a grievance officer responsible to deal with complaints within 24 hours. The two remaining tiers consist of a self-regulatory body of experts headed by a former judge, and an inter-departmental committee headed by a senior bureaucrat of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.The Calcutta High Court too is considering the validity of the IT Rules in a PIL proceeding while a media house has gone to the Karnataka High Court challenging the Rules in question.These petitions have largely claimed that the Rules curtail and restrict the freedom of press in India and claim the conditions imposed under the Digital Media Ethics Code and guidelines to be onerous and beyond the scope of the Information Technology Act 2000.The use of vague words such as “good taste” and “decency” in the Ethics Code are additional challenges to the Rules which, according to many of the petitioners, gave “pervasive control to state over published content”.However, the Centre has said that the Rules are intended to provide speedy redressal of complaints to enable taking down harmful content, personally intimate pictures or videos of individuals within 24 hours. The Rules also require the media functionaries to cooperate with the Government and investigating agencies for purposes of verification of identity, detection and prevention of crimes, and investigation or prosecution of offences.“The Supreme Court’s decision demonstrates that it will not simply believe the government’s assertion that the Rules are perfectly legal unless they unpack the complex regulations. Government could have prevented this situation by not rushing in with the Rules. High Courts interfered as they felt the Rules could be detrimental to online media freedom. This apprehension also stands affirmed by the top court,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia Policy director and senior international counsel at Access Now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-govt-plea-against-hearings-on-it-rules-in-hcs-101625861705075.html
10-07-2021||India||Data points to gross underestimation of Covid deaths||A July 9 update on the Health Management Information System (HMIS) of the National Health Mission provides fresh evidence that India’s official Covid-19 death toll may be an underestimate. HMIS has recorded 827,597 deaths in April-May 2021, a number that is far greater than what was seen in the last three years. In 2018, 2019 and 2020, these numbers were 355,905, 391,593, and 350,333 deaths over the same period. India’s official death toll from Covid-19 for April-May 2021 is 168,927.While the HMIS data includes mortality from all causes, the large deviation from previous years and the association of the 2021 deaths with symptoms such as fever and respiratory illnesses strongly suggest that these could be due to Covid-19. The excess mortality reflected in the HMIS numbers in itself could be an underestimate because the database primarily captures data from government facilities in rural India.What is the HMIS?The website of National Health Mission describes HMIS as “a Government to Government (G2G) web-based Monitoring Information System that has been put in place by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Government of India to monitor the National Health Mission and other Health programmes and provide key inputs for policy formulation and appropriate programme interventions”. Launched in October 2008, the HMIS gets data from around 200,000 health facilities (across all States/UTs) “which upload facility wise service delivery data on monthly basis, training data on quarterly basis and infrastructure related data on annual basis on HMIS web portal”, the official website says.Because the Civil Registration System (CRS) statistics are published with a significant time lag – the 2019-20 numbers were published in June 2021 – HMIS death numbers are the closest proxy to official death numbers in India. A comparison of total recorded deaths in the CRS and HMIS shows that the latter are significant underestimates. The CRS recorded 7.6 million deaths in 2019-20 compared to just 2.6 million in the HMIS.What does HMIS data tell us about deaths during the second wave?The second wave of Covid-19 infections peaked on May 9, if the seven-day rolling average of daily new cases is concerned. In terms of deaths, the peak came much later, on May 23. However, both daily new cases and deaths recorded a big spike in April itself. HMIS data for April and May 2021 shows a sharp rise in the number of deaths – 8.28 lakh compared to less than 4 lakh in the past three years for which data is available.While deaths normally increase marginally every year, the 2020 numbers actually show a fall, which could be attributed to the lockdowns. This counterintuitive trend could also be a result of lower than usual reporting in the HMIS portal. The number of health facilities which reported this information after March 2020 onwards has still not been published.What is the likelihood of these deaths being Covid-19 deaths?It is very high. The HMIS gives age-wise and cause-wise break-up of deaths. We know that Covid-19 affects adults more than children. Adult deaths in April-May 2021 increased by 153% compared to the 2020 figures. The HMIS records adult deaths as separate from maternity related deaths. To be sure, maternity related deaths also increased, perhaps a result of lack of access to health facilities at a time when Covid-19 patients flooded hospitals. For children, deaths decreased by 14%. Deaths due to fever and respiratory problems – the most common aggravated symptom of Covid-19 infections -- saw the biggest jump; more than 500%, in 2021 compared to 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-points-to-gross-underestimation-of-covid-deaths-101625861862377.html
10-07-2021||India||We try reaching out to users before blocking accounts: Twitter||Social media firm Twitter told the parliamentary committee on information and technology that it makes a “good faith” effort to contact users – and it did so for former Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor -- when disabling or restricting access for alleged violation of US copyright lawsThe firm was responding to letter sent by the panel questioning its decision to briefly lock out Prasad and committee chairperson Tharoor from their accounts under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). It defended its actions and said that its decisions were based on terms and conditions that users agree to when they sign up to use the service.“If we remove or restrict access to user content in response to a copyright complaint, Twitter will make a good faith effort to contact the affected account holder with information concerning the removal or restriction of access, including a full copy of the complaint, along with instructions for filing a counter-notice,” the firm said in its response, people familiar with the matter said.Twitter on June 25 suspended Prasad’s access to his social media account for nearly an hour over, inviting a rebuke from the minister for being in violation of the new social media and intermediary guidelines.The decision was based on a copyright takedown under the DMCA that stated the minister posted content that was in violation of guidelines. The tweet, from 2017, contained AR Rehman’s famous song Maa Tujhe Salaam, was withheld by the social media firm, with its contents no longer available in the public domain.House panel chair Tharoor asked Twitter to explain in writing why it had locked out the former union minister and him. In a written response, Twitter said that the action was in keeping with its policies.The former minister, who resigned earlier this week, at the time said: “It is apparent that my statements calling out the high handedness and arbitrary actions of Twitter, particularly sharing the clips of my interviews to TV channels and its powerful impact, have clearly ruffled its feathers”.He added that Twitter’s actions were in gross violation of Rule 4(8) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 in which the company allegedly failed to provide Prasad any prior notice before denying him access to his own account.Twitter has told the Delhi High Court that it will make the necessary appointments within eight weeks, but the Court asked it to complete the process within two weeks.In its response, Twitter added that as per its copyright policy, Twitter responds to copyright complaints submitted under the DMCA. “Section 512 of the DMCA outlines the statutory requirements necessary for formally reporting copyright infringement, as well as providing instructions on how an affected party can appeal a removal by submitting a compliant counter-notice. Twitter responds to reports of alleged copyright infringement, such as allegations concerning the unauthorized use of a copyrighted image as a profile or header photo, allegations concerning the unauthorized use of a copyrighted video or image uploaded through our media hosting services, or Tweets containing links to allegedly infringing materials,” it said.“Twitter’s response to copyright complaints may include the removal or restriction of access to allegedly infringing material. The account holder is asked to review and acknowledge an in-app notification that confirms that they have understood Twitter’s copyright policy and once they do so, the account is automatically unlocked,” it added.The firm said it attempts to be transparent in the enforcement of its policies and marks out withheld tweets, while allowing users to file a counter notice.“In the case of Mr Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hon’ble Minister of Law & Justice, Communications and Electronics and Information Technology as well Dr Shashi Tharoor, Hon’ble Chairperson for the Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology, Twitter received DMCA notices from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) alleging that video Tweets posted on their accounts infringed copyrighted works owned by Sony Music Entertainment. For Mr Prasad, the DMCA notice was in reference to the original work (ie alleged infringement) of AR Rahman’s Maa Tujhe Salaam,” the firm said.“For Dr Tharoor, the DMCA notice was in reference to the original work (ie alleged infringement) of Boney M –Rasputin. Upon receipt of the notice, Twitter complied with its copyright policy, disabled access to the allegedly infringing videos, and temporarily locked the accounts. When the account holders acknowledged their understanding of our copyright policy, the accounts were immediately unlocked. Twitter sent by email a full copy of the DMCA notices to the account holders.”It also said that accounts are temporarily locked. “However, we may take retractions and counter-notices into account when applying our repeat infringer policy.It added that users, when they sign up to use Twitter, agree to post only content to which they “have obtained all rights, licenses, consents, permissions, power and/or authority necessary”.Twitter also drew the panel’s attention that certain uses of copyrighted material does not require permission, such as political speech, content that is potentially newsworthy, or cases of apparent fair use. “This type of speech is protected under UN-recognised principles of free expression and may not violate Twitter’s Copyright Policy,” the company added.Experts have previously told HT that the issue relates to Twitter’s headquarters being subjected to American jurisdiction. According to Raman Chima, Asia Pacific policy director at Access Now, because Twitter is ultimately operated as a service by Twitter Inc, the DMCA applies to it internationally. “That is how Twitter is structured,” he said.“The problem with creating a broad order of takedown regimes is that such situations will arise. It is ironic that the minister is complaining about a regime that is too strict when the government is trying to create a similar situation in India with the new IT rules,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-try-reaching-out-to-users-before-blocking-accounts-twitter-101625861877640.html
10-07-2021||India||PM reviews oxygen availability as govt looks to set up 1,500 PSA plants||The Centre is setting up at least 1,500 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants across the country to support more than 400,000 oxygenated beds, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was informed on Friday in a meeting to review oxygen augmentation and availability as India prepares for a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections.Modi asked officials at the meeting to ensure the plants are made functional at the earliest and work closely with state governments, said a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office.These plants include those being financed by the PM CARES fund as well as from various ministries and government firms,the statement added.“The PM asked officials to ensure there is adequate training of hospital staff on operation and maintenance of oxygen plants... to ensure that each district has trained personnel available,’’ the statement said.Principal secretary PK Mishra and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba were among top officials who attended the meeting.Officials familiar with developments said each plant has a daily capacity of 1.5-2 MT of oxygen. A standard hospital needs 15MT of oxygen daily in usual circumstances. A training module is being prepared by experts and they are aiming to train around 8,000 people across the country to operate the oxygen plants, the official added.During the second wave of infections this summer, India faced a debilitating shortage of medical oxygen as demand shot up from 4,000 MT to more than 10,000 MT due to a surge in infections and deaths. Unable to meet demand, many hospitals ran out of oxygen, leaving hundreds of patients gasping for breath. In response, the government banned industrial use of oxygen, airlifted oxygen trucks from industrial plants and ran oxygen trains but experts stressed on the importance of augmenting supply to avert any future crisis.The issue was taken up by high courts and the Supreme Court with daily monitoring of supply after a number of hospitals approached the courts in distress.According to the PMO statement, the PM also urged officials to ensure India uses advanced technology Internet of Things (IoT) “to track performance and functioning of these oxygen plants at a local and national level”. IoT is a system of internet-connected devices embedded with sensors that can collect and transfer data over a wireless network for computation and research purposes.“A pilot (is) being done using IoT for monitoring the performance of the oxygen plants,” officials told the PM, according to the statement.The decision came a day after the Union Cabinet announced a ₹23,123 crore package to augment grassroots health infrastructure and set up an emergency response system in preparation for a third wave. The ‘India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package: Phase-II’ will be implemented across 736 districts to improve medical infrastructure at primary and district health centres. Projects under the plan will be implemented within nine months. The Centre will provide ₹15,000 crore and states ₹8,123 crore in the package.The Prime Minister’s meeting was followed by the commerce minister Piyush Goyal holding a meeting in the evening with oxygen manufacturers, where he focussed on three aspects of oxygen supply. The minister asked how production of oxygen could be increased, how it could be stored and finally, how to increase transportation abilities of liquid oxygen, said a person familiar with the development.“RIL Jamnagar has been very efficient in converting gaseous oxygen into liquid but they are unable to increase storage. So, the minister asked if their strategy could be replicated by other manufacturers and how could they ramp up storage,’’ said the person quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-reviews-oxygen-availability-as-govt-looks-to-set-up-1-500-psa-plants-101625861728372.html
10-07-2021||India||Judges must know their limits, not act like emperors: Supreme Court||Judges must not behave like emperors, the Supreme Court observed on Friday as it condemned the practice of summoning government officials by courts “at the drop of a hat and to exert direct or indirect pressure”.The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta took a grim view that some of the high courts in the country have developed a practice of calling government officials routinely which, it said, is against public interest as many important tasks entrusted to such officials get delayed.“Judges must know their limits. They must have modesty and humility, and not behave like emperors. The legislature, the executive and the judiciary all have their own broad spheres of operation. It is not proper for any of these three organs of the state to encroach upon the domain of another, otherwise the delicate balance in the Constitution will be upset, and there will be a reaction,” the bench said, quoting from a 2008 judgment of the Supreme Court.“The line of separation of powers between Judiciary and Executive is sought to be crossed by summoning the officers and in a way, pressurising them to pass an order as per the whims and fancies of the court,” the court noted while hearing an appeal of the Uttar Pradesh government against an order of the Allahabad high court in a service matter.In the case relating to posting and back wages of a medical officer of the state, the high court had passed certain orders which are being contested by the UP government before the top court. In February, the bench had stayed the order of the high court to give back wages to the medical officer but the high court did not hold its hands and still summoned the health secretary of the state in a contempt case against the state government.Disapproving of such orders, the top court held that it is time to reiterate that public officers should not be called to the court unnecessarily. “The dignity and majesty of the court is not enhanced when an officer is called to court. Respect to the court has to be commanded and not demanded and the same is not enhanced by calling public officers,” it said.The bench emphasised that the presence of public officers comes at the cost of other official engagements demanding their attention and may eventually take a toll on the tasks they are supposed to do for the public.“The public officers of the executive are also performing their duties as the third limbs of the governance. The actions or decisions by the officers are not to benefit them, but as a custodian of public funds and in the interest of administration, some decisions are bound to be taken,” the court said.The bench added that a court can always set aside a decision which does not meet the test of judicial review but summoning officers frequently “is liable to be condemned in the strongest words.”Citing the example of the judiciary, the bench underscored that court proceedings also take time since there is no mechanism of fixed time hearing.“The courts have the power of a pen which is more effective than the presence of an officer in the court. If any particular issue arises for consideration before the court and the advocate representing the state is not able to answer, it is advised to write such doubt in the order and give time to the state or its officers to respond,” the bench maintained.The top court also set aside the orders of the high court initiating contempt proceedings against the state government as well as the directive to pay back wages to the medical officer. It noted that the high court was wrong in granting relief to the medical officer who did not join his posting for 13 years on the pretext of not receiving his joining order in 2002. The court said that it was not open to the medical officer to defy the order of transfer on the ground of non-communication when more than 100 medical officers were transferred by the same common transfer order and then he chose not to join where he was posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-must-know-their-limits-not-act-like-emperors-supreme-court-101625860589301.html
10-07-2021||India||Uniform Civil Code shouldn’t remain a mere hope in Constitution: High Court||The Delhi high court has said a Uniform Civil Code (UCC) should not remain a mere hope in the Constitution, expressing regret over conflicts in society due to differences in various personal laws.A single-judge bench of justice Pratibha M Singh said there is a requirement for such a code that would be “common to all” and enable uniform principles being applied in respect of aspects such as marriage, divorce, succession, etc so that settled principles, safeguards and procedures can be laid down.In a judgment dated July 7 that was released on Friday, the bench said the need for a UCC has been reiterated from time to time by the Supreme Court.“In modern Indian society, which is gradually becoming homogenous, the traditional barriers of religion, community and caste are slowly dissipating. The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws, especially in relation to marriage and divorce.”“The hope expressed in Article 44 of the Constitution that the State shall secure for its citizens a Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope,” justice Singh said in her judgment of July 7.The court said more than three decades have passed since the apex court, in 1985, directed the law ministry to take appropriate steps.“More than three decades have passed since then and it is unclear as to what steps have been taken in this regard till date. Accordingly, let the copy of the present judgment be communicated to the Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice, Government of India, for necessary action as deemed appropriate,” the court said in a 27-page judgment.The court’s observation came while hearing a plea involving the applicability of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 in respect of parties belonging to the Meena community.The couple got married in 2012 under Hindu rites and customs and had a child in 2013. In 2015, the husband initiated a divorce petition in the trial court.Opposing the same, the wife filed an application in a city court contending that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 do not apply to the parties concerned as they are members of a notified Scheduled Tribe in Rajasthan. The trial court, while dismissing the husband’s divorce petition, held that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act would not apply to the couple, as they belonged to the Meena community.Challenging this judgment, the husband had moved to the high court where the wife argued that even though she was married under the Hindu Marriage Act, that would not take away her status of belonging to a particular community.On July 7, while setting aside this judgment, the high court said that even though the parties belonged to the Meena community, their marriage was solemnised according to Hindu rites and ceremonies and they follow Hindu customs.It said that this stance has been made clear in various documents submitted by the wife, including the marriage invitation and the FIR.The court said that if the members of a tribe voluntarily chose to follow Hindu customs, traditions and rites, they cannot be kept out of the purview of the provision of the Hindu Marriage Act.“…nothing has been placed before the court to show that the Meena tribe has a specialised court with proper procedures to deal with these issues,” the court said.“Thus, insofar as divorce proceedings are concerned, if proper tribal customs are not established or the following of Hindu customs or rites is admitted by the parties, there is no reason to hold that the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 would not apply,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uniform-civil-code-shouldn-t-remain-a-mere-hope-in-constitution-high-court-101625860574280.html
10-07-2021||India||Odisha man branded 500 times with hot iron to treat him of TB, dies: Family||Bhubaneswar: A 34-year-old tribal man in Odisha’s Keonjhar district died on Thursday after allegedly being branded with hot iron to treat him of tuberculosis, his family has said.Bikash Dehury of Kainsari village under Banspal block of Keonjhar was unwell for the last several days and complained of loss of appetite, fever and other ailments. His wife Droupadi Dehury alleged that her husband had consulted doctors at several hospitals including Bansapal community health centre and district headquarters hospital for treatment of tuberculosis.“However, the doctors did not treat him following which he went to a witchdoctor. The local witchdoctor branded him with hot iron throughout his body leaving him with 500 burn marks,” said his wife. He died on Tuesday.Chief district medical officer of Keonjhar, Dr Akash Das said he has sought reports about Dehury’s TB treatment from the government hospitals in the district and would be able to comment only after getting a report.Keonjhar Sadar MLA and BJP leader Mohan Majhi alleged that two years ago, nine tribals in the same village succumbed to tuberculosis following which the district administration took some measures. “But later, the district administration did not take any steps on treatment of TB which forced the tribals to consult local witchdoctors,” he alleged.In one such incident in Bardapal panchayat of Keonjhar in 2019, more than 50 infants were branded with hot iron to cure and prevent stomach-related diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-branded-500-times-with-hot-iron-to-treat-him-of-tb-dies-family-101625861071849.html
10-07-2021||India||India can help boost our air power: Afghan envoy||With air power emerging as a key element in the campaign by Afghan security forces against the Taliban, Afghanistan is looking to India, the US and Russia to help bolster the country’s fledgling air force, Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay said on Friday.Amid reports of intense fighting in several parts of Afghanistan and the capture of a large number of districts and some crucial border crossings by the Taliban, Mamundzay rejected assessments by some Western powers about the possible collapse of Afghan security forces. He, however, acknowledged the situation is “very dire”, with the fighting displacing more than 200,000 people and resulting in nearly 4,000 civilian deaths since mid-April.The Afghan envoy ruled out the possibility of seeking Indian boots on the ground but said New Delhi could assist Kabul with military hardware, intelligence and logistics support and financial resources in the fight against regional and international terrorist groups, including a “big percentage of foreign fighters”.Describing air support air support as a “game changer”, Mamundzay said: “Our assessment is [that] if we have the required air support, Taliban would never be able to capture any district. And just to give you one instance, should we have 15 to 20 Mi-35 helicopters, or 30 to 40 Black Hawks, they would not be able to hold ground.”He added, “Taliban have the same equipment, weapons and ammunition that we have. Our superiority lies in air support and we appreciate the support that the US has recently promised, that they would support us with more air support. We call on all responsible countries in the region, including Russia, Iran and India, to provide us the required air support.”Mamundzay said there is “active conflict” in almost 150 districts of the total of 400 districts in Afghanistan’s 34 provinces. “Taliban has been capturing a number of capitals of the districts, which has caused an outcry from the local population and the government. In the past three days, we have been able to recapture 10 districts. Now, this would continue for a number of months, we would capture districts, they would recapture it back,” he said.The drawdown of US troops, he said, “could have been handled in a more organised and planned manner”. Mamundzay described the assessment by some Western capitals about the possible collapse of Afghan forces and the government in Kabul in six to 12 months as “very unrealistic”.He said: “We outnumber Taliban by five or six times, a force of 70,000 to 75,000 cannot face a force of around 400,000...We are going through a turbulent time, but the resilience of our people and the heroic patriotism of our forces is there to defend Afghanistan.”The Taliban are delaying the peace process by not setting a time frame for returning to talks “because they want to gain more territory so that they would speak from a position of strength should we get to the negotiating table again”, Mamundzay said.The Taliban also want to prove to “their foot soldiers, ground commanders and affiliates and associates that they are back in power. We have reports that al-Qaeda, Jundullah, ETIM, LeT and JeM are celebrating Taliban’s victories,” he added.The situation has been further complicated because none of the processes aimed at kick-starting peace talks – from the “extended Troika” backed by Russia to the talks arranged by Iran and the process in Doha – have “delivered any results”, the envoy said.“We feel that Taliban are buying time for themselves to continue with their military adventurism and capture more land. And then when we get to winter, they will propose peace negotiations when fighting is difficult. And then they speak from the position of strength, that we hold XYZ percentage of the landmass, now agree to a peace deal on our terms, or else face defeat,” Mamundzay said.Describing Pakistan as the “country in the region with the most influence over the Taliban”, Mamundzay said: “We expected Pakistan to play a very constructive role to bring Taliban to the negotiating table, use that influence that the Pakistanis used to help the Americans...We expected the government of Pakistan to help us in the same manner, in the same spirit so that Kabul and Taliban reach a dignified and lasting deal.“We sadly have not seen the kind of role that we expected Islamabad to play. I hope in the weeks ahead, that calculus will change and they will begin to play a more constructive role.”Asked about what India could do to find a lasting solution in Afghanistan, Mamundzay said India could enhance the political and diplomatic support it currently provides, including helping at the UN Security Council with the listing and delisting of Taliban leaders and forging the required consensus in the region for the peace process.India should continue its economic and development assistance and also look at the possibility of “security assistance should we not reach a dignified and lasting peace deal with the Taliban”, he said.“If we get to a stage where war is imposed on the Afghan public, then we look at India for military and security assistance to protect our people and to fight terrorist groups. So we have not yet got to that stage, we’re still giving a peace a chance,” Mamundzay added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-help-boost-our-air-power-afghan-envoy-101625860550313.html
10-07-2021||India||'Implement poll promises on women welfare immediately': AIADMK warns DMK of state-wide protests in Tamil Nadu otherwise||Demanding that the DMK government immediately implement its ₹1,000 financial assistance scheme for women, a key Assembly poll promise, the main opposition AIADMK on Friday said it would launch a state-wide protest if this was not done. After assuming the role of opposition following a decade in the seat of power, this is the first major announcement by the AIADMK to target its arch rival DMK and also amid the backdrop of the recent renewed challenge from V K Sasikala to the party. The DMK captured power in Tamil Nadu by making several assurances and notably the ₹1,000 assistance scheme for women family heads (every month) and waiver of loans obtained by Women Self Help Groups from cooperative banks, the AIADMK said. In a resolution adopted at a meet of district secretaries and top office-bearers, the AIADMK said people, particulary women expected the DMK, which has assumed power to implement its electoral promises. "This meeting urges the DMK government to immediately implement its ₹1,000 financial assistance scheme." Also, it should honour several promises given to women and if the assurances are not fulfilled expeditiously, the party would hold a massive state-wide protest, AIADMK 'warned' the government in one of the six resolutions adopted in the meet. Waiver of jewel loans (by pledging jewels upto five sovereigns) from cooperative banks were among the other assurances the AIADMK pointed out. The main opposition also asked the DMK to take resolute steps over the Mekedatu dam issue and stop the bid by Karnataka to build the reservoir across Cauvery river. It urged the state and central government to curb price rise, including those related to fuel, cooking gas, farm input cost, cement and other construction materials. The DMK promised reducing petrol and diesel prices by ₹five and four (per litre) respectively after assuming power, and only an immediate implementation of this promise could a honest move, the AIADMK said. "This meet condemns the DMK government for not fulfilling its promise of providing ₹100 subsidy for cooking gas cylinders." It also slammed the DMK for not 'speaking out' on implementing several other promises made ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls. The AIADMK hit out at the government for "not procuring paddy on time" from farmers and asked it to take steps on a war footing to complete the exercise. The resolutions were proposed by top AIADMK leaders, coordinator O Panneerselvam and co-coordinator K Palaniswami and seconded by all district secretaries and functionaries. Sasikala, confidante of late top AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa, who was eased out of the party, has been talking over phone to her supporters and a section of main opposition party cadres and assured them that she would 'step in' to lead the party. However, the AIADMK leadership has dismissed such claims, saying she is not even a member of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implement-poll-promises-on-women-welfare-immediately-aiadmk-warns-dmk-of-state-wide-protests-in-tamil-nadu-otherwise-101625859582818.html
10-07-2021||India||Jammu-Kashmir delimitation process to be fair, transparent: Panel||A government commission redrawing electoral constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) said on Friday that the process will be fair and transparent, and based on consultations with all stakeholders, rejecting charges that the contentious exercise was pre-planned.The delimitation commission remarks came on the last day of its four-day tour of Kashmir and was a response to charges by the Peoples Democratic Party, which stayed away from the panel’s meetings and alleged that the “pre-determined” exercise was meant to disempower the people of Kashmir.“I don’t think anybody should have any fears. We are very confident that we will finish this in a transparent manner. Otherwise, we would not have come to spend three to four days here talking to so many people,” said former Supreme Court judge, justice Ranjana Prakash Desai, who heads the three-member panel.The commission also said that delimitation will be conducted on the basis of the 2011 census and there was no current criteria on how to divide seats between Hindu-majority Jammu and Muslim-majority Kashmir. Other members of the panel are chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and J&K’s election commissioner K K Sharma.“We are very overwhelmed by the participation of various stakeholders in large numbers. We have taken note of their suggestions. This is our first visit and I assure you this is not our last. This process is a complex exercise and this commission will take all necessary steps to continue this engagement,” Desai said.Speaking on similar lines, Chandra said: “We can assure you and as the chairperson also did, it will be an absolutely transparent process and we will take into account views of all stakeholders. That is why we visited Srinagar, Kishtwar and Jammu, and met 800 people from 290 groups,” he said.“If something would have been on our minds or something was decided earlier, then this commission would not have come here. I would like to say very clearly that nothing has been prepared so far. We wanted to make an assessment and know the views of the people. If that was done then there was no need for us to come,” he said.Quoting a Supreme Court Judgement, he said: “The delimitation is not a mere mathematical exercise. It must reflect the political aspirations of the society”.“We see it as one Union territory. We don’t bifurcate (on the basis of) how much will go to the Valley and how much will go to Jammu. All will be done in a transparent manner and criteria will be implemented uniformly,” he added.On PDP’s decision to stay away from the exercise, Desai said: “We can only interact with those who want to participate in the process... We wish that they all come.”Delimitation is a controversial process that was mandated after the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two union territories on August 5, 2019. It is seen as the first step towards holding fresh elections in the region after seven years but local parties allege that the exercise will tilt the balance of power towards Jammu.In the press conference, Chandra said the delimitation exercise will be carried out as per the 2011 census and will consider several features like geographical compactness, conveniences, accessibility, communication facilities and topography of the region.“Earlier, the delimitation exercise in J&K was done as per 1981 census but in the rest of the country, the delimitation was done based on the 2001 census. Twenty-four seats of the legislative assembly of UT of Jammu and Kashmir shall remain vacant and the said area shall be excluded in delimiting the territorial constituency as provided under part V of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019,” he said.The commission was constituted in March last year to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in the UT.The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s landmark meeting with political leaders from J&K on June 24 -- the first political outreach by the Centre in two years.The Centre sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls and restoration of statehood. After the event, the National Conference ended its boycott of the panel and met the members.But the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- of which both NC and PDP are a part -- demanded the restoration statehood before elections.The parties which met the commission included the NC, Congress, CPI(M), Apni Party and People’s Conference. While the majority of the parties suggested that population should be the main criteria for reorganisation of constituencies, the People’s Conference and CPI(M) demanded that the census figures of 2011 should be the benchmark for the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammukashmir-delimitation-process-to-be-fair-transparent-panel-101625860074427.html
10-07-2021||India||NGT can’t ‘short shrift’ health hazards posed by plastic bottles: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) came in for criticism in the Supreme Court on Friday for failing to pass any effective orders on a serious issue pertaining to health hazards posed by plastic bottles and multi-layered plastic packages despite dealing with the matter for seven years.The issue was brought to the tribunal in 2014 by NGO Him Jagriti Uttaranchal Welfare Society which demanded a ban on plastic packaging of carbonated soft drink and liquor immediately and gradual phasing out of plastic packaging for all other non-essential items, in view of its adverse consequences to environment and human health.The NGO complained that despite evidence against possible contamination of chemicals “leaching” from plastic bottles into food or fluids, the NGT disposed of the matter on January 8 by asking the authorities concerned in the government to take necessary steps.Dealing with the NGO’s appeal against the said order, the top court felt that the tribunal made light of its obligation to remedy the situation brought to its notice.“This is a serious issue. The tribunal (NGT) cannot short shift the concern brought before them. Ultimately, when they dispose of the matter, they have said to an extent the issue has been resolved,” said a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah.The court issued notice to the Union government, Central Pollution Control Board, Directorate General of Health Services, and Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to file their responses within six weeks. In addition, the other parties who have been asked to respond are All India Plastic Manufacturing Association, Tetra Pak India (P) Limited, Bureau of Indian Standards, and Pet Containers Manufacturing Association.Appearing for the NGO, advocate Ritwick Dutta submitted that the NGT abdicated its duty by failing to adjudicate the issue and left it to the authorities, whose inaction over seven years was demonstrated during the seven-year long proceedings, to take action.The bench agreed with this view.“This was not a writ petition. It was an original application that was part of the tribunal’s original jurisdiction. They had to deal with the cause raised.”The petition said the presence of heavy metals like antimony, lead, chromium, cadmium and plasticizers like di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalates (“DEHP”) in plastic beyond the prescribed limit, is detrimental to human health as the chemicals leach into the edible contents and cause damage to the endocrine and neurological system.The NGT even constituted an expert committee that submitted a report in August 2019 much in line with what the NGO pointed out. This report accepted that excessive use of plastic, especially in the packaging of non-essential products is a matter of concern.The ministry of chemicals and fertilizers has also been added as a party to the proceedings as the petition made reference to the decision passed by Drugs and Technical Advisory Board in May 2016 recommending a ban on the use of PET/ plastic in the liquid oral formulations for primary packaging of drug formulations for paediatric use, geriatric use and for use of pregnant women and women of reproductive age group, as a precautionary measure.Dutta pointed out that even expert bodies such as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health (AIIHPH) recommended for ban of plastic packaging for oral formulations for paediatric, geriatric and use by pregnant women and women of reproductive age.“The tribunal’s failure to adjudicate on the matter, which was pending before it since 2014, has caused further delay, only exacerbating the harmful effects on the health of consumers,” the petition added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-can-t-short-shrift-health-hazards-posed-by-plastic-bottles-supreme-court-101625860351822.html
10-07-2021||India||Suspended IPS officer booked for sedition in Chhattisgarh||Raipur: The Chhattisgarh Police on Friday booked suspended Indian Police Service (IPS) officer GP Singh for sedition citing documents “promoting enmity” and “conspiracy against the government” allegedly recovered in the raids at his premises last week. Singh was suspended after the state’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Economic Offences Wing (EOW) raided his premises in connection with a case related to disproportionate assets.A First Information Report (FIR) against Singh under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) was registered on ACB and EOW’s complaint at Raipur’s Kotwali police station on Thursday night. It cited the allegedly incriminatory documents recovered during the raid.HT has seen a copy of the FIR, which said the seized documents contain “provocative contents that can promote hatred and dissatisfaction against the constitutionally formed government”.The FIR said the case has been registered on the basis of a 48-page document ACB and EOW submitted after a primary investigation. “The documents submitted by the ACB were examined after taking legal opinion. An FIR has been registered under sections related to sedition and hate speech,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.The FIR said ACB recovered pieces of torn papers and when they were rearranged, “serious and sensitive contents were found”. “Objectionable comments against leaders of reputed political parties along with detailed plans of conspiracy were mentioned in these papers. Secret analysis related to representatives and candidates of different assembly constituencies along with comments on serious issues of the concerned area were also written on seized papers. The papers also contained comments on several government schemes, policies, social and religious issues,” the FIR said.It was not immediately clear who these people and parties were.Singh moved the Chhattisgarh high court against the sedition case and sought a Central Bureau of Investigation inquiry into the matter, said his lawyer Kishore Bhaduri. “We are also filing an interim relief application in a lower court,” said Bhaduri.Kanak Tiwari, a former advocate general of Chhattisgarh, said the FIR is inconclusive and does not mention anything in elaboration. “Whatever may or may not constitute the offence of sedition will be the subject of inquiry. In this regard, the Supreme Court judgment in the Kedarnath Singh case in 1962 is the ultimate authority to determine whether an offence is made out or not, but the facts are not brought in detail in FIR.”The 1962 judgment laid down the fundamental requirements--incitement to violence or public disorder--before registration of a sedition case.Searches were earlier conducted at around 15 locations linked to Singh, an additional director general-rank officer, from July 1 to July 3. Investigators have claimed to have discovered documents related to movable and immovable assets worth over ₹10 crore during the raids.An ACB statement on July 3 said the documents seized during searches at Singh’s premises established he allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and indulged in a “massive exchange of money”.“Singh also allegedly tried to commit money laundering by investing in shell companies,” the statement said.Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, served as additional director general of ACB and EOW before he was transferred to the state police academy in June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspended-ips-officer-booked-for-sedition-in-chhattisgarh-101625860084349.html
10-07-2021||India||Labour ministry kicks off survey on migrants using digital tools||The labour ministry has kicked off a mega survey on migrant workers in the country, billed as a “game changer” because it harnesses a range of digital tools for the first time that could transform the process of gathering economic data in the country.India has a rigorous system of conducting statistical surveys to capture a gamut of socio-economic data. But these are mostly done manually.The survey on migrant workers, proposed after a massive job crisis forced tens of thousands of them to flee cities after a total lockdown in 2020, is the first attempt to estimate their numbers and details associated with their work. The absence of such a database is a key hurdle in formulating policies for migrants.“It is going to be a game changer because not only will it give us a glimpse into the migrant workforce, but it is also the first time that a national survey has been totally digitally enabled to help with accuracy and authenticity,” said DPS Negi, director general of the labor bureau.On March 31, the government announced two national surveys. One would track migrants and their socio-economic conditions, jobs and sectors they work in, the labour ministry had said. The other would gather job creation numbers from 150,000 firms.Last summer when a harsh lockdown had to be imposed as the first wave of coronavirus infections swept the country, thousands of migrant workers fled cities, without jobs and with little to survive on. Most of them walked down highways to reach their native villages.The government wasn’t able to respond with any immediate help because there was no database of who these people were. The then labour minister, Santosh Gangwar, told Parliament in September 2020 that there was no data on how many migrant workers left cities or how many died.The migrant survey, which has finally started off, has been designed to capture a range of socio-economic data to help with policymaking. According to the official cited above, the attempt to map migrant workers relies on digital tools, customised according to the survey design.Surveyors are required to make inputs on GPS-connected handheld devices, Negi said. Artificial intelligence will play a key role in collating and organising data, which will not only capture and reconcile data faster but eliminate discrepancies.A voice-to-text software is also being used to record inputs.While there are no official estimates of migrant workers, a novel cohort-based migration metric, a statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had revealed an annual “interstate migrant population of about 60 million and an inter-district migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011.Subramanian had called for full portability of all welfare doles for migrants. The government has rolled out the One Nation One Ration Card programme, which is a digitised platform that enables migrants who hold a ration card to access their share of subsidised foodgrains from anywhere in the country.Negi said a sample size of 300,000 households was being considered for the migrants’ survey. For the establishments’ survey to determine primary job creation, 150,000 companies will be surveyed quarter-on-quarter.Much of the technologies behind the digital platforms being used for the migrants’ survey are homegrown, including those developed by the state-owned BECL Ltd.The migrant survey will provide empirical results on sectors that rely on migrant labour, such as textiles, stone quarries and mines, construction, brick kilns, small-scale industries, domestic work, etc.“In terms of socio-economic data, we need information on who they are, what they do, where they work and whether things such as seasonality affect their work preferences. Only then can we know what kind of vulnerabilities they are afflicted with. I hope the survey is granular enough,” said R Srinivasa Murthy, an economist formerly with the Narayan Meghaji Lokhande Maharashtra Institute of Labour Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labour-ministry-kicks-off-survey-on-migrants-using-digital-tools-101625859471281.html
10-07-2021||India||Kerala on alert after 14 Zika cases, Centre sends experts||At a time when Kerala is grappling with heavy caseload of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reporting maximum daily cases in the country, the state is now facing yet another challenge in the form of Zika virus outbreak. The Union government on Friday rushed a team of experts to the state, where at least 14 cases have been confirmed so far, the state health ministry said in a statement.Of the 19 samples sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune last, 14 were found to be positive for Zika virus on Thursday.Kerala health minister Veena George on Friday called an emergency meeting, and an action plan was formulated.“We have started a vigorous vector control programme and the whole state was alerted. We are closely monitoring the situation and more testing labs will be opened,” said George, adding that there was no need to panic.A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Parasala in Thiruvananthapuram district was among the 14 people to test positive for Zika virus on Thursday. A health official in the state said that the woman had a normal delivery on July 7 and both the mother and child are stable.At least 60 more samples were sent to Pune on Thursday even as health authorities in the state were busy making arrangements to test samples at the NIV regional centre in Alapuzha, an official said.The woman has no travel history, and it is suspected that she contacted the virus locally, adding to the worry of already overworked health officials.A surveillance team, along with vector control experts and entomology units, visited the area where the woman lived and made the necessary arrangements to prevent the further spread.State health authorities said the further spread could be contained with utmost vigil as all those who have tested positive so far live close to each other. Some of those affected also include health workers. “They were all working at a private hospital. We will check their travel history and take immediate action,” the minister said.In Delhi, health joint secretary Lav Agarwal said a six-member expert team has been rushed to help the state. “The six-member team includes vector-borne disease experts and doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences,” he said.While the virus is spread mostly through mosquitoes, it can also be transmitted sexually, experts said, adding that the fatality rate among Zika virus patients is very low and only one in five develops symptoms. The symptoms of the disease, first identified in monkeys in Uganda in 1947 and among humans in Nigeria in 1954, include joint pain, fever and headache. In May 2015, it was reported in Brazil, where it spread rapidly. The virus can cause shrunken brain in children and a rare auto-immune disease called Guillain-Barre syndrome, experts said, adding it was first reported in the country in Gujarat in 2017.Meanwhile, Covid-19 infections continued to remain high in Kerala, which reported 13,563 new cases on Friday with the test positivity rate of 10. 4%, according to the state health bulletin. For almost a month, the state has been reporting highest number of cases in the country. It also reported 130 deaths taking the toll to 14,380.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-on-alert-after-14-zika-cases-centre-sends-experts-101625859459363.html
10-07-2021||India||HC rejects Chirag's plea against LS Speaker’s decision on uncle Paras||The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House.Justice Rekha Palli said there was no merit in the petition as the Speaker has the right to regulate the internal disputes of the House. The judge added that the court cannot be asked to solve the internal party disputes.“Now it is very clear. If you want to press, it is your wish. I am clear that this is inter-party dispute. You can exercise your remedies. You take your call…But the court cannot get into this dispute,” Justice Palli said.“It is well settled that the right to regulate internal disputes of the House is the prerogative of the Speaker,” the high court said. “I find absolutely no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” Justice Palli added.The high court, which was inclined to impose cost on Chirag, did not do so after a request regarding the same was made by his counsel.The petition sought setting aside Lok Sabha Speaker’s June 14 circular showing the name of Paras as the leader of LJP. Paras took oath as a Union minister on July 7 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reshuffled his Cabinet.During the hearing, advocate Arvind Bajpai, representing Chirag, said among the six party MPs, five wrote to the Speaker to recognise Paras as leader of the party in the House and directions were passed in this regard.Thereafter, the party chose to remove those five MPs and approached the Speaker to take action and declare Chirag as the leader of the party in the House, Bajpai added. However, the Speaker has “not corrected” the alleged mistake of recognising Paras as the leader of the party in the House, he contended.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao, representing the Speaker’s office, vehemently opposed the petition, saying Chirag was attempting to get the inter-party dispute resolved in the court.They said five out of six members of the party had approached the Speaker with the fact that Paras was the whip holder of the party and that the action of the Speaker cannot be faulted with.The court, while agreeing to the submissions of the counsels, said it was not inclined to grant any relief.Chirag had filed the plea on July 7 and later tweeted in Hindi, saying he has filed a petition in the Delhi high Court against the Lok Sabha Speaker’s initial decision recognising party’s expelled member of Parliament Pashupati Paras as the leader of the party in the House.The plea said the review of the decision was pending with the Speaker and despite reminders no action has been taken after which they have approached the high court.It sought direction that a corrigendum be issued by showing the name of Chirag Paswan as leader of the party in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-chirag-s-plea-against-ls-speaker-s-decision-on-uncle-paras-101625859452286.html
10-07-2021||India||Madras HC pulls up public servants over ‘practising favouritism’||The Madras high court recently said that people holding responsible public posts are acting with the “evil elements” of favouritism, nepotism and corrupt activities that are “anti-developmental, anti-national and unconstitutional”. The court made these observations while disposing of a series of writ petitions filed since 2012 by Red Giant Movies, a production and distribution company headed by Udhaynidhi Stalin, son of chief minister M K Stalin. The case pertains to Red Giant movies filing writs that they were being discriminated against as they belonged to the opposition party then and were not being granted exemption under the Tamil Nadu Entertainment Tax Act, 1939. The then Government of Tamil Nadu passed an order in July 2006 under the Entertainments Tax Act, granting exemption from payment of entertainment tax for the movies having their title in Tamil. A subsequent government order in July 2011, imposed additional conditions. The government issued orders in January 2012, constituting a committee of persons as official and as ex-officio members to view and assess the movies based on applications submitted by the producers/distributors for tax exemption. Before the DMK won the assembly elections, for which results were announced on May 2, the AIADMK was in power from 2011. A bench comprising Justice S M Subramaniam passed an order on July 5 which became on Friday, saying that he found substance in the petitioner’s allegations of malafides. But the court said that due to lack of specifics evidence and lapse in time, the court could not grant the prayer that sought for quashing government orders related to the case. “As far as the present writ petitions are concerned, this Court could easily visualize the possibilities of favouritism and discrimination,” the court said in its order. “However, the Committee’s overall exercise was improper as the members of the Committee have a certain personal affinity with the Government or the Political leaders, who were ruling the State. Courts cannot undo the exercise in the event of not establishing malafide with concrete proof.”The court went on to issue guidelines to the present government to ensure that committee members are fair. On those lines, the court delved into issues of institutions, the integrity of public officers, judicial activism and corruption. “One can imagine if favouritism, nepotism and corrupt activities are allowed to go on to such an extent, the common man will suffer and we will not march towards the goal of social justice as enunciated in the Preamble of the Indian Constitution,” the court said. “Therefore, the appointment of women and men of integrity in public posts, specifically in such Expert Committees are of paramount importance.”Stating that institutions are majestic and created with a noble purpose, the court said that it was men and women, administering these institutions, who lack integrity and are to be blamed for illegal activities. “The definition of corruption is not confined only on the demand and acceptance of illegal gratification,” the court said. “Corruption in many other forms are far more dangerous than illegal gratifications. Those corrupt activities in the mind are the cause for the destruction of the institutions in this Country. Therefore, people should realise that the appointment of women and men of integrity and honesty alone is the solution for the purpose of upholding the institutional values, recognition and majesty.”The court instructed that the government must be careful while making appointments in government organisations, as an institution’s integrity is lost if the character of an individual working there is lost. The guidelines include selections to be made beyond the political affinities, aspirations and ideologies, “keeping in mind that it is public appointments”. Integrity and honesty with merit must be criteria. “If each Political party appointing their men in such Expert Committees, if allowed to be continued, then there is no scope for the revival of social justice, equality in opportunities, merit and integrity,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-pulls-up-public-servants-over-practising-favouritism-101625859331102.html
10-07-2021||India||Not leaving Kerala, being kicked out: Kitex MD Sabu Jacob||Thiruvananthapuram: Garment major Kitex Group’s managing director Sabu Jacob lashed out at the Kerala government on Friday after backing out of the ₹3,500 crore proposed project in the state and deciding to shift it to Telangana. “I am not leaving on my own. I was kicked out. Sad, Kerala says it is one of the best investor-friendly states, but ground situation is contrary. Its policies are at least 50-year-old,” an emotionally charged Jacob, the MD of Kitex group, said in Kochi before boarding a private jet sent by the Telangana government. He said he never expected such a fate. After he announced his withdrawal from the project two weeks back alleging witch-hunt and official apathy, many states have rolled out red carpet to the firm, which is one of the leading apparel exporters of the country. Though Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana have shown keen interest, the firm chose the last. Later, Telangana industry minister KT Rama Rao held a preliminary round of talks with Jacob and sent a private jet to Kochi. The jet was parked in Kochi since Thursday. “After airing my grievance everyone including Industry Minister P Rajeev was busy blaming me. Kerala has to learn many lessons from its neighbours, otherwise it will become a graveyard of industries,” Jacob said. He added that it was not a move against the state or its government but a desperate move to save his firm. “I know how to float around but I am really concerned about the future of upcoming entrepreneurs. The state has to change a lot. Let it be an eye opener,” the MD said, adding that Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan “really wanted to change the atmosphere but his efforts are not percolating down”. However, the Kerala industry minister put up a brave face, saying the government was willing to talk to him. “It is an unfortunate decision. It seems Jacob has made up his mind long before. He’s leaving the state when many major companies have decided to set up their shops in Kerala,” Rajeev said. He added that the state government had nothing to do with frequent inspections and most of them were result of complaints lodged to the National Human Rights Commission and various other courts. Rajeev also said it was wrong to blame the government alone as most of the complaints were filed by Congress leaders. Besides calling off the new project, which was signed in 2020 investor meet in Kochi, the MD said he would also be shifting some of the existing units to other states “if the situation continued to be like this”. He said his plan was to open three apparel parks in Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad as part of the industrial corridor, which was intended to give jobs to at least 35,000 people. Headquartered in Kochi, the firm provides 15,000 employment and exports ready-made apparels to many western countries. After its decision to leave the state, the company’s shares shot up by 13% in the last two days. The firm began as Anna Aluminium Company, founded by Jacob’s father M C Jacob in a small way in 1970s. In 1992, the company entered into garment manufacturing sector as Kitex Garments Ltd. The firm now claims to be the second largest producer of children’s apparels in the world. It released its public issue in 1995 and various state governments often cited the company to paint a rosy picture against its much-criticised trade union culture. However, the group fell out with major political parties after it floated an independent political party called ‘Twenty20’ in 2015. The party, which currently rules over four local bodies in Ernakulam district, also fielded candidates in the district in the recently concluded assembly elections. According to political observers, some of its candidates received enough votes to become the cause of defeats for many Congress candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-leaving-kerala-being-kicked-out-kitex-md-sabu-jacob-101625859273005.html
10-07-2021||India||K’taka to intensify measures amid Zika concerns||The Karnataka government on Friday said that it would intensify efforts to monitor vector control measures in the state over rising concerns of the Zika virus in neighbouring Kerala.“Given reporting of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the neighbouring state of Kerala, it is crucial to intensify the vector control measures in Karnataka also,” the state health department said in a statement on Friday.“The current monsoon season supports the widespread proliferation of Aedes mosquito, a vector for Zika Virus. Considering the prevalence of Aedes aegypti in Karnataka, which is a vector of Dengue, Chikungunya as well Zika, the routine SR activity in rural areas by ASHA & health assistants, the fortnightly SR activity in urban wards should be implemented on war-footing mode with strict monitoring & supervision,” according to the statement.The health department said that effective disposal of solid waste should be given due importance to prevent Aedes breeding in peri-domestic conditions.The measures come days after Kerala detected new cases of the Zika virus, and the union health ministry has sent a six-member team to the southern state to monitor the situation.The number of Zika cases detected on Friday is 14, forcing the Kerala government to sound an alert.Karnataka and Kerala share a border and several districts on either side see significant people movement on either side daily.Karnataka has already put in place measures to mandate RT-PCR negative certificates from anyone coming from Kerala and Maharashtra (in the northern border) to contain the possibility of more covid-19 infected persons coming into the state.The new health scare adds to the possibility of prolonging the impact of the pandemic in which several states have enforced restrictions and people movement to contain the spread of the novel Coronavirus.The measures to intensify vector control of Zika include surveillance for adults and larvae.According to the government, it will conduct vector management through environmental modification and manipulation, adopting personal protection measures, biological and chemical control at households, community and institutional levels.The health department said that it will conduct Aedes larval surveillance and source reduction activities in airports, seaports/harbours and the villages and wards in the vicinity of 2 km with increased vigil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-to-intensify-measures-amid-zika-concerns-101625859211060.html
10-07-2021||India||Biocon MD lashes out at B’luru civic body over poor quality of public projects||Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, the chairperson and managing director of Biocon Ltd, on Friday lashed out at the civic authorities over the poor quality of works completed by the city corporation.“Is this what @BBMPCOMM accepts as a completed project? I am so depressed to see our city in ruins with no pride left. All other cities hv (have) used the pandemic to complete road projects except us!” Shaw said in a post on Twitter.She posted a picture of what appears to be a newly laid out concrete footpath that looks haphazard and incomplete with loose stones covering one part of it.She tagged Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister in the post as well.Netizens responded to the tweet by posting several more such examples of poor quality of infrastructure across the city.The state government had stated that it would use the covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown to complete all road and other infrastructure projects.The statements by Shaw, one of Bengaluru’s most prominent residents, come at a time when the city’s infrastructure appears to have deteriorated further from before the pandemic.Bengaluru, once referred to as the garden city, is among the most polluted in the country largely due to excessive vehicular movement and relentless construction activities.Almost all roads in Bengaluru are currently in a deplorable condition, which successive governments attribute to its “developing” nature.Road and other infrastructure works are taken up periodically, costing the tax-payers thousands of crores, but are rarely ever in driveable conditions that has added to the challenges of India’s IT capital.The BBMP’s budget, however, has remained in the ballpark of ₹10,000 crores per year.The civic body set aside ₹473 crore for upgradation of roads under chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s ambitious “Mission 2022”.The BBMP budget 2021-22 provides for around ₹20 lakhs per ward for each of the around 200 wards in the city as part of the goal to reach 1000 kms of walkable footpaths across Bengaluru.However, most of the footpaths have been dug out, barring a few completed Tender Sure roads in the central business district.The civic body set aside ₹473 crore for up-gradation of roads under chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s ambitious “Mission 2022”, a campaign to overhaul the city to mark the 75th year of independence.The ambitious mission, initiated by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, proposes the development of 12 high-density corridors, totalling nearly 200km.The campaign also proposed rejuvenating lakes and increasing green cover.The recent rains between July 4 to 7 had chipped away newly laid roads, water logged and dangerous for pedestrians and commuters.The increase in construction activities in public infrastructure has also brought down the quality of air, water and the general quality of living in a city that aspires to be referred to as “global city”.The infrastructure in Bengaluru has barely kept up with its prowess in technology, startups, biotechnology and aerospace among other attributes.There are at least 147 kms of roads within Bengaluru, under major projects, that are currently under construction, according to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body).“We should hope to complete it by the end of December,” according to one senior official of the BBMP, requesting anonymity.He added that the delays in completion of works is due to shifting of utilities and not to disrupt traffic movement. He added that even the police only give staggered approvals to avoid traffic blocks.However, a day of driving in Bengaluru would give the true picture as almost 9.4 million vehicles moving at snail’s pace due to poor quality of roads and congestion, has even earned the city the reputation of having the world’s worst traffic globally in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biocon-md-lashes-out-at-b-luru-civic-body-over-poor-quality-of-public-projects-101625859151154.html
10-07-2021||India||Mandya MP, JD(S) trade barbs over illegal mining||Member of parliament Sumalatha Ambareesh and the Janata Dal (Secular), led by former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, traded charges over alleged illegal mining in Karnataka’s Mandya district, about 100 kms from Bengaluru.The war of words raked up yesteryear actor and politician, MH Amarnath, better known by his screen name Ambareesh.The confrontation between the Mandya MP, the widow of popular actor-turned-politician Ambareesh, and the JD (S), which has its seeds in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, was reignited this time when Sumalatha alleged that illegal mining activities were affecting the structure of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam.On Monday, the Mandya MP demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the impact of illegal mining on the dam. Leaders of the JD(S), who have won all eight seats in the district, were quick to react, alleging that all illegal mining activities had begun during the time when Ambareesh was at the helm of affairs in the sugarcane-growing district.“This is the number one point for loose talk by those who are expected to be in a responsible position,” Sumalatha told reporters in Bengaluru on Friday.“If you have any documents that prove Ambareesh has done something illegal, definitely bring it and make a complaint to officials. Who said don’t. All these years you were there, why didn’t you take any action so far?” she questioned. Sumalatha, an independent who was backed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2019 elections, defeated Nikhil Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) candidate and son of HD Kumaraswamy.The battle in 2019 had seen several JD(S) legislators make personal remarks against Sumalatha that helped turn the tide in her favour, despite Kumaraswamy’s party sweeping the assembly polls in all eight constituencies the year before.HD Kumaraswamy on Monday waded into a controversy by asking Sumalatha to sleep in front of the gates of KRS dam to prevent seepage. “For Mandya district, there was never a parliamentarian like her nor will there be one like her in the future. Day before I had seen in a meeting where she acted like the protector of KRS dam and we should probably make her sleep at the gates to ensure the water doesn’t leak,” Kumaraswamy had told reporters.In response, the first-time MP said that it displays the mindset of the former chief minister. “It proves his intolerance towards women,” she said.The fight between the JD(S) and BJP-backed Sumalatha, experts say, is likely to have a bearing on the relationship between the two parties in the district where Congress is believed to be the common enemy.Prathap Simha, the MP from neighbouring Mysuru-Kodagu, on Friday said that Sumalatha should provide evidence that there were cracks developing in the KRS dam.“Before saying that it (Dam) has developed cracks, have you seen it personally and with what evidence are you making these statements,” Simha said.Sumalatha had also alleged phone tapping, which indicated the possibility that Kumaraswamy misused the office of the chief minister for personal gain.Shivarame Gowda, former MP from Mandya and JD(S) leader, on Friday said that Sumalatha used and profited from Ambareesh’s name and death to come to power.“I will ask Sumakka (Sumalatha) that so many people of Mandya gave you their vote, have you even given them a glass of water when you are in power?” Gowda said.He added that Ambareesh lived the life of a big man and enjoyed the love of people but did nothing for the district of Mandya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandya-mp-jd-s-trade-barbs-over-illegal-mining-101625859093379.html
10-07-2021||India||Plea for relief from physical appearance: HC reserves order on Twitter head’s plea||The Karnataka High Court today reserved orders in the petition filed by Twitter India’s Manish Maheshwari. The Twitter India official had challenged the Uttar Pradesh Police notice asking to appear before them in person regarding a video that alleged an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad was a victim of a hate crime. Police said that their investigation later revealed that the incident was over a personal dispute and booked nine people, including Twitter India, for allegedly circulating false information to fan communal tension.The single bench reserved its order after arguments on Friday, to be pronounced on July 13.During the hearing, UP Police’s counsel, Prasanna Kumar, submitted that if Maheshwari is not the Managing Director (MD) of Twitter India, he should state the same before the court, and Maheshwari will not be arrested as he is only a representative of Twitter.In response, Justice G Narendar said: “How many times should he tell that he is not the MD? He already answered, on 18th June.”CV Nagesh, appearing for Maheshwari, submitted that there was a need to ensure that power under Section 41A is not used to intimidate, threaten and harass people such as the petitioner.Twitter’s India head Manish Maheshwari told the Karnataka high court on Tuesday that he was ready to appear before the UP Police if they guarantee that they will not arrest him, even as the single-judge bench asked the police if they had ascertained that Twitter India was capable of controlling the content on its platform.The UP Police had insisted on Maheshwari appearing before them in person while he had offered to give a statement over video conferencing with regards to the matter.Twitter has been in the eye of controversy over the past few months. On May 21, it labelled a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Sambit Patra “manipulated media” prompting a Delhi Police investigation. The special cell of Delhi Police questioned Manish Maheshwari, managing director of Twitter in India, in late May.The company then missed a May 25 deadline to comply with the new guidelines for intermediaries and social media firms, and an official in the IT ministry previously told HT that the company would lose the protection it enjoyed as an intermediary under the country’s IT law as a result.The Ghaziabad Police has been wanting to question Maheshwari over a video clip that went viral on June 15. The police believe Twitter did not do enough to halt the circulation of the clip which they believe misrepresents the nature of an attack on an elderly Muslim man as a communal hate crime. The Karnataka high court gave the Twitter executive protection from arrest and told the Ghaziabad Police that they could question him virtually, a ruling that has since been challenged in the Supreme Court.The map that caused the latest controversy was part of a larger image depicting the world map on the company’s website under the careers sections on the page titled Tweep Life. While it showed the disputed Aksai Chin area of Ladakh, illegally occupied by China, as part of that country, it depicted the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as a separate country.The misrepresentation caused an uproar online amid the ongoing impasse between the government and the micro-blogging firm.This is the second time that Twitter has run into trouble over a map in the past year. In October last year, the Centre had served Twitter with a notice over the geotag for Leh showing it as a part of China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-for-relief-from-physical-appearance-hc-reserves-order-on-twitter-head-s-plea-101625859033942.html
10-07-2021||India||₹1,500cr plant on anvil to treat Vrishabhavati river: K’taka minister||Karnataka minister for tourism and environment CP Yogeshwar said the state government will spend ₹1,500 crore in five years to build a tertiary treatment facility so that Vrishabhavati river water will be treated and used for agriculture purposes, even as a report by exerts says the civic agencies in the city are responsible for flow of sewage into the river. “The tertiary treatment facility will be completed in three to five years. Treated water through the tertiary treatment can be utilised for many things except for drinking purposes,’’ Yogeshwar said during his visit to the river on Thursday. The 57-km-long Vrishabhavathi river used to be a picnic spot in the late 1960s. Because of water pollution, the only river that originates from Bengaluru city now has an alternative name – the Kengeri Mori (Gutter of Kengeri). Vrishabhavati, a tributary of Arkavathi, originates in Bengaluru near the Bull Temple in Basavanagudi and flows through major areas like Guddadahalli, Bapujinagar, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, and Kengeri before it meets Arkavathi near Kanakapura town. The river carries domestic sewage from Bengaluru city and industrial effluents from Peenya, Yeshwanthpura, Kumbalgodu, Bidadi and Harohalli industrial areas. A report submitted by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) points out that it is the civic agencies in the city that are responsible for the current state of the river. According to the report, the city generates an estimated 1,440 million litres of sewage per day (MLD), a third of this, around 530 MLD, drains into Vrishabhavati; only 260 MLD sewage is treated. The report states that construction of sewage treatment plants (STPs) – capable of treating 150 MLD sewage -- is in progress. “Still, there is a gap of 200 MLD, which need to be addressed immediately,” the 48-page document states. “The present sewage flow in Vrishabhavati Valley is 530 MLD and it is expected that the sewage will be 720 MLD by the year 2023. Many local industries dump their waste products directly into the river, which causes pollution and increases the stress on the river. The wastewater treatment plant capacity serving the area does not meet the demand, which further adds stress on the river,” the report read. The interim report has suggested the issue of disposal of effluents, both domestic and industrial wastewater, and solid waste to be addressed on a priority basis. Some of the short-term measures are fencing the drains, regularly monitoring the quality of wastewater, checking unauthorised developments around the lakes, de-silting and setting up a toll-free number to receive complaints. Experts say the decay of the river has an impact on Bengaluru’s ecosystem that goes beyond the froth and stench it generates; it could affect the quality of groundwater in the areas that it passes through. Farmers on the outskirts of the city use this water for the cultivation of vegetables that end up on the dining tables of the city’s residents. “In terms of volume, domestic sewage contributes to the bulk of the pollution. Most households in Bengaluru don’t connect their sewage to the lines provided by the civic authorities. These (sewage) lines are meant to take the domestic effluents to a treatment centre. But the people connect their sewage to stormwater drains, which eventually take it to the river,” said Dr Sharachchandra Lele, a distinguished fellow at the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment. According to the experts, the effluents let into the river are slowly making their way back to the city. “The baby corn, other vegetables, fodder and the milk from the cattle from the villages downstream come into the city. If the quality of water the cattle drink and the water that is used for cultivation is bad it could certainly affect the city dwellers directly,” Lele said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1500cr-plant-on-anvil-to-treat-vrishabhavati-river-k-taka-minister-101625858911176.html
10-07-2021||India||HC rejects Chirag plea against LS Speaker’s decision on uncle Paras||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday dismissed a plea by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House. Justice Rekha Palli said there was no merit in the petition as the Speaker has the right to regulate the internal disputes of the House. The judge added that the court cannot be asked to solve the internal party disputes. “Now it is very clear. If you want to press, it is your wish. I am clear that this is inter-party dispute. You can exercise your remedies. You take your call…But the court cannot get into this dispute,” Justice Palli said. “It is well settled that the right to regulate internal disputes of the House is the prerogative of the Speaker,” the high court said. “I find absolutely no merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” Justice Palli added. The high court, which was inclined to impose cost on Chirag, did not do so after a request regarding the same was made by his counsel. The petition sought setting aside Lok Sabha Speaker’s June 14 circular showing the name of Paras as the leader of LJP. Paras took oath as a Union minister on July 7 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reshuffled his Cabinet. During the hearing, advocate Arvind Bajpai, representing Chirag, said among the six party MPs, five wrote to the Speaker to recognise Paras as leader of the party in the House and directions were passed in this regard. Thereafter, the party chose to remove those five MPs and approached the Speaker to take action and declare Chirag as the leader of the party in the House, Bajpai added. However, the Speaker has “not corrected” the alleged mistake of recognising Paras as the leader of the party in the House, he contended. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, and senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao, representing the Speaker’s office, vehemently opposed the petition, saying Chirag was attempting to get the inter-party dispute resolved in the court. They said five out of six members of the party had approached the Speaker with the fact that Paras was the whip holder of the party and that the action of the Speaker cannot be faulted with. The court, while agreeing to the submissions of the counsels, said it was not inclined to grant any relief. Chirag had filed the plea on July 7 and later tweeted in Hindi, saying he has filed a petition in the Delhi high Court against the Lok Sabha Speaker’s initial decision recognising party’s expelled member of Parliament Pashupati Paras as the leader of the party in the House. The plea said the review of the decision was pending with the Speaker and despite reminders no action has been taken after which they have approached the high court. It sought direction that a corrigendum be issued by showing the name of Chirag Paswan as leader of the party in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rejects-chirag-plea-against-ls-speaker-s-decision-on-uncle-paras-101625858791109.html
10-07-2021||India||SC declines to entertain plea that sought sunset clause in caste-based quotas||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition to limit caste-based reservations in education as it felt this was an issue outside the jurisdiction of the courts.A PIL filed by a practising doctor Subhash Vijayaran argued that caste-based reservation cannot be allowed to continue for eternity as there should be a time limit, beyond which the reservation benefits should be rolled back.“Compared to the pre-reservation era when people strived to gain the forward tag, today people fight and spill blood for the backward tag. Well off doctors, lawyers, engineers flaunt their backward tag to gain admissions in PG (post graduate) courses via reservations. Even the institutions of national importance like AIIMS, NLUs, IITs, IIMs, etc. are not spared. Every year, 50% of their very scarce seats are sacrificed on the altar of reservation,” the petition said.The petitioner, who also has a law degree, requested the court to place a time limit on such affirmative action, contending that if it was left to Parliament, caste-based reservation would continue for eternity.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat told him that they couldn’t do this.“You are fully aware of our jurisdiction. How do we fix a time limit on caste-based reservation? We can allow you to withdraw or we will dismiss this petition,” the bench said.It was the petitioner’s case that instead of reservation, the weaker sections need to be empowered by making them more competitive rather than de-powering them by eternal crutches of reservation that not only promotes mediocrity but ignites hatred and resentment in the society.A pro-reservation foundation appeared on caveat to oppose the petition. Vijayaran decided to withdraw his PIL following which no orders were passed by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-declines-to-entertain-plea-that-sought-sunset-clause-in-caste-based-quotas-101625858672401.html
10-07-2021||India||UGC’s revision of history syllabus for undergraduate course triggers row||New Delhi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) revised the undergraduate history syllabus under the Learning Outcome-based Curriculum Framework (LOCF) this week after receiving suggestions from stakeholders between February and March. The draft prepared by an expert committee of the commission has run into a controversy over objections raised by some members of academia over its increased focus on Vedic literature, fewer topics on Mughal history, and an outdated reading list.While some teachers said they are concerned over the reduced focus on Mughal history, the introduction of a paper called Idea of Bharat, more focus on religious and Vedic literature, removal of papers on the role of women in ancient Indian society, and an outdated reading list, others welcomed the revised syllabi saying too much focus had been given to Mughal history over the years and an introduction to “Indian society” was a good move as students must learn India’s diverse history.Jitendra Meena, assistant professor of history at Shyam Lal College, said the exclusion of certain topics hinted at a political agenda. “The Mughal history topics have been reduced and are being seen in comparison to regional powers like the Marathas instead of being studied on their own. Similarly, branding the 1857 revolt as the First War of Independence seems like an endorsement of the Savarkar school of thought whereas many subaltern studies have termed the 1855 Santhal rebellion as the first war of independence. The paper on Inequality and Differences has also been removed which had helped students understand caste, language, and other identity-based issues.”Despite repeated requests, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain did not comment on the matter on Friday.Other DU professors also said the syllabus was regressive and did not address the issues of caste and gender. “A paper titled the ‘Idea of Bharat’ has been included as the first paper to set the tone for a certain kind of propaganda. The curriculum framework, which might be implemented across central universities, will move us towards a ‘monolithic’ kind of construction of India. In the ‘Idea of Bharat’, there has been a continuous use of the word ‘eternity’ that means changelessness. It’s making India look like a changeless society and a land of religion. Whereas, historically we are a land of critique of religion. The syllabus also does not address issues of caste and gender. So, overall this curriculum is regressive,” said Maya John, assistant professor of history at Jesus and Mary College.Not all history teachers agreed with this viewpoint. Monmoyee Basu, who has been teaching history at Hansraj College for over two decades, said, “I appreciate the paper Idea of Bharat because students should have an idea of their country, its geographical area, history, and culture. So studying the concept of India is important. However, the reading list fails to include recent publications or important texts for multiple papers.”The current syllabus also does not have papers on the history of women in ancient India as compared to the current CBCS syllabus, which has listed “appreciating the ways in which technological changes, commercial developments, and challenges to patriarchy by certain women shaped the times” as a learning outcome in the “history of India” paper.LOCF is interlinked with the choice-based credit system (CBCS) currently in place in Delhi University colleges. While Jamia Millia Islamia and 44 DU colleges offer undergraduate courses as per the CBCS pattern, Ambedkar University is in the process of aligning with the CBCS pattern. Teachers across universities said the current syllabus had reduced the number of papers from 43 to 37 in addition to either removing or replacing 12 papers.UGC officials said that the peer-reviewed LOCF syllabus is not binding in nature and is prepared after taking the suggestions of stakeholders into account. “LOCF is advisory in nature and higher educational institutions are requested to take necessary measures for appropriate revision of the curriculum. It is not intended to promote the designing of a national common syllabus for a programme of studies,” a senior UGC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugcs-revision-of-history-syllabus-for-undergraduate-course-triggers-row-101625858371085.html
10-07-2021||India||J&K delimitation process to be fair, transparent: Panel||Srinagar: A government commission redrawing electoral constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) said on Friday that the process will be fair and transparent, and based on consultations with all stakeholders, rejecting charges that the contentious exercise was pre-planned.The delimitation commission remarks came on the last day of its four-day tour of Kashmir and was a response to charges by the Peoples Democratic Party, which stayed away from the panel’s meetings and alleged that the “pre-determined” exercise was meant to disempower the people of Kashmir.  “I don’t think anybody should have any fears. We are very confident that we will finish this in a transparent manner. Otherwise, we would not have come to spend three to four days here talking to so many people,” said former Supreme Court judge, justice Ranjana Prakash Desai, who heads the three-member panel. The commission also said that delimitation will be conducted on the basis of the 2011 census and there was no current criteria on how to divide seats between Hindu-majority Jammu and Muslim-majority Kashmir. Other members of the panel are chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and J&K’s election commissioner K K Sharma. “We are very overwhelmed by the participation of various stakeholders in large numbers. We have taken note of their suggestions. This is our first visit and I assure you this is not our last. This process is a complex exercise and this commission will take all necessary steps to continue this engagement,” Desai said.Speaking on similar lines, Chandra said: “We can assure you and as the chairperson also did, it will be an absolutely transparent process and we will take into account views of all stakeholders. That is why we visited Srinagar, Kishtwar and Jammu, and met 800 people from 290 groups,” he said.“If something would have been on our minds or something was decided earlier, then this commission would not have come here. I would like to say very clearly that nothing has been prepared so far. We wanted to make an assessment and know the views of the people. If that was done then there was no need for us to come,” he said.Quoting a Supreme Court Judgement, he said: “The delimitation is not a mere mathematical exercise. It must reflect the political aspirations of the society”.“We see it as one Union territory. We don’t bifurcate (on the basis of) how much will go to the Valley and how much will go to Jammu. All will be done in a transparent manner and criteria will be implemented uniformly,” he added.On PDP’s decision to stay away from the exercise, Desai said: “We can only interact with those who want to participate in the process... We wish that they all come.” Delimitation is a controversial process that was mandated after the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two union territories on August 5, 2019. It is seen as the first step towards holding fresh elections in the region after seven years but local parties allege that the exercise will tilt the balance of power towards Jammu. In the press conference, Chandra said the delimitation exercise will be carried out as per the 2011 census and will consider several features like geographical compactness, conveniences, accessibility, communication facilities and topography of the region. “Earlier, the delimitation exercise in J&K was done as per 1981 census but in the rest of the country, the delimitation was done based on the 2001 census. Twenty-four seats of the legislative assembly of UT of Jammu and Kashmir shall remain vacant and the said area shall be excluded in delimiting the territorial constituency as provided under part V of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019,” he said.The commission was constituted in March last year to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu & Kashmir, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland. The commission has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise. It will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in the UT.The delimitation issue was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s landmark meeting with political leaders from J&K on June 24 -- the first political outreach by the Centre in two years. The Centre sought the completion of the delimitation exercise before assembly polls and restoration of statehood. After the event, the National Conference ended its boycott of the panel and met the members. But the five-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- of which both NC and PDP are a part -- demanded the restoration statehood before elections. The parties which met the commission included the NC, Congress, CPI(M), Apni Party and People’s Conference. While the majority of the parties suggested that population should be the main criteria for reorganisation of constituencies, the People’s Conference and CPI(M) demanded that the census figures of 2011 should be the benchmark for the exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-delimitation-process-to-be-fair-transparent-panel-101625857773567.html
10-07-2021||India||Mukul Roy made PAC chairman in Bengal assembly, BJP walks out||Kolkata: Mukul Roy, who has joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) but is still officially a legislator of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was made chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal assembly on Friday as the budget session came to an end. BJP lawmakers staged a walkout in protest, saying the convention of an opposition MLA appointed as head of the PAC was violated. The party had nominated Ashok Lahiri, former chief economic adviser to the Centre and lawmaker from Balurghat, for the post. “We did not nominate Roy for inclusion in the PAC. The ruling party wants to spend government funds and keep the accounts as well. This is autocracy. The speaker violated convention,” said Suvendu Adhikari, BJP legislator and leader of the opposition in the assembly. Defending the decision of speaker Biman Banerjee, TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “There is no rule which says an opposition leader has to be made the PAC chairman. It is only a convention. The speaker is the sole authority to select the chairman. He has done the right thing.” The speaker told the House that Roy was selected because of his experience. That Roy could be made the PAC chairman had become somehow apparent on June 24 when chief minister Mamata Banerjee stoked speculations. “Anybody can file nomination papers for inclusion in the PAC. He (Roy) is a BJP member. He has been supported by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. If required, we will support him too. We will win if there is an election. Let people see who is more powerful. The speaker takes these decisions,” Banerjee had told the reporters during a press conference. However, no election was held on Friday since the BJP had nominated six MLAs for inclusion in the PAC, which can have a maximum of 20 members. The TMC had named 14 MLAs, said Adhikari. According to rules, it is the discretion of the speaker to select the chairpersons of the various committees in the assembly. The Bengal assembly has 41 committees, of which PAC is considered the most important one. Earlier, the BJP and TMC got into a tussle on June 25 when 67-year-old Roy, who left the saffron camp and returned to the ruling party on June 11, filed his nomination for induction in the PAC. On June 18, the BJP submitted a petition before assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, saying Roy, the legislator from Krishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under anti-defection law as he did not resign from the BJP before switching sides. On June 26, the BJP submitted a letter to the speaker saying Roy’s nomination should be cancelled because the party did not nominate him. Stating that the BJP may seek legal action, the letter added that Roy should be disqualified under anti-defection law. The decision to disqualify a member is taken only by the speaker. The Constitution does not specify any time frame for the process, which involves inquiry and setting up of a committee. Adhikari, Mamata Banerjee’s protege-turned-adversary, joined the BJP in December last year and defeated her from Nandigram constituency in the recently concluded assembly polls. He filed the application for Roy’s disqualification. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president, returned to the TMC along with his son Subhranshu, but did not officially resign from the BJP, said opposition leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-made-pac-chairman-in-bengal-assembly-bjp-walks-out-101625857771087.html
10-07-2021||India||Exempt armed forces from RTI law, department of military affairs to govt||NEW DELHI: The department of military affairs (DMA) has sent a proposal to the government seeking exemption of the armed forces from the Right to Information Act, 2005, citing implications for national security, people familiar with the developments said on Friday.The DMA wants the defence services to be included in the Second Schedule of the law that lists intelligence and security organisations exempted from most transparency obligations placed on public authorities under the law, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named. He said the proposal sent last month was being examined by the department of personnel and training (DoPT).RTI campaigner Venkatesh Nayak said the DMA proposal was “extremely distressing” and the DMA should have made efforts to implement the RTI Act “rather than resist it”.“If its proposal is approved, this will become another severe body blow dealt to the regime of transparency established by the Act,” he said.Created in December 2019, DMA is one of the five verticals in the defence ministry, apart from the departments of defence, defence production, defence research and development and ex-service welfare. DMA is headed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who is steering the military theaterisation drive.“There have been instances of the RTI Act being misused to obtain inside information at the behest of inimical elements. We may not give out the number of soldiers deployed in a sector in response to an RTI query. But then we get queries on quantities of ration, fuel and vehicles. Responses to such questions can help those elements calculate backwards,” he said.A previous attempt by the armed forces in 2006 to get into the exempted category did not materialise. The government had then countered that the armed forces were free to reject information requests which, in their opinion, had security implications.The second official cited above said there was no reason to keep the defence forces out when even organisations like the Border Security Force, the Central Reserve Police Force, the Central Industrial Security Force are exempted under Section 24 of the Act, which empowers the government to place security and intelligence organisations in the exempted list.A total of 26 organisations are exempted under Section 24. But they do have to respond to RTI requests in case of information sought in respect of allegations of violation of corruption and human rights violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exempt-armed-forces-from-rti-law-department-of-military-affairs-to-govt-101625856391653.html
10-07-2021||India||Delhiwale: The unorthodox dal makhani||This lawyer-cum-writer has challenged tradition. A resident of Delhi’s Bengali Market, Siddharth Kapila has appended a “modern healthy-ish take” to dal makhanni, the dish whose joy lies in its rich makhan, or butter. Tweaking the soul of a beloved dish is a risky undertaking. Good for him he did it in faraway England, where he is currently stranded. The 30-something Mr Kapila had gone to visit friends there in March, and couldn’t return as planned due to the second surge of coronavirus in Delhi. Speaking on a WhatsApp video call from Leeds town, he confesses “I like combining elements of different cuisines, without taking away what the original is good for.”In his version, he replaces butter with Greek yoghurt, a substitute that has been employed in the recent past by a few blogger-chefs too (just Google!). Mr Kapila says one can get the Greek yoghurt “in any Khan Market grocery” but we can also use Mother Dairy dahi, he assures. Here’s his recipe.Ingredients:For mixed seeds chilli oil:½ teaspoon coriander seeds, coarsely crushed½ teaspoon cumin seeds½ teaspoon mustard seeds1 chopped green chilli½ teaspoon Kashmiri mirch powderFor dal tadka:1 onion, finely chopped1 tomato, chopped3/4 cloves garlic, finely chopped or crushed and the same amount of crushed ginger3/4 teaspoon cumin seeds1 tablespoon coriander powder1 teaspoon Kashmiri mirch powder1 cup black beluga lentils or urad dal3 cups (or more) waterAdjust for salt¼ cup plain Greek yogurt or thick dahia bunch of fresh mint leaves, thinly slicedMethod:Boil a cup of (soaked for 6 hours) daal with salt. Adjust the water so that the dal is thick rather than watery. To this, add a tadka of cumin seeds, onion, tomato, ginger, garlic and coriander powder—made by cooking down the ingredients in two tablespoons of hot oil.Separately, warm thick Greek yoghurt in a double boiler. Which is to say, pour the yoghurt in a glass bowl that is placed over a sauce pan in which water is gently simmering. The dahi should be warm, not hot.For the mixed seeds chilli oil, heat a table spoon of vegetable oil on a slow flame. Add the mixture of seeds and a chopped green chilli. Allow the oil to sizzle and splutter and add a pinch of Kashmiri Mirch powder for colour as soon as you take it off the flame.For serving: add the thick dal in a serving dish, pour the warm yoghurt on top of it and drizzle the chilli oil over the yoghurt. Finally, sprinkle finely sliced mint leaves over the dish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-unorthodox-dal-makhani-101625856026217.html
10-07-2021||India||Social media cannot be used to defame: SC||New Delhi: Stating that social media cannot be used to defame others, the Supreme Court on Friday refused to grant protection from arrest to a college professor who allegedly made objectionable remarks on Facebook against Union minister Smriti Irani. The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta observed that people must remain mindful of the language they use against others while criticising them, or cracking jokes on social media. “You can’t defame women like this. You cannot use social media just to defame. What kind of language is being used? There is a language to criticise. There is a language to say jokes. You can’t say anything you like and then want to get away,” said the bench, denying anticipatory bail to Shaharyar Ali, head of the history department at SRK College in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad. Firozabad Police booked Ali, head of History department at SRK College, in March for an allegedly obscene Facebook post against the Union women and child development minister. He was booked for offences under Section 505 (2) of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly promoting enmity between communities, apart from Section 67A of the Information Technology Act for publishing obscene material. The first information report was lodged against Ali on a complaint by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. The Allahabad high court in May denied pre-arrest bail to Ali, saying that the accused was not eligible for the relief given the fact that he is a senior teacher and head of department in a college. It added that his social post was likely to promote ill will between different communities. Challenging this order, Ali, through senior counsel Vikas Singh, claimed before the top court that his Facebook account was hacked, and that as soon as he came to know about the contentious post, he published an apology. But the bench remained unimpressed. “What you are saying is an afterthought. You used the same account to post your apology but you say your account was hacked. This shows you are the one still using that account. Is there anything to show that your account had been hacked?” it asked Singh. At this, the counsel said that though he had nothing to show about his account getting hacked, his conduct of posting the apology should be construed as being truthful. The court, however, retorted: “We are not able to believe your hacking story. If your account was hacked, how can you access your own account? It can’t be called hacking. And if someone has used your account to post something, you will still be liable prima facie. You can prove your innocence before the trial court if you have not done anything.” The court said that Ali cannot claim ignorance since he used the same account hours later. “And then you think that by saying sorry, all your acts can be washed off. It is not like that. We are not persuaded,” added the bench. It dismissed Ali’s anticipatory bail plea, and gave him two weeks to surrender before the trial court in Firozabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-media-cannot-be-used-to-defame-sc-101625855490934.html
10-07-2021||NA||Highlights: Take action against ransomware groups, Biden tells Putin||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Foreign minister delivers holy relic of Georgian religious figure St Queen KetevanJaishankar delivers relics of Georgian religious figure Ketevan the Martyr during visit Tbilisi visit.US president Joe Biden tells Russian president Putin to take action on ransomware groupsDays after Russian ransomware attackers attacked a Miami-based MSP, the US president asked his counterpart to take action against the hackers.Mahrashtra death toll touches new milestoneCovid-related deaths cross 125,000-mark in Maharashtra; daily caseload remains static at close to 9,000Haryana to reopen schools for children in phased mannerHaryana government decided to reopen schools for children in Class 9-12 from July 16 and children in Classes 6-8 from July 23Wall Street to open higherThe US stock exchange could see a rebound to as energy and banking shares, news agency Reuters reported. Mukul Roy made chairman of Bengal's public accounts committeeMukul Roy was made chairman of public accounts committee in West Bengal on Friday. BJP, the party to which Roy still belongs and is holding the seat of an MP, walked out in protest. Delhi reports 81 Covid-19 cases, 3 deathsCOVID19 | Delhi reports 81 new cases, 3 deaths and 127 recoveries in the last 24 hours; positivity rate at 0.11% pic.twitter.com/WAbmkwgPS4Punjab lifts weekend and night curfew as positivity rate drops to 0.4%Punjab lifted the ongoing weekend and night curfews on Friday as Covid-19 positivity in the state dropped to 0.4%. Indoor and outdoor gathering will also be allowed from July 12 onwards.Need to continue taking precautions against Covid-19, says health ministryA day after news emerged of crowding in tourist spots the Union health ministry urged people to continue abiding by necessary precautions as Covid-19 cases are increasing even in countries like UK, Russia, and Bangladesh.'We are committed to an independent, Afghanistan', says EAM JaishankarIf we have to seek peace within Afghanistan and around, it's important for India and Russia to work together to ensure that much of the progress in economic, social terms are maintained. We are committed to an independent, sovereign & democratic Afghanistan: EAM JaishankarExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar said that is important for India and Russia to work together to ensure peace in Afghanistan, adding that both countries are committed to an independent Afghanistan.40 killed, at least 30 injured as fire breaks out in a Bangladeshi factoryA massive blaze in a Bangladesh factory has killed 40 people and injured at least 30 with some people jumping from the upper floors to escape the fire. Dozens still missing: AFP pic.twitter.com/EQvwYDxLldICMR urges breastfeeding mothers to get vaccinated against Covid-19Dr Samiran Panda, who heads the Division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, urged breastfeeding mothers to get vaccinated against Covid-19. "Breastfeeding mothers should get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19 without any hesitation," Panda told ANI.Controls 85% of Afghan territory, says Taliban as US troops pulloutAs US troops withdarw from the war-torn Afghanistan, Taliban claims to controls 85 per cent of Afghan territory.Over 1500 PSA Oxygen plants coming up across the country: PM ModiOver 1500 PSA Oxygen plants are coming up across the nation. PSA Oxygen plants contributed by PM CARES would support more than 4 lakh oxygenated beds. Ensure that the plants are made functional at the earliest: PM Modi at today's meeting over augmentation and availability of oxygenKerala HC restrains Centre from taking coercive action against news broadcasters under new IT rulesResponding to News Broadcasters Association (NBA) plea challenging the new IT rules "on the ground that they give govt authorities excessive powers," Kerala High Court in an interim order restrains the Central Govt from taking any coercive action against NBA under new IT Rules, ANI reported.ED gets nod to record Sachin Waze's testimony against Anil Deshmukh tomorrowEnforcement Directorate obtains court's permission to record suspended Mumbai Police Officer Sachin Waze's statement in ED case against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh at Taloja prison on July 10Won't ask users to opt for new privacy policy: WhatsApp tells Delhi HCWhatsApp tells Delhi HC it will not compel users to opt for new privacy policy till data protection bill comes into force.Delhi HC begins hearing plea of FB, WhatsApp against order refusing to interfere with CCI probe on privacy policyDelhi High Court begins hearing Facebook and WhatsApp pleas challenging a single-judge bench order dismissing their pleas against the Competition Commission of India (CCI) decision.PM Modi to interact with Tokyo-bound athletes on July 13Indian athletes are all set to do the nation proud in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with India's Olympic-bound sportspersons on July 13, three days before the first batch of athletes departs for the Games in Tokyo. Read moreCondition of former UP CM Kalyan Singh better, says hospitalThe condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is better, the Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, told news agency PTI on Friday. Singh, who is currently in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital, was admitted on July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness levels.Search operation underway in J&K's JatwalAfter locals informed of a suspicious person, search operation underway in Jatwal area of Samba: Jammu & Kashmir Police.PM Modi to chair high-level meet on oxygen availabilityPM Modi to chair a high-level meeting to review augmentation and availability of oxygen across the country at 11:30 am.India reports 43,393 new Covid-19 cases, active cases slide to 458,727India reported 43,393 new cases and 911 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,752,950 and 405,939 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. Read MoreOnly 50 tourists now allowed at Mussoorie's Kempty fallsOnly 50 tourists now allowed at Mussoorie's Kempty falls, says Uttarakhand after hundreds seen flouting Covid-19 norms, reports ANI.Haiti cops makes more arrests in President Jovenel Moise assassination caseTaiwan says Haiti police arrested 11 assassination suspects on its embassy grounds, news agency AFP reported.US CDC exempts fully vaccinated citizens from taking Covid-19 booster shotsUS regulators said on Thursday that Americans who have been fully vaccinated do not need a booster Covid-19 shot at this time."We are prepared for booster doses if and when the science demonstrates that they are needed", the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said in a joint statement late on Thursday.Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine may require third dose, companies seek approvalThe Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name 'Comirnaty', may require a third dose to work more effectively against the original strain of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agencies reported on Friday morning, citing a statement from the companies from a day ago. Read MoreSecond Covid-19 wave lingering, or early signs of 3rd?India faced a severe second wave of Covid-19 infections starting February. The seven-day average of daily new infections rose 36 times between February 11 and May 9, which is when the second wave peaked. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-9-2021-101625788151652.html
