11-07-2021||India||IMD issues orange alert for 4 Kerala districts, predicts rainfall for Delhi||The India Meteorological Department on Sunday issued an orange alert for four districts in Kerala predicting heavy rainfall for Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. It also said that heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi. The IMD also said that heatwave conditions will remain at isolated pockets over West Rajasthan.IMD’s predictions of rain in New Delhi could be of some relief for the residents of the Capital as the monsoon continues to elude the city. The IMD said the monsoon’s arrival in the capital is likely to be declared on Monday, according to a report by PTI.Along with Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, the IMD said the Gujarat region, Madhya Maharashtra, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Telangana, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal will also receive heavy to very heavy rainfall.“Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is very likely at isolated places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Telangana and with lightning at isolated places over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Vidarbha, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Rayalaseema and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal,” the bulletin said.The IMD asked fishermen in Kerala to remain indoors and not venture out into the sea for the next three days i.e. between July 11 to July 13. It also issued a yellow alert for Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Palakkad districts on Sunday. “Strong wind with speed reaching 40-50 Kmph gusting to 60 Kmph likely along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these sea areas during the period mentioned,” the IMD said in its bulletin earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-4-kerala-districts-predicts-rainfall-for-delhi-101626023847474.html
11-07-2021||India||Head constable shoots at 3 of family, kills self in Haryana’s Bhiwani||A Haryana Police head constable allegedly shot at three members of a family at Kirawar village, Bhiwani, before killing himself on Saturday night.The head constable, Ravinder Sheoran of Jamalpur village, was posted at the cybercrime branch at Hansi. Sheoran allegedly barged into the house of Mahabir Singh, the complainant, and asked for his son Rajesh Singh. When Rajesh came out, Sheoran shot at him and then at Mahabir and his brother Jagbir Singh after they raised the alarm. The three injured men are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hisar and are stable. Bhiwani superintendent of police Ajit Singh said they received a Police Control Room call at 8.30pm saying a cop had fired at three people. “The accused cop was found dead at Jamalpur village. He had shot himself. We are ascertaining why he took such an extreme step.” The cop had been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 452 (house trespass with intent to hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Arms Act.A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/head-constable-shoots-at-3-of-family-kills-self-in-haryana-s-bhiwani-101626024998764.html
11-07-2021||India||Delta, not Delta Plus: Govt on Tripura's claim of 138 cases||Tripura health department claimed on Saturday that the state has at least 138 cases of Delta Plus, the new variant of Delta recently found in India. A day after, the Union health ministry disputed the claim and said there was no Delta Plus in the samples sent from Tripura to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani, West Bengal. Clarifying, the Centre said 152 samples were sent from Tripura to the Kalyani institute for genome sequencing. Out of them, 3 samples tested positive for B.1.1.7 the lineage to which both Kappa and Delta variants belong. According to the Union health ministry's information, 11 samples had tested positive for B.1.617.1 (kappa) while 138 samples had tested positive for B.1.617.2 (Delta). "There was no case of Delta Plus reported among these samples," the ministry said on Sunday.Tripura's state surveillance officer Deep Kumar Debbarma on Saturday said Tripura's West District reported the maximum number of Delta Plus variant cases -- 115. “Delta Plus variant is highly infectious than plain Delta. It can infect the lungs. I appeal to people to follow corona guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus,” said director (health services) Subhasish Debbarma.Delta Plus is a mutant of Delta and Delta was majorly responsible for the second wave of the pandemic in India. Several states have reported Delta Plus and since Delta is a variant of concern, as categorised by the World Health Organization, Delta Plus has also been classified as a variant of concern. But the union health ministry and its experts have said that it is not yet known whether Delta Plus is more severe than Delta -- in severity and in transmission. They also said Delta Plus cases have been there in India since April. But its spread since April has not established the fact that it is more transmissible than Delta as the cases remain concentrated in pockets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-not-delta-plus-govt-on-tripura-s-claim-of-138-cases-101626023008901.html
11-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: What 2 maps tell about India's current Covid-19 situation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.66 districts, over 10% Covid positivity rate: What these 2 maps tell about India's present situationHighest daily cases are coming from southern and northeasters states, while districts with higher test positivity rate are spread across all parts. Read more3 Bangladeshis with suspected JMB link nabbed in KolkataThe special task force of the Kolkata Police on Sunday afternoon arrested three Bangladeshi nationals with suspected links with the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), police said. Read moreNirmala Sitharaman hosts women ministers at high tea at her residenceFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday hosted the women ministers of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's reshuffled council of ministers at her residence. Read moreSri Lanka players to come out of isolation after testing negative for COVID-19, ahead of India series - ReportSri Lanka players have returned negative Covid tests ahead of the start of India vs Sri Lanka series, which has been postponed now and will begin from July 18th. Read moreIshaan Khatter, Karisma Kapoor visit Ananya Panday and her family after grandmother's deathMultiple friends of Ananya Panday and her family visited her late grandmother's house on Saturday. Snehlata Panday, mother of actor Chunky Panday, died on Saturday. Read moreArvind Kejriwal makes 4 promises if AAP is elected in UttarakhandDelhi CM Kejriwal said if Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) comes to power in Uttarakhand, 300 units of free electricity will be given to every family. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-what-2-maps-tell-about-india-s-current-covid-19-situation-and-all-the-latest-news-101626016199973.html
11-07-2021||India||NIA raids in Kashmir over ‘conspiracy to spread IS propaganda’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) conducted multiple raids in Kashmir’s Anantnag and Srinagar districts on Sunday in connection with the alleged conspiracy to spread the Islamic State (IS) propaganda through its online magazine ‘The Voice of Hind’, the agency said.“In order to execute its nefarious plan, an organised campaign has been launched over the cyber space which is supplemented by on ground terror financing activities... In this connection, an India-Centric online propaganda magazine ‘the Voice of Hind’ ( VOH) is published on monthly basis with an aim to incite and radicalize impressionable youth by projecting a skewed narrative of imagined injustices in India to arouse a feeling of alienation and communal hatred,” the NIA said in its statement.“Searches in the case today (on Sunday) led to the recovery and seizure of a large number of incriminating documents and digital devices such as mobile phones, tablets, laptop and hard disks...,” it added.According to people aware of the development, at least six people, including two grocery shopkeepers, a garment seller, a medical outlet owner and a lab technician, were detained for questioning by the agency.Deputy inspector general of police (south Kashmir), Abdul Jabbar, however, refused to comment on the matter, saying that “the NIA should be contacted for confirmation”.There were also reports of the agency raiding a religious seminary in Srinagar’s Old City, following which its head was detained. “People were shocked to learn that the seminary had been raided and its head taken away. His family went to the police, who said that he was taken away by the NIA. He was a very moderate voice and used to be busy with his religious teachings,” said a neighbour of the seminary head.Superintendent of police (north Srinagar), Mubasher Hussain, however, said: “I have no information about any raids.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-raids-at-least-7-locations-in-kashmir-recovers-incriminating-material-101626017080262.html
11-07-2021||India||TN parties up against BJP over unconfirmed reports of splitting state’s west region into Kongu Nadu||A new controversy and unconfirmed reports have erupted in Tamil Nadu that the Union government plans to bifurcate the state’s western region, otherwise known as the Kongu region, into ‘Kongu Nadu’, HT has learnt.State BJP leaders have spoken in favour of such a move if that’s what the people desire. “Why are they (DMK) scared about this?” BJP legislative party leader, Nainar Nagendran, said in the presence of reporters on Sunday. He added that several places in Tamil Nadu end with a ‘Naadu’.“But one must keep in mind Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh were divided into two. If that (bifurcation) is the desire of the people of the state, then the government must fulfil it.” BJP state general secretary Karu Nagarajan said.The speculation, that the Government of India would carve out this region into either a separate state or a Union territory, began after profiles of the new cabinet minister were released on Wednesday. The profile of Tamil Nadu’s outgoing BJP chief L Murugan, who was inducted into the Union cabinet, referred to him as hailing from ‘Kongu Naadu, Tamil Nadu’.On June 10, a vernacular daily published a report that the Centre was planning a bifurcation as a befitting response to the DMK government referring to the Narendra Modi-led government as ‘Ondriya Arasu, in Tamil meaning Union government, and not the Central government. On the same day, BJP national president of the ‘Mahila Morcha’, Vanathi Srinivasan, on her Facebook page, quoted ancient Tamil texts to support the claim that Kongu was a separate geographical region. Srinivasan hails from the western region and is an elected MLA from Coimbatore which is part of the region.The ruling DMK, and its allies, have dismissed the reports and spoken out against it. DMK MP Kanimozhi told reporters on Sunday, “Nobody can divide Tamil Nadu. No one needs to worry about such things, the state is now under a safe government.”Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) chief K S Alagiri termed the demand for a Kongu Nadu as a “figment of imagination”. Senior Congress leader Thirunavukuarasu said, “there is no chance for this. Though it has happened to other states there is no necessity for it here in Tamil Nadu for now.” Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader G Balakrishnan said that the BJP was attempting this for political gains. “This is dangerous,” he said. The people of Tamil Nadu will not allow this. Such actions by the BJP to enter Tamil Nadu through the backdoor will only cause severe repercussions for the party,” said Balakrishnan.AMMK chief TTV Dhinakaran called this a divisive measure along caste lines and urged chief minister MK Stalin to clear the issue.The western regions have been the bastion of the AIADMK and two MLAs from BJP were elected from the region in the election results that were announced on May 2. The AIADMK-led alliance with the BJP won 33 of the total 50 seats. While the DMK combine swept other regions in the state, the AIADMK alliance registered its best performance in the Kongu region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-parties-up-against-bjp-over-unconfirmed-reports-of-splitting-state-s-west-region-into-kongu-nadu-101626013478641.html
11-07-2021||India||Nirmala Sitharaman hosts women ministers at high tea at her residence||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday hosted the women ministers of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's reshuffled council of ministers at her residence. Smriti Irani, Meenakshi Lekhi, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, Anupriya Patel, Renuka Singh, Annapurna Devi, Pratima Bhowmik, Bharati Pawar, Shobha Karandlaje, Darshana Jardosh were present at the informal meeting. Following the reshuffle, PM Modi's Council of ministers now includes 11 women -- nine among them are ministers of state. In the recent reshuffle, seven BJP MPs have been inducted into the council.Smt @nsitharaman interacts with the women members of the Union Council of Ministers during a high tea session hosted at her residence today. pic.twitter.com/u9E4bBOQMfOn July 7, the council of ministers was reshuffled and as seven MPs took their oath as ministers, Sitharaman and Smriti Irani took a photo with the seven newly inducted ministers. As two ministers of state Renuka Singh and Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti were not present at the oath-taking, this high-tea meeting gives all 11 women ministers of PM Modi's council to come together.With Minister @smritiirani and the ministers who were sworn in today.From left @DarshanaJardosh @PratimaBhoumik @ShobhaBJP @bharati_mp @M_Lekhi @AnupriyaSPatel @Annapurna4BJPGrateful to National President @JPNadda for graciously joining us. pic.twitter.com/ghoW6t7sTXOne of the key points of the reshuffled Cabinet was increasing the women representation. In 2019's Council of Ministers had six women faces -- 3 Cabinet ministers and 3 ministers of state. From six, the number has now been raised to 11, though after Harsimrat Kaur Badal's resignation, the number of Cabinet ministers has gone down to two.Among the women ministers too, the representation of a range of states and communities has been kept in mind as the 11 women ministers are from nine states and represent nine communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-hosts-women-ministers-at-high-tea-at-her-residence-101626012811621.html
11-07-2021||India||Goa extends statewide curfew, issues new guidelines. Check what’s allowed and what’s not||The Goa government extended statewide curfew till July 19, 7am but also announced a slew of prohibitions and relaxations in the state from Monday. Goa recorded 131 new cases of Covid-19 and 2 deaths on Sunday.Read on to find out more about the extended curfew.The following activities and establishments have been prohibitedThe following activities and places have been exempted from restrictionsIn addition to all these, the government has also released the following advisory||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-extends-statewide-curfew-issues-new-guidelines-check-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-101626010924791.html
11-07-2021||India||66 districts, over 10% Covid positivity rate: What these 2 maps tell about India's present situation||The overall Covid-19 situation of India is steadily improving with a daily positivity rate of 2.25 per cent recorded on Sunday. The Union health ministry in its official press briefing during the week reiterated that the situation is improving but the second wave of the pandemic is not over as Maharashtra and Kerala, the two hotbeds of infections, are still reporting a comparatively higher number of cases daily. On the other hand, northeastern states too are seeing a spike.Here are 10 facts about the present Covid-19 situation as given by the Union health ministry1. About 80 per cent of new cases in India are being reported from 90 districts spread across 15 states. The break-up is: Maharashtra ( 15 districts), Kerala (14), Tamil Nadu (12)m Odisha (10), Andhra Pradesh (10), Karnataka (10), Assam (6), West Bengal (4), Meghalaya (2), Manipur (2), Tripura (1), Goa (1), Mizoram (1), Puducherry (1), Arunachal Pradesh (1).Delta troublesome, Delta Plus few, Lambda worrying: A doctor's take on 3 Covid-19 variants2. The spread of maximum new cases over the districts prove that southern and northeastern states are reporting maximum new cases3. But statewise test positivity rate shows that there are 66 districts across 17 states which reported over 10 per cent positivity rate for the week ending on July 8. And these states are not only in the south or northeast. 10 districts of Rajasthan have reported a high test positivity rate.4. The 17 states with districts reporting over 10 per cent positivity rate are: Arunachal Pradesh (10), Rajsthan (10), Manipur (9), Kerala (8), Meghalaya (6), Assam (4), Sikkim (4), Tripura (3), Odisha (3), Mizoram (2), Maharashtra (2), Chhattisgarh (1), Puducherry (1), Nagaland (1), Telangana (1), Lakshadweep (1), Himachal Pradesh (1).5. Daily cases are being reported from limited geographic locations, the ministry has said.6. Maharashtra's daily cases dipped to around 6,000 after the peak of the 2nd wave but again it rose to 12,800 on July 2. Kerala's daily cases fell to around 8,000, but then it again rose to 14,0008. Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul has said that the rate of decline in cases at present has become slow. That there are so many districts which are reporting over 10 per cent case positivity rate9. The threat of a possible third wave is looming as hill stations are seeing a sudden influx of tourists.10. Over 40,000 cases every day is not a small number, Dr VK Paul has said. "Baseline would be 10,000 cases and when it is maintained for at least three weeks, then we can say that we have brought the situation under control," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/66-districts-over-10-covid-positivity-rate-what-these-2-maps-tell-about-india-s-present-situation-101626008683128.html
11-07-2021||India||Puducherry L-G allocates portfolios; CM Rangasamy to hold 13 ministries, including health||Puducherry lieutenant governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday allocated portfolios in the Union territory's first National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, according to news agency ANI. The portfolio allocation came two weeks after five MLAs of the ruling All India NR Congress (AINRC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were sworn in as ministers after several weeks of delay.Also Read: 5 ministers take oath in Puducherry’s 1st NDA cabinetAllocation of portfolios in Puducherry: CM N Rangasamy to hold 13 portfolios, including Health and Family Welfare, Hindu Religious Institutions and Wakf Board. Home Minister A Namassivayam to hold 6 portfolios, including Industries and Commerce & Sports and Youth Affairs. pic.twitter.com/40TXGFVRkxThe Puducherry government issued a gazette notification showing which minister was allocated which portfolio. 13 ministries, including the all-important health and family welfare, were allocated to chief minister N Rangasamy, who is from the AINRC. The other departments he will hold are: confidential and cabinet department; cooperation; revenue and excise; general administration; Hindu religious institutions; Waqf Board; local administration; port; science, technology and environment; town and country planning; information and publicity; as well as other departments not allocated to any other minister.All other ministers have been handed six ministries each. A Namassivayam of the BJP has been made the home minister, with additional charge of the electricity, industries and commerce, education, sports and youth affairs, and sainik welfare departments. Sai Sarvanan Kumar, also from the BJP, has been allocated civil supplies and consumer affairs, and will hold additional charge of district rural development agency (DRDA), community development, urban basic services, fire services and minority affairs ministries.Meanwhile, K Lakshminarayanan of the AINRC is now the public works minister of Puducherry. Other departments allocated to Lakshminarayanan are tourism and civil aviation, fisheries, law, information technology, and stationary and printing. C Dijeacoumar, also from the chief minister's party, has been made in-charge of agriculture, holding additional charge of animal husbandry and welfare, forest and wildlife, social welfare, backward class welfare, and women and child development.AINRC leader Chandira Priyanga, the Union territory's first woman minister in nearly four decades is now its transport minister. Priyanga will also hold the ministries of Adi Dravidar welfare, housing, labour and employment, art and culture, and economics and statistics.The AINRC-BJP combine was, on May 2, declared victorious in the single-phase Puducherry assembly elections which were held on April 6. Rangasamy was sworn in as the chief minister on May 7 but the cabinet formation was delayed due to several reasons, including Rangasamy's hospitalisation due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-l-g-allocates-portfolios-cm-rangasamy-to-hold-13-ministries-including-health-101626003763602.html
11-07-2021||India||Assam launches scheme to provide ₹2.5 lakh aid to Covid widows||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma launched a scheme on Sunday wherein social and financial security would be provided to women who have lost their husbands to the coronavirus disease. Under the 'Chief Minister's COVID-19 Widows Support Scheme', a one-time assistance of ₹2.5 lakh each will be given to such women whose family income is less than ₹5 lakh.Sarma, who handed over cheques to 176 eligible beneficiaries from eight districts, namely Kamrup (Metro), Nalbari, Darrang, Baksa, Morigaon, Nagaon, Goalpara and Kamrup, in Guwahati, said the event was not a happy one for him. "This is not a happy programme for us. When we invite beneficiaries for some government schemes, we always take pride. But for today's event, we are neither proud nor happy," said Sarma, who took over from Sarbananda Sonowal as chief minister after the last Assembly election.At least 873 beneficiaries have been identified as of now under this scheme, and all the cheques will be given to them by state ministers in districts by the next week, Sarma said. "Though we have identified 873 widows, we expect that 2,000-2,500 will be there. The enrolment process is going on in districts," he said.The state has so far registered 6,159 coronavirus-related deaths, including 1,347 fatalities due to comorbidities. Sarma said the Assam government has already launched a scheme to provide ₹3,500 per month to children who lost their parents due to COVID-19."I have requested the finance minister to provide some funds to give something to other COVID-19 affected families. Assam has done something before other states have taken such initiatives," Sarma said.Beneficiaries of 'Orunodoi' and 'Widow Pension' programmes are also eligible for the one-time financial assistance under the 'Chief Minister's COVID-19 Widows Support Scheme'. According to the scheme, the beneficiary's husband should be a COVID-19 positive patient at the time of death, and it should be certified by the State-Level COVID Death Audit Board. "A beneficiary must belong to a low-income family having an annual income less than ₹5 lakh," the scheme details mentioned. It, however, stated that widows of government servants will not be covered under this scheme as they will get the family pension as per usual norms.The state Budget for 2021-22 will be presented on July 16 by Finance Minister Ajanta Neog. The Budget Session of the assembly will begin on Monday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-provide-rs-2-5-lakh-aid-to-covid-widows-101626005618648.html
11-07-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel to work in UP if Congress wants someone else as Chhattisgarh CM||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said that if the Congress high command wants to put someone else at the helm of the state’s affairs, then it will be so, adding that “such agreements” are common in a coalition government."The high command instructed me to take the oath (as chief minister), so I did. When they say someone else will be the chief minister, then it will be so. Such agreements happen in a coalition government," Baghel was quoted as saying by ANI.Baghel, who spoke to reporters after a meeting with party leader Priyanka Gandhi, said the Congress has three-fourth majority in Chhattisgarh and if the high command hands him any responsibility in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections, he would do go ahead with it.“The Congress has a three-fourth majority in Chhattisgarh. I met (Congress general secretary) Priyanka Gandhi ji. Now meeting (senior leader) PL Punia ji. If the high command gives me any responsibility for upcoming elections in UP, I will do it," he told ANI.Also Read: State not suffering, says C’garh health minister amid reports of rift with CMReports of friction between Baghel and the state health minister, TS Singh Deo, had been doing the rounds after the latter opposed the state government’s proposal to let private doctors set up hospitals in rural areas with the help of grants. On being asked about the rumoured friction, Deo told Hindustan Times “We are working together. I don’t think any work in the state is suffering”.The health minister also denied any talks of a “formula” on the chief minister’s post. “This whole issue came into focus when a TV channel said the formula of sharing the CM’s for 2.5 years was finalised in Chhattisgarh. This is what happened when we were all called to Delhi by the central leaders during the pre-government formation days and since then everybody has been asking this question,” Deo told HT.Punia, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Chhattisgarh, said, "As Baghel ji also cleared these things, there is no such understanding or any formula. There is no point in such a formula as the Congress has a three-fourth majority in Chhattisgarh. Such an agreement happens in coalition governments. Chhattisgarh is running with a three-fourth majority government."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-to-work-in-up-if-congress-wants-someone-else-as-chhattisgarh-cm-101626004492259.html
11-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi Jal Board to move SC against Haryana and all the latest news||Yamuna levels at 'all-time' low, Delhi Jal Board to move SC against HaryanaDelhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairman Raghav Chadha took to Twitter on Sunday to announce the board’s decision to move the Supreme Court against the Haryana government for withholding Delhi’s share of water. Read MoreDelta, Delta Plus, Lambda: A doctor's takes on 3 variants of Covid-19Dr SK Sarin, the director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, has said that though the Lambda variant is not present in India right now, it can come and that is the most worrying aspect of the present Covid-19 situation of the country. Read MoreOver 90% of Delhi police personnel fully vaccinated against Covid-19The Delhi Police has fully vaccinated over 90 per cent of its staff against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while nearly all personnel have been inoculated with the first dose, news agency ANI reported on Sunday. Read More'He has stamped authority in Test cricket': Former cricketer says India opener is 'best batsman in the world'Former India all-rounder Reetinder Singh Sodhi lauded India opener Rohit Sharma and said that the right-handed batsman has stamped his authority in Test cricket. Read MoreMandira Bedi spotted on her morning walk by paparazzi, first time since husband Raj Kaushal's deathActor-host Mandira Bedi was spotted in Mumbai by the paparazzi on Sunday. Read MoreNIA conducts raids across Jammu & Kashmir in terror funding case, 6 arrestedNIA raided different locations in Jammu & Kashmir's Anantnag & arrested 6 people. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-jal-board-to-move-sc-against-haryana-and-all-the-latest-news-101626001218501.html
11-07-2021||India||Siddaramaiah backs marginalised groups to take legal route to release caste census in Karnataka||Almost six years since the commissioning of the “Socio-Economic and Education Survey”, better known as caste-census, by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015, a section of leaders from some of the most marginalised groups in Karnataka are attempting to take the legal route to get chief minister BS Yediyurappa to release the findings, HT has learned.With just two years to go before assembly elections in 2023, making the report public is likely to have a significant impact on the complex caste equations in a state where dominant communities like Lingayats and Vokkaligas have ruled the narrative.The newly formed Athi Hindulida Jagruti Vedike (Kannada for extreme backward classes awareness forum) has now approached former chief minister Siddaramaiah and the Congress party to make the report public.“The reservation that is being given out today is based on unscientific data and there are extremely backward classes who have no representation economically, socially or politically to raise their voices,” Mukyamanthri Chamdru, former legislator and popular Kannada cinema actor told Hindustan Times on Sunday. Chandru is also the honorary president of the newly formed forum.The forum is targeting to file a petition of Mandamus (judicial writ to command to order to perform a public or statutory duty) by July 16 or coming Friday.“The commission conducted the survey directed by the government which was their mandate. They (backward classes commission) have collected all the data and the report is also ready as they have shared it under RTI,” AS Ponanna, former Additional Advocate General of Karnataka and senior counsel said.The senior counsel added that ₹162 crore of the state’s money has been spent on this purpose and this information should be available to the public.Siddaramaiah, from the backward yet politically formidable Kuruba community, attempted to conduct the caste census in 2015, the first since 1931 anywhere in the country, as a way to challenge the dominant caste theory in Karnataka.Successive governments, including the one that commissioned it, have steered clear of considering the sensitive nature of the information that has the potential to review the perceived size of caste groups which have allowed a few communities to have better bargaining power compared to others.Siddaramaiah, who stormed to power in 2013 on the back of AHINDA (Kannada acronym for Muslims, backward classes and Dalits) is hoping the release of the data would also help his claim to the top post from within his party to rule out the likes of state Congress president DK Shivakumar among others if the Congress returns to power in 2023.To be sure, the forum has also approached Shivakumar for his support.Karnataka’s political landscape has been ruled by the Lingayats and Vokkaligas, believed to be the two largest communities in the state, which has been challenged in the past by smaller groups who are fighting to get the same kind of representation.These small communities, who account for no more than a few thousand in each constituency, are also key for political parties as they can become the deciding factor in close contests.The developments come at a time when Yediyurappa, a Lingayat, has doled out handsomely for caste-specific programmes as a way of reaching out to groups that are not known to support the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Though Yediyurappa was known to be the tallest leader of the Lingayats, some of the bigger sub-sects like Panchamasalis are demanding that one of their own be considered for the top job, should the BJP high command enforces a replacement of the chief minister.The chunk of most benefits of reservation in Karnataka and other states in the country are often taken up by the large communities, experts said, leaving hundreds, if not thousands, of smaller groups with no representation or benefits.There are at least 36 caste groups in Karnataka who have been waiting for almost a decade to get the government to look their way for better reservation opportunities, Hindustan Times reported on February 15.The recent reservation-related demands by Panchamasali, Kurubas, Vokkaligas and Valmikis among others, have added to apprehensions of smaller communities, with scattered populations across the state, of further injustices.All three major political parties in Karnataka, BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), have a core-caste or community support base which has allowed them to remain politically relevant in the south Indian state.BJP enjoys the backing of the dominant Lingayats while Dalits, communities that come under other backward classes and minorities are seen to back the Congress. Former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and his former chief minister son, HD Kumaraswamy-led JD(S) relies heavily on the Vokkaligas, another dominant and politically influential community found largely in the Old Mysuru region.The leaked findings of the caste census, which were not authenticated by the then Siddaramaiah-led government in 2015, indicate that the downward revision of the percentage of Lingayats and Vokkaligas from its earlier believed figures of around 17% and 14% respectively to just around 10%.But his plan to get the support of the Lingayats backfired when he, on the advice of ministers like MB Patil among others, mooted to accord the community the status of a separate religion just before the 2018 assembly elections, demonstrating the nature of deep-rooted caste-based politics in the state.“Let us see what stand the BJP will take. When questioned they say that they have not got the report itself,” he said on Sunday.According to people aware of the developments, the state backward classes commission has already submitted the report to the government, which is yet to take a call on its release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-backs-marginalised-groups-to-take-legal-route-to-release-caste-census-in-karnataka-101626000640146.html
11-07-2021||India||'Whatever your politics is': Shashi Tharoor's message on exit of Kitex from Kerala||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Sunday expressed regret at the departure of Kitex from Kerala and said the state government should be doing everything to support investors as Kerala is a state in which industrialists are "reluctant to invest" which, as he said, is affecting the employment situation for the talented people of Kerala. "Whatever your politics, it's hard not to feel regret at Kitex's departure from Kerala," the Thiruvananthapuram MP said.Garment firm Kitex has recently pulled out a ₹35,000 crore proposed project from Kerala and chose Telangana for investment and said that the decision was not voluntary. For the reason of the exit, he blamed the Kerala government's "witch-hunt and apathy".Read: Kitex Group MD says he was ‘kicked out’ of KeralaWhatever your politics, it's hard not to feel regret at Kitex's departure from Kerala. Ours is a state in which industrialists are reluctant to invest& which is congenitally unable to generate employment for its talented people. We should be doing everything to support investors.Tharoor also shared an open letter written by Eram Group chairman Dr Sideek Ahmed, in which Ahmed appealed to both the Kerala government and Kitex to have an amicable discussion.Kitex group managing director Sabu Jacob has recently hit out at the Kerala government and said that the policies of the government are 50 years old. Even after he approached the government with his grievances, he got no response. Instead, industry minister R Rajeev started blaming him, Sabu alleged. "Kerala has to learn many lessons from its neighbours. Otherwise, It will become a graveyard of industries," Sabu said.What is the big Kitex versus Kerala tussle? According to Jacob, the government has treated it as "bourgeoises, exploiter capitalists, and land encroachers". Last month, government officials visited the premises of the company and made inquiries "as if they have committed a big fraud". Industry minister R Rajeev said the exit was unfortunate and the government was willing to talk to Jacob. “It is an unfortunate decision. It seems Jacob has made up his mind long before. He is leaving the state when many major companies have decided to set up their shops in Kerala,” Rajeev said. The minister also clarified that those visits at the firm were primarily because of complaints lodged with the National Human Rights Commission and many of them were filed by Congress leaders.How did Telangana grab the opportunity?Telangana minister KR Rama Rao rolled out a red carpet for the Kitex group. He also sent a provate jet to Kochi to take Jacob. "Delighted to announce the entry of KITEX group, world’s 2nd largest manufacturer of kids apparel into Telangana with an initial investment of ₹1,000 Cr. They’ve chosen KMTP, Warangal for their factories. My gratitude to Mr Sabu M Jacob, MD of KITEX group on a quick decision," KTR tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatever-your-politics-is-tharoor-s-message-on-exit-of-kitex-from-kerala-101625999981123.html
11-07-2021||India||2 Kerala football fans hurt while celebrating Argentina’s win in Copa America||Two football fans in Kerala received serious burn injuries in Malappuram on Sunday morning while celebrating Argentina’s victory in the Copa America finals against Brazil, police said.Both men, in their thirties, were rushed to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital where one person’s condition had turned stable, doctors said.The incident happened in Tanur area of Malappuram when a pile of firecrackers stored by the two football fans caught fire. The resultant fire was so fierce that it also gutted their bike parked nearby, said police.At many places in north Kerala, soccer crazy fans took to the streets early in the morning to celebrate Argentina’s victory over their Latin American arch rivals to lift a record equalling 15th Copa America title in Rio De Janeiro.Sweets and payasam (kheer) were distributed at many places in Kerala and police had a tough time controlling them citing the restrictions in place due to the pandemic. In Kozhikode, police had to intervene to end a minor clash between fans of Brazil and Argentina.North Kerala’s obsession with soccer is well known. Fans put up huge billboards and posters and wear the jersey of their favourite players. Wayside shops to fish market talks revolve around soccer during major tournaments. When Argentine soccer legend Diego Maradona died last year, many areas observed a shutdown in north Kerala as a mark of respect to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-kerala-football-fans-hurt-while-celebrating-argentina-s-win-in-copa-america-101625999257810.html
11-07-2021||India||Delta troublesome, Delta Plus few, Lambda worrying: A doctor's take on 3 Covid-19 variants||Dr SK Sarin, the director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, has said that though the Lambda variant is not present in India right now, it can come and that is the most worrying aspect of the present Covid-19 situation of the country. On the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic, he said that it can be fatal as there are chances that the virus will get the opportunity to spread because of the gathering of tourists as several hill stations of the country, Dr SK Sarin said to news agency ANI.On Delta, Delta Plus, LambdaOn these most-discussed variants of the SARS-CoV-2, Dr Sarin said Delta, the variant which has been termed as the most transmissible by the World Health Organization is troublesome, Delta Plus, another mutation of Delta, is also there but cases have not been reported in large numbers. Lambda is most worrying, Dr Sarin said, adding that though it has not been reported in the country so far, it can come.Is Delta Plus more virulent? Can a recovered patient get reinfected? 5 big questions answeredWhile the 2nd wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was dominated by Delta, which is still the variant behind maximum infections in the country, Delta Plus and Lambda are much in the discourse. Several states have reported Delta Plus cases but, according to scientific studies conducted so far, Delta Plus is found to be limited in some pockets of the states.Lambda, the variant first reported from Peru, has emerged as a new cause for concern as it has spread to around 30 countries. The health ministry of Malaysia has termed Lambda as a variant "deadlier than Delta".Lambda variant has not been found in India, but the Union health ministry has said that close monitoring of the global situation is going on.While Delta and Delta Plus have been classified as Variants of Concern, Lambda is a Variant of Interest, according to the World Health Organization.On 3rd wave of Covid-19The recent influx of tourists in the hill stations has become worrying as visuals emerging from these areas show that Covid-appropriate behaviour is not being adhered to in these congregations. While local authorities are on their toes to put partial restrictions in place, the issue of crowding has reached PM Modi's meeting with his council of ministers. On the possibility of a third wave, Dr Sarin said it can become fatal as these gatherings can become superspreaders. "Until people promise to the society that they'll not misbehave, I think yatras are very dangerous. It can be harmful if they don't follow Covid appropriate behaviour," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-worrisome-delta-plus-few-lambda-worrying-a-doctor-s-3-takes-on-covid19-101625996835279.html
11-07-2021||India||Centre has no right to cooperation sector laws framed in Maha: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar said on Sunday there was no truth to reports claiming that the newly created Union Ministry of Cooperation was creating problems in Maharashtra as the matter constitutionally belongs to the state government.“Laws regarding the cooperation sector are framed in the Maharashtra Assembly. The Centre has no right to interfere in the laws drafted by the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly,” Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Pawar, whose party is in a ruling alliance with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra, hit out at claims that the Centre is trying to "hijack the cooperative movement" in the state. He told reporters in Baramati the concept is not new, but the Centre cannot interfere in the state's cooperative sector. “It was there when I was in the central government. Unfortunately, the media is painting a different picture,” he said."As per the Constitution, cooperative institutions registered in a state come under the (jurisdiction of that respective) state," the former Union minister said, adding the Centre's newly formed ministry is about multi-state cooperative institutions.“A state cannot control a cooperative institution registered in more than one state, which is called multi-state, and the central government has control over it," said Pawar. He said taking a decision on such a multi-state cooperative institution comes under the central government's purview.The Narendra Modi-led NDA government recently carved out the new ministry, which earlier was a small department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. Union minister Amit Shah, who has been given the charge of the ministry, said the government is determined to make cooperatives and all cooperative institutions more empowered.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-no-right-to-cooperation-sector-laws-framed-in-maha-sharad-pawar-101625982920520.html
11-07-2021||India||Assam Congress says CM made ‘unconstitutional’ remarks, Sarma rejects charge||A Congress party delegation met Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi on Saturday accusing chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma of making ‘undemocratic and unconstitutional’ remarks at least twice.After Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi resigned from the party last week to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Sarma said instead of sitting in opposition benches for five years, opposition MLAs should consider joining the government and work for welfare of the public.In the second instance, the CM had said that deputy commissioners of districts will only listen to ministers and not MLAs on developmental work as legislators’ job was to frame laws in the assembly.“The remarks by the CM which try to demean the constitutional roles and duties of the opposition are in very bad taste and we feel that such a behaviour is intolerable and becoming part of a CM who has taken oath under you to protect and preserve and safeguard the Indian constitution,” the Congress memorandum read.“The Indian constitution being a proviso for a parliamentary form of democracy wherein both ruling and opposition parties are a must. These remarks of the CM are undemocratic, unconstitutional...,” it added.The memorandum submitted to the governor by the party in this matter said that MLAs are members of committees at block, circle, sub-division and district levels and are also ex-officio members of urban bodies in their constituencies.“MLAs are accountable to the people of their respective constituencies for development and other activities. So the CM’s statement that an MLA has no work outside assembly is concocted, self manufactured and baseless only with a view to dissuade government officials from listening to opposition MLAs,” it stated.The Congress delegation led by the party’s legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia urged the governor to advise the CM not to pass such comments against the opposition in future.A similar memorandum was also submitted by the delegation later to assembly speaker Biswajit Daimary.“What can I say? It’s already written in the constitution. What does a legislature mean and a legislator does? The council of ministers is responsible towards the assembly,” Sarma said, responding to the opposition’s objections on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-says-cm-made-unconstitutional-remarks-sarma-rejects-charge-101625995297606.html
11-07-2021||India||'Responsible social ecosystem': New minister Ashwini Vaishnaw's first post on Koo on I-T rules||Ashwini Vaishnaw, the new information and technology minister debuted on Koo on Sunday and his first post on the social media platform was on the recently introduced IT rules which, he said, are "empowering". The minister said he reviewed the implementation and the compliance of the Information Technology rules 2021 with minister of state Rajeev Chandrasekhar. "These guidelines are empowering and protecting users and will ensure a safer and responsible social media ecosystem in India," the minister posted.The message comes as Twitter India on Sunday inched towards fully complying with the I-T rules by appointing Vinay Prakash as the resident grievance officer for India.After months of conflict with the government over these new IT rules, which came into effect on May 26, Twitter, which has lost its status of an intermediary in the country, has submitted the first compliance report in which it said it has taken action against 133 posts and suspended over 18,000 accounts. Facebook and Google have already released their compliance report according to the new IT rules.Former IAS officer Ashwini Vaishnaw's appointment as the new IT minister replacing senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad at a time when the government is at loggerheads with Twitter was surprising. As soon as the Odisha BJP leader took charge of the ministry, he said the law of the land should be abided by everyone, making it clear that the change in the ministry does not indicate any change in its approach towards the social media platforms, operating in India.The new minister's debut on Koo is also significant as Koo is a Twitter-like platform based out of India. The minister is already active on Twitter and has been starting posting updates on the platform. He has joined the Koo in July and his first post on IT rules on this platform carries the message of the government's support to Koo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/responsible-social-ecosystem-new-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-s-first-post-on-koo-on-i-t-rules-101625993054140.html
11-07-2021||India||Sikkim sees major traffic jam as landslides block NH-10, repair work on||The National Highway 10 (NH10) between Sikkim and West Bengal witnessed a massive traffic jam on Sunday as scores of cars kept waiting on account of multiple landslides upon the arterial roadway which connects the Himalayan state with the rest of India, news agency PTI reported citing officials at the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) familiar with the matter.NH10 in Sikkim remained blocked in parts due to multiple landslides, triggered by heavy rainfall since Saturday night. The highway was, however, completely blocked for a period on Sunday after a landslide in the morning at the 29th-mile area in West Bengal between the Teesta and the Rambi rivers.Sikkim has been witnessing heavy rainfall for over a week. The region is prone to frequent landslides during the monsoon. The NH10 road link between Sikkim and West Bengal keeps getting affected due to landslide damage triggered by heavy rainfall during the monsoon season.Scores of vehicles remained jammed on NH10 in serpentine queues for more than 1km on both sides of the landslide spot, the news agency reported citing its sources. The report said that the BRO has already initiated an operation to clear the highway of the landslide debris.Relentless rainfall in Sikkim is hindering the repair work to clear the NH10 highway, but the goal is to primarily open the road for one-way traffic, considering the importance of the route.Several light vehicles, travelling on the NH-10 roadway, is taking a detour via Darjeeling in West Bengal to reach their destinations, the report said.Last year, the 29th-mile stretch in West Bengal's Kalimpong district was affected by major landslides due to incessant rainfall in the monsoon.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-sees-major-traffic-jam-as-landslides-block-nh-10-repair-work-on-101625990894014.html
11-07-2021||India||UP launches population policy: Here's what it aims to achieve||On World Population Day, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched a population policy which aims to incentivise couples who do not have more than two babies.Stating that population control is related to awareness among masses and poverty, Adityanath said every community has been taken care of in Population Policy 2021-2030. The health minister Jai Pratap Singh said Uttar Pradesh is aiming for stability by 2050 and the government is trying to reduce population growth rate to 2.1 per cent.Also read | 'Every community taken care of': Yogi Adityanath launches UP population policyBesides, Uttar Pradesh, Assam is pushing for a similar move with its chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stating last week that population norms will be slowly implemented for government schemes. Here’s more on the population control measures being introduced by governments.Two-child policyThe UP law commission that has formulated a population control bill said the policy would be voluntary and nobody would be forced to follow any rule. However, if any person decides to on his or her own to not have more than two babies, they will be eligible for government schemes., while those who do not follow the policy, will face restrictions in government jobs, availing ration, and other benefits.Meanwhile, the BJP-led government in Assam may soon give effect to a 2017 resolution titled ‘Population and Women Empowerment Policy of Assam’ that proposed a bar on people with more than two children from getting government jobs and other benefits.There is already a rule in place in the north-eastern state wherein those an individual with more than two children is not allowed to contest local body elections.Over the years, several other states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have introduced such measures to bring down the population, but the success has not been equally spread. While states like Bihar and UP continue to register high population growth, others have been able to control the fertility rate.Fertility rateFertility rate may be defined as the number of children that would be born of a woman during her reproductive years. For a country’s population to remain stable, it is the total fertility rate should be 2.1.Studies suggest that India’s national fertility rate is 2.2 at the moment, but due to the uneven spread of the population, some states are now introducing new measures to incentivise couples and create more awareness on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-launches-two-child-policy-here-s-what-it-aims-to-achieve-101625992364572.html
11-07-2021||India||Shiv Sena asks Centre if Father Stan Swamy was capable of overthrowing state||The Shiv Sena on Sunday condemned the death of Father Stan Swamy, who breathed his last at a Mumbai hospital last week while in police custody on terror related charges in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, and wondered whether a physically challenged 84-year old activist from Jharkhand had the capacity to conspire to overthrow the state.Swamy died on July 5, 2021, close to nine months after National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested him from his Ranchi home alleging he was involved in January 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence. Swamy was booked under stringent anti-terror law, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.“Stan Swamy wanted to spend his last days with his colleagues in Jharkhand but this was not possible as he was charged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) of terror and anti-national activities. Are the foundations of this country so weak that it can be overthrown by a physically challenged 84-year old man?,” Sena Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut wrote in his weekly editorial Rokthok, in party mouthpiece Saamana.Raut said that while the prominent activists arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case were guilty of provocative speeches before the violence on January 2, it required investigation to prove if they were actually conspiring against the nation.“It is true that provocative speeches were made at Bhima Koregoan meet and after that there was large scale violence. In this apart from Swamy, Sudha Bharadwaj, Varavara Rao and Gautam Navlakha were arrested. It’s true that they are rebellious in nature and always express their anger in various forms. But whether they had conspired against the nation needs to be investigated,” said Raut.Raut said that Swamy had dedicated his life for uplifting the tribals in Jharkhand through education and making them aware of their rights.He said it was ironic that Prime Minister Narendra Modi chose to talk to Kashmir leaders who have been advocating the reintroduction of Article 370 while activists like Swamy died in a prison cell.While questioning the application of anti-terror laws against people like Swamy, Raut recalled that former Union minister late George Fernandes was also charged with sedition by the then Indira Gandhi government for opposing her. “Is raising voice for the tribals and fighting for their rights an anti-national activity? How can raising voice against injustice be termed as sedition,” questioned Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-asks-centre-if-father-stan-swamy-was-capable-of-overthrowing-state-101625991757494.html
11-07-2021||India||133 posts actioned, 18k accounts suspended: Twitter’s first compliance report under new rules||Twitter filed its first grievance redressal report as mandated under India’s new social media and intermediary guidelines and the micro blogging site claims to have acted against 133 posts for reasons ranging from harassment to privacy infringement and suspended over 18,000 accounts for “child sexual exploitation and non-consensual nudity”.“In addition to the above data, we processed 56 grievances which were appealing Twitter account suspensions. These were all resolved and the appropriate responses were sent. We overturned 7 of the account suspensions based on the specifics of the situation, but the other accounts remain suspended,” the report released on Sunday states. The report covers the period from May 25 to June 26.Twitter becomes the third major social media firm after Facebook and Google to release a report in keeping with the new rules that triggered its conflict with the Central government. The new IT rules, which came into effect on May 26, among other important requirements, mandate the appointment of three key personnel - chief compliance officer, nodal officer and grievance officer by social media platforms with more than five million users. All these three officers have to be residents in India. Twitter, however, had failed to appoint a grievance officer and the government said it was intentionally refusing to comply with India’s domestic laws resulting in losing its status as an intermediary, which meant it could be held responsible for any unlawful content posted by users.Twitter told the Delhi high court on Sunday that it has now appointed an interim grievance redressal officer, apart from nodal contact person and compliance officer and will publish a monthly compliance report which includes the details of complaints from users via the India grievance mechanism and action taken on them, as well as information related to Twitter’s proactive monitoring efforts, under the IT Rules.Moreover, Twitter said it had suspended 18,385 accounts for child sexual exploitation and 4,179 for promotion of terrorism. “Proactive Monitoring refers to content proactively identified by employing internal proprietary tools and industry hash sharing initiatives,” the firm said in its report.Facebook, in its report last week, released under India’s new Information Technology rules, said it removed a little over 30 million pieces of content including posts and profiles’ pages between May 15 and June 15.The links taken down related to content that was violent and graphic, contained adult nudity and sexual activity, and suicide and self-injury. The report released on Friday is an interim disclosure and the company said it will publish details on July 15.Facebook-owned Instagram said it took action on two million links across nine categories in the same period. Another Facebook company, WhatsApp, has challenged the IT rules for its traceability clause.“Facebook’s India-specific numbers are more detailed than offered to other countries,” a person familiar with the matter said. According to the social media firm’s last quarter transparency report, it acted on 31.8 million urls for adult nudity from January 2021 to March 2021; while in India, the number stood at 1.8 million for the month.In terms of graphic and violent content, the company proactively took down 34.3 million posts, pages and profiles, with India’s number for May 15 to June 15 was 2.5 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-issues-it-rules-compliance-report-appoints-interim-grievance-redressal-officer-101625989357574.html
11-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Indians evacuated from Kandahar but consulate not shut and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Officials, security personnel evacuated but Kandahar consulate not shut: IndiaIndia evacuated some 50 officials and security personnel from Kandahar in an air force aircraft following intense clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters who seized key areas near the city in southern Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said on Sunday. Read more'Good news': Jyotiraditya Scindia announces more flights under UDAN schemeUnion civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Sunday announced new flights under the UDAN scheme to connect small cities with the metros. The flights utilises less used airports in the country and seeks to offer affordable flights to the people of the country. Read moreMeghalaya’s festival to ward off pandemic allows only vaccinated participantsThe annual Behdieñkhlam festival in Meghalaya is being celebrated on Sunday without mass festivities and fanfare by the Jaiñtia tribe- also known as the Pnars of Meghalaya due to Covid-19 fears. Read moreSputnik V gives 90% protection against Delta strain of Covid-19: ScientistViral vector and mRNA vaccines, including Russia's Sputnik V, provide enough protection against the new Delta strain of the coronavirus, Head of the Novosibirsk State University's Laboratory and corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS) Sergey Netesov told Sputnik. Read moreEvelyn Sharma is expecting first child with husband Tushaan Bhindi: ‘We are over the moon’Actor Evelyn Sharma is expecting her first child with her husband, Australia-based dental surgeon Dr Tushaan Bhindi. The news comes less than two months after they tied the knot in an intimate ceremony on May 15. Read moreBystanders rush in to steady out-of-control carnival ride in Michigan. WatchA terrifying moment that the a group of people stopped from turning into a disaster was captured on camera. Videos of the moment show what the bystanders did to stabilise an out-of-control carnival ride. Read moreMeet professional racer Shana Parmeshwar, woman behind India's longest racetrackA bit reckless, a bit mad and a whole lot of skill and passion - professional car racing may not be for everyone but it is surely for anyone interested. Read moreSherni Vidya Balan paints the town a romantic red in elegant applique silk sareeActor Vidya Balan is busy promoting her recently released film Sherni in full swing. Throughout the promotions, she has been giving us incredible sartorial moments with each look. Read moreWatch| Men vs women in the forces: Kargil Girl speaks out | The InterviewIn the latest edition of The Interview, real-life Gunjan Saxena, the former Flight Lieutenant, talks about her experience in the Air Force. The Kargil girl opens up on the negative portrayal of male IAF officers in the 2020 film. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indians-evacuated-from-kandahar-but-consulate-not-shut-101625988163033.html
11-07-2021||India||'Every community taken care of': Yogi Adityanath launches UP population policy||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday unveiled the state's new population policy, which aims to incentivise people to help in population control. The unveiling coincided with the World Population Day, which is celebrated on July 11 every year."Increasing population can be a hurdle in way of development. Every community has been taken care of in Population Policy 2021-2030," Adityanath said.He also said that population control is directly connected with awareness among masses and poverty.Jai Pratap Singh, the state's health minister, said that Uttar Pradesh is aiming for stability by 2050. He also said with the new policy, the aim is to reduce population growth rate to 2.1 per cent.Earlier, the chief minister had said that rising population is the root cause of major problems including inequality. He also encouraged people to spread awareness about the problems arising out of an increasing population."Let us, on this 'World Population Day', take a pledge to make ourselves and the society aware of the problems arising from the increasing population," Adityanath said in a statement.The UP government's law commission has also prepared a population control bill, which promises perks and incentives to government employees and general public who follow population control measures. The commission has released the final draft of the 'UP Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill, 2021' and invited suggestions by July 19.People having more than two children in Uttar Pradesh will be debarred from contesting local bodies polls, applying for government jobs or receiving any kind of subsidy, according to the draft bill.The draft says it is necessary to control and stabilise the population of the state for the promotion of sustainable development with more equitable distribution.The provision of this legislation shall apply to a married couple where the boy is not less than 21 years of age and the girl is not less than 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-community-taken-care-of-yogi-adityanath-launches-up-population-policy-101625987910959.html
11-07-2021||India||'Good news': Jyotiraditya Scindia announces more flights under UDAN scheme||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Sunday announced new flights under the UDAN scheme to connect small cities with the metros. The flights utilises less used airports in the country and seeks to offer affordable flights to the people of the country."Good news for Madhya Pradesh! Starting 8 new flights from July 16 onwards via @flyspicejet: Gwalior-Mumbai-Gwalior, Gwalior-Pune-Gwalior, Jabalpur-Surat-Jabalpur, Ahmedabad-Gwalior-Ahmedaba. @MoCA_GoI & the aviation industry are committed to take #UDAN to greater heights!" Scindia said in the tweet.The Centre plans to operationalising 100 unserved and underserved airports and starting at least 1,000 air routes under regional connectivity scheme called UDAN scheme (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik).The scheme is aimed at enhancing connectivity to remote and regional areas of the country and making air travel affordable. It is a key component of Centre’s National Civil Aviation Policy led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and launched in June 2016.Under the scheme, nearly half of the seats in Udan flights are offered at subsidised fares, and the participating carriers are provided a certain amount of viability gap funding (VGF) - an amount shared between the Centre and the concerned states.This is one of the initial decisions taken by Scindia, who took charge of the civil aviation ministry last week.Scindia, a prominent leader from Madhya Pradesh, was sworn in as a cabinet minister after a reshuffle carried out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last Wednesday. He joined BJP in March 2020 and is a Rajya Sabha member.Born on January 1, 1971, Scindia is educated in Harvard and Stanford institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-news-jyotiraditya-scindia-announces-more-flights-under-udan-scheme-101625987553301.html
11-07-2021||India||Officials, security personnel evacuated but Kandahar consulate not shut: India||India evacuated some 50 officials and security personnel from Kandahar in an air force aircraft following intense clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters who seized key areas near the city in southern Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said on Sunday. The evacuation was done on Saturday, just four days after India said there were no imminent plans to close its mission in Kabul and consulates in the cities of Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif. However, officials had then said that India was closely tracking the deteriorating security situation across Afghanistan and all steps will be taken to ensure that Indian officials and nationals were not put in harm’s way. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “The consulate general of India in Kandahar has not been closed. However, due to the intense fighting near Kandahar city, India-based personnel have been brought back for the time being.” He didn’t give details of the evacuation. “India is closely monitoring the evolving security situation in Afghanistan. The safety and security of our personnel is paramount,” Bagchi said. He described the evacuation as a “purely temporary measure until the situation stabilises”, and said the consulate “continues to operate through our local staff members”. Arrangements are being made to ensure continued delivery of visa and consular services through the Indian embassy in Kabul. “As an important partner of Afghanistan’s, India remains committed to a peaceful, sovereign and democratic Afghanistan,” Bagchi said. Among those flown out to New Delhi were diplomats, support staff and guards from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. They added that a very limited number of officials had remained at the consulate. The presence of hundreds of terrorists from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the southern provinces of Kandahar and Helmand provinces is believed to have been a factor in India’s decision to pull out officials and security personnel from the city. According to a recent estimate by Afghan security agencies, more than 7,000 LeT fighters are believed to be fighting alongside the Taliban in southern Afghanistan. Kandahar city and the areas around it have witnessed a spike in fighting between the Taliban and Afghan security forces since last week, with reports saying the militants entered the city on Friday after capturing key districts surrounding it. The strategic district of Panjwai fell to the Taliban last weekend, just days after US forces abandoned Bagram air base near Kabul. Taliban fighters seized houses in Kandahar city’s seventh police district on Friday, triggering fierce clashes that continued till Saturday. The Afghan military said about 70 Taliban fighters were killed in fighting in the seventh police district and nearby Dand district. About 2,000 families from the seventh police district were displaced and forced to take refuge in other parts of the city. Kandahar, the second largest city in Afghanistan and the capital of the province of the same name, has for long been of strategic and commercial importance. It served as headquarters of the Taliban from the mid-1990s till 2001, when the group was ousted from power by the US invasion. New Delhi has been working on plans to ensure the safety of diplomats and some 3,000 Indian nationals in Afghanistan in view of what officials have described as a “fluid and dynamic” situation because of the fierce fighting across the country. India is also keeping a close eye on steps being taken by key countries such as the US for the safety of diplomats as it weighs its options.The Indian side also doesn’t want to take any steps that will be perceived as abandoning the Afghan government or ceding space to Pakistan-backed elements. In April last year, India shuttered its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad, ostensibly because of the spread of Covid-19, though some reports suggested security was a factor in the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-security-personnel-evacuated-but-kandahar-consulate-not-shut-india-101625986417150.html
11-07-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath credits BJP victory in panchayat polls to people's faith||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) win in panchayat polls reflects the people's 'unwavering faith' in the policies of the party's government in the state. The BJP won 635 out of 825 seats for which block panchayat chiefs were to be elected."Apart from this, there were 76 seats where there was a friendly war between two BJP candidates. It was a huge electoral process that was conducted by the government with transparency," said the chief minister.He said that earlier in the 75 seats of district panchayat presidents, 73 of BJP and two of Apna Dal (S) were in the fray, in which BJP had won 66 and Apna Dal (S) candidate was victorious in one."The victory in the Panchayat elections shows that the people have unwavering faith in the policies of the BJP government", said Adityanath.The counting of votes for block panchayat chief polls commenced across Uttar Pradesh from 11am on Saturday and concluded by 3pm.Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the Uttar Pradesh CM and the state unit of the party. “The Uttar Pradesh BJP has been victorious in elections for the posts of block panchayat chiefs as well. This big victory is a reflection of the benefits people have received due to the policies of the Yogi Adityanath government, as well as its pro-poor schemes. All workers of the party deserve to be congratulated for this victory,” he tweeted.Union home minister Amit Sha too congratulated Adityanath."The grand victory of BJP in Uttar Pradesh block chief elections is a result of public's faith in the welfare policies of the Yogi government under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On this victory, I congratulate Yogi Adityanath, Swatantra Dev Singh and other hardworking workers of the party," he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-credits-bjp-victory-in-panchayat-polls-to-people-s-faith-101625983656535.html
11-07-2021||India||Richard Branson all set for Virgin Galactic spaceflight: Did you know of his Tamil roots?||Richard Branson, the British billionaire, is all set to make his highly anticipated debut spaceflight on Sunday amid much fanfare over what has been dubbed "the billionaire space race". In a few hours, Branson will be decked aboard his company Virgin Galactic's passenger rocket plane, the VSS Unity, along with five others to write a new chapter in space history.Branson's upcoming spaceflight has generated much excitement in India, but for a slightly different reason. It has come to light that the space enthusiast shares a bit of heritage with India.Also Read | Richard Branson, British billionaire, set to blast off on Virgin Galactic spaceflightTwo years ago, Branson had revealed his ties with India at a press conference in Mumbai. He was in the city for the launch of his airline Virgin Atlantic's flight from Mumbai to London when he said that some of his ancestors had been from India.A post shared by Richard Branson (@richardbranson)"I knew that I had past generations living in India, but haven't realised how strong our connections were," Branson had told reporters in December 2019.The billionaire entrepreneur said a few of his ancestors were found to be of Indian descent after conducting a DNA test. More specifically, a part of his ancestral origins is from Tamil Nadu's Cuddalore district, dating as far back as 1793, Branson added.Also Read | Virgin Galactic's Unity 22 mission: Timing and other detailsOne of Branson's great grandfathers was married to an Indian named Aria, a 'saliva test' had revealed. "So, it turned out that from 1793, we had four generations living here in Cuddalore and one of my great, great, great grandmothers was an Indian named Aria who was married to one of my great, great, great grandfathers," Branson said."Every time I meet an Indian, I say we might be relatives," he added.The maverick billionaire, who dabbles in many businesses -- one of which is space tourism, will be making his debut journey to the frontiers of the cosmos on Sunday. Indian-origin aeronautical engineer Sirisha Bandla, vice president of government affairs and research operations at Virgin Galactic, will operate the experiment on the “Unity 22” flight on behalf of co-investigators from the University of Florida.If all goes according to plan, the trip will give Branson the bragging rights over his rivals Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, all of whom have shown keen interest in space and commercial flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/richard-branson-all-set-for-debut-spaceflight-did-you-know-of-his-tamil-roots-101625980662029.html
11-07-2021||India||Meghalaya’s festival to ward off pandemic allows only vaccinated participants||The annual Behdieñkhlam festival in Meghalaya is being celebrated on Sunday without mass festivities and fanfare by the Jaiñtia tribe- also known as the Pnars of Meghalaya due to Covid-19 fears. Only those vaccinated agains the deadly infection are being allowed to participate in the festival’s rituals and ceremonies, meant to drive away ‘Ka Khlam’ or the pandemic in Pnar language.Behdieñkhlam literally means “to expel and eliminate plague, pestilence or any form of contagion” and during this festival, the Seiñ Jaiñtia faithful led by their leaders pay obeisance to U Tre Kirot, the Almighty and invoke his divine protection and blessings by various forms of acquiescence.Every dear during the festival, evil is chastised and any plague and pestilence is banished from the land through rituals that are being summoned this year against the coronavirus. However, the celebrations will be subdued because except for leaders, priests and chosen faithful of the Seiñ Raij, the indigenous faith of the Jaiñtias, no public participation is permitted. Jaintias are a sub-tribal group of the Khasi people indigenous to the state.Local cable networks are transmitting coverage of the rituals and scaled-down revelry to ensure people watch them safely from home. “We’re trying our best to ensure seamless live coverage of the festivities so that people can participate in Behdieñkhlam while maintaining safety protocols,” Russell, the producer of a popular Pnar news and entertainment portal said.“This Covid has really spoilt everything for us … actually we are meant to participate in large numbers in the procession specifically meant to drive away the evil plague which according to me is this virus the world is suffering from today, but sadly we cannot because of the restrictions,” said a local resident Desmond, who doesn’t live far away from ‘Madan Aitnar’, the place where all festivities culminate.Ma OR Shallam, the president of Seiñ Raij Jowai said all efforts have been taken to ensure proper celebration and though the people’s absence is a major dampener, it will not prevent the faithful from appeasing the almighty following all rituals.“The festival shall observe prayers, libation and oblation, rituals and acts of beating the roofs by offering prayers to the Almighty to bless the family and to drive away the plague, pest and evil spirit from the house. Up to 40 people from each locality shall be allowed to retrieve and physically ferry the Sacred Log ‘Ka Deiñkhalam’, also known as ‘Khnong Blai’,” Shallam told HT.Only ten persons will be permitted to lead the procession carrying the sacred log to Madan Aitnar and Seiñ Raij chief said unauthorised people will not be allowed to converge at the venue or gather along the route of the procession and no dignitaries have been invited like previous times.Celebrated annually in July after the re-seeding period, Behdeiñkhlam besides expelling away pestilence etc. also seeks the lord’s blessings for a bountiful harvest.While the men folk take care of all the rituals and physical activities, the women folk stay home to prepare an assorted feast first offered in obeisance to U Tre Kirot and then the consecrated offering is partaken by the entire household.The traditional chieftain known as the Doloi watches over intricate spiritual rites performed by spiritual leader titled Wasan.The festival begins with the ritual Kñia Pyrthat, which is the sacrifice of a pig to the God of Thunder. Following this, the Wasan walks around town ringing a bell and steadily heads towards the sacred forest. The faithful then collect the seasoned tree trunks from this hallowed place and return back with them where a series of more rituals are performed. Known as ‘Symbud Khnong’, these sanctified trunks are then kept at the six localities before being taken to Madan Aitnar for final immersion.On the last day of the four day festival, the Wasan accompanied by youths of the village visits every home, climbs up the roof of each house, and wallops the roof with a thin bamboo signifying the driving away of evil spirits. The erected ‘Symbud Khnong’ is then taken down while awaiting the final procession to the sacred Madan Aitnar for the culmination.The pinnacle of the celebration is the tussle for the Khnong Blai or Ka Deiñkhlam, the main sacred log. Loud splashes and ebullient shouts of glee and cheer take over the sacred pool with people throwing mud at each other relentlessly as they battle it out for the prestigious and sacred beam which they believe will usher in happier and more prosperous days ahead.Towards sunset, all roads lead to Mynthong locality where people dressed in their carnivalesqué best converge to witness the exciting ‘Dad-Lawakor’, a football like game but played with a wooden ball. The first team that nets the ball wins and propitiously prognosticate a bountiful harvest for the side.On the sidelines there is also an emblematic killing of demons in a ritual called ‘Cher Ïung Blai’ where only males enter a thatched hut made from bamboo and grass and symbolically kill the demons inside it with spears.Meghalaya today recorded 485 new positive cases with 506 recoveries and 7 deaths. Jaiñtia hills, consisting of East and West districts, have a population of a little less than 700,000. Till date, the region has recorded a total of 5,962 positive cases including 635 active cases and 107 deaths. The state with an estimated population of around 3.2 million has administered 809,519 doses so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalayas-festival-to-ward-off-pandemic-allows-only-vaccinated-participants-101625982097130.html
11-07-2021||India||'People's Padma': PM Modi calls for nominating those working at the grassroots||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked the people of the country to nominate inspiring people for the Padma Awards, which he called People's Padma (with a hashtag). The last date for nominations for Padma Awards is September 15."India has many talented people, who are doing exceptional work at the grassroots. Often, we don’t see or hear much of them. Do you know such inspiring people? You can nominate them for the #PeoplesPadma. Nominations are open till 15th September," PM Modi said in his tweet.India has many talented people, who are doing exceptional work at the grassroots. Often, we don’t see or hear much of them. Do you know such inspiring people? You can nominate them for the #PeoplesPadma. Nominations are open till 15th September. https://t.co/BpZG3xRsrZThe tweet comes as the government has launched an initiative to identify such people who are working at the grassroots. The Union home ministry has urged all central ministries, states and other awardees to identify people whose excellence and achievements deserve to be recognised.On his first 'Mann Ki Baat' address of the year in January, PM Modi had urged the people of the country to learn about people to learn about "unsung heroes" who work selflessly.He also posted a link of the Padma Awards website where people can post their nominations. A government release said that nominations or recommendations for Padma Awards will be received online only. The government has made the provision of self-nomination also.The Padma Awards - Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri - are amongst the highest civilian awards of the country. These awards were instituted in 1954, and are announced on the occasion of the Republic Day every year.The award seeks to recognise 'work of distinction' and is given for distinguished and exceptional achievements/service in all fields/disciplines, such as art, literature and education, sports, medicine, social work, science and engineering, public affairs, civil service, trade and industry.The government has prescribed the format in which the application should be made. People making the nomination should also post a citation in narrative form - within the prescribed word limit of 800 words - mentioning the achievements/service of the person recommended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peoples-padma-pm-modi-calls-for-nominating-those-working-at-the-grassroots-101625981179738.html
11-07-2021||India||Twitter India names Vinay Prakash as resident grievance officer||Social media giant Twitter, which is currently involved in a standoff with the Centre over the latter’s new Information Technology (I-T) rules, has appointed Vinay Prakash as the resident grievance officer for India. As per the information on Twitter’s website, users can contact Prakash at ‘grievance-officer-in @ twitter.com’.Prakash’s appointment comes just three days after the Delhi high court on July 8 had hit out at Twitter for a delay in appointing the resident grievance officer. The US-based technological company sought a time of eight weeks to appoint permanent grievance officers and to also set up a liaison office in India, a request which was denied by the court, Hindustan Times reported.Twitter had earlier appointed Dharmendra Chatur as its interim resident grievance officer for India. However, Chatur resigned from the post in June.The new IT rules, which came into effect on May 26, among other important requirements, mandate the appointment of three key personnel - chief compliance officer, nodal officer and grievance officer by social media platforms with more than five million users. All these three officers have to be residents in India.The Centre, on repeated occasions, has hit out at Twitter over its failure and intentional refusal to comply with the IT rules. In June, Twitter lost its status as an intermediary, which meant it will be held responsible for any unlawful content posted by users.Apart from non-compliance with the I-T rules, Twitter has also faced widespread provocation for showing a distorted map of India- (where Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh were shown outside India), along with displaying child pornographic content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-india-names-vinay-prakash-as-resident-grievance-officer-101625979692189.html
11-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Arunachal Pradesh recommends imposing lockdown in capital Itanagar||The Arunachal Pradesh government has recommended imposing a lockdown in capital Itanagar as the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are spiking. The positivity rate in the city has been over 5 per cent for the last few days."After recording a test positivity rate over 5 per cent for a few days, we held a meeting with stakeholders for the implementation of lockdown in the district. We have given a recommendation to the state government for a complete lockdown for a week," said Talo Potom, Deputy Commissioner Itanagar.According to state government data, Arunachal Pradesh recorded 478 new Covid-19 cases out of 5,818 tests on Saturday. The Covid positivity rate stands at 8.22 per cent.Arunachal Pradesh is among the six states where the Centre dispatched team of experts last week for Covid-19 control and containment measures.The decision to send the teams was taken after a high-level meeting conducted by ministry of development of northeast region (DONER). The ministry observed though the overall Covid-19 situation in the northeast is improving, some pockets are still a cause of concern.As many as 39,563 positivity cases have been reported in the state so far, including 35,634 recoveries and 188 deaths. There are currently 3,741 active cases.As per the union health ministry, 6,91,832 doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered in the state so far, including 5,83,283 first doses and 1,08,549.As much as 72.24 per cent of the state's population has received the first dose, while 13.92 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated against the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-arunachal-pradesh-recommends-imposing-lockdown-in-capital-itanagar-101625979507666.html
11-07-2021||India||9 leopard and a tiger skin seized in Odisha’s Kalahandi district||Eight leopard skins and a tiger skin were seized and seven wildlife smugglers were arrested in Kalahandi by a joint team from Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and forest officials of Odisha and Chhattisgarh on Saturday.Chief wildlife warden Shashi Paul said the seizures included a tiger and a leopard skin from M Rampur area and two leopard hides from the Junagarh area of the district. He said a massive inter-state racket may be at work as five tiger skins have been seized from the bordering areas in Chhattisgarh in the last six months and all the accused were from Odisha’s Kalahandi district.Paul said the seized tiger skin was being examined and if required, it will be sent to the Centre for Wildlife Health at OUAT or forensic lab of Wildlife Institute of India at Dehradun for confirmation.He said all the six accused nabbed in this connection were middlemen apprehended by the joint team that posed as customers of the animal skins to lure them out. Kalahandi (North) district forest officer (DFO) Nitish Kumar said interrogation was on to find the interstate poaching and trading link.In April, the Special Task Force of the Crime Investigation Department (CID) seized one leopard skin and two elephant ivory from two persons in Nayagarh district. The same month, the STF arrested a wildlife smuggler and seized a leopard skin in Boudh district. In February, STF seized a leopard hide, while in March they seized a leopard skin and arrested two smugglers in Barkot area of Deogarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-leopard-and-a-tiger-skin-seized-in-odisha-s-kalahandi-district-101625977236834.html
11-07-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases down to 41,506; 895 fresh deaths added||India on Sunday witnessed a slight decrease in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 41,506 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 30,837,222, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. As many as 895 people died and 41,526 recovered due to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 408,040 and 29,975,064 respectively. The active cases have come down to 454,118 and constitute 1.48 per cent of the caseload.Sunday’s case figures are 1,260 less than that of Saturday’s, when 42,766 people were detected Covid-19 positive. On the other hand, the toll count on Sunday is 311 less than that of Saturday’s, when 1,206 deaths were recorded.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 430,885,470 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,843,500 were tested in the last 24 hours.As people have been flocking to hill stations and other tourist destinations in the country since the past few days with no adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said on Saturday that the second wave of the pandemic is not over yet and states and Union Territories (UTs) should strictly follow Covid-related protocols with regard to wearing masks, maintaining social distancing etc., according to news agency PTI.Chairing a review meeting on Saturday, Bhalla sounded a note of caution against the reported blatant disregard of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at hills stations and tourist destinations. During the meeting, states and UTs were also told to follow the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate, which was mentioned in the Union home ministry’s order on June 29.Meanwhile, the vaccination drive in India has exceeded 375.7 million and over 3.4 million doses were administered till 7pm on Saturday. Of the total doses, 302,928,648 have received the first dose and the remaining 72,781,525 have received the second dose, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-down-to-41-506-895-fresh-deaths-added-101625974582718.html
11-07-2021||India||Workers attacked with grenades as Assam-Mizoram border dispute festers||Some unidentified miscreants allegedly lobbed grenades targeting road construction workers in Cachar district in Assam near Mizoram border on Saturday. No one was injured in the incident that took place at Lailapur area under Dholai assembly constituency, police said. Cachar superintendent of police Vaibhav Chandrakant Nimbalkar confirmed hearing the sound of a blast, while the workers said they were attacked with grenades. “We were at the inspection of the work when we heard the sound of a blast. We rushed to the area where the workers said some miscreants from Mizoram side threw grenades targeting them. But fortunately, no one was injured. We are going to investigate the matter,” Nimbalkar said. The incident took place a day after chief secretaries of Mizoram and Assam met in New Delhi on Friday to discuss the ongoing border dispute between both states. The meeting remained inconclusive after Mizoram sought more time on Assam’s proposal to maintain status-quo along the border and withdrawal of security forces from the disputed areas. Three districts of Assam’s Barak Valley share a 164 km long border with three districts of Mizoram. There have been border disputes between both the states since Mizoram’s formation in 1987. The disputes led to clashes in August last year and February this year. This is the second time when explosives were used to terrorise people along Assam-Mizoram border. Last year, a primary school on the Assam side of the inter-state border was bombed by miscreants at Upper Painom area in Dholai. “Some tension is going on along the constitutional boundary between both states. We are always open for discussions and resolutions of our dispute. But don’t encroach our land. As of now, Assam police are working day and night to protect our constitutional boundary,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said at Guwahati on Saturday. According to officials of Cachar district administration, a road is under construction from Dholai’s Dholakhal to Upper Painom area. The Assam government project was getting delayed because of obstructions made by some groups from Mizoram’s side. When a team of top-level officials visited to enquire about the status of work on Sunday, a group of people including civilians and few armed men in uniform obstructed the team. They warned them not to move further and used abusive language. The local police have confirmed that the incident took place within the territory of Assam on Saturday afternoon. On Saturday, the delegation was stopped at Lailapur area while taking stock of the work.According to the officials, miscreants from Mizoram side have so far encroached 6.5 kilometers within the territory of Assam. Senior police and administrative officials are leading an eviction process along the border in the three districts of Barak Valley in Assam.After the grenade blast, locals in large numbers have started leaving the area with their bags and baggage. “This is not the first time that Mizo miscreants have used explosives to terrorise us and capture our land. Security personnel from our district come to visit the area when something happens. But on the other side, armed men in uniform and aggressive locals from Mizoram side continuously stay at the border and encroach on land. We cannot live under such an atmosphere of terror.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/workers-attacked-with-grenades-as-assam-mizoram-border-dispute-festers-101625975616913.html
11-07-2021||India||Middle path has to be found to bring ULFA-I to peace talks, says Assam CM||While addressing a press conference on Saturday, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that a middle path has to be found to bring the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) for peace talks. While a faction of the outfit has given up arms and is in talks with the Centre, the anti-talks faction headed by Paresh Baruah hasn’t agreed to surrender and engage in deliberations. “ULFA-I has categorically said that it can’t discuss anything unless the Government of India wants to discuss the question of sovereignty. But as constitutional representatives who take the oath to protect the constitution and the country’s sovereignty, we can’t sit in talks on that issue,” Sarma said while addressing a press conference to mark the completion of two months of his government. “These are two irreconcilable positions. If we want to resolve that, we have to find a mid-level approach. In order to find that middle path, some mediators have been conducting unofficial parleys between ULFA-I and the government. Talks will happen as and when we find a middle path,” he added. Since assuming office, Sarma has been urging Baruah to give up arms and sit for talks. His appeals to the ULFA-I commander-in-chief led the outfit to release an abducted Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in May this year. The banned outfit announced a three-month ceasefire in their operations in May citing the Covid-19 pandemic. “The mediators carrying forward unofficial talks between us have been saying the ULFA-I chief’s overtures are positive. Now we have to create a road map for talks and hopefully, we will get some good news,” said Sarma on Saturday. Formed in 1979, ULFA is the biggest terrorist outfit in Assam. It has been seeking the creation of an independent Assam through armed struggle. The outfit has camps in neighbouring Myanmar where its cadres are trained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/middle-path-has-to-be-found-to-bring-ulfa-i-to-peace-talks-says-assam-cm-101625972196727.html
11-07-2021||India||2,000 vehicles headed to Mussoorie sent back, Covid-19 protocol put in place||In a bid to prevent overcrowding amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the police in Uttarakhand sent back 2,000 vehicles that were on their way to Mussoorie, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. This was done as part of a special drive where the police put up barricades on the main Dehradun-Mussoorie road, according to Live Hindustan.The police said the figure of 2,000 vehicles is till 5pm on Saturday.Tourists are arriving in large numbers over the past few days at major tourists spots like Mussoorie, Kempty Fall, Nainital, Haridwar and Rishikesh in Uttarakhand due to heatwave in the plains and dip in the number of Covid-19 cases. Several videos have gone viral in which the visitors are seen violating Covid norms by not wearing masks and refusing to maintain social distancing.The Uttarakhand government has ordered all tourists to strictly adhere to Covid protocol, saying such violations are a "matter of concern".The tourists have been asked to produce a negative Covid-19 test report not older than 72 hours. Apart from this, the administration is playing recorded messages asking people to adopt Covid appropriate behaviour in Mussoorie.Mussoorie's Circle Officer Narendra Pant said that those who are found violating norms are being fined.The main Mussoorie road saw a three-kilometre-long traffic jam as hundreds of people from nearby cities decided to spend time in the hill station."We came here to enjoy ourselves with family but due to heavy traffic, we have wasted a lot of time here in the car," a tourist was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.There are concerns about a third wave of the infection, but the tourists say they are taking all the precautions. "Yes it is risky. But if you are following the precautions then it is okay," another tourist told ANI."We are all vaccinated and are taking care of the Covid protocols, so I don't think there should be a problem," said Tanishq, a visitor from Delhi.According to authorities in Mussorrie, there has been a decline of 50 per cent in tourist inflow due to the restrictions this weekend in comparison to the last.The district administration has also issued guidelines to popular spots like Kempty Fall, after a video of maskless tourists thronging the place went viral on social media.The administration has put a time limit of 30 minutes for people to stay in the fall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2000-vehicles-headed-to-mussoorie-sent-back-covid-19-protocol-put-in-place-101625971470981.html
11-07-2021||India||High court says Tripura’s Covid-19 vaccination figures are inaccurate||Tripura high court on Friday termed the state’s claim to have administered the first dose of Covid vaccines to 80% of all eligible people including 98% in the 45+ age category as “inaccurate” and asked for correct information at the earliest. The health department was, however, sticking to its figures.The court pointed out contradiction in data to point out that National Health Mission (NHM) director Dr Siddharth Shiv Jaiswal’s quote, published on June 25, claiming around 80% of all eligible population and 98% of residents above 45 years of age had been given their first dose of the vaccine were not accurate. The court observed that as per the government affidavit, the state has nearly 2.686 million eligible residents above 18 years of age and nearly 1.236 million residents above 45 years of age. “From any angle, neither of these two claims was accurate.... On the date when the Mission Director made these claims, the total vaccine doses administered was 2.427 million, of which, 566,458 were second doses. Therefore, the total number of people vaccinated was 1.860 million. Perhaps, he has taken the total doses of vaccines administered for arriving at this 80% coverage, forgetting that a substantial part of it was administered to the same person as a second dose,” the court order reads. The court added that roughly 1.437 million doses were administered to people above 45 years at the time and 566,458 residents got their second doses and most of them are from the 45+ age group. “Around 900,000 out of 1.236 million people over 45 years of age were given the vaccines. This certainly does not come to 98% of the population in that age group,” the court said. The court asked the NHM director to soon issue an official statement pointing out either there was an error on his side or a misunderstanding on the part of the press in understanding the figures.Reacting to the high court order, a senior health official said on condition of anonymity that the department’s calculation was correct. “We have checked our figures and we stick to the 98% vaccination coverage claim. There might be some miscommunication between our office and the court. We will submit an affidavit at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-says-tripura-s-covid-19-vaccination-figures-are-inaccurate-101625971356635.html
11-07-2021||India||As Zika virus spreads in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka step up vigil||Tamil Nadu has intensified checking at its border with Kerala after cases of Zika virus emerged in the southern state. Tight vigil is being maintained at 14 strategic points and checkposts at Walayar and Meenakshipuram, and vehicle checking intensified, news agency PTI reported quoting Tamil Nadu government officials.e-pass has been made mandatory for people going from Kerala to Tamil Nadu, PTI further reported.Kerala has so far reported 15 cases of Zika virus, with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan saying that his government will strengthen vector control units at the district and state level.Here are the latest on the spread of the Zika virus:It leads to shrunken brain in children and a rare auto-immune disease called Guillain-Barre syndrome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-zika-virus-spreads-in-kerala-tamil-nadu-and-karnataka-step-up-vigil-101625969500482.html
11-07-2021||India||No weekend curfew in Rajasthan today: Check fresh guidelines here||The Rajasthan government has decided to give a relaxation in Sunday's restrictions, put in place to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The decision was taken by the state home department, which issued a guideline on Saturday.In addition to this, the state government has also taken the decision to reopen cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes with certain restrictions.The relaxations came in view of Rajasthan reporting two Covid-19 deaths and 56 new cases on Saturday, taking the total number of fatalities and infections to 8,945 and 9,53,074, respectively.However, the Centre has expressed concern about the high Covid-19 positivity in some districts of Rajasthan. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla chaired a meeting on Saturday to review the overall Covid-19 situation across the country. The home ministry issued a statement after the meeting in which it said that some districts in Rajasthan and other states have a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent.Check out the new guidelines which will be in force in Rajasthan today:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-weekend-curfew-in-rajasthan-from-today-check-fresh-guidelines-here-101625967194470.html
11-07-2021||India||'Bonalu' festivities to begin in Telangana, officials urge Covid-19 norms||Telangana is all set to celebrate the 'Asha Bonalu' festival, one of the biggest traditional folk festivals in the state, on Sunday. The event was cancelled by the state government last year in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Bonalu festival was declared a 'state festival' by the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led government after the state's formation back in 2014.The Bonalu festival involves scores of devotees offering the traditional 'bonam' (derived from Bhojanam, meaning meals) to the goddess Mahankali at 25 temples across the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad. The first of these offerings -- the 'golden bonam' -- will be offered to the goddess Jagdamba at the temple in Hyderabad's Golconda Fort at 12 noon.The Bonalu festival, a month-long event, is expected to see a heavy rush from women devotees this year since many were restricted from properly making their offerings last year in view of the Covid-19 curbs. According to reports, the authorities are expecting thousands of devotees to crowd the temple premises on weekdays.Bonalu this year is the first festival allowed after Telangana conducted a mass Covid-19 vaccination drive. To reduce the risk of virus spread, both the state police as well as temple authorities will be supervising the crowd and ensuring proper adherence to coronavirus-related protocols, officials familiar with the matter told news agencies.The Bonalu festival is usually celebrated every year in the Telugu month of Ashadham (falling in June/July). The devotees worship Goddess Mahankali (a form of Durga) seeking her divine blessings to overcome all obstacles and get cured of diseases.To celebrate 'Bonalu', devotees make ‘bonam’ (meal, comprising cooked rice, milk, and jaggery) in new earthen pots (ghatams), which womenfolk carry on their heads to the temple and offer to the deity. The pots are adorned with neem leaves, turmeric, and vermilion.The Bonalu festivities begin on the first Friday of Ashadham month and continue till the end. The main festivities begin at Goddess Mahankali temple at Golconda fort in the first week, followed by Ujjaini Mahankali temple at Secunderabad, Akkanna Madanna temple at Shalibanda, and ends at the Mahankali temple at Laldarwaza in the old city of Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bonalu-festivities-to-begin-in-telangana-officials-urge-covid-19-norms-101625966543502.html
11-07-2021||India||Indian diplomats, security personnel evacuated as fighting escalates in Kandahar||India has evacuated some 50 diplomats and security personnel from Kandahar in an Indian Air Force aircraft after Taliban fighters seized key areas around the southern city in Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said on Sunday.The evacuation was done on Saturday, just four days after India said there were no imminent plans to close its mission in Kabul and consulates in the cities of Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif. However, officials had said that India was closely tracking the deteriorating security situation across Afghanistan and all steps will be taken to ensure that Indian officials and nationals were not put in harm’s way.The Indian consulate in Kandahar has been temporarily closed after the diplomats, support staff and guards from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were flown out to New Delhi, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The presence of a large number of terrorists from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba in the southern provinces of Kandahar and Helmand is believed to have been a factor in India’s decision to pull out the diplomats and security personnel from the city. According to a recent estimate by Afghan security agencies, more than 7,000 LeT fighters are believed to be fighting alongside the Taliban in southern Afghanistan.There was no official word on the development.Kandahar has witnessed a spike in fighting between the Taliban and Afghan security forces since last week, with some reports saying the militants entered Kandahar city on Friday after capturing key districts surrounding it. The strategic district of Panjwai in Kandahar province fell to the Taliban last weekend, just days after US forces abandoned Bagram air base near Kabul.Taliban fighters seized houses in Kandahar’s seventh police district on Friday, triggering fierce clashes that continued till Saturday. The Afghan military said about 70 Taliban fighters were killed in fighting in the seventh police district and nearby Dand district.About 2,000 families from the seventh police district were displaced and forced to take refuge in other parts of Kandahar.Kandahar, the second largest city in Afghanistan and the capital of the province of the same name, has for long been of strategic and commercial importance. It served as the headquarters of the Taliban from the mid-1990s till 2001, when the group was ousted from power by the US invasion.New Delhi has been working on plans to ensure the safety of diplomats and some 3,000 Indian nationals in Afghanistan in view of what officials have described as a “fluid and dynamic” situation because of the intense fighting across the country. India is also keeping a close eye on steps being taken by key countries such as the US for the safety of diplomats as it weighs its options.In April last year, India had shuttered its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad, ostensibly because of the spread of Covid-19, though some reports suggested security was a factor in the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-evacuates-diplomats-security-personnel-from-kandahar-as-fighting-escalates-101625967156486.html
11-07-2021||India||Delhi still waits for monsoon, red alert for heavy rain in Kerala districts||Monsoon is expected to arrive in northwest India, including national capital Delhi, on Sunday. The usual date of monsoon onset in Delhi is June 29, but it has been delayed, leading to an extended spell of high-heat and high-humidity conditions in the entire region.Some pre-monsoon showers were expected in Delhi on Friday, but those too did not occur. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday that the southwest monsoon will take “another 24 hours” to reach the national capital.According to IMD forecast, the southwest monsoon is likely to cover parts of Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. It will intensify between July 11 and 13, the IMD bulletin further said.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in Delhi settled at 39.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, four degrees above normal. Relative humidity was recorded at 5.30 pm was 47 per cent.In Haryana and Punjab too, the sultry weather gave people a lot of discomfort. Narnaul in Haryana recorded a maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above the normal. Hisar experienced hot weather at 41 degrees Celsius while Rohtak, Gurgaon and Bhiwani's (all in Haryana) maximum temperatures were recorded at 40.1 degrees Celsius, 40.7 degrees Celsius and 40.4 degrees Celsius respectively.In Punjab, the maximum temperatures of Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala settled at 36.5, 37.1 and 38 degrees Celsius respectively. Amritsar received 16 mm of rain.This will be the most-delayed monsoon in Delhi in the last 15 years. According to Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, the monsoon had reached the capital on July 7 in 2012 and July 9 in 2006.In central India, the monsoon has become active in Madhya Pradesh after a gap of around 10 days, as large parts of the state received light showers that provided some relief to people from sultry weather conditions.Senior meteorologist in IMD Bhopal office, PK Saha, said the state is expected to receive good rainfall between July 11 and 16.Down south, a red alert for extremely heavy rainfall on Sunday has been issued in Kannur and Kasaragod districts in Kerala which has been receiving a copious amount of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-still-waits-for-monsoon-red-alert-for-heavy-rain-in-kerala-districts-101625966486288.html
11-07-2021||India||48-hour curfew in Puri ahead of Rath Yatra, hotels vacated||Puri in Odisha will go under a 48-hour curfew from Sunday, ahead of the Rath Yatra on July 12. According to the district administration's order, the restrictions will remain in place from 8pm on Sunday to 8pm on July 13.The annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath will be held on July 12. The Odisha government has sealed all entry points to Puri and restrictions have been imposed to keep devotees at bay in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Puri Collector Samarth Verma on Saturday said that the owners of hotels and lodgings have been asked to ensure that no tourists stay put in the town during the Rath Jatra.Private guest houses of various companies and corporate houses have also been given similar instructions, he said.Ahead of the curfew, the state government gave some relaxations to residents of Puri on Saturday.The government has appealed to the people not to visit Puri during the festival and instead watch the live broadcast of the Ratha Yatra on TV.The celebrations for Lord Jagannath's annual Ratha Yatra began in Puri on Friday with the 'Naba Jauban Darshan' of the sibling deities, during which they are worshipped after spending 14 days in 'Anasara Ghara' or quarantine. The Trinity - Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra - during the 'Naba Jouban Darshan' reappeared after spending 14 days in the 'Aasara Ghara'.This time the devotees missed the rituals as no one was allowed to enter into the shrine due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48hour-curfew-in-puri-ahead-of-rath-yatra-hotels-vacated-101625962937211.html
11-07-2021||India||Thawarchand Gehlot to take oath as Karnataka Governor today||Former Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot will be sworn-in as the 19th Governor of Karnataka on Sunday. As per an official release by the Karnataka government, quoted by news agency ANI, Gehlot will take oath at 10:30am at Raj Bhawan. Gehlot will replace Vajubhai Vala, who has been the Governor of Karnataka since 2014.Chief Justice of the Karnataka high hourt, Justice Abhay Srinivas Oka, will be administering the oath of office and secrecy to Gehlot.Gehlot was appointed Karnataka Governor on July 6. He was among the 12 Union ministers who resigned from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Council of Ministers ahead of the Union Cabinet expansion on July 7.He was the Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha since 2019. Gehlot has served as BJP's Karnataka unit in charge between 2006 and 2014 when he was the party general secretary.Gehlot served four terms as a member of the Lok Sabha from Shajapur (Madhya Pradesh) from 1996 to 2009. He lost the 2009 Lok Sabha elections and was sent to the Rajya Sabha in 2012.Welcoming Gehlot's appointment as the Governor of Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa had said on Tuesday that the state will benefit from his long experience in public life and commitment to social justice."I extend my warm welcome to Shri Thawarchand Gehlot Ji as the new Governor of Karnataka. The state will benefit from Gehlotji's long experience in public life & commitment to social justice. I thank Governor Shri Vajubhai Vala Ji for his contribution to Karnataka," Yediyurappa tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thawarchand-gehlot-to-take-oath-as-karnataka-governor-today-101625962102489.html
11-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh govt releases new population policy: All you need to know||On World Population Day, Uttar Pradesh government announced a new population policy for 2021-2030 on Sunday. The new policy has provisions to give incentives to those who help in population control.The population policy was unveiled ahead of the elections in the state next year. The issue has emerged as one of the main focus areas in the state ahead of assembly polls.The opposition has slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state, saying it wants to "murder the democracy" in Uttar Pradesh.A draft bill on population control has already been uploaded on UP government's website, and suggestions invited till July 19. If enacted, the provisions of the proposed legislation titled The Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill, 2021 will come into force after one year from the date of publication in the gazette.Uttar Pradesh is India's most populous state with a population of around 220 million.Here are the main provisions of UP government's move to control the state's population:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-to-release-new-population-policy-all-you-need-to-know-101625962650024.html
11-07-2021||India||11 Jammu-Kashmir govt employees sacked over ‘links’ to terrorist groups||The Jammu & Kashmir administration has dismissed 11 of its employees, including sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin and two from the police department, for allegedly working as overground workers for terrorist organisations, officials said on Saturday.The 11 employees, who have been dismissed, are from the Jammu Kashmir Police, the education, agriculture, skill development, power and health departments, and the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS).Among the employees, four are residents of Anantnag, three from Budgam, and one each from Baramulla, Srinagar, Pulwama and Kupwara districts, the officials said.These employees were dismissed under Article 311 of the Indian Constitution, under which no inquiry is held and dismissed employees can only approach a high court for relief.The officials said that the designated committee for such cases recommended the dismissal of three and eight employees, respectively, from government service.Syed Ahmad Shakeel and Shahid Yousuf, who are sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief and one of the most wanted terrorists, Salahuddin, were also dismissed from service for allegedly being involved in terror funding, the officials said. One of them was working with SKIMS and the other, was in the education department, they said.The National Investigation Agency has tracked terror funding trails of both the persons. They were involved in raising, receiving, collecting and transferring funds through Hawala (non-banking) transactions for terror activities of the banned Hizbul Mujahideen, the officials said.The three officials recommended for dismissal in the second meeting of the committee, included an orderly of the ITI in Kupwara, who was an over ground worker (OGW) of terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba, they said.Besides him, there were two teachers from Anantnag in South Kashmir who were found involved in anti-national activities, including participating, supporting and propagating secessionist ideology of the Jamat-Islami (JeI) and Dukhtaran-e-Millat (DeM), they said.The eight government employees recommended for dismissal included two constables of the J&K Police who provided inside information and logistical support to terrorists, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-jammu-kashmir-govt-employees-sacked-over-links-to-terrorist-groups-101625948358760.html
11-07-2021||India||Assam marriage bill will check 'Love Jihad’ of all kinds: CM Sarma||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday that the proposed legislation, under which the bride and groom will have to disclose their religion and income in official documents a month before the wedding, aims at curbing the menace of ‘love jihad’ and will encompass all communities.“Love jihad doesn’t only mean a Muslim cheating a Hindu. It could happen among Hindus as well. If a Hindu boy uses dubious means to entrap and marry a Hindu girl that is also a form of ‘love jihad’,” Sarma told reporters on the sidelines of an event to mark completion of two months of his government.“Love jihad” is a term used by right-wing activists to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, but one that the courts and the Union government do not officially recognise. Several activists and legal experts argue that such laws could be used to target Muslims and infringe on the fundamental rights to equality, freedom of religion, and life and personal liberty.“We won’t like to use the term ‘love jihad’, but dubious means or cheating to entrap and marry a girl shouldn’t be done by Hindus too. We will act against such frauds. The law won’t be only against Muslims. No girl or woman should be exploited in that manner,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-marriage-bill-will-check-love-jihad-of-all-kinds-cm-sarma-101625945309058.html
11-07-2021||India||Mehul Choksi alleges ‘collusion’ between India, Dominica||Mehul Choksi has claimed before the Dominica high court that Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) joint director, Anurag, wrote to Dominican authorities on May 25, two days after he went missing from Antigua and Barbuda, seeking his deportation to India.The fugitive diamantaire has alleged that the way India found out about his detention in Dominica and issued a requesting letter with “such swiftness” shows “there was some collusion between two governments”.Choksi made these claims in an affidavit filed before the high court earlier this week in support of his plea seeking judicial review of the illegal entry proceedings against him. He has attached the letter, purportedly signed by the senior CBI officer on May 25, who heads the Bank Securities and Fraud Cell (BSFC) in the agency, and shared with him by Dominica’s prosecution department. HT has reviewed the affidavit.The document says that India was making an effort to get Choksi deported to India directly, without involving any court process.After Choksi filed a habeas corpus petition in the Dominica high court alleging abduction, India moved court on June 8, seeking his deportation on the grounds that he continues to be an Indian citizen and should be sent to India to face charges. The legal process in courts may take time as the matter is already adjourned till August and is expected to stretch till the end of the year.To be sure, governments usually have direct communication with each other on matters of deportation as it’s an administrative process.Anurag, who goes by only his first name, did not respond to HT’s calls on Saturday.The news about Choksi missing from Antigua came into the public domain on May 25, when Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne and the police there issued statements saying the businessman went missing on May 23 evening and a search was on for him.According to official Dominican records, he was apprehended in its territory on May 24, and was charged for illegal entry the next day. The Dominica police has said before the high court that it established Choksi’s identity only on May 27, when his driver’s licence was obtained.Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal and his wife Priti Choksi have, however, alleged he was abducted from Antigua by 7-8 men, tortured and brought to Dominica in a vessel.“There is overwhelming evidence on record to show that various important people knew that Mehul Choksi has been detained in Dominica on May 25 itself, though it was declared to the world and his family much later and the stand of Dominica police is that they got the identity of Mehul Choksi confirmed only on May 27, when they found his driving license. So, this all speaks volume. Less said the better,” Aggarwal said on Saturday.Choksi has claimed in his affidavit that a plan to abduct and take him to Dominica was hatched only after the Indian government realised that extradition proceedings in Antigua would take very long.The fugitive has also annexed the investigation report of the Antigua police, which he claims was obtained by his legal team unofficially, and concludes that his “claim of abduction is credible”.Both Antigua & Barbuda and Dominica governments have rejected the allegations.The Indian government has sought Choksi’s deportation on the ground that he masterminded the Punjab National Bank scam worth $952 million and that he continues to be an Indian citizen as his declaration for renunciation of citizenship was never accepted by the ministry of home affairs (MHA).Choksi has stated in the affidavit that he will present expert evidence to challenge this claim of the Indian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-alleges-collusion-between-india-dominica-101625944468233.html
11-07-2021||India||Illegal mining row: K’taka min promises probe if MP Ambareesh gives proof||Rejecting the allegations of illegal mining activities at Baby Betta in Mandya, mines and geology minister Murugesh Nirani said the government is ready to order a thorough investigation if MP Sumalatha Ambareesh produces documentary evidence. Addressing the media in Mandya, the Kalaburagi district in-charge minister categorically denied illegal mining activities in Mandya. “As per my information, no mining activities is taking place around KRS dam or Baby Betta area in Mandya district. I had personally visited the spot after I was informed about the illegal mining activities. I had instructed the officials to stop stone quarrying after noticing the violation of rules. Those who violated the rules were fined, and there is a ban on stone mining,” Nirani clarified. Denying the charges of Mandya MP Sumalatha, Nirani said the government is ready to order a probe. “Let Sumalatha Ambareesh produce documents related to illegal mining activities to the government. We will order a thorough and fair investigation and take action as per the law and won’t buckle under any pressure,” Nirani assured. On Friday, members of parliament Sumalatha and the Janata Dal (Secular), led by former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, traded barbs over alleged illegal mining in Karnataka’s Mandya district, about 100 km from Bengaluru. The confrontation between the Mandya MP, the widow of popular actor-turned-politician Ambareesh, and the JD (S), which has its seeds in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, was reignited this time when Sumalatha alleged that illegal mining activities were affecting the structure of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam. Replying to a query on the public spat between former Kumaraswamy and Sumalatha, Nirani said he respected both the leaders and added that indulging in mudslinging in public would not solve any problem. “Both the leaders are intelligent and have enough experience in politics. It’s time they ended this public spat. Politicians should not indulge in mudslinging, and senior leaders should intervene and end this matter,” Nirani appealed. Talking about the concerns over the safety of the KRS dam in Mandya, the minister denied illegal mining activities in the 20 km radius of the KRS dam, which is a lifeline for farmers in Mandya. “Mining activities have been banned in the 20-km radius of KRS dam. Officials have been instructed to collect information regarding any illegal activities. It is very difficult to reveal the names of any politicians involved in stone mining activities, which are happening in the last 70 years,” Nirani explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-mining-row-k-taka-min-promises-probe-if-mp-ambareesh-gives-proof-101625944356023.html
11-07-2021||India||No deliberate under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths: Kerala CM||Thiruvananthapuram There is no under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in Kerala and the state was following the death protocol in letter and spirit and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has lauded it several times, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday. His reply came when many complaints surfaced that under-reporting of Covid deaths was quite rampant in the state. The CM has underplayed reports that appeared in a section of media that in May the government had reported only 404 Covid deaths officially but actual deaths were more than 10,000. Local bodies’ death registration figures contradicted the official data in last three months in a big way, media reports based on the reply obtained under the Right to Information Act said. “Reporting all deaths under such trying circumstances is difficult. We haven’t done deliberate under- reporting. If there are complaints we will look into,” he said. He cited the case of a north Indian state and said when more than one lakh died in that state official toll was only 2461. He said such things will never happen in a state like Kerala. “Such a situation never arose in Kerala. We reported at least one death out of three. There is no deliberate attempt towards this,” he said adding the ICMR lauded it several times. But the opposition Congress said its workers have started compiling details of all Covid-19 deaths and it will release it if the government failed to do so by next week. Though the CM expressed concern over the high test positivity rate (TPR) he said there is no need to panic about this. He said in many states second wave started in March and peaked immediately but in Kerala it began in May and its progression is slow. Meanwhile the state reported 14,087 new cases on Saturday with a test positivity rate of 10. 7 per cent. The average TPR of last seven days was 10. 4, health ministry statistics show. The state has an active caseload of 1,15,226. For almost a month the state is reporting almost one- third of total cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deliberate-under-reporting-of-covid-19-deaths-kerala-cm-101625944234840.html
11-07-2021||India||2,146 raids in Bengaluru: 1,548 detained in crack down on criminals||The city police on Saturday raided around 2,146 homes associated with rowdies, and 1,548 people were taken into detention by the city police, said Bengaluru commissioner Kamal Pant. Raids were also conducted in Parappanna Agrahara Central Prison, he added.Pant told HT that the raids began as early as 5 am, and all senior officials were deployed for the raids and the highest number of cases booked during the raid. “We booked 561 rowdies under various sections; this is the highest in the history of any raid so far. We have also seized 91 weapons,” he said.Out of the 561 cases, 48 people booked under the Arms Act for possession of weapons, 84 booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act after illegal drugs were seized and two persons have been booked for planning to execute dacoity. Around 406 booked under other preventive sections. “We have taken bonds from them, and if they violate the conditions, they will be arrested,” Pant added.The raids come on the back of a series of high-profile murders in the city in the last 15 days. An associate of Rashid Malabari, an alleged shooter in the Dawood gang, Kareem Ali, was killed on June 22. Rekha Kadiresh, a former corporator was hacked to death on June 24 A financier named Madan and another named Krishna Murthy were killed on July 3 and 4 in the limits of various police stations.When asked if the raids were a reaction to the recent murders in the city, the commissioner said that the raids were part of the preventive action from the police. “It is not true that crimes in Bengaluru have increased. In the four murders reported in Bengaluru, three were due to personal reasons, and only Madan murder was gang-related. We have been planning this raid for some time, and since the lockdown got lifted, we thought it was the right time,” he said.Along with the raids in the eight-division of Bengaluru police, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) conducted raids in the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison. “The raids began as early 5 am, and during the raids, 200 grams of ganja (marijuana) and 29 weapons were seized. The information found during the raid has been shared with the prison department for further action,” said Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (CCB).Commissioner Pant also added that administrative transfers would be conducted across ranks in Bengaluru police to ensure that no policeman or officer stays in one particular station for more than three years. “The transfers of sub-inspectors, ASI (Assistant Sub-Inspectors), head constables have finished. The same will be conducted for constables soon. We will ensure there is no instance of any policeman staying at one post and aiding the criminals there,” Pant added.When questioned how kingpins of some gangs were missing from the city during the raids, Pant said that they will be questioned soon.Meanwhile, Bengaluru Police will now book house owners renting a place to foreign nationals accused in narcotic and drug cases for lack of due diligence, said a communication from the police department. The police noted that some landlords were not verifying documents of foreign nationals before renting out their property to get higher rent.The city police said it would undertake a three-pronged investigation in narcotics cases involving foreign nationals henceforth — the peddlers’ side, foreigner’s involvement in the drug mafia and the house owners’ side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2146-raids-in-bengaluru-1-548-detained-in-crack-down-on-criminals-101625944180285.html
11-07-2021||India||‘Attack on federal structure’: Cong, CPI(M) on co-operation ministry||Thiruvananthapuram:The formation of a new co-operation ministry at the Centre has worried many political parties in Kerala, especially the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist), which have called the move an attack on the federal structure of the country. The CPI(M) has built many firms, banks and institutions in the co-operative sector and the party fears that the new ministry will usurp its power to control them, according to party leaders and experts. The Congress has also criticised the move, saying handing over the new ministry to union home minister Amit Shah makes it “more worrisome”. The state government has called an all-party meeting next week to discuss the Centre’s move. “It (co-operative sector) is a state subject and the Centre has no business in it. We have no idea why it was formed. It comes under the purview of the states; the new move violates the federal polity of the country,” said state co-operation minister VN Vasavan. Former finance minister TM Thomas Issac also criticised the move. “When Shah was in Gujarat, he was instrumental in capturing the co-operative sector in the state, which was controlled primarily by the Congress. Even Amul was not spared and the father of ‘Operation Flood’ (White Revolution) Dr Varghese Kurian was booted out of the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation,” he said. “It is part of a sinister campaign.” The Congress and CPI(M) said they will raise the issue in the monsoon session of parliament. Questioning the move, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said the new ministry was created by an executive action, not by an act of parliament. “The BJP wants total control of the co-operative movement and that is why it made Amit Shah in charge of the new ministry. It is not acceptable and the party will oppose it,” he said. The BJP underplayed the apprehensions. “It seems the CPI(M) is worried that some of its shady dealings will be exposed. The BJP always supported the co-operative sector,” said BJP leader S Suresh.The CPI(M) has enough reasons to worry in Kerala because it controls the thriving co-operative sector, experts say. It runs many banks, hospitals, infotainment parks, small-scale units, IT institutions and other firms under the co-operative sector. The CPI(M) gives employment to many party workers and sympathizers, experts say. In 2019 the government had also merged 13 district co-operative banks in the state to float the first bank of the state, Kerala Bank. All appointments in these institutions are managed by the party. The Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society (ULCCS), which undertakes major construction and road works in the state, is also close to the CPI(M), experts say. Reported to be the country’s oldest labour co-operative institution, it was founded by social reformer Vagbadanandan. The society now employs more than 3,000 workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attack-on-federal-structure-cong-cpi-m-on-co-operation-ministry-101625943994864.html
11-07-2021||India||CID office to Covid war room: A building that encases heritage||Bengaluru: When coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic hit Karnataka last year, a heritage building in Bengaluru was turned into a war room to coordinate the state’s efforts to control the pandemic. The Balabrooie Guest House built in 1850s was, however, in news in 2014 when the government wanted to raise down the building to build a recreational club for Karnataka legislators. Residents in large numbers took to streets to protest the plan, forcing the government to give in. As TP Issar, former chief secretary of Karnataka, in his book ‘City Beautiful’, wrote that Lord Cubbon, who was the commissioner of the Mysore state, wanted Balabrooie Guest House to remind him of his hometown on the little island in the Irish Sea, where many homes were called ‘Balabrooie’ (farm on the riverbank). “Sir Mark Cubbon hailed from the Isle of Man and was buried in Maughold Church there on 17 May 1861. Not surprisingly, there are a few “Mysore Cottages” in the Isle, four of them at Ramsay,” Issar wrote in his book. The fact that this heritage building still remains a hub administrative activity, points at a unique factor of Bengaluru’s heritage compared to other cities. According to Meera Iyer, convenor of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach), Bengaluru city has an everyday heritage. “If you look at Paris, it has the Eiffel Tower, while New Delhi has the India Gate and the Red Fort. But in Bengaluru, we have neighbourhoods and the elements of this neighbourhood that holds heritage value and still remains an important part of the city’s functioning,” she said. Several government buildings such as the Carlton House, which houses the office of the Criminal Investigation Department, the office of the chief postmaster general, the Bengaluru police commissioner’s offices are heritage buildings that continue to remain operational. According to Suresh Moona, Bangalore’s ‘Heritage Man’ and founder of AARAMBH (An Association for Reviving Awareness about the Monuments of Bangalore Heritage), because of this office exist and because of security reasons, these heritage buildings remain out of bounds for the common people. “Talking of everyday heritage, one of the biggest historical assets, the city has are the old houses, especially in the south Bengaluru. They were known not just for their architectural beauty but also because of their history. To give an example, one of the most beautiful heritage houses in south Bengaluru belonged to BP Radhakrishna. It was in this house, he was given the Padma Shree. The house, unfortunately, is no longer there,” said Moona. He said one of the reasons for many heritage houses in Bengaluru making way for apartment buildings, is the lack of care from the government. “I have interacted with owners of several of these houses. When I request them not to sell these houses and preserve them, the question they ask is that what benefit they get from the government. The government is not reducing property tax because it is a heritage building and for such properties, the tax is high as well. Since there is a demand for land in Bengaluru, builders are offering them large sums as well,” Moona added. However, there have been some efforts from the government’s side to promote heritage. On April 21, the Karnataka government notified the Zonal Regulations (Amendment), 2020 (ZRA). The new regulations are aimed at conserving heritage sites, buildings, precincts and natural features. They will apply to Zonal Regulations/Master Plans of all local planning areas in the state, including Bengaluru. ZRA specifies rules for identifying and preserving the state’s heritage, by large, have been welcomed by conservationists. With ZRA, Bengaluru would have a dedicated authority to identify and protect a wide range of heritage sites, including natural features. However, this authority is yet to come into effect. The Karnataka government this week decided to develop 46 Kempegowda heritage sites located in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara, Chikballapura, and Tumakuru districts, in a bid to promote tourism. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa said the sites identified in three circuits would be developed at a cost of ₹223 crore for promoting tourism. However, activists believe this is not enough. According to Moona, Bangalore Urban Art Commission (BUAC) was established in 1976 and it commissioned a survey of the city’s iconic heritage buildings in the mid-1980s. The survey listed over 800 such buildings that were thought to be worthy of protection. “In 2001, the BUAC was suddenly dissolved. There is still not clear why it was done, but we believe the opposition to the rapid urbanisation from the commission led to it. The commission had opposed the construction of Vikas Soudha (a building with an identical design as the historical Vidhan Soudha). Then there were restrictions on construction on major roads like MG Road and others. This could be the reason. Since then, there is no talk to restoring the commission and massive developments continue across the city, unchallenged,” Moona said. He added that if the beauty and history of the existing heritage buildings have to be preserved, there is a need for another Bengaluru arts commission. “What is important is to make it independent and to appoint experts on heritage in this committee. Ensuring there is government involvement in the committee is very important. But in our current economic race, I don’t know if that could be a reality,” he said. Iyer, however, added that recent interest among people in heritage is a good sign. “These heritage buildings are repositories of heritage... The number of heritage walks that are taking place in Bengaluru and social media posts on the same are good signs. But the bad news is that despite the new regulations that have come, we see that the government is still not keen on heritage inclusive development. Heritage is still looked as an obstruction towards modernity and building a new city,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cid-office-to-covid-war-room-a-building-that-encases-heritage-101625943874831.html
11-07-2021||India||Man accused of harassment kills complainant, ends life: Police||A 22-year-old man, who was accused of sexual harassment, shot dead his complainant and two others, and then killed himself in Madhya Pradesh’s Betul district on Saturday, police said.According to the police, the accused was harassing the 25-year-old woman allegedly because she refused to marry him. The woman had recently filed a complaint against the accused at Amla police station, following which he was called for interrogation, but later let off due to absence of evidence, said an official.“The accused went to the woman’s house on Saturdayto talk about the (sexual harassment) complaint. But the woman’s maternal uncle scolded him and asked him to leave. The accused left, but returned two hours later with two guns. He barged into the room where the woman was sitting with her 22-year-old cousin brother and an 18-year-old neighbour, locked it and shot all of them,” said superintendent of police (Betul), Simala Prasad.After killing the three, the accused uploaded a video on Facebook, where he purportedly blamed the woman for the crime and accused her fiance (CHECK) of supplying the two guns used in the murder. He also sent a copy of the clip to the local police station via WhatsApp, following which he shot himself dead.“The woman’s fiance has been detained for questioning. Family members of both the accused and the victim are also being questioned to ascertain the truth,” said Prasad.“The fiance has, however, denied the allegations and claimed that the accused had earlier threatened to implicate him in a false case if he married the woman,” he added.According to the woman’s uncle, the accused had also threatened her family members. “The accused threatened us with dire consequences several times. My niece filed a complaint. My niece would have been alive today, if the police had acted when we lodged a complaint.”The SP said she was investigating the role of police personnel in the case and why did they allow him to go.(With inputs from Bhojraj Raghuvanshi from Chhindwara)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-accused-of-harassment-kills-complainant-ends-lifepolice-101625942345136.html
11-07-2021||India||NZ YouTube vlogger’s wife moves high court against Centre blacklisting him||YouTube vlogger Karl Edward Rice’s wife on Saturday approached the Delhi high court challenging the Centre’s alleged “arbitrary and unreasonable” decision to blacklist him and deny visa to enter India.The petitioner, Manisha Malik, said by virtue of denying visa to her husband, who has been “arbitrarily blacklisted” by the Union government, she is deprived from living with him, thereby violating her fundamental right to life and dignity as guaranteed under the Constitution.The plea, which is likely to come up for hearing next week, said Malik and her husband, popularly known as Karl Rock, are YouTube vloggers and have visited most of India to capture its beauty and contribute to the promotion of tourism here.It said the authorities have not communicated the grounds of blacklisting Rice even though several representations have been preferred by him and his wife, which has led to the separation of a married couple, lack of any opportunity or notice to them to indicate any violation of visa conditions and denial of issuance of visa to him.Union Home Ministry officials had on Friday said the New Zealand national has been restricted from entering India till the next year for violating terms and conditions of his visa.He was found to be doing business activities on a tourist visa and also violating other visa conditions, they had said without specifying.The plea said since their marriage in 2019, the couple has been living in Delhi and Rice has not been able to return to India from New Zealand since October 10 last year.“The petitioner’s husband, Karl Edward Rice, has a dual nationality New Zealand and Netherlands and has been visiting India since 2013 strictly abiding by the laws of the country and the conditions of visa.“During the entire period since 2013, while the petitioner’s husband has been granted Indian visa on various occasions, there hasn’’t been even a single allegation against the petitioner’s husband,” the plea, filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, said.Subsequent to their marriage, Rice was granted an X-2 Visa (meant for spouse/children of an Indian citizen) which had a validity period of May 2019 to May 2024 and one of the conditions in the visa for him was to exit India every 180 days or to intimate the Foreigner Regional Registration Office concerned.“Complying with the aforesaid condition of exiting the nation, while Rice left India on October 10, 2020, he has not been able to return to India because any application for issuance of an Indian visa is being rejected by the respondents.“While the petitioner has been running from pillar to post and no reasons are communicated to either Karl Edward Rice or to the petitioner herself as to on what basis her husband’’s request for issuance of visa have been rejected,” the petition said.It added that Rice was only verbally informed that he has been blacklisted and therefore he is not permitted to enter into India.The plea sought direction to the authorities to call for records pertaining to cancellation of visa and unilateral blacklisting of Rice and also sought to review or quash the decision blacklisting him and allow him entry to India.As an alternative, it has sought to direct the authorities to grant a meaningful hearing to the couple on the sudden blacklisting of Rice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nz-youtube-vlogger-s-wife-moves-high-court-against-centre-blacklisting-him-101625942195528.html
11-07-2021||India||Centre advises states to rein in holiday crowds||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday urged states to be cautious after a spate of incidents in many parts of the country where crowds appeared to disregard Covid-safe precautions, especially at hill stations and other tourist locations across the country. Bhalla said the second wave of Covid-19 was not yet over, and that states should ensure Covid-19 protocols, such as wearing masks and avoiding crowding, are implemented strictly. The home secretary was reviewing steps taken by state governments, a home ministry statement said. During the meeting, the overall management of the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination drive in Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, and West Bengal were discussed. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said the state has ordered a 50% occupancy cap on hotels in Nainital and Dehradun, which have recorded a rush of tourists in last couple of weeks. The state government is also issuing challans to people not wearing masks. Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur too on Friday appealed to tourists to follow the guidelines. Following the meeting on Saturday, the MHA said in a statement: “It was observed that the decline of the second wave is at variable stages in the different states/Union Territories in the country, and that while the overall case positivity rate may be declining, the case positivity rate in certain districts of Rajasthan, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh is over 10%, which is a cause for concern.” “States were also asked to follow the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, as has been laid out in MHA order dated June 29. Adequate health infrastructure preparedness (especially in rural, peri-urban and tribal areas) was also advised, with a view to tackle any potential future surge in cases,” the statement added. Among those who attended the crucial meeting were VK Paul, member (Health) NITI Aayog; the Union health secretary, and chief secretaries, police chiefs and principal secretaries of eight states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-advises-states-to-rein-in-holiday-crowds-101625942138078.html
11-07-2021||India||UP plans job curbs based on family size||A draft bill on population control prepared by the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission proposes to make people with more than two children ineligible for government jobs, disentitle those already in service to promotions and exclude them from benefits of 77 schemes.The draft bill, for which suggestions have been invited from the public by July 19, also proposes to prohibit people who have more than two children from contesting local bodies elections or receiving any kind of subsidy. It also suggests incentives such as tax rebates for those with up to two children.The draft has been uploaded on the commission’s website. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is expected to announce on Sunday a new population policy 2021-30 for the state, which is set to go to the polls early next year. Uttar Pradesh is India’s most populous state with a population of around 220 million.Justice AN Mittal (retd), the panel’s chairman, said all aspects were looked into and an exhaustive study of such laws was carried out before the proposed legislation was drafted. He underlined the need for a law to check the increasing population of the state. “Resources are already overstretched due to increasing population. Be it medical facilities, food grains and jobs, everything is under stress due to the rising population,” said Mittal, a former Allahabad high court judge.“Imagine if the population of the state remains 22 crore (220 million) to 23 crore (230 million) even after 20 years, then what will be the state’s condition. There will be the availability of everything in abundance for the future generation. There will be no scarcity of resources,” he said.The proposed incentives for government employees with one child include increments, promotions and concessions in housing schemes. For those who are not government employees, the incentives listed are rebates in taxes on water, housing and home loans. If a single child’s parent opts for vasectomy, then the child will be entitled to free medical facilities until the age of 20. Such children are also proposed to get free education, insurance and preference in government jobs.The draft bill said: “Public servants who adopt the two-child norm will get two additional increments during the entire service, maternity or as the case may be, paternity leave of 12 months, with full salary and allowances and three per cent increase in the employer’s contribution fund under the National Pension Scheme.” A state population fund will be constituted for its implementation. Listing the government duties, the draft bill said that maternity centres will be set up at all primary health centres.The draft bill also said that it shall be the duty of the government to introduce a compulsory subject relating to population control in all secondary schools.The Congress questioned the timing of the draft bill ahead of the assembly polls in the state. “The polls are due in seven to eight months. What is the urgency to bring the (draft) bill now when parties are preparing for the assembly polls?” said VN Madan, state Congress spokesperson. Madan said they were studying the draft bill and added that the Congress will support its positive aspects and oppose the ones the government has incorporated for its own benefits.Chief ministers of Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh and Assam have of late sought population control. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said large families were likely to lose certain state benefits.According to United Nations data, the rate of population growth is falling behind replacement rates in over half of the countries globally. The growth rate in the global population is projected to be zero by the end of the century perhaps for the first time. China has allowed two to three children per household to reverse a fall in its population after decades of the one-child policy.India is projected to overtake China as the most populous country by 2025.Adityanath will release the Uttar Pradesh Jansankhya Neeti-2021-30 (UP population policy-2021-30) on the occasion of the World Population Day on Sunday. He will also distribute kits to promote family planning among some newly married couples, a state government statement said on Saturday.On Thursday, the chief minister held a meeting on the policy and said: “For providing a better standard of living to all, it is necessary to control the population growth. And for the development of Uttar Pradesh, it is necessary to check the population growth rate. By controlling the population, we can realise the dream of a better tomorrow.”“People should be told that a small family is the basis of prosperity and with a reduced population density, people will have a better environment. For a healthy society, it is necessary to stabilise the population,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-plans-job-curbs-based-on-family-size-101625942136547.html
11-07-2021||India||Choksi alleges ‘collusion’ between India, Dominica||New Delhi: Mehul Choksi has claimed before the Dominica high court that Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) joint director, Anurag, wrote to Dominican authorities on May 25, two days after he went missing from Antigua and Barbuda, seeking his deportation to India.The fugitive diamantaire has alleged that the way India found out about his detention in Dominica and issued a requesting letter with “such swiftness” shows “there was some collusion between two governments”. Choksi made these claims in an affidavit filed before the high court earlier this week in support of his plea seeking judicial review of the illegal entry proceedings against him. He has attached the letter, purportedly signed by the senior CBI officer on May 25, who heads the Bank Securities and Fraud Cell (BSFC) in the agency, and shared with him by Dominica’s prosecution department. HT has reviewed the affidavit.The document says that India was making an effort to get Choksi deported to India directly, without involving any court process.After Choksi filed a habeas corpus petition in the Dominica high court alleging abduction, India moved court on June 8, seeking his deportation on the grounds that he continues to be an Indian citizen and should be sent to India to face charges. The legal process in courts may take time as the matter is already adjourned till August and is expected to stretch till the end of the year.To be sure, governments usually have direct communication with each other on matters of deportation as it’s an administrative process.Anurag, who goes by only his first name, did not respond to HT’s calls on Saturday.The news about Choksi missing from Antigua came into the public domain on May 25, when Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne and the police there issued statements saying the businessman went missing on May 23 evening and a search was on for him.According to official Dominican records, he was apprehended in its territory on May 24, and was charged for illegal entry the next day. The Dominica police has said before the high court that it established Choksi’s identity only on May 27, when his driver’s licence was obtained.Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal and his wife Priti Choksi have, however, alleged he was abducted from Antigua by 7-8 men, tortured and brought to Dominica in a vessel.“There is overwhelming evidence on record to show that various important people knew that Mehul Choksi has been detained in Dominica on May 25 itself, though it was declared to the world and his family much later and the stand of Dominica police is that they got the identity of Mehul Choksi confirmed only on May 27, when they found his driving license. So, this all speaks volume. Less said the better,” Aggarwal said on Saturday.Choksi has claimed in his affidavit that a plan to abduct and take him to Dominica was hatched only after the Indian government realised that extradition proceedings in Antigua would take very long.The fugitive has also annexed the investigation report of the Antigua police, which he claims was obtained by his legal team unofficially, and concludes that his “claim of abduction is credible”. Both Antigua & Barbuda and Dominica governments have rejected the allegations.The Indian government has sought Choksi’s deportation on the ground that he masterminded the Punjab National Bank scam worth $952 million and that he continues to be an Indian citizen as his declaration for renunciation of citizenship was never accepted by the ministry of home affairs (MHA).Choksi has stated in the affidavit that he will present expert evidence to challenge this claim of the Indian government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-alleges-collusion-between-india-dominica-101625942137324.html
11-07-2021||India||Pak’s terror groups join Taliban war, India wary||New Delhi Thousands of Pakistani terrorists from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and other groups are currently fighting alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan in a clear violation of the 2020 peace deal signed by the Taliban and the US, according to reports from security agencies.The assessments come at a time of growing alarm in the international community, including India, at the Taliban’s rapid resurgence in Afghanistan that some intelligence agencies fear is poised to wrest control of key parts of the country from the Afghan government. A majority of the LeT and JeM fighters are active in Kunar and Nangarhar provinces in eastern Afghanistan and Helmand and Kandahar provinces in the country’s southeast, according to information gathered by Afghan and Indian security agencies, people aware of the matter said. All four Afghan provinces share borders with Pakistan – Kunar and Nangarhar with the erstwhile tribal areas and the other two with Balochistan. Terrorist fighters from other Pakistan-based groups such as Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, Jamaat-ul-Arhar, Lashkar-e-Islam and al-Badr have also been spotted fighting alongside the Taliban in sizeable numbers, these people said on condition of anonymity. Pakistani terrorists have also been sighted in Ghazni, Khost, Logar, Paktia and Paktika provinces in south and southeast Afghanistan, the people said, citing the latest reports from security agencies. In these regions alone, the number of Pakistani fighters from LeT has been estimated at 7,200, the people added. “LeT men are being hired as advisers, commanders and administrators by the Taliban in several areas,” one of the people cited above said. “There has also been fresh recruitment of fighters in Pakistan by LeT and JeM for fighting in eastern Afghanistan,” the person added. Reports suggest that Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the military chief of the Afghan Taliban and son of late Taliban chief Mullah Mohammad Omar, is working closely with LeT and JeM commanders. Security agencies have also learnt of hundreds of Taliban fighters being trained in LeT camps at Hyderabad, a town in Pakistan’s Punjab province located between Faisalabad and Dera Ismail Khan in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province. The training was done with the support of the Pakistani military, the people said. “The LeT and JeM terrorists are deployed in Afghanistan in groups of about 200, which includes five to eight suicide bombers. There are also reports of Pakistani intelligence officials being embedded with these groups, which is a tactic that was resorted to in the past,” said a second person. The information gathered by the security agencies is largely in line with the findings in the latest report by the UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team, which was issued in June and said the Afghan Taliban had shown no signs of cutting ties with al-Qaeda and other foreign terrorist groups. “A significant part of the leadership of Al-Qaida resides in the Afghanistan and Pakistan border region, alongside Al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent. Large numbers of Al-Qaida fighters and other foreign extremist elements aligned with the Taliban are located in various parts of Afghanistan,” the UN report had said.In mid-2020, the UN sanctions monitoring team had stated in another report that 6,500 Pakistani terrorists were operating in Afghanistan, and JeM and LeT played a key role in bringing foreign fighters into the country. There have been reports that LeT and JeM, both blamed for high-profile attacks in India, have sent hundreds of fighters to Afghanistan since 2019, following increased pressure on Pakistan from organisations such as the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and Western powers to crack down on terror groups.The Taliban have dramatically expanded their hold on Afghan territory in recent months, leaving the US-backed government in control of little more than 20% of the country, according to data compiled by the Long War Journal, Bloomberg reported on Saturday. The insurgent group now holds 204 of 407 districts, up from 73 at the beginning of May, while the Afghan government only controls 74 currently. The rest are contested. The latest UN sanctions monitoring team’s report cited an unnamed UN member state as reporting that “there is regular communication between the Taliban and Al-Qaida on issues related to the peace process” in Afghanistan. The report further said that al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), which consists primarily of Afghan and Pakistani nationals, “operates under the Taliban umbrella” from Kandahar, Helmand and Nimruz provinces. AQIS is “reported to be such an ‘organic’ or essential part of the insurgency that it would be difficult, if not impossible, to separate it from its Taliban allies”, the report said, adding that the widow of former AQIS leader Asim Umar was among 5,000 Taliban prisoners freed in 2020 as part of the agreement with the US. The Haqqani Network, which has close ties with Pakistan’s military and intelligence, “remains a hub for outreach and cooperation with regional foreign terrorist groups and is the primary liaison between the Taliban and Al-Qaida”, the UN report added. Taliban’s failure to cut ties with foreign terrorists is a clear violation of the agreement the group signed with the US in Doha in February 2020, which paved the way for the drawdown of American forces. Under the pact, the Taliban had made a commitment to take several steps to prevent any group or individual, including al-Qaeda, from using the soil of Afghanistan. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said reports of LeT’s presence in Afghanistan are not new but the group’s involvement in the current violence are worrisome. “The presence of LeT in parts of Afghanistan is not new. But the withdrawal of US troops and expanding control of Taliban since last year have encouraged LeT to increase its presence and activities. Clearly, the group is looking to up its activities after lying low for the past few years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paks-terror-groups-join-taliban-war-india-wary-101625942135382.html
11-07-2021||India||States told to reopen with caution: Centre in affidavit to Delhi HC||New Delhi Stating that reopening activities across the country was an “essential process”, the central government has informed the Delhi high court that it has asked states and Union territories to ensure that the move is “carefully calibrated”. The Centre said its decision to impose or ease restrictions has to be based on the assessment of the ground situation and that all the states as well as UTs should make sure that there is “continuous focus on containment efforts” and “uniformity in implementing graded restrictions/relaxations”.In a status report, the Union government has told a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh that it has directed all the states/Union territories to ensure strict compliance with the National Directive for Covid-19 Management norms during the reopening. It said the state governments have the powers to take necessary actions against those flouting any norms.The National Directives for Covid-19 management include face coverings, social distancing, not spitting in public places, work from home, staggering of work/business hours, screening and hygiene and frequent sanitisation.“…while the opening up of activities after decline in cases is essential, the states and UTs must ensure that the whole process is carefully calibrated and any lifting of restrictions or relaxation should be made with continuous focus on containment efforts to curb the infection and to also ensure uniformity in implementing graded restriction/relaxation measures,” the Union government told the high court.The Centre said that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued an order on June 29 directing all states and Union territories to consider the implementation of targeted and prompt actions for Covid management till July 31.The response came on a plea which the high court initiated on June 18 after it took note of certain photographs sent to one of the judges on WhatsApp by an AIIMS doctor showing scant regard for Covid-19 protocols among street vendors in markets.While taking suo motu cognizance of the overcrowding at marketplaces, the court had said that if the behaviour of flouting norms continued, the city would be in “great trouble” .“We have paid a huge price in the second wave. We don’t know if there is any household which has not suffered in the second wave, closely or remotely,” the bench had observed, adding that “we as a citizen of this city are worried when we see these images”.Experts and government officials have raised the alarm on crowding at markets across cities and in tourist hot spots in hilly regions as lockdown restrictions have been lifted. On Friday, the Union health ministry warned against complacency and said the “misplaced belief” that Covid-19 is over could be disastrous for the country.The Centre has told the high court that it has shared the “framework for implementation of prompt and targeted action” with the states, which includes a “fivefold strategy for effective management of Covid-19” i.e. test, track, treat, vaccinate and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-told-to-reopen-with-caution-centre-in-affidavit-to-delhi-hc-101625942135915.html
11-07-2021||India||Assam to create separate department for indigenous groups||The Assam cabinet on Saturday approved the formation of a separate department to protect and preserve the faiths, languages and culture of indigenous communities in the state, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.“Our indigenous populations have their own language, culture and religious beliefs. But due to lack of official help from the government, several of these groups were economically weak,” Sarma added.The decision to form the ‘indigenous faiths and culture’ department was taken at a special cabinet meeting held to mark completion of two months of the new government and ahead of next week’s budget session of the assembly.“This new department will work to protect and preserve their unique cultures, languages and beliefs. Since it’s a new department and will require lot of work, the cabinet has requested the finance minister to allot a substantial sum in the next budget for it,” the chief minister said.Assam has eight major scheduled tribes (ST) besides many other smaller groups and sub-groups. A proposal to grant ST status to six more communities in the state is pending with the Centre for approval.Sarma said the new department will work independently and focus specifically on issues relating to faith, language and culture of the indigenous communities. Development work and other schemes meant for these communities will be handled by other existing departments.Saturday’s cabinet meeting also took decisions on key financial and administrative reforms, changing the existing long-winded process of sanctioning schemes and allocation of funds routed through different departments.“From now decision on all schemes of up to ₹2 crore will be approved by a departmental committee headed by the commissioner of each department and based on approval of the minister these works will be executed,” said Sarma.Schemes and projects worth ₹2 crore to ₹5 crore will be decided by a committee headed by the chief secretary, while projects between ₹5 crore and ₹100 crore will be decided by the finance minister, Sarma said, adding that schemes worth over ₹100 crore will be approved by the state cabinet.“This change is being incorporated to end so-called red-tape and bureaucratic hurdles in sanctioning of projects and their funding. This will reduce the time taken in movement of files from one department to another for approval. Officers will be able to give more time in monitoring schemes,” said Sarma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-create-separate-department-for-indigenous-groups-101625941953171.html
11-07-2021||India||Violence, clashes as UP elects local body chiefs||LUCKNOW: The violence-marred Uttar Pradesh local body chief elections concluded on Saturday with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claiming victoryin the polls that saw candidates being attacked while filing nominations, parties’ workers clashing across districts and the Opposition accusing the ruling party of using state machinery to corner political rivals.The elections were held for 825 block panchayat chief posts, out of which the BJP and its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) looked set to win 635 posts, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, citing official trends as of 6.30pm. A total of 349 candidates were elected unopposed on Friday, the last day for the withdrawal of nomination papers. “….The BJP has found favour with the (rural) masses in a big way. The inclination of the people was towards the BJP,” Adityanath said at a press conference at the party office in Lucknow.Prime Minister Narendra Modi credited the Adityanath government’s policies for the party’s performance in the elections.“In block pramukh polls too, the BJP candidates have won. The win is a reflection of the fact that Yogi Adityanath government’s pro-people policies have helped the people. Congratulations to the cadre for this win,” Modi tweeted.The BJP’s state unit chief, Swatantra Dev, said the results were a precursor to the upcoming state polls. “Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the BJP would sweep the 2022 UP assembly polls,” he said.The Opposition, however, accused the state government of using the administration to gain an unfair advantage and carrying out attacks on the members of rival parties.“The BJP doesn’t believe in democracy and the Constitution. With the cooperation of the government, the BJP got votes polled in its favour,” said Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav in a statement issued late on Saturday.“Block pramukh candidates and kshetra panchayat members were kidnapped in various districts and those who protested against rigging are being harassed. Despite having all the valid documents, many were forcibly deprived of voting,” he added.“What kind of a farce this election was where the police and local administration were openly made to side with the ruling party. It was a blatant, shameful display by the ruling party whose cadres also attacked the police. We saw shocking images of women candidates from the Opposition being ill-treated by BJP goons. It would have been better had the BJP declared itself a winner without a contest,” Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said.Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said that in Uttar Pradesh, “violence has been renamed masterstroke”.The clashes that erupted on Thursday during the filing of papers for the polls continued on Saturday with incidents of stone-pelting and firing being reported from different districts, the police said.“When a mob was asked to stop from coming near a polling booth [in Etawah district], it started stone-pelting and firing. We have all the CCTV footage. We will investigate once the election is over. A case will be filed soon,” Etawah senior superintendent of police Brajesh Kumar Singh said.At places, police had to resort to baton-charge and fire tear gas shells to break the clashes between members of different parties and supporters of Independent candidates, officials said.The UP Police arrested two people and suspended six personnel after a woman candidate was assaulted while filing nomination on Thursday.“Cases have been registered under Section 147 (Punishment for rioting) and 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman) [among others] in connection with the incident of misbehaviour with a woman candidate during filing nomination,” the police said in a statement. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Bahujan Samajh Party (BSP) chief Mayawati alleged that the law and order situation had deteriorated under the BJP government. “In the current reign of the BJP in UP, there is no rule of law, but a jungle raj is prevailing under which there has been widespread violence in the panchayat polls and indecent behaviour with a woman in Lakhimpur Kheri. This is highly condemnable,” she said. The CM, however, praised the State Election Commission for the “peaceful and fair” polls, stating that “conducting such a massive election process peacefully was praiseworthy.” (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-clashes-as-up-elects-local-body-chiefs-101625942074683.html
11-07-2021||India||Fuel price surge continues, petrol at ₹100.91 per litre in Delhi||Auto fuel prices were increased for the 38th time in 68 days on Saturday, with petrol prices rising by 35 paise and diesel by 26 paise a litre, even as international benchmark Brent crude fell by $1.61 a barrel or 2.06% at the Friday close, compared to its peak of $77.16 on Monday.The latest revision of India’s domestic fuel rates made petrol costlier by ₹10.51 per litre and diesel by ₹9.15 a litre since May 4, a day after results of five state assembly elections were declared. Petrol is now priced at ₹100.91 per litre and diesel at 89.88 a litre in New Delhi.While fuel rates of state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Petrol prices have already crossed ₹100 per litre in five metros – Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru.The cost of one litre petrol in Mumbai is now ₹106.93 a litre and that of diesel is ₹97.46. The highest fuel rates have been recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar, where pumps are selling petrol at ₹112.24 per litre and diesel at ₹103.15 a litre.Surging international oil rates and the domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel at pumps. Domestic fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their respective international benchmarks of previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates.International oil prices showed extreme volatility this week. While an inconclusive meeting of producers’ cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) – over restraining output on Monday pulled down crude prices initially, falling US inventories and indications of strong demand from China and India saw prices rising again in the last two days of the week.Benchmark Brent that surged $77.16 a barrel on the first day of this week, its highest since October 2018, fell over 4.8% in the next two sessions. It, however, gained 0.94% or 69 cents on Thursday and rallied 1.93% further on Friday to close the week at $75.55 per barrel, still lower than the week’s high on Monday.Meanwhile, India fuel demand is fast recovering. Petroleum consumption in June was 16.33 million tonne, about 1.5% year-on-year growth and over 8% jump compared to the previous month. Demand of petroleum products had plunged to a nine-month low in May 2021 at 15.11 million tonne due to the lockdowns in various places to contain the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.India imports more than 80% crude it processes, hence international oil prices impact pump rates of auto fuels. Exorbitant taxes are the other reason for high rates of petrol and diesel.In Delhi, central levies account for 33.29% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to an official data of July 1. On diesel, central taxes are over 35.66% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit — with revenues hit on account of the pandemic.The unrelenting upward movement of fuel rates since May 4 already saw petrol crossing the ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, particularly in states and UTs of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Manipur, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Bihar, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Nagaland.Some of the cities selling petrol for over ₹100 per litre are Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Salem, Thiruvananthapuram, Mohali, Darjeeling, Dantewada and Kohima.Even as international oil prices saw volatility since May 4, pump rates of auto fuels in India moved only in the upward direction. For instance, despite Brent crude had plunged to $65.11 on May 20, the lowest in these 46 days; petrol and diesel rates went up the next day by 19 paise per litre and 29 paise a litre, respectively.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.During the 66-day pause on rate hike, state-run retailers had also reduced politically sensitive petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— controls almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-price-surge-continues-petrol-at-100-91-per-litre-in-delhi-101625941654714.html
