12-07-2021||India||On World Malala Day, Assam Rifles holds camp for women and children in J&K||On World Malala Day, Assam Rifles on Monday organised an awareness campaign for women and children in Jammu and Kashmir regarding their fundamental rights. Assam Rifles spoke about the various government-run schemes for women's empowerment and also informed women of their significance in society. "Anderwan COB of Wusan Battalion on Monday organised an awareness campaign for women and children on the occasion of World Malala Day," Assam Rifles said in a release.Under the awareness programme, women and children were also made aware of the job prospects and potential career opportunities. The gesture was appreciated by those who attended as they showed keen interest in the information about jobs and the basic rights of women.July 12 is dedicated to celebrating Malala Yousafzai, the young activist from Pakistan. Malala was shot at by Taliban insurgents while she was on her way to school in 2012. Later, the United Nations declared July 12, Malala's birthday, as World Malala Day in honour of the young education activist. The day is observed to make an appeal to world leaders that they ensure compulsory and free education for every child in their country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-world-malala-day-assam-rifles-holds-camp-for-women-and-children-in-jk-101626109082129.html
12-07-2021||India||'Submitted all documents to WHO for Emergency Use Listing of Covaxin as of July 9': Bharat Biotech||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the firm behind India's only home-made shot against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said on Monday it has submitted all documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of the vaccine, Covaxin, to the World Health Organization (WHO) as of July 9."All documents required for EUL of Covaxin has been submitted to WHO as of July 9th. The review process has now commenced with the expectation that we will receive EUL from WHO at the earliest," Dr Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, said in a statement which was shared through the vaccine maker's Twitter account.COVAXIN® EUL pic.twitter.com/dCilH7KbSkThe statement comes days after Suchitra Ella, Bharat Biotech's co-founder and joint managing director, said approval from the world health body is not expected to be a "long-drawn process."Also Read | 'Not a long-drawn process': Bharat Biotech expecting WHO approval soonThe pre-submission meeting between the two sides took place in June in Singapore. According to the WHO site, the health body will go through Covaxin's data, and publish an anticipated date by when the approval is likely to come. If approved by the WHO, the vaccine, which has thus far received emergency use authorisation (EUA) in 16 countries, is likely to be cleared for use by several other countries. Also Read | WHO approval to Covaxin likely in 4-6 weeks, says chief scientistCovaxin, which was developed in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), was found to be nearly 78% effective against symptomatic Covid-19 cases in final phase 3 analysis, according to Bharat Biotech. As per the data, the vaccine is 63% effective against asymptomatic cases, while the corresponding figures for the Delta variant and severe Covid-19 cases are 65% and 93% respectively.Also Read | Bharat Biotech says completed final analysis for Covaxin, claims 77.8% efficacyDrugs Controller General of India (DCGI) announced EUA for Covaxin and the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot, being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, in January. The nationwide vaccination drive commenced on January 16 and since then, these have been the two most prominently used vaccines. A third, Russia's Sputnik-V, received EUA in April, while US pharamceutical firm Moderna's mRNA technology-based shot was approved for import late last month, becoming India's fourth anti-Covid jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/submitted-all-documents-to-who-for-eul-of-covaxin-as-of-july-9-bharat-biotech-101626106466533.html
12-07-2021||India||‘Strictly for treatment’: Mehul Choksi gets interim bail, can travel to Antigua||A Dominican court on Monday granted interim bail to fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi and allowed him to travel to Antigua and Barbuda, where he is a citizen, “strictly for medical treatment,” HT has learnt.Choksi, however, will have to return to Dominica where he is facing illegal entry charges, as soon as he is fit to travel, people familiar with the developments said.The court has asked Choksi to deposit Eastern Caribbean dollars 10,000 (around ₹2.75 lakh) as surety for the bail. His legal team approached the Dominica high court last week seeking relief on the ground that his health was deteriorating and he needed urgent medical attention.“Dominica courts finally upheld the rule of law and rights of a human to be treated in the medical facilities of his choice. And all attempts by various agencies did not bear fruits. There is solace in saying that all clever foxes end up as fur coats,” Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal told HT on Monday.Meanwhile, the proceedings against him in the illegal entry case filed by Dominica police have been adjourned.As reported by HT, Choksi also approached the high court last week seeking a judicial review of the criminal case against him alleging that he had been abducted from Antigua and Barbuda and brought to Dominica as part of collusion between the two island nations and the Indian government.The allegations have been rejected by all three governments.Choksi went missing from Antigua on May 23 and was found in Dominica the next day.The Indian government has sought his deportation directly from Dominica as he is an illegal citizen there, while in Antigua, he enjoys constitutional and legal protection.The businessman, who fled India in January 2018 after cheating Punjab National Bank of $952 million, is currently facing extradition proceedings, as well as revocation of citizenship proceedings, in Antigua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strictly-for-treatment-mehul-choksi-gets-interim-bail-can-travel-to-antigua-101626106131772.html
12-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMA cautions against 3rd wave; says tourists, pilgrims potential spreaders and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Third Covid wave imminent: IMA says tourists, pilgrims potential super spreadersThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday appealed to state governments to put a bar on large gatherings as it cautioned against a looming third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MoreMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 7603; less than 500 fresh infections in MumbaiMaharashtra on Monday witnessed a fall in its fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as 7603 more people tested positive, taking its cumulative infection tally to 6,165,402, a health department bulletin showed. Read MoreAAP’s promise of free power sparks debate in UttarakhandAhead of the state assembly elections in 2022, free electricity supply seems to have emerged a popular poll promise in Uttarakhand. Read More'It looks unlikely': Deep Dasgupta on Kuldeep Yadav, Yuzvendra Chahal playing together in T20 World CupThere was a time when Kuldeep Yadav and Yuzvendra Chahal were the two key spinners in the Indian team. Read More Hrithik Roshan sings Jadoo in a Bihari accent in an unseen BTS video of Super 30, watchHrithik Roshan has shared a behind-the-scenes video from the sets of Super 30 in which he's seen singing Jadoo, from his movie Koi Mil Gaya, in a Bihari accent. Read MoreSara Ali Khan ditching gym equipment to deadlift her friend is powerlifting goalAfter flooding the Internet with her travel pictures from the Kamakhya Temple in Guwahati, Assam, which she recently visited, Sara Ali Khan is back to raising the mercury with her sexy shooting sprees but not before she laid some powerlifting goals this Monday. Read MoreWatch: Deadly lightning strikes in UP, MP and Rajasthan; over 70 killed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ima-cautions-against-covid-3rd-wave-says-tourists-pilgrims-potential-spreaders-and-all-the-latest-news-101626102735694.html
12-07-2021||India||Customs dept plans to move Kerala gold smuggling accused to another state||The customs department probing the Kerala gold smuggling case is planning to move the main accused in the case to a neighbouring state alleging intervention from many quarters, HT has learnt.Last week one of the accused, PS Sarith, gave a statement before a court that he was pressurized into taking the names of the Congress and BJP leaders.Five main accused are in jail under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (Cofeposa). One of them, Sarith, deposed before a court alleging that jail authorities were torturing him and forced him to take names of Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to implicate them in the case. Later, central jail authorities in Thiruvananthapuram denied this and filed a counter-complaint against him and another accused KT Ramees saying they regularly flout jail norms and discipline. “It is a serious issue. We are planning to move the High Court with a plea to shift these accused to another jail. Threat to Cofeposa detainees is really serious and we also have informed the central government about this,” said a senior customs officer who did not wish to be named.He said the Centre can also move the Supreme Court to shift all cases relating to the gold smuggling to another state if the situation continued.Earlier, the mother of another accused named Swapna Suresh also alleged that her daughter was facing threat to her life for not changing her statements. She alleged that many in the CM’s office were aware that the smuggling was done through the consulate office. Then consulate head used to visit the CM quite often, she alleged. The Congress and BJP deplored the alleged move to implicate its leaders. “The ruling CPI(M) will have to pay a heavy price for this,” said state Congress chief K Sudhakaran. “Desperate, the government wants to sully the image of opposition leaders,” said BJP state president K Surendran. At least four central agencies (customs, revenue intelligence, enforcement directorate (ED) and NIA) are involved in the gold smuggling probe. The sensational case came to light on July 5 last year after 30 kilograms of gold was seized from a consignment that came to the United Arab Emirates consulate in the state capital camouflaged as a diplomatic consignment.The central agencies and state government locked horns several times over the case. The government filed a case against the ED last year and later constituted a judicial commission against it saying it was trying to implicate many state leaders including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-dept-plans-to-move-kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-to-another-state-101626102588650.html
12-07-2021||India||Classes in engineering, tech institutes to begin 25 Oct, says AICTE’s new sked||NEW DELHI: Engineering and technical institutions have to begin classes for freshers from October 25 and for existing students from October 1, according to the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) revised academic calendar approved by the Supreme Court on Monday.The calendar was prepared keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic and the delay in declaring the Class 12 results of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and other state boards. The results are expected to be announced by July 31.The AICTE calendar was approved by a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose who said that an exception is being made to the schedule only on account of the pandemic.While dates of the entrance examination by various institutions are yet to be announced, AICTE has asked all technical institutions to complete the first round of counseling by September 30, and second round by October 10. Those who wish to seek cancellation of seats in the first semester will get a full fee refund if they apply before October 15. Institutions will have time till October 20 to fill up these vacancies.In standalone institutions providing post-graduate diploma in management (PGDM) or certificate courses in management, the last date for admissions will be August 11. For open and distance learning courses or courses taught through the online medium, admissions will close on September 10 for the first session and February 1, 2022 for the second session, as per the AICTE’s revised schedule.The revised calendar for the present academic session 2021-22 was presented to the top court in an application by AICTE through advocate Harish Pandey. Admission to engineering and technical courses follow an academic calendar fixed by the Supreme Court back in December 2012 that cannot be modified without permission of the top court.As per this order, classes for engineering and technical courses are to commence from August 1 every year and vacancies, if any, are to be filled up by colleges/institutions before August 15.Last year also, this schedule could not be followed as admissions were delayed due to the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. The AICTE revised the schedule thrice during the previous year – first in August, then in October and lastly in November. Eventually, the deadline for commencement of classes last year was December 1 and students were allowed to seek cancellation of admission with full fee refund till November 30, 2020.This year, the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic forced AICTE to submit a revised calendar for approval to the court. Appearing for the AICTE, additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj told the apex court that technical institutions were able to commence classes for 2020-21 only in January 2021 and even the second semester exams got delayed due to the pandemic.For fresh admissions, the results of the Class 12 Board exams, generally out by June first week, have been delayed till July 31, ASG Nataraj said. Due to lockdown in several states, AICTE could not complete inspection of institutions that sought grant of approval or affiliation.The court allowed AICTE time till July 15 to grant approval to technical institutions, standalone PGDM institutions and other institutions offering open, distance learning and online medium courses. The deadline for approving affiliation by any university or board to any technical institution was also extended to August 10, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/classes-in-engineering-tech-institutes-to-begin-25-oct-says-aicte-s-new-sked-101626101328567.html
12-07-2021||India||Third Covid wave imminent: IMA says tourists, pilgrims potential super spreaders||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday appealed to state governments to put a bar on large gatherings as it cautioned against a looming third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “With the global evidence available and the history of any pandemics, the third wave is inevitable and imminent,” read a statement from the medical body.IMA HQs. Press Release 12.07.2021 pic.twitter.com/ZhmbpezPUDExpressing its concerns over the authorities and public becoming complacent about the pandemic-related norms in place, the IMA urged the states to control large gatherings as these could become “potential super spreader” events.“However, it is painful to note that in this crucial time, when everyone needs to work for the mitigation of the third wave, in many parts of the country, both governments and the public are complacent and engaged in mass gatherings without following Covid protocols. Tourist bonanza, pilgrimage travel, religious fervour, all are needed, but can wait for a few more months,” the IMA said. “Opening up these rituals and enabling people without vaccination to go scot-free in these mass gatherings are potential super spreaders for the Covid third wave,” it added.Also read | RT-PCR reports, hotel bookings: Check guidelines issued by Uttarakhand govt for touristsThe IMA’s warnings came amid several reports emerging of large tourist gatherings at hill stations like Manali, Nainital and Mussoorie without following norms across the country. Also, talks are underway to allow the annual “Kanwar Yatra” in Uttarakhand. Earlier in the day, the annual Rath Yatra (chariot procession) at Puri Jagannath temple in Odisha was held without the presence of devotees amid a strict curfew imposed by the local district administration.The IMA also asked people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour for “minimum three months” and stressed the need to get vaccinated against the disease. “The consequences of treating a patient with Covid in a hospital and its impacts on the economy will be much bigger than the economic loss we suffer by avoiding such mass gatherings,” it said in its statement.Meanwhile, Union tourism minister G Kishan Reddy urged all tourists to follow Covid-19 safety protocols, adding that the Union government did want travelling to stop but safety precautions had to be followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-imminent-ima-says-tourists-pilgrims-potential-super-spreaders-101626095906317.html
12-07-2021||India||Telangana Congress leader Kaushik Reddy in a soup over audio clips, gets show-cause notice||Telangana Congress leader Padi Kaushik Reddy has been issued a show-cause notice for his alleged anti-party activities, reports said on Monday. The notice against Kaushik Reddy came after a viral audio clip reportedly showed him trying to persuade workers of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) to canvas for him in the upcoming Huzurabad byelections."We have received numerous complaints and video clippings from the party functionaries with regards to your anti-party activities. You have also met KT Rama Rao, Minister," the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chairperson M Konda Reddy said in the notice, according to The News Minute.Also read | Telangana BJP chief to start padyatra from Aug 9 ahead of Huzurabad by-pollsM Konda Reddy also said that Kaushik Reddy has already been warned against anti-party activities. The News Minute reported that the Congress' disciplinary committee has sought an explanation within 24 hours Kaushik Reddy. "... failing which it will be construed that you have no explanation to offer and stern disciplinary action will be initiated against you as per the guidelines of the Congress party constitution," the notice said, The News Minute reported.According to The News Minute, a person believed to be Kaushik Reddy can be heard in the video offering money to the TRS activist and share a list of people from his village. Kaushik Reddy reportedly claimed to be the Congress candidate for the Huzurabad assembly constituency by-poll. The Congress' Telangana unit is yet to announce their Huzurabad candidate. Kaushik Reddy contested the 2018 assembly elections on a Congress ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-congress-leader-kaushik-reddy-gets-show-cause-notice-over-audio-clips-101626095536679.html
12-07-2021||India||RT-PCR reports, hotel bookings: Check guidelines issued by Uttarakhand govt for tourists||After videos of tourists flouting Covid restrictions in Uttarakhand began to emerge, the state government has brought in some additional strict measures. The state government has now made it mandatory for tourists to carry a negative RT-PCR certificate and proof of hotel bookings made before their arrival in Uttarakhand. "A clear message has been given to the tourists that if they are coming to Uttarakhand, RT-PCR test, registration, and a prior hotel booking are mandatory for everyone," Uttarakhand police headquarters spokesperson Nilesh Anand Bharane told ANI.Bharane appealed to the tourists coming to Uttarakhand to not restrict themselves to Mussoorie and Nainital as there are many more tourist places in the state that should be explored to avoid unnecessary crowding at one place. He cautioned tourists that they will not be allowed entry without registration, RT-PCR test and hotel bookings.Also Read: Amid tourists’ rush, Dehradun, Nainital hotels to run at 50% occupancyUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami ordered authorities to cap hotel occupations at famous tourist spots of Nainital and Dehradun at 50 per cent. “We have issued an order regarding 50% occupancy capping in Nainital, Dehradun hotels. Challans are being issued to those who are not wearing masks. We are making all efforts to make people follow the Covid guidelines,” Dhami said.Tourists have been arriving in large numbers over the past few days at Mussoorie, Nainital, Haridwar, Rishikesh. Mussoorie's circle officer Narendra Pant told news agency ANI that tourists are being stopped at Kuthal Gate to check if they have registered on the smart city portal and are carrying a negative Covid-19 test report with them. Recorded messages urging people to abide by Covid-19 preventive measures are being played in Mussoorie. This has caused the footfall to decline in comparison to last week, Pant added.Authorities in Nainital have banned the entry of tourists to the city lake during the day over weekends.Tourism dependent states have opened up for visitors and visuals of maskless crowds thronging tourist spots have been doing the rounds on social media.Experts have been cautioning state governments against doing away with Covid-19 restrictions too soon. Union ministry of health and family welfare joint secretary, Luv Aggarwal, has warned against pandemic fatigue and cautioned that the coronavirus disease is still “among us” even though the restrictions have been lifted. The World Health Organization (WHO) has also urged countries to control social mixing as the Delta variant rages through the globe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-reports-hotel-bookings-check-guidelines-issued-by-uttarakhand-govt-for-tourists-101626095734435.html
12-07-2021||India||Flash floods in Himachal Pradesh: What is a cloudburst and what causes it||Flash floods after cloudbursts have been reported from the hill state of Himachal Pradesh even as more than 70 people have lost their lives due to lightning strikes in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have said they are closely monitoring the situation in Himachal Pradesh and assured chief minister Jairam Thakur of all possible help.Here's what you need to know about a cloudburst:(1.) Britannica.com describes cloudburst as a "sudden, very heavy" rainfall, which lasts only for a short period of time and is extremely local in nature.Also Read | IMD alerts: Heavy rainfall to continue in Himachal, Uttarakhand for 2 days(2.) Cloudbursts usually occur in connection with a thunderstorm. During these thunderstorms, a large amount of water may accumulate at high levels and, if the upward currents are weakened, the accumulated water comes down at one time, causing flash floods.(3.) Mountainous areas witness cloudbursts on a regular basis. This explains why hill states like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are frequently affected by this phenomenon. The frequent occurrence of cloudbursts in such areas takes place probably because the warm air currents in a thunderstorm tend to follow the upward slope of a mountain.(4.) Cloudbursts cause great devastation in hilly areas because the water gets concentrated in gullies and valleys. The flash floods due to mountain cloudbursts are "sudden" and "destructive."(5.) Uttarakhand in particular has seen devastation due to cloudbursts. The Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA) has listed several cloudburst-related incidents on its website, including the June 2013 flash floods.(6.) The agency has also listed several measures to mitigate the effects of a cloudburst. It suggests that instead of valleys, people should live in areas on slopes with firm ground for safety reasons. In areas where ground fissures have developed, appropriate steps should be taken to check the infiltration of rainwater and surface water. It also suggests banning "indiscriminate" and "unscientific" construction works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flash-floods-in-himachal-pradesh-what-is-a-cloudburst-and-what-causes-it-101626092258660.html
12-07-2021||India||Non-tourist vaccinated travellers don’t need Covid test to enter Goa: HC||The Bombay high court at Goa on Monday modified its orders to allow persons who have been fully vaccinated to enter Goa without having to produce a Covid negative certificate. The order, however, stays for tourists who will continue to have to produce a Covid negative certificate even if they have been fully vaccinated. The matter of allowing similar exemptions for tourists will be considered during the next hearing on August 5.Hearing an application filed by the Goa government which sought modification of the court’s earlier orders, by which it was made mandatory to test negative 72 hours prior to entering the state, the high court bench of justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said, “We modify our order dated 06.05.2021 and permit entry to fully vaccinated persons, belonging to the undermentioned categories without such persons having a Covid negativity certificate,” the high court ordered. Among the categories of persons who will be excluded are those coming to the state for work, business, residents who have been stranded outside Goa because or the pandemic, and residents who are required to travel outside and return after a few days. The court said those who received the final dose of vaccine over two weeks ago and have not shown any symptoms of Covid will be considered fully vaccinated.Also Read | GBSHSE Goa Board SSC Class 10 Result 2021 declared, pass percentage is 99.72%The high court also asked the state to work out a mechanism to ensure that only those falling in the above categories are granted exemption. The state government had initially proposed that all those who are fully vaccinated be exempted from having to produce a Covid negative certificate. However, the court pointed to the situation in states such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with videos of people flocking to the tourist hot spots, raising an alarm among the administration. “The state should clarify whether it seeks entry of tourists or others not covered in the categories exempted above, in the state of Goa without Covid negativity certificate. So also, the Central Government in the light of the experience it has gained from the reported incidents of rush at tourist places, to offer its say in this matter by filing an affidavit before the next date. This is because there were some reports of warnings issued by or on behalf of the Central Government about the relaxation of Covid safety protocols in states where the tourist influx is substantial,” the bench said. Goa has 1,848 active Covid cases, and has recorded 3,097 deaths till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nontourist-vaccinated-travellers-don-t-need-covid-test-to-enter-goahc-101626093827785.html
12-07-2021||India||New health minister Mansukh Mandaviya works to mitigate medical oxygen crisis||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday virtually inaugurated two Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants in a Gujarat hospital as part of measures planned to meet the country’s oxygen demand for patients, especially during public health crises.This is the first project that the newly appointed Union health minister launched after taking charge on Wednesday, July 7. The plant was set up at Sir Takhtasinhji Hospital, Bhavnagar. Mandaviya also inaugurated two oxygen generation plants of 1,000 litres per minute capacity each, a copper piping network and associated facilities such as a firefighting system and automatic oxygen source changeover system.Also Read | Central teams rushed to states reporting spike in Covid cases: Union minister“This facility is dedicated to the people of Bhavnagar. Similar such facilities inaugurated recently will help the country in times of crisis… It is an evidence of sheer cooperation among different stakeholders from both public and private sector that we ramped up our oxygen capacity that was mere 4,000MT (metric tonnes) to more than 12,000MT in a short span of time,” said the health minister during the inauguration.Mandaviya also mentioned that the government was making an effort to upgrade overall medical infrastructure to meet future challenges.“We have learnt a lot from the second wave (of the Covid-19 pandemic) such as ramping up oxygen supply, hospital beds and medicines. We have now ensured adequate funds in every district for buying critical care medical requirements in emergency. The Cabinet has recently approved a ₹23,000 crore package for Covid-19 emergency response. We have made adequate provisions for paediatric care in all hospitals to provide the most effective healthcare for children. We are also developing a system of buffer stock at the state and Centre-level that can be used in case of any health crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-works-to-mitigate-medical-oxygen-crisis-101626092148022.html
12-07-2021||India||Provide PG dental counselling schedule within a week: SC to govt||Upset over the government’s “dilly-dallying” over conducting counselling to fill 6,500 postgraduate dental seats, the entrance examination for which was held in December last year, the Supreme Court on Monday gave the Centre a final week’s time to release the counselling schedule.Dealing with a petition filed by nine students who qualified in the Master of Dental Surgery- National Eligibility Entrance Test (MDS-NEET) held on December 16, 2020, the top court told the government that by keeping the young dental doctors waiting, the country was suffering a big loss and the dental graduates were wasting a precious year of their career. “These are qualified Bachelor for Dental Surgery (BDS) doctors. They will be wasting an entire year of their life if the counselling is not held. Imagine the loss caused to India as these doctors are not being allowed to join service of patients,” said a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and Hrishikesh Roy. Also Read | Write clear, short judgments that litigants can understand: SCThe court posted the matter for hearing next Monday and said, “We expect an expeditious decision to be taken and the court be informed on when the government intends to conduct counselling for MDS-NEET, results for which were announced on December 31. We hope the government of India is conscious of the consequences of the long delay in holding the counselling.” Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj appeared for the Centre before the court representing the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and said that the government was committed to holding counselling, but the delay was on account of a decision by Madras high court to grant reservation in postgraduate medical and dental admissions. Nataraj informed the court that on July 27, 2020, the Madras high court directed the formation of a high-level committee to implement reservations for other backward classes (OBC) in state-surrendered seats under all-India quota for PG-NEET 2021 and MDS-NEET 2021. In October last year, the Supreme Court confirmed it could be done year. Pursuant to this, the government filed an application in the top court seeking clarification on implementing the reservations this year. Not happy with the explanation, the bench remarked, “The government is just dilly-dallying over this issue. This judgment was in October 2020 and we are now in July 2021. This is a red herring that you are postulating before us. If you wanted to seek clarification, you had to do it immediately. You have to hold counselling immediately.” Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing the petitioners, told the court that counselling can be held virtually and does not require physical presence of candidates. The petition by the nine MDS aspirants drafted by advocate Tanvi Dubey said that nearly 30,000 BDS doctors took the MDS-NEET examination for admission to 6,500 MDS seats. They even filed repeated pleas under the Right to Information (RTI) Act to know the reason for delay but got no clear response from either the Centre or the Medical Counselling Committee under the Directorate General of Health Services. Having wasted six months of their career, the petitioners were left with no option but to move the top court. Once results are declared, counselling for MDS admissions begin by March every year, the petition stated. One of the RTI replies received from the government prior to filing of the petition stated that a “proposal for conducting separate counselling for the allotment of MDS seats is under consideration with the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and after consultation with the Dental Council of India, the final outcome shall be available on the official website of Medical Counselling Committee.” On July 2, the top court issued a notice to the Medical Counselling Committee, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Dental Council of India and National Board of Examinations seeking a response to the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-pg-dental-counselling-schedule-within-a-week-sc-to-govt-101626090887339.html
12-07-2021||India||Lightning strikes in north India: All you need to know about phenomenon||More than 60 people have been killed due to lightning strikes in three states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours. Condoling the loss of lives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for family members of the deceased and ₹50,000 for those injured. Compensation has also been announced by the respective state governments.What is lightning?National Geographic describes lightning as an “electrical discharge caused by imbalances between storm clouds and the ground.” This “imbalance” is created between storm clouds and objects on the ground; the lower reaches of the storm clouds are “negatively” charged while objects on the ground are “positively” charged. This imbalance leads to the passage of current between the two opposite charges, which is called lightning.Why is lightning strike dangerous?The same National Geographic report states that around 2000 people lose their lives due to the phenomenon every year. Death due to a lightning strike takes place when the lowest lightning bolt comes within 150 feet (46 metres) of a positively charged object on the ground. This contact leads to a surge of positive electricity, called a “streamer,” which can impact a building, a tree, and even a person.Those who survive lightning strikes might suffer from various lasting symptoms. These include memory loss, weakness, dizziness, numbness etc. These can also cause cardiac arrest and severe burns.Dos and don’ts during a lightning strikeThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has listed various dos and don’ts to be followed during a lightning strike. Here are some basic dos and don’ts to be followed:(1.) If the weather forecast is for thunderstorms, postpone or delay your activity(2.) Go inside a safe shelter when you hear thunder. Safe shelters include concrete homes, concrete buildings, or hard top vehicles with their windows rolled up.(3.) Follow the 30/30 “Lightning Safety Rule.” This rule states that one should rush indoors if after seeing lightning, they cannot count to 30 before hearing thunder. Additionally, it states that one should listen to a flash of thunder, and go outdoors if no other flash is heard for 30 minutes.(4.) Avoid elevated areas like hills, cliffs, mountain ridges and peaks. One should also immediately get out of and away from a water body.(5.) Do not lie flat on the ground, instead get into a position of “lightning crotch.” In this position, one should squat, wrap their arms around legs, keep feet together, head lowered, ears covered and eyes closed.(6.) If the hair on the back of one’s neck stands up, this could be an indication that a lightning strike is “imminent.” Keep away from lines and objects that conduct electricity, and immediately unplug all electrical appliances.(7.) Taking shelter under trees is strictly prohibited as these are conductors of electricity. If trapped in a group, avoid standing close to each other to reduce the number of injuries.(8.) Continue listening to local radio and television stations for updated information or instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-strikes-in-north-india-all-you-need-to-know-about-phenomenon-101626089538009.html
12-07-2021||India||Adar Poonawalla joins Laxmi Narayan Tripathi to provide equal healthcare rights to trans community||Adar Poonawala, the chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India (SII), said on Monday he would collaborate with transgender rights activist Laxmi Narayan Tripathi to provide equal opportunities in the field of healthcare to the community in India.“I have always believed that healthcare and dignity should be fundamental human rights. I look forward to collaborate with Laxmi Narayan Tripathi in providing equal opportunities to the transgender community in India,” tweeted Poonawala, the chief of the company which manufactures Oxford-AstraZeneca developed vaccine Covishield.I have always believed that healthcare and dignity should be fundamental human rights. I look forward to collaborate with @ImLaxmiNarayan in providing equal opportunities to the transgender community in India. pic.twitter.com/spxi1XCZ78Till June, only 11.45% of the transgender population was partially vaccinated with one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Their population as per the last Census is estimated to be around 490,000, however, the community estimates the figure to be around 1.8 million. The measly vaccination numbers, say experts, are due to a combination of factors like digital divide, vaccine hesitancy, and a general distrust in the public healthcare system.Thane Municipal Corporation had organised a vaccination drive for transgenders on June 19. Vaccination was opened for individuals in the age group of 30-44 but with prior online appointment even though no identity cards were needed.Aqsa Shaikh, India’s first transgender nodal officer of a Covid-19 vaccination centre at the Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, told Hindustan Times that her community is deserving of the same rights as others.Many cities are launching drives to vaccinate members of the transgender community but the concerted effort by the states seems to be lacking so far. The community has also been financially impacted by the second wave of coronavirus.Amrita Sarkar of the India HIV/AIDS Alliance in Delhi told Hindustan Times that transgenders are in dire need of vaccination because they have higher rates of sexually transmitted infections and HIV/AIDS-related infections which leads to a compromised immunity and renders them more susceptible to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adar-poonawalla-joins-laxmi-narayan-tripathi-to-provide-equal-healthcare-rights-to-trans-community-101626089131058.html
12-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Lightning strikes kill at least 40 in UP, Rajasthan in 24 hours and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lightning strikes have killed 40 people in 24 hours: An explainerAt least 40 people have been killed in lightning strikes in the past 24 hours in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Read MoreSix houses swept away as landslide hits Himachal's Kangra districtAt least six houses were swept away and more than 10 people were feared trapped after a landslide triggered by heavy rain hit the remote high-altitude village of Boh in the Shahpur sub division of Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district on Monday. Read MoreBodies of missing woman, three minor sons found in well in MP villagePolice recovered the bodies of a woman, who had been missing, and her three sons from a well in a village in Tikamgarh district of Madhya Pradesh on Monday morning. Read MoreBhuvneshwar Kumar reveals how he stayed motivated for a Team India comeback during injury lay-offBhuvneshwar Kumar is one of the premier fat-bowlers in the country. The right-handed medium pacer is always accurate with his line and length while being a potent swing bowler. Read MoreSophie Choudry’s ‘flawless Pilates moves’ are the perfect Monday motivationAlways the one to add “fun” to a robust workout, Bollywood actor Sophie Choudry and her fitness trainer Yasmin Karachiwala are often seen treating fans to a glimpse of their pilates session. Read MoreHaseen Dillruba writer Kanika Dhillon says she didn't question qualifications of 'veteran critics' panning the filmHaseen Dillruba screenwriter Kanika Dhillon has responded to a rebuttal to an earlier comment made by her, in which she implied that film criticism doesn't require qualification, and that some critics who've panned Haseen Dillruba have abused their power. Read MoreMercedes S-Class cabin review: Money may not buy happiness. Sheer luxury? SureMercedes-Benz S-Class has often been seen as a luxury sedan in a league of its own. Read MoreTourists flood Nainital after Manali, Mussoorie; Covid surge fear reignitedAfter startling visuals from hill stations like Manali, Mussoorie, and Dharamshala, now a huge number of tourists are being seen in Uttarakhand's Nainital. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-40-people-killed-in-lightning-strikes-in-up-rajasthan-in-24-hours-and-all-the-latest-news-101626087881707.html
12-07-2021||India||MoS for IT changes username, temporarily loses verified badge on Twitter||Union minister of state for electronics and information technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar changed his username on Twitter, losing his verified badge on the microblogging platform temporarily on Monday. He had changed his username from rajeev_mp to rajeev_GOI. According to the Twitter verification policy, an account holder’s blue verified badge gets removed as soon as they change their username. An account could also lose its verification for being inactive for a period of six months. “We are in touch with the Honorable Minister’s office and worked swiftly to restore the verified blue badge,” Twitter said in a statement. The minister hasn’t spoken on the issue yet.Twitter has anyway been locked in a conflict with the Union government over the new social media and intermediary guidelines. Right after taking charge past Thursday, Chandrasekhar said, “The ministry doesn’t operate on a unilateral basis and this has nothing to do with individual views and opinions. The ministry will sit with the new Union Minister and address all these issues.” Also Read | Assuring to note Twitter’s steps to comply with new rules: Ravi Shankar PrasadMeanwhile, former Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday lauded his successor, Ashwini Vaishnaw, for strongly asserting the need to comply with the social media and intermediary guidelines, while also highlighting that Twitter was taking steps to follow the rules. “Greetings to the new IT Minister @AshwiniVaishnaw for firmly reiterating that the new IT Rules are designed to empower the safety & security of users against misuse and redress their grievances,” Prasad wrote on Twitter. The former union minister was locked in an escalating battle with the social media over compliance with the new guidelines, even going so far as to say that Twitter was not entitled to protection under the IT Act’s safe harbour clause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-for-it-changes-username-temporarily-loses-verified-badge-on-twitter-101626087227418.html
12-07-2021||India||UP Assembly elections: Congress' Priyanka Gandhi, other senior leaders meet to discuss poll strategy||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra held a meeting with party leaders on Monday to chalk out strategy for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, news agency PTI reported. The leaders decided to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government on issues related to unemployment, price rise and law and order.The meeting involved leaders from the party's advisory council and the working group on strategy and planning for the state. Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, senior party leaders Salman Khurshid, Rajiv Shukla, Pramod Tiwari and Rashid Alvi, among others, participated in the virtual meeting.Priyanka Gandhi reportedly said at the meeting that the people are troubled by soaring inflation and “sky high” prices of petrol, diesel, mustard oil, fruits and vegetables. She also raised the issue of violence during the panchayat elections while alleging that BJP workers indulged in stone-pelting and firing.The assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are slated to be held in 2021 where the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government looks to secure a second consecutive term in office. In the 2017 elections, the BJP won more than 300 seats in the 403-seat assembly, displacing the Samajwadi Party (SP) from power.The meeting comes a day after the senior Congress leader held a meeting with Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel amid reports that he is expecting to play a crucial role in the preparations of the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh.Amid widespread reports of violence, the BJP on Saturday registered an emphatic victory in elections for the posts of block panchayat chief in Uttar Pradesh, winning 635 out of 825 seats for which block panchayat chiefs were to be elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assembly-elections-congress-priyanka-gandhi-other-senior-leaders-meet-to-discuss-poll-strategy-101626086527298.html
12-07-2021||India||Facebook did not violate rights: Bombay HC rejects right-wing org’s claim||The Bombay high court in Goa on Monday rejected a plea by Hindu extremist group Sanatan Sanstha to have its pages, which were taken down by social media company Facebook, restored. The Sanatan Sanstha claimed in its appeal before the high court that Facebook’s action was high handed, arbitrary and violated their constitutional rights. It also said that Facebook blocking its pages amounted to usurpation of powers that are only vested with the state.The high court, however, rejected the claims and said that blocking or unblocking of pages hosted on Facebook, would at the most be a contractual dispute. “The dispute regarding blocking or unblocking of the petitioner’s (Sanatan Sanstha’s) Facebook pages, appears to be governed by the contractual relationship between the petitioner and respondents (Facebook) and normally purely contractual disputes between private parties cannot be adjudicated in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India,” the high court bench comprising justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar, said. Also Read | Acted against 133 posts and 18,000 profiles: TwitterThe Sanstha had told the court that it used these pages to spread the essence of their spirituality and allied matters, and Facebook’s action disabled it from communicating or propagating [its] philosophy and disabling its followers from accessing information that it posted on such pages.Facebook told the Sanstha that as per the terms of service they have the right to permanently disable access to any account that breaches its community standards. This, the Sanstha alleged, was being violative of their fundamental rights enshrined in the constitution.In response, advocate for Facebook Darius Khambata told the court that the petition was not maintainable because Facebook Inc and Facebook Online Services India are “neither a ‘State’ under article 12 of the constitution nor are they discharging any public functions.”“The issue of blocking the Facebook pages, is a matter governed by contract and the petition under Article 226 of the Constitution is not maintainable to address a dispute over a contractual relationship between two private parties,” he said. “The petitioner has no right to seek hosting or transmission of its information or its philosophical views on the platform provided by Facebook. Such a right is neither granted by Section 79 of the Information Technology Act (protection granted to intermediaries) nor for that matter, any other provision of the Information Technology Act,” Khambata said. “All these matters are in the realm of contract and if at all the petitioner has any grievance, they will have to seek redressal before any appropriate forum which is empowered to adjudicate disputes between the two private parties,” he added. The high court said that there was neither any assertion that Facebook answered the definition of ‘State’ under Article 12 of the Constitution nor were there any serious to establish that these respondents indeed answer the definition of ‘State’ under Article 12 of the Constitution, or otherwise, discharge some public functions. “Based on the sketchy and unclear pleadings in this matter, however, there is no case made out for grant of any declaratory relief in this petition. Even, otherwise, Adv (Shirish) Punalekar (advocate for Sanatan Sanstha) was unable to point out any provision under the Information Technology Act, based on which the petitioner could insist on maintaining a Facebook page on the platform provided… without agreeing to be bound by the contractual terms that may have been proposed,” the high court said. “If there is some breach of contractual relationship involved in the blocking of the Facebook page then, it is for [them] to take appropriate steps before the appropriate forum to secure redress. But, a Petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India may not be an appropriate remedy for this purpose,” the bench said. The controversial organisation Sanatan Sanstha, that is headquartered in Goa and has a significant presence in Maharashtra, is on the radar of investigating authorities in the murders of rationalists Govind Pansare, Narendra Dabholkar and MM Kalburgi as well as in the murder of Gauri Lankesh. Operatives of the Sanstha were also accused of attempting to plant a bomb at a crowded religious place in Margao in 2008 which exploded prematurely killing two persons who were ferrying it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-did-not-violate-rights-bombay-hc-rejects-right-wing-org-s-claim-101626086321135.html
12-07-2021||India||Assam CM tables cow protection legislation in assembly||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tabled a legislation to protect cattle in the state on the first day of the budget session of the assembly that started on Monday. Termed the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, the legislation aims to ban interstate transport of cows through Assam in order to control their smuggling to neighbouring Bangladesh. The Bill seeks to stop the transport of cattle from any place within Assam to places outside the state “where slaughter of cattle is not regulated by law”. The transport of cattle from places outside Assam to any place within the state will also be banned by the legislation. Further, movement of cattle from one place within the state to another located in Assam will also be restricted. “The competent authority may issue permit for transport of cattle for bona fide agricultural or animal husbandry purposes as prescribed in the rules framed under the Act,” states the Bill. Also Read | Assam’s cow protection law move raises concerns in MeghalayaThe cattle, permitted to be transported for agricultural and animal husbandry purposes, will have to be transported by following rules laid down by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The Bill has certain exemptions on transportation of cattle. No permission would be required to carry cattle to grazing field or for agricultural or animal husbandry purposes within a district. “No permission shall be required for transportation of cattle to and from registered animal market for the purpose of sale and purchase of such cattle within the district,” the proposed Bill states. Assam is the main gateway to the northeast region and apart from cattle all other goods coming from other parts of the country enter through the state. The cow protection Bill is likely to affect supply in several Christian-majority states in the region where beef is consumed. While Nagaland and Mizoram have not reacted yet to Assam’s legislation, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma said last week that it will take up the issue with Centre is the new law affects supply of beef to the state. The Bill also seeks to regulate the sale of beef in Assam by restricting it to certain places. Once enacted, beef would be allowed to be sold only in places permitted by the new legislation. Beef won’t be allowed to be sold in areas which have a predominant population of Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and other non-beef-eating communities or within a radius of 5km of any temple, ‘satra’ (Vaishnavite monastery) “or other religious institutions belonging to Hindu religion or any other institution or area as may be prescribed by the competent authority”. Violations of the provisions of the Bill could lead to imprisonment for three to eight years and fine between ₹3 lakh and ₹5 lakh. Consumption of beef is not illegal in Assam and the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950 allows slaughter of cattle above 14 years of age with proper approval by local veterinary officers. Once enacted, Assam would join other BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, which have similar legislation to protect cows. Reacting to the legislation, opposition parties in the state and minority organisations said that the Bill could led to communal tensions and also affect the livelihood of many involved in the cattle trade business legally. “The Bill is aimed at targeting a particular community. Why don’t states like Goa, Meghalaya and Nagaland where BJP is part of the government bring in such legislation? The Assam government wants to polarise people through this Bill. We will oppose it and bring in amendment resolutions,” said Md Aminul Islam, an All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA. “We have asked our legal department to see whether the Bill hurts the fundamental rights of a certain community. Interpretation of such legislation is a contentious issue and could lead to attacks on communities that consume beef. We will seek adequate and appropriate amendments in the proposed Bill,” said Congress Legislative Party leader Debabrata Saikia. The All Assam Minority Students’ Union (AAMSU) said that clauses such as ban on the sale of beef within 5km radius of temples seem illogical and were included with the intent to target Muslims. “If such a ban is imposed for beef, some could suggest similar restrictions on the sale of pork near mosques. This sort of things could lead to tension among communities. The government shouldn’t interfere with food habits of people. The ban on transportation would affect the lives of many and would also affect government revenue collection from the sale of cattle,” said AAMSU adviser Ainuddin Ahmed. The session, which is the second one for the new BJP-led coalition, will witness a woman finance minister present the state’s annual budget for the first time in Assam’s history. Finance minister Ajanta Neog will present the budget on July 16. On the first day of the session, MLAs from opposition parties including Congress and All India United Democratic Front staged a walkout after Speaker Biswajit Daimary refused to allow an adjournment motion on rising fuel prices. Besides the Bill on cow protection, 13 other bills will be tabled in the session which will end on August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-tables-cow-protection-legislation-in-assembly-101626085900639.html
12-07-2021||India||No Zika virus cases in Tamil Nadu so far, houses near Kerala border screened: Official||No cases of the Zika virus have been reported so far in Tamil Nadu, the state’s health secretary J Radhakrishnan said on Monday after several people tested positive for the disease in neighbouring Kerala. Radhakrishnan said that experts have been checking for Zika infections along the border with Kerala. “About 2,660 houses were screened near the Kerala border. Luckily so far there are no positive cases. We have told all district collectors including the General Cooperation Commissioner to intensify anti-mosquito activities,” news agency ANI quoted him as saying, earlier in the day.Screening and inspection activities have been going on, as people from Kerala are being screened for the past five days for Zika, Radhakrishnan added.The health secretary’s remarks came even as Tamil Nadu tightened the vigil along its border with Kerala in a bid to check the spread of the disease. State health minister Ma Subramanian, on Sunday, said that fumigation measures were intensified to prevent the spread of Zika and dengue in the state.Also read | As Zika virus spreads in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka step up vigilMeanwhile, three more people tested positive for the Zika virus in Kerala on Sunday, taking the overall cases to 18 so far, news agency PTI reported. Testing facilities have been arranged at the medical colleges in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode and at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) unit at Alappuzha. Hospitals in the state have been instructed to test patients, especially pregnant women, with fever, rashes and body pain, health minister Veena George said on Sunday.As Zika cases continue to rise in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, which share a border with the state, have increased their vigil. Along the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border, surveillance has been increased at 14 strategic points and also at the Walayar and Meenakshipuram checkposts, a PTI report on July 10 showed. Also, an e-pass has been mandated for people travelling from Kerala to Tamil Nadu, PTI said citing people familiar with the developments.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-zika-virus-cases-in-tamil-nadu-so-far-houses-near-kerala-border-screened-official-101626085452341.html
12-07-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti says only motive behind Article 370 move seems to loot J&K||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti hit out at the Central government on Monday over the economy of the Union territory and the recent dismissal of government employees.She said abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that granted special status to the erstwhile state seemed to have been carried out to rob Jammu & Kashmir of its resources. “It seems the only motive behind the abrogation was to loot J&K. People from outside are being given top positions at Chenab Valley Power Projects. Our water and electricity are going outside. Our transporters are in trouble. They have to pay toll taxes and more,” the PDP chief, who is on a tour of the region, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."There is no benefit for the people, including those belonging to Jammu division. People are suffering since the scrapping of Article 370. Many new orders are coming up everyday, including the recent one on ending the 'darbar' move. Our identity is at stake," she said, adding the attempts are being made to turn Jammu to a hub of liquor mafias. Speaking further on the Darbar move, she said this was not related to business, but only provided an opportunity to the people of Jammu and Kashmir divisions to interact and have cultural ties. Its scrapping was disappointing. Mufti said articles 370, 35 (A) of the Constitution and other domicile laws were not granted by any foreign country, but introduced by the then ruler Hari Singh. “Even before the nation gave us these, the Maharaja had brought it to protect the identity of people of J&K. When people decided to be a part of India, he said that we have these laws that have to be upheld,” Mufti said. The two articles were scrapped by the Narendra Modi-led government in August 2019 and the state was bifurcated into two Union territories.Mufti said she would not take part in the electoral process until all decisions of August 5,2019, are not revised. "It is an emotional issue for me," she said. Regarding the delimitation process, she asked why was there such a hurry to carry out the exercise. "There is something suspicious in this process," she said.The former chief minister said there is no policy to restore the UT’s economy. “There is unemployment and inflation are rising. There is no future for educated youth here. Earlier, they used to say that Jammu & Kashmir is backward, but we were ahead on several indices. But if their onslaught over economy continues, our situation will become worse than Gujarat as far as poverty is concerned,” Mufti said.She said the BJP government at the Centre has no policy for even the Kashmiri Pandits. "They are part and parcel of Kashmir and must be rehabilitated in the valley, there looks like there is no policy for them either."When asked about her comments on the sacking of 11 government employees, including two sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, she said she did support anybody but children cannot be held responsible for their father’s deeds. Mehbooba said on Sunday the dismissals done on flimsy grounds was criminal and the Centre was continued “disempowering” the people of Jammu and Kashmir in the “garb of pseudo nationalism by trampling” the Constitution.“I'm not supporting anyone. You cannot hold a child responsible for actions of his father unless and until you have proof. These are not 11 people. They have sacked about 20-25 people this year,” Mufti said.“I have said this again and again. You can capture a man but not an idea. You have to address the idea, as Vajpayee ji did. Witch-hunting, criminalisation of dissent is taking our nation back,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-says-only-motive-behind-article-370-move-seems-to-loot-jk-101626084334587.html
12-07-2021||India||PM Modi announces ex-gratia for families of those killed in lightning strikes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Monday announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for the families of those killed and ₹50,000 for those injured in lightning strikes in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh on Sunday and said they will be provided further assistance by the respective state governments.Taking to Twitter, PM Modi wrote: “Many people have lost their lives due to lightning in some areas of Rajasthan. This is very saddening. I express my deepest condolences to the families of the deceased.” He also posted separate similar messages condoling deaths and announcing ex-gratia for deaths caused by lightning in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also expressed his condolences in a tweet in Hindi on Monday and urged the state governments to “extend all possible help to the families of the deceased”.At least 22 people were killed due to lightning strikes in Rajasthan. 11 of these died in at least two lightning strikes near Amber fort in Jaipur on Sunday evening. Seven children including four in Kota and three in Dholpur district also died in lightning strikes.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh each for the family members of those killed in the lightning strike. Out of this, ₹4 lakh will be given from the emergency relief fund and ₹1 lakh from the Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF).At least 26 people were killed due to lightning in Uttar Pradesh including 14 in Prayagaraj. 12 others were killed in separate incidents of lightning in Fatehpur, Kaushambi and Firozabad districts in the last 24 hours, PTI said on Monday, quoting officials.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed immediate distribution of the permissible relief amount to the families of the deceased and treatment of the injured.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of more lightning in the next two days, along with heavy rain in parts of north India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-ex-gratia-for-families-of-those-killed-in-lightning-strikes-101626082540525.html
12-07-2021||India||Two missing in Kangra flash floods; heavy rain wreaks havoc in Himachal Pradesh||Two people were reported missing in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh on Monday. The stretch of National Highway near Jhakri in Rampur area of Shimla district was blocked on Monday following heavy rainfall. Officials have made their way to the area and the process of clearing up the road has begun.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a heavy to very heavy rainfall alert for isolated places in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab etc. "Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is very likely at isolated places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Telangana and with lightning at isolated places over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh,” the agency said on Sunday.Also Read: Six houses swept away as landslide hits Himachal's Kangra districtNormal life took a hit in many parts of Himachal Pradesh including Bhagsu Nag in Dharamshala where the flash flood hit. Dharamshala is currently packed with tourists who flocked to Himachal Pradesh after the government relaxed coronavirus curbs in the state.Also Read: Flashflood at Bhagsunag in Himachal’s McLeodganj washes away carsThe Manjhi river which flows through Dharamshala was overflowing due to incessant rains, and led to flooding in nearby areas, damaging around 10 shops. Deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal told ANI that the it cannot be confirmed yet if the flooding in Bhagsu Nag was due to a cloud burst, even as initial reports suggest the flash flood was caused by heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-missing-in-kangra-flash-floods-heavy-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-himachal-pradesh-101626080953225.html
12-07-2021||India||Rajeev Chandrasekhar loses Twitter verification badge; restored later||Rajeev Chandrasekhar, the new minister of state for electronics and information technology, on Monday lost the blue verified badge on his Twitter handle, in a development attributed to Twitter's service rules. However, the badge was restored, within hours of being removed.Also Read | Assuring to note Twitter’s steps to comply with new rules: Ravi Shankar PrasadTwitter is yet to officially comment on the issue. However, according to its verification policy, if an account holder changes their username, their blue verification badge is automatically removed. Chandrasekhar, who was inducted into the Union council of ministers on July 7, was earlier using @rajeev_mp as his username, which upon his induction, was changed to @Rajeev_GoI.Twitter users shared the screenshot of Chandrasekhar's handle without the blue tick:Twitter's policy rules also state that the blue tick can be removed if an account has been inactive for a period of six months. This rule led to vice president Venkaiah Naidu, losing the verification badge of his personal Twitter handle, in June. In this case too, the badge was restored within hours of being removed.Also Read: Twitter restores blue verification tick of vice president Venkaiah Naidu's personal accountMonday's development comes at a time when the social media giant is engaged in a faceoff with the central government over the new Information and Technology Rules. Ashwini Vaishnaw, who was among those inducted into the council of ministers last Wednesday and replaced Ravi Shankar Prasad as the new minister information and technology minister, has already reiterated his predecessor's stance, stating that Twitter "must follow the law of the land."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajeev-chandrasekhar-verified-badge-on-twitter-removed-restored-later-101626080401722.html
12-07-2021||India||Central teams rushed to states reporting spike in Covid cases: Union minister||Central teams have been rushed to the states and Union territories (UTs) that are reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases, newly-appointed Union minister of state for health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar said on Monday.Speaking to news agency ANI regarding the rise in cases in Maharashtra and Kerala, Bharati Pravin Pawar said that the central teams are “working on the ground”. “We are continuously monitoring the situation, taking feedback from state governments regularly,” the recently inducted cabinet minister was quoted as saying.Bharati Pravin Pawar also said that the central government will take more steps to check the spread of Covid-19, and that the Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya is conducting meetings on a daily basis to take stock of the situation across the country. “He had meetings yesterday as well,” Dr Pawar told ANI.She added that the central ruling dispensation has given guidelines on containing the virus spread, which all state governments must follow. She also appealed to people to wear masks and avoid crowded places, ANI reported.Maharashtra and Kerala, along with Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, are accounting for the maximum number of daily coronavirus cases recorded in India, according to the health ministry. Maharashtra reported 8,535 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, thereby taking the overall tally of the state to 6,157,799; while Kerala recorded 12,220 fresh cases on the same day after which the state’s cumulative tally reached 3,065,336.Among the other three southern states, with 2,775 daily case count on Sunday, Tamil Nadu recorded the maximum number of new Covid-19 cases. On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh reported 2,665 new cases on Sunday and Karnataka reported 1,978 cases in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, following a meeting on Saturday chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, a statement by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) directed all states and UTs to follow the “five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate” along with Covid-19-appropriate behaviour to contain the virus spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-teams-rushed-to-states-reporting-spike-in-covid-cases-union-minister-101626079496899.html
12-07-2021||India||Monsoon session of Parliament from July 19-August 13, says LS speaker Om Birla||The Monsoon Session of Parliament will take place from July 19 to August 13 with 19 days of business, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Monday. He said this while taking stock of preparations for the upcoming session.The timings of the session will be from 11 am to 6 pm for both the Houses, he added.With the coronavirus pandemic still raging, the session will be held in both the Houses pf Parliament with all necessary protocols and arrangements are being made to accommodate members of Parliament (MPs) on a social distancing basis.Birla said all members and media will be allowed in accordance with Covid-19 rules. "RTPCR test is not mandatory. We will request those who have not undergone vaccination to undergo test," the speaker said.Earlier, it was reported that the MPs would be able to attend the session without going through an RT-PCR Covid-19 test if they have received even one dose of the vaccine against the virus.However, those without having received a jab would be made to undergo the compulsory test at a gap not exceeding every two weeks and this would have to be followed not only by MPs, but anybody entering the Parliament premises.So far, 444 members of the Lok Sabha and 218 members of the Rajya Sabha have reportedly been vaccinated against Covid-19. Some MPs have not been able to take their second jab yet as they were affected by Covid-19, a top functionary told HT. “Another 30 MPs have not sent us any communication. We are trying to contact them to know their vaccination status.”Parliament sessions have been affected ever since the pandemic hit the country last year forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped completely due to the public health crisis. The high rate of vaccination among the lawmakers and Parliament staff has improved chances of a longer Parliament session and higher productivity. More than 40 bills and five ordinances are pending before Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-of-parliament-from-july-19-august-13-says-ls-speaker-om-birla-101626073967895.html
12-07-2021||India||Hearing on Juhi Chawla's plea on 5G deferred by Delhi HC, judge recuses||The Delhi high court on Monday deferred hearing on the plea by actor Juhi Chawla in connection with the dismissal of her lawsuit against 5G wireless network technology. Chawla, through her lawyer, wants the court to "reject" the petition instead of "dismissing" it.Justice Sanjeev Narula recused from hearing the actor's plea and directed that it be listed before another bench on July 29.Last week, Justice J R Midha had directed that the application be placed before Justice Narula after the deposit of previously imposed fine of ₹20 lakh.Chawla's lawyer argued that the plaint, which “never went up to the level of suit”, could only be rejected or returned in terms of the Civil Procedure Code, and not dismissed.The actor moved the high court in May seeking to challenge the setting up of 5G network in the country, expressing concerns over its impact on animals and children. Chawla claimed in her petition that once 5G is implemented, no one will be able to avoid exposure.The high court dismissed the petition on June 4 and slapped a fine of ₹20 lakh on the actor, saying the plea was "only for publicity".After the petition was dismissed, Chawla posted a video on her Twitter account in which the actor said she is not against the 5G technology and only wanted the government's certificate that it is safe."In the hullabaloo of the past few days, I could not hear myself and the main message got lost," she said in the video.The Cellular Operators' Association of India also said that 5G in India is safe, claiming that the radiation permitted in the country is one-tenth of what is globally accepted.The country's leading telecom operators are holding trials before commercially launching the 5G services in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hearing-on-juhi-chawla-s-plea-on-5g-deferred-by-delhi-hc-judge-recuses-101626076939108.html
12-07-2021||India||Assuring to note Twitter’s steps to comply with new rules: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Former Union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday lauded his successor Ashwini Vaishnaw for asserting the need to comply with the social media and intermediary guidelines, while also highlighting that Twitter was taking steps to follow the rules. “Greetings to the new IT Minister @AshwiniVaishnaw for firmly reiterating that the new IT Rules are designed to empower the safety & security of users against misuse and redress their grievances,” Prasad wrote on Twitter. He added that it was “assuring to note that Twitter too has taken some steps to comply with the new Rules”. The former Union minister had been locked in an escalating battle with the social media company over compliance with the new guidelines, even going so far as to say that Twitter was not entitled to protection under the IT Act’s safe harbour clause. Vaishnaw, the new minister for electronics and information technology, held a review meeting on Saturday to discuss the controversial social media and intermediary guidelines, and was updated on the status of compliance, Hindustan Times reported on Monday. Also Read | Acted against 133 posts and 18,000 profiles: Twitter“Reviewed the implementation and compliance of Information Technology Rules, 2021 along with my colleague Shri Rajeev Chandrasekhar Ji. These guidelines are empowering and protecting users and will ensure a safer and responsible social media ecosystem in India,” Vaishnaw posted on Koo, the domestic alternative to Twitter, on Sunday. Barely hours after he took charge on Thursday, Vaishnaw said that the law of the land is supreme, and Twitter will have to fall in line with the new social media and intermediary guidelines. A ministry official said the Vaishnaw was apprised on the status of compliance of each social media firm, as significant social media intermediaries, which have five million users or above, having to appoint a grievance redressal officer, a nodal contact person and a compliance officer. The official, however, declined to comment on the status of Twitter’s compliance with the new guidelines. “The issue of Twitter was discussed, as was every other social media firm,” the official said. The microblogging platform, which has been at odds with the Central government, over compliance with the new rules that came into complete effect on May 25 on Sunday, posted the details of its grievance redressal officer on its website. It appointed Vinay Prakash as its resident grievance officer. Twitter’s interim resident grievance officer Dharmendra Chatur stepped down from the post last month, barely four weeks after his appointment. To be sure, the ministry said that Chatur’s appointment was not in keeping with the new guidelines as the lawyer was not an employee of the company. The company informed the Delhi high court that it had made new interim appointments and sought eight weeks to make permanent ones. It also published its first grievance redressal report saying that it actioned 133 posts for reasons ranging from harassment to privacy infringement and suspended over 18,000 accounts for “child sexual exploitation and non-consensual nudity”. Twitter fell foul of the government after it refused to take down posts that carried a controversial hashtag regarding the Prime Minister earlier this year. The government sent Twitter two non-compliance notices, threatening penal action if it failed to block the accounts. The company, in turn, raised concerns regarding the new rules and the safety of its employees. This prompted a strong response from the government, which warned the firm against attempting to dictate terms. Twitter reduced to cede space on the implementation of its policies, as it said it was defending free speech and marked posts by prominent BJP politicians Sambit Patra and Vinay Saharasrabuddhe as manipulated media. It also locked out the Union minister over an alleged incident of copyright infringement, in keeping with US law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assuring-to-note-twitter-s-steps-to-comply-with-new-rules-ravi-shankar-prasad-101626076300300.html
12-07-2021||India||'Covid infection rate decreasing to zero, situation under control': MP minister||The Madhya Pradesh government has said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation is under control in the state. The daily number of cases have been falling in the state, and on Sunday, it recorded on 23 fresh infections."The Covid-19 situation is under control. Infection rate is quickly decreasing to zero and recovery rate is 78.78 per cent," Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Madhya Pradesh's capital Bhopal and financial hub Indore, which were Covid-19 hotspots when the second wave struck the country, saw five and nine cases respectively.However, the health department did not release any data of fresh deaths, if any, that occurred due to the viral infection, as well as the number of active cases in the state on Sunday. The death count on Saturday stood at 9,025, while the number of active cases till that day stood at 392.Of the total number of 52 districts in MP, new cases were reported only in nine districts, while no case was reported in 43 districts.The statewide tally of infection stands at 7,90,175, according o Madhya Pradesh health department.With 74,372 new tests, the total number of samples tested for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh has reached 1.29 crore.India, meanwhile, recorded 37,154 new cases of Covid-19, which pushed its total tally to 3,08,74,376. The death toll climbed to 4,08,764 with 724 fresh fatalities.The active cases have declined to 4,50,899 and comprise 1.46 per cent of the total infections, according to Union health ministry.India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-infection-rate-decreasing-to-zero-situation-under-control-mp-minister-101626074961187.html
12-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine for kids may not be available soon and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Zydus Cadila's 3-dose Covid-19 vaccine for kids may take more time for approvalA vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for children that is being developed by Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila may not be available soon as emergency approval from the country’s top drug regulator is likely to take a few more days. Read MoreWill farmer leaders contest upcoming assembly polls? A hint from Rakesh TikaitRakesh Tikait, who has been leading the farmers' agitation, hinted that farmer leaders may contest the upcoming elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Read MorePuri’s Rath Yatra takes place without devotees for the second consecutive yearFor the second time in its history, the famous Rath Yatra of Jagannath temple in Puri, Odisha, began Monday morning with a large number of priests pulling three colourful chariots through the town in the absence of the public, following Supreme Court orders. Read MoreEuro 2020: Portugal captain Cristiano Ronaldo wins Golden BootPortugal captain and modern-day great Cristiano Ronaldo won the Euro 2020 Golden Boot after finishing as the top-scorer in the tournament, in which Italy beat England in the final to lift their second European Championship title. Read MoreGrandma who wanted a Barbie her whole life receives one from granddaughter. WatchThere is something incredibly sweet about the videos that showcase a wholesome moment between different family members. Read MoreMaldives opens for Indian tourists from July 15, here's all you need to knowMany countries are reopening for Indian tourists who want to enter their borders for non-essential travel, and the Maldives will soon become a part of this list. Read MoreMaruti hikes prices of Swift, all CNG models; other cars to get costlier tooMaruti Suzuki has increased price of its popular Swift hatchback and those who may have been looking at buying a CNG vehicle from the company due to rising petrol and diesel prices will also have to shell out more to drive home these models. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-zydus-cadila-s-covid-19-vaccine-for-kids-may-not-be-available-soon-and-all-the-latest-news-101626073612788.html
12-07-2021||India||PM Modi to review Covid-19 situation with CMs of northeastern states tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to review the situation pertaining to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with the chief ministers of the northeastern states at 11am on Tuesday, sources close to development said on Monday.PM Modi's proposed meeting follows Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba's interaction with the officials of the northeastern states' home department last Wednesday amid concerns over rising cases of coronavirus infection in the region.Earlier this month, the Centre deployed multi-disciplinary expert teams to six states, including Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, after they showed a spurt in Covid-19 cases.Union health and family welfare ministry said around 80% of the Covid-19 cases in India at the moment are being witnessed from 90 districts and as many as 14 of them are from the northeast.During the review meeting last week, it was found that of the 73 districts in the country with case positivity rates above 10%, as many as 46 belonged to the northeastern states, prompting the Centre to put its focus on the region.A recent letter circulated by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that Arunachal Pradesh is a area of concern that the state has a weekly positivity rate of 16.2% (between June 28 and July 4) and the trend saw an upward rise.Other northeastern states, such as Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya and Nagaland, too, have been reporting high positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-review-covid-19-situation-with-cms-of-northeastern-states-tomorrow-101626073658462.html
12-07-2021||India||Will farmer leaders contest upcoming assembly polls? A hint from Rakesh Tikait||Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the farmers' agitation, hinted that farmer leaders may contest the upcoming elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Tikait and his Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has been protesting near the borders of national capital Delhi for more than eight months against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year.Tikait spoke to Aaj Tak where he said that a meeting is scheduled to be held in Muzaffarnagar in September where the next course of action will be decided. The meeting in the form of a maha panchayat will see participation from farmers from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab."Is fighting election a wrong thing? Those who cast vote can also decide to contest election," the farmer leader told Aaj Tak.Tikait has been sitting with the farmers at Delhi border since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.He has met many politicians during this period to gain support for the movement. Despite multiple rounds of talks with the government, the protests are continuing. The government has made it clear that it won't repeal the three laws and wants the farmer organisations to find a solution through dialogues, the protesters have said that they won't end their agitation till the farm laws are scrapped.The leaders have announced plans to intensify their agitation. Last week, Tikait said that from July 22 onwards, 200 people will hold protests near Parliament, in view of the ongoing farmers' protests."If the Centre wants discussion on farm laws, we're ready for talks. But, if talks do not happen or reap fruitful results, then from July 22 onwards, 200 of our people will hold protests near Parliament," he told news agency ANI.The BKU leader said that talks should be held without conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-farmer-leaders-contest-upcoming-assembly-polls-a-hint-from-rakesh-tikait-101626073469635.html
12-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Top 5 states contributing maximum number of cases to India’s tally||India recorded 37,154 new cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) on Monday, taking the overall tally across the country to 30,874,376. Active cases now comprise 1.46% of the total infections and stands at 450,899. Monday’s tally marks a significant decrease from the 41,506 cases the country had reported on Sunday.The following five states have been contributing the maximum number of cases to the country’s tally.MaharashtraMaharashtra reported 8,535 new cases of Covid-19 and 156 fatalities on Sunday. The tally of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra has now reached 6,157,799. With 6,013 recoveries in the previous 24 hours, the recovery rate in the state now stands at 96.02%. The capital city of Mumbai recorded 558 new cases and 15 deaths, taking the total count of infections to 727,694 and the death toll to 15,627. The districts of Kolhapur, Satara, Palghar, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Pune (rural), and Sangli continue to report a high number of cases and a high testing positivity rate.KeralaKerala reported 12,220 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, and 97 fatalities. The total tally of cases in the state now stands at 3,065,336, while the death toll is now at 14,586. Currently 386,876 people are under surveillance in various districts of the state, of which 362,022 are in home or institutional quarantine and 24,854 admitted in hospitals. Kerala is also tackling a sudden occurrence of Zika virus cases in the state. Three more cases were reported in the state on Sunday taking the total number of cases to 18. Experts opine that unlike coronavirus, Zika does not spread as rapidly, with only one in five people developing symptoms, and can also be managed with effective vector control programs.KarnatakaKarnataka recorded 1,978 new cases of Covid-19 and 56 fatalities in the previous 24 hour. The total number of cases have now surpassed 28 lakhs, while the death toll now stands at 35,835. At 433 new cases, Bengaluru urban contributed the most to the state’s tally, followed by Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu recorded 2,775 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the total tally of cases to 25.18 lakh. In the last 24 hours 47 fatalities were also recorded, the death toll now stands at 33,418. The state has also ramped up fumigation efforts as cases of Zika virus has started cropping up in neighbouring Kerala.Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh recorded 2,665 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. The death toll crossed the 13,000-mark after 16 more fatalities were reported. The districts of East Godavari, Chittoor, and West Godavari contributed the most number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-top-5-states-contributing-maximum-number-of-cases-to-india-s-tally-101626073245798.html
12-07-2021||India||Rajinikanth walks out of politics, dissolves his outfit Makkal Mandram||Superstar Rajinikanth on Monday dissolved his outfit ‘Rajini Makkal Mandram’ (RMM) and said he had no intention of entering politics in future. He said members of the outfit would continue to serve the public as part of Rajinikanth Fan Club Association."I have decided to dissolve Rajini Makkal Mandram. Its office-bearers would continue to be part of the Rajinikanth Fan Club Association that will involve itself in public service," he said.About an hour ag, he had said he would speak to office-bearers of Mandram to take a call on whether he would enter politics, about six months after he walked away from the scene following a period of sickness. He said 'questions' about his entering politics, a topic of debate for over two decades in Tamil Nadu, lingered among the Mandram functionaries on the forum's future.RMM was previously considered a launch vehicle for the actor's political entry. However, last December the actor said he would not join politics and had cited factors like his health condition, him undergoing kidney transplant in 2016.The south superstart, who returned from America days ago after a health check-up, earlier said, "Should the Makkal Mandram be continued and if so, what will be its functions and these are questions among the functionaries and fans.On 3 December, 2020, the actor had said that he would launch his party in January 2021 ahead of the Assembly elections. However, during the last week of December last year, he did a u-turn and announced that he would not join politics. Since then, several functionaries had joined political parties including the DMK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-walks-out-politics-dissolves-his-outfit-makkal-mandram-101626072777671.html
12-07-2021||India||Nainital draws crowd of tourists amid restrictions, Covid-19 third wave||Thousands of tourists flocked to Nainital during the weekend amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and despite the Uttarakhand government’s recently imposed restrictions on travelers to the hill state.On Sunday, more than 10,000 tourists reportedly reached the popular hill station in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region. However, police allowed entry to only those with negative RT-PCR test reports and proof of confirmed accommodation.Uttarakhand has been witnessing a massive influx of tourists from across northern India after the state government eased the movement within the state with an aim to revive the tourism industry.Such instances of overcrowding have led to fears that the upcoming third of the pandemic in the country might be more severe than earlier imagined.Moreover, many tourists were seen thronging the already crowded town without wearing masks and adhering to the physical distancing norms necessitated to reduce the spread of coronavirus.Visuals shared by news agency ANI on its Twitter handle showed a large number of people gathering at a congested marketplace in Nainital.#WATCH | Uttarakhand's Nainital witnessed a massive footfall of tourists as #COVID19 restrictions ease pic.twitter.com/zZ7UyyOVXrThe district magistrate of Nainital Dhiraj Singh Garbyal last week announced fresh norms for tourists, in which anyone coming to Nainital will have to register on the Smart City portal and carry a negative report of RT-PCR test conducted not less than 72 hours before their arrival.There is also a ban on the entry of two-wheelers to Nainital during weekends to reduce traffic congestion and restrict the number of travelers to the lake city.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had also ordered a capping of 50% occupancy at hotels in popular tourist destinations like Nainital, Dehradun and Mussoorie, after visuals of unruly travelers taking bath at Kempty Falls with zero regard for Covid-19 induced safety norms went viral on social media.The move came close on the heels of the Centre voicing concerns over overcrowding at tourist destinations across India. Visuals of overcrowded streets emerged on social media from Manali which showed people defying physical distancing norms. The Union health ministry then issued a warning against what it called ‘revenge travel’ and crowding of these tourist spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nainital-draws-crowd-of-tourists-amid-restrictions-covid-19-third-wave-101626070278435.html
12-07-2021||India||See you in Goa: Kejriwal promises change, honest politics as election nears||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he would be in Goa in a day where there is no shortage of funds but honest intent and politics. Slamming the practice of buying and selling of legislators, Kejriwal said Goa sought change and development.A day after making a slew of promises in the hill state of Uttarakhand, Kejriwal took to Twitter on Monday and promised to bring an end to "dirty politics" in the country's tiniest state of Goa. “Goa wants change. Enough of parties buying and selling MLAs. Enough of dirty politics. Goa wants development. There is no shortage of funds, only shortage of honest intent. Goa wants honest politics. See you in Goa tomorrow,” he wrote.Also Read | ‘Not a jumla’: Arvind Kejriwal gives 4 guarantees in poll-bound UttarakhandThe coastal state is scheduled for its next assembly election in 2022. In the 2017 election, the AAP had fared poorly having drawn a blank with many of its candidates forfeiting their deposits. The party that has been trying to spread its base across the country had bagged 6.27 per cent votes. It was also said to have harmed the Congress that had won the highest number of seats but failed to come to power after the late Manohar Parrikar managed to stitch ties with smaller parties and became the chief minister. However, the present Pramod Sawant-led BJP government in the state has been facing a lot of flak over its handling of the coronavirus crisis, especially during the second wave.As part of AAP’s renewed bid to create a national presence, beyond Delhi and Punjab, Kejriwal and his team has been on a campaign spree in poll-bound states over the past few months. On Sunday, the Delhi CM promised free electricity to people of Uttarakhand if voted to power in the next assembly election to be held in 2022.Last month, he visited Gujarat and declared that AAP would contest in all 182 Assembly seats in the state in the election to be held next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/see-you-in-goa-kejriwal-promises-change-honest-politics-as-election-nears-101626070322422.html
12-07-2021||India||PM Modi condoles death of supreme head of Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the supreme head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church of India, Moran Mor Baselios Marthoma Paulose II, who passed away in the early hours on Monday. The Prime Minister also expressed solidarity with the members of the Orthodox Church at their hour of grief.“Saddened by the passing away of His Holiness Moran Mor Baselios Marthoma Paulose II, the Supreme Head of Indian Orthodox Church. He leaves behind a rich legacy of service and compassion. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the members of the Orthodox Church. RIP,” Modi posted on Twitter from his official handle.Baselios Marthoma Paulose II (74) died at a private hospital at Parumala in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district at 2:35am, while undergoing treatment for post-Covid-19 complications, a church spokesperson said. The senior priest had been suffering from lung cancer since December 2019, and had recovered from the coronavirus infection in February this year, reported news agency PTI.Born to Kollannur Iype and Pulikkottil Kunjeetty on August 30, 1946, Baselios Marthoma Paulose II studied at the government school in Pazhanji and later at St. Thomas College in Kerala. In 1969, he enrolled at the Orthodox Theological Seminary in Kottayam for his theological studies, where he studied under the guidance of Paulos Gregorios, T J Abraham Malpan, and N K Koruthu Malpan.Baselios Marthoma Paulose II was the eighth Catholicos of the East in Malankara and 91st primate on the Apostolic Throne of St Thomas, the church said. He was enthroned as the Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan in November 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-supreme-head-of-malankara-orthodox-syrian-church-101626066786875.html
12-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila's 3-dose Covid-19 vaccine for kids may take more time for approval||A vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for children that is being developed by Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila may not be available soon as emergency approval from the country’s top drug regulator is likely to take a few more days.On July 1, the company had sought emergency use approval of ZyCoV-D, its DNA vaccine against Covid-19 for those aged 12 years and above, from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). It had presented interim results from Phase-III clinical trials in over 28,000 volunteers. The study is said to have demonstrated safety and efficacy in the interim data.The data has shown that ZyCoV-D is safe for children in the age group of 12 to 18 years, said the company, which is planning to manufacture 100-120 million doses of the vaccine annually.The study was carried out "during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 (in India), reaffirming the vaccine's efficacy against the new mutant strains especially the Delta variant," Zydus said in a statement.The second indigenous jab after Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, ZyCoV-D is a three-dose vaccine. According to Zydus Cadila, the three doses of ZyCoV-D are to be administered on day 0, day 28, and day 56. The company is also said to be working on a two-dose vaccine.The DCGI had granted Cadila Healthcare Limited permission to conduct human trials for ZyCoV-D back in July last year, when the company had said its vaccine will hit the markets by June 2021.Once Zydus receives approval, ZyCoV-D would become the fifth anti-Covid vaccine authorised for use in India, after AstraZeneca and Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Sputnik V that is being developed by Russia's Gamaleya Institute and Moderna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-s-3-dose-covid-19-vaccine-for-kids-may-take-more-time-for-approval-101626066116177.html
12-07-2021||India||Rain lashes J&K, triggers flash floods||Rain drenched Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, triggering flash floods in some areas and bringing down temperatures.The sky is overcast and a cool breeze has brought respite from the high temperatures prevalent for the past several days.“As expected, there were very heavy showers at many places in the plains of Jammu, whereas moderate rainfall was reported in many places in Kashmir, and continuous rain in hilly areas of Jammu,” said director, meteorological department, Sonam Lotus.The rain and the mild cloudbursts triggered flash floods in a few areas of Jammu division and Kashmir valley’s Ganderbal district.Also Read | Rain deficiency looms large as monsoon revival remains sluggishThe weather office said that Jammu district saw the highest rainfall (150mm) in the region in the past 24 hours till 8.30am, followed by 76mm in Katra and 28mm in Kashmir’s Khanbal.Also Read | Rain deficiency looms large as monsoon revival remains sluggishIt said that the weather will remain overcast in most of J&K and may trigger more flashfloods.“Present showers may generate flash floods and landslides in hilly areas, which may lead to blockage of roads,” Lotus said.The monsoon had reached Jammu region on Sunday after lower level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal further extended northwestwards.The weather office has cautioned that the precipitation may lead to temporary disruption of traffic on Jammu- Srinagar highway and Mughal Road.“ Landslides may occur at vulnerable spots of Jammu- Srinagar and Srinagar-Leh National Highway,” it said in a statement.There is also moderate risk of flash floods in Ramban, Rajouri, Udhampur Reasi, Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts.The maximum temperatures on Sunday were 34.7 degrees Celsius in Kupwara, 34.4 degrees Celsius in Khanbal and 33.8 degrees Celsius in Jammu.“Respite from the current scorching hot and humid weather is expected during the next three days,” said deputy director, MeT, Mukhtar Ahmad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-lashes-j-k-triggers-flash-floods-101626066339935.html
12-07-2021||India||Diesel drops for the first time in 3 months, petrol costlier by 28 paise||State-run oil retailers slashed diesel price by 16 paise per litre on Monday, the first auto fuel rate reduction since April 15 even as petrol became costlier by 28 paise, the 39th hike since May 4, a day after the results of five assembly polls were declared.The first diesel price reduction in about three months came after international benchmark Brent crude fell by $1.61 a barrel or 2.06% at the Friday close, compared to its peak of $77.16 last Monday. Domestic fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their respective international benchmarks of previous day, which often move in tandem with crude oil rates. International oil markets do not operate on weekends.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, companies have already recovered their past revenue losses on diesel like the one they suffered for 66 days from February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union Territory.The revenue losses on petrol waere higher compared to diesel, hence its saw a higher price surge in the last 70 days, they said requesting anonymity. So far, petrol prices have jumped by ₹10.79 a litre in 70 days, while diesel prices have jumped by ₹8.99 after factoring in first rate cut by 16 paise on the fuel.Also Read | Indians offload gold heirlooms as coronavirus deepens financial painPetrol is now priced at ₹101.19 per litre and diesel at 89.72 a litre in New Delhi. While fuel rates of state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies. Petrol prices have already crossed ₹100 per litre in five metros – Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru.The cost of one litre of petrol in Mumbai is now ₹107.20 a litre and diesel, ₹97.29. The highest fuel rates have been recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar where pumps are selling petrol at ₹112.53 per litre and diesel at ₹102.98 a litre.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps.International oil prices showed extreme volatility last week. While an inconclusive meeting of producers’ cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) – over restraining output last Monday pulled down crude prices initially; falling US inventories and indications of strong demand from China and India saw prices rising again in the last two days of last week.Benchmark Brent that surged $77 16 a barrel on the first day of the previous week, its highest since October 2018, fell over 4.8% in the next two sessions. It, however, gained 0.94% or 69 cents on Thursday and rallied 1.93% further on last Friday to close the week at $75.55 per barrel, still lower than the week’s high on Monday, July 5.More downward price revision of auto fuels are expected if international oil prices soften further, executives mentioned above said. Brent that opened about 0.3% high at $75.79 a barrel on Monday, fell 0.2% to $75.4 during the early trade.The diesel price reduction came at a time when India’s fuel demand show rapid recovery after the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic that hit the country in April and May months. Petroleum consumption in June recovered at 16.33 million tonnes, about 1.5% year-on-year growth and over 8% jump compared to the previous month. Demand of petroleum products had plunged a nine-month low in May 2021 at 15.11 million tonnes due to the lockdown in various places to contain the second wave.While international oil prices impact pump rates of auto fuels because India imports more than 80% crude it processes, exorbitant taxes are the other reason for high rates of petrol and diesel.In Delhi, central levies account for 33.29% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to an official data of July 1. On diesel, central taxes are over 35.66% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic.The unrelenting upward movement of fuel rates since May 4 already saw petrol crossing ₹100 mark in various cities across the country, particularly in states and UTs of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Odisha, Manipur, Jammu & Kashmir, Laddakh, Punjab, Bihar, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Nagaland.Some of the cities selling petrol for over ₹100 per litre are Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Salem, Thiruvananthapuram, Mohali, Darjeeling, Dantewada and Kohima.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— controls almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diesel-drops-16-paise-litre-for-the-first-time-in-3-months-petrol-costlier-by-28-paise-101626065560056.html
12-07-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 caseload dips to 37,154; 724 deaths reported||India on Monday witnessed yet another decrease in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload, with 37,154 new cases which took its cumulative tally to 3,08,74,376, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s bulletin at 8am. As many as 724 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed, adding that 39,649 people recovered from the infection.After Monday’s numbers, the death toll and total recoveries in India due to Covid-19 now stands at 408,764 and 30,014,713, respectively. The active cases have also came down to 450,899, and account for 1.47 per cent of the overall caseload.The situation is an improvement from Sunday's tally when 41,506 cases and 895 fatalities were reported. The total recoveries too have gone down 1,877 in comparison to yesterday's data.Over the last few days, travellers were seen thronging the popular hill states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, with most of them flouting Covid-19 norms such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance. This comes at a time when the fear of a third wave of Covid-19 looms. The health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have already cautioned the tourists about revenge travel, with ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava terming the tourists’ rush as “frightening”.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla also chaired a meeting on Saturday that saw the attendance of Niti Aayog member VK Paul, police chiefs, chief secretaries, and principal secretaries of eight states as well. After the meeting, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) in a statement said that while the decline of the Covid-19 second wave is at “variable stages” in different states and Union territories (UTs), the case positivity rate in certain districts of Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand is “over 10 per cent, which is a cause for concern”.According to the statement, states and UTs were also asked to follow the “five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate” along with Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur recently appealed to the tourists coming to the state to follow Covid-19 rules. “We are concerned about the number of tourists coming to the state,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.His remarks came after visuals of travellers roaming around Manali, without wearing masks and maintaining social distance, surfaced on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-caseload-dips-to-37-154-724-deaths-reported-story-101626062867671.html
12-07-2021||India||The life and death of Father Stan Swamy||On July 5, at around 2.30pm, a two-judge bench of the Bombay High Court (HC) took up the matter of Father Stanislaus Lourduswamy’s bail application when senior advocate Mihir Desai interrupted them. Father Stan Swamy, as the Jesuit priest was popularly referred to, was the country’s oldest prisoner charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, (UAPA) for his role in what the National Investigative Agency (NIA) contends was an alleged Maoist conspiracy that led to caste clashes near the Bhima Koregaon village four years ago. Swamy’s health had worsened considerably since he was held in judicial custody in Taloja jail since last October. His lawyers had repeatedly moved court for bail which the state opposed and the special NIA court refused. On May 28, aided by a HC order, he was finally admitted to a charitable hospital in Bandra. “It is with a heavy heart that I have to inform you that Father Stan Swamy has passed away,” said Dr Ian D’Souza, the medical director of Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai where the priest was being treated, after Desai spoke. D’Souza informed the bench that the cleric had suffered a cardiac arrest in the wee hours of July 3 and was on ventilator since then; an hour earlier, he was pronounced dead, the doctor said. “We are shocked,” the bench observed. “With all humility, we are sorry to know that he has passed away.” “I only have two things to say. We have no grievance against Holy Family Hospital nor against the court. The high court bench ensured that the best medical care is given to him. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same thing about the NIA and jail authorities,” Desai said and requested the court to not dismiss the priest’s bail application. Also Read | Shiv Sena asks Centre if Father Stan Swamy was capable of overthrowing state“Our main grievances are against the NIA and jail authorities for not being sensitive towards the condition of Father Stan Swamy though he was an elderly man having medical problems. (The 84-year-old suffered from Parkinson’s Disease, a progressive nervous condition; he had also contracted Covid during his stay in the jail.) We hope to make suggestions to the HC to bring about changes in the Prison Manual while dealing with such inmates,” Desai later said. “Father Stan Swamy was a human rights activist and his concerns about the conditions in the jail were not only for himself but for other prisoners as well. Though he was not keeping well, his efforts were to highlight the apathy of the jail authorities so that the medical facilities in the jail were improved,” said Father Frazer Mascarenhes, a friend of Swamy who was permitted to meet him during his stay at hospital. Swamy would have approved of Desai’s request. He had spent much of the past decade fighting for the rights of under-trial prisoners from the adivasi and indigenous communities in Jharkhand. As a prisoner in the last two years of his own life, he wrote movingly in personal correspondence, of the prisoners in the crowded jail who helped him walk, wash and eat as these functions became increasingly impossible for him to perform. Becoming Father Stan Born on April 26, 1937 to Lourdusamy and Kiteriyammal in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli, Swamy had five siblings. He lost his father at a very young age; so it was his older brother TPL Irudayaswamy who took up farming to raise his brothers and sisters.“Swamy was self-reliant and reserved since he was a child,” recalled Irudayaswamy. “He spoke very little. He was devoted to the church and his studies. Later, he was completely devoted to the struggles of the Adivasis. He felt so much pain for them and he used to tell me so many stories whenever he came home.” The house where Swamy grew up was built in 1890; it is where 89-year-old Irudayaswamy still lives with his wife, children and grandchildren. Swamy’s 26-year-old grandnephew Benito Prabhu, now based in Chennai, was the last family member to have met him in February. “He was fearless,” said Prabhu. “He said as long as he is alive he will continue to fight.” Swamy, who attended St Joseph’s school in Trichy, was exposed to the work of Jesuit priests at an early age. Inspired by them, he undertook religious studies in 1957. In 1965, he spent his regency — when trainee Jesuits spend two years taking up works of the order — at St Xavier’s High School Lupungutu, Chaibasa in west Singhbhum. According to an article by his associates, Tony PM and Peter Martin on the news site, scroll.in, it was this experience that left a lasting impression on Swamy. Also Read | For undertrials in India, the fight for liberty“He used to go to the weekly bazaar in Chaibasa on Tuesday (the Mangal-haat) with his students and saw for himself how the outsider merchants and their agents cheated the adivasis. ‘I felt pain but could not do anything about it,’ he said. On holidays, he visited his boys and their families in their villages. It gave him a sense of their culture. The values they held deeply impressed him,” they wrote in the October 2020 piece. Two years later, Swamy went to Philippines to study theology, where he also acquired a post-graduate degree in sociology. On his return in 1971, he was given the responsibility of the Catholic Relief Services charity in the Jesuit Jamshedpur Province. During the same period, he attended a three-month course on community development at the Indian Social Institute (ISI), Bangalore (now Bengaluru). He later went on to work at the ISI for 15 years, from 1975 to 1990, along with educationists such as Duarte Baretto, and trained the young people from marginalised communities. The institute’s three-month course on community organisation and social analysis became very popular and had attendees from across the subcontinent. Baretto died in April at his Bengaluru home. In a blog post dedicated to him, labour activist John Edoor wrote that the team at institute in the 1970s “was instrumental in challenging the belief systems and thought processes of an array of young people and guided them to ideas of liberation theology and Marxian tools of analysis to study and intervene in social, political and economic systems and processes. Many of them took leadership positions in Dalit, adivasi, fishing community, agrarian and labour movements and entities all over the country.” People’s rights crusader The timing of Swamy and Baretto’s work was crucial, for the decades leading up to liberalisation of the economy witnessed immense social upheavals: the Naxalbari movement from the late 1960s onwards, the Emergency years of 1975-77, and the JP Narayan movement, each of which galvanised the young in different ways. “When he was in Bangalore, at that time, his interest was to promote opportunities for children from the poorer sections to get an education. I remember his criticism of Jesuit schools itself, pointing out that much of their admission was for the elite (sections of society). He did research to demonstrate that the more deserving students are not getting an opportunity to get into Jesuit educational institutions,” Professor Babu Mathew of the National Law School, said. Also Read | From Bhima Koregaon to the death of Stan Swamy, a timeline of key eventsIn 1991, Swamy returned to Jharkhand and set up base in Chaibasa. He became involved in the Jharkhandi Organisation for Human Rights (JOHAR), which took up matters pertaining to displacement of adivasi communities on account of development projects. By the end of the century, he moved to Ranchi and with the help of the Jesuit society and intellectuals and activists such as Ramdayal Munda and Xavier Dias, he set up Bagaicha, a research institute, in 2006. The idea, Swamy said during an interview, was to “focus on these two issues, land alienation and displacement caused by developmental projects like mining, dams and creation of townships without the consent of the people… and it was often such people who were at the receiving end. It became our task to … work with (young people of the Dalit and adivasi communities) and help them to understand scientifically the issues they are facing. And if this is the issue, what will be the nature of the people’s movements and people’s organisations, and what could be the strategies that need to be worked out.” Part of the work Swamy undertook was also advocacy of the legal rights of adivasi and Dalit communities granted by laws like PESA (1996), which ensured self governance through gram sabhas for people living in Scheduled Areas; the Forest Rights Act (2006), which recognised the rights of forest-dwelling communities to forest resources; and the Land Acquisition Act of 2013, which guaranteed the rights to fair compensation and transparency in land acquisition, and the need for the assent of gram sabhas. “It was also in 2014-15 when a lot of young people were simply being picked up and put in jail — anyone who resisted unjust displacement, was thrown into jail,” Swamy said, in the same interview which is available for public viewing on YouTube. “It was happening in all the tribal-dominated states, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and the western part of Bengal. In 2017, I gave a call to whoever I knew, social activists, human rights organisations, civic organisations and said, come, let us sit together and see what we can do. We cannot be bystanders to this.” Also Read | Philosophy is a non-negligible part of being a human being: Amartya SenThe result was a group that called itself the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee, which brought together several lawyers in these states. Swamy filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Jharkhand HC, seeking information on under-trial prisoners across these various states, most of who belonged to adivasi communities. Swamy’s work with imprisoned adivasi youth, in fact, was already well-known. In 2015, a study carried out by Bagaicha researchers across 18 districts in Jharkhand found that of 102 under-trial prisoners accused of being Maoists and out on bail, only two actually had any affiliation to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist); the rest were youth who had resisted displacement through legal, non-violent means. “Fieldwork for this study was undertaken from early March to the end of June 2015 by paying personal visits to families and villages of arrested persons presently out on bail and those incarcerated for long. These persons have been alleged as Naxalites and foisted cases mostly under section 17 of the Criminal Law and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 2004,” its introduction read. “This study discloses several undisclosed, striking realities about alleged ‘Naxalite’ under-trials in Jharkhand. Disproportionately large numbers of adivasis, Dalit and other backward castes (generically referred to as adivasi-Moolvasis) have been trapped in several false cases especially when they try to assert their constitutional and human rights that are often violated by those who consider themselves ‘upper’ castes/ classes and the state system (…)” “His idea of life was so inspirational. He has worked tirelessly for tribals and youths in Jharkhand for several decades. I have come across very few people like him,” said Siraj Dutta, an activist who worked with Swamy. Not everyone thought this way. In 2017, Swamy was charged with sedition by the Jharkhand state for a Facebook post, written in support of the Pathalgadi movement (started by an adivasi community and which sought self-governance). The charge was only revoked with a change of regime, when Hemant Soren’s Jharkhand Mukti Morcha came to power in 2019. And then, in August 2018, his one-room home in the Bagaicha campus was raided by the Pune police, this time in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence. Judicial custody and failing health In the first raid, the Pune police, which was tasked with investigating the case, seized his computer, cell phone, books and some music cassettes. They conducted another on June 2019. Both times, Swamy extended full cooperation and denied having any role in anti-national activities. In January 2020, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs transferred the probe to the NIA, and in July, the Jesuit priest was interrogated in Ranchi for almost 15 hours. Also Read | For sustained recovery, focus on vaccination, rural India and infra push“I was interrogated by the NIA for 15 hours during a span of five days (July 27, 28, 29, 30, Aug. 6). Apart from my bio-data and some factual information, several extracts allegedly taken from my computer implicating my connection to Maoist forces were placed before me. I told them all these are fabrications stealthily put into my computer and I disowned them,” Swamy said in a video message that he released around the time. On September 30, 2020, the NIA asked Swamy to come to Mumbai for further interrogation, but his health was frail, and the country was in the grip of a pandemic. He refused citing these reasons, and the NIA arrested him on October 8. The special NIA court remanded him to judicial custody and he was sent to Taloja jail where some of the other accused in the case were already lodged. The NIA then filed a charge sheet against eight of the accused, including Swamy. He applied for bail on medical grounds in the special NIA court on October 18, but it was rejected. As his condition worsened, he moved the special court to provide him a straw sipper through which he could eat as the jail authorities had failed to provide him one despite repeated requests. The cleric applied for regular bail in the special NIA court in November, but the court only decided the matter in March 2021. It refused to grant him bail. The Taloja jail hospital had no qualified allopathy doctors, so though Swamy had been moved to the hospital by this time on account of his failing health, his condition did not improve. In April, his lawyers moved the HC against the rejection of his regular bail by the special NIA court. “Fr Swamy kept requesting for being tested for Covid but the jail authorities did not heed him,” said Father Frazer Mascarenhes, Swamy’s close associate. “It was only after senior advocate Mihir Desai informed the HC about the apathy of the jail authorities did the court direct that he be taken to Sir JJ Hospital for being tested for Covid and be treated for other ailments.” On May 19, Desai informed the HC that the priest was in bad shape and had become so weak that he was unable to do anything on his own. The court the directed that Swamy be brought before the court through video conference on May 21. During the interaction with justice S J Kathawalla, Swamy told the court that he wanted to go back to Ranchi and would prefer to die in the jail rather than being admitted to the Sir JJ Hospital. The court observed that Swamy needed to be hospitalised. Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare and the NIA, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh, opposed this on the grounds that shifting him to a private hospital would set a wrong precedent and Sir J J Hospital was well equipped to take care of the 84-year-old. Also Read | India needs big investment in health workforce“Fr Swamy was very much attached to the people he lived and worked with in Ranchi and had made it clear to the high court during the May 21 hearing that he desired to go back to Ranchi and be with his people,” said Mascarenhes. On May 28, the court directed that Father Stan be shifted to Holy Family hospital the very same day for 15 days, provided that he bore the cost of hospitalisation. Swamy tested positive for Covid, and two days later, he was moved to the Intensive Care Unit. The hospital also treated the priest for heart-related ailments, and the court monitored his health closely, extending his stay till July 5. On July 2, Desai moved the court for an urgent hearing of the bail application, but the court adjourned the hearing to July 6 due to a paucity of time. The following day, Swamy suffered a cardiac arrest and was put on ventilator. For the past few years, Swamy’s family had been asking him to come home or live in one of the guest houses for Jesuit priests. They wanted him to stop his decades-long fight owing to his old age and ill health. More crucially, they were scared about his safety after human rights defenders were jailed. “He told me that the authorities were somehow trying to trap him after police raided his house in Ranchi in 2018,” Prabhu said. The funeral and the protests Father Stan Swamy’s last rites were conducted at St Peters church in Bandra on July 6 and it was attended by fewer than two dozen people, mostly from the Jesuit order and the nuns and medical staff who took care of him at the hospital. It was, however, livestreamed and at one point of time, at least 21,000 people viewed the service. Since his death, several gatherings have taken place, both online and in various cities. Students congregated at Chaityabhoomi, the memorial of Dr BR Ambedkar in Mumbai, the day after Swamy’s funeral. A meeting was also organised in Bagaicha, by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a coalition of rights groups. The United Nations human rights chief Michelle Bachelet and human rights officials of the United States and European Union (EU) expressed concern at his death. Bachelet’s spokesperson Elizabeth Throssell said that the office has raised the issue of the 15 other human rights defenders associated with the Bhima Koregaon case with the Indian government over the past three years and sought their release from pre-trial detention. “In light of the continued, severe impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is even more urgent that States, including India, release every person detained without a sufficient legal basis, including those detained simply for expressing critical or dissenting views,” the spokesperson said in a statement. Also Read | Nearly 5 decades after demolition, Urdu medium school awaits a new building“We stress, once again, the High Commissioner’s call on the Government of India to ensure that no one is detained for exercising their fundamental rights to freedom of expression, of peaceful assembly and of association,” Throssell said. Both Mary Lawlor, the UN special rapporteur on human rights defenders, and Nadine Maenza, chair of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), contended that Swamy had been held on “false” charges of terrorism. They were joined by Eamon Gilmore, the EU special representative for human rights, in expressing concern at his death. The ministry of external affairs however, responded to the criticism by saying “due process under law” was followed in Swamy’s case, and that India remains committed to promoting and protecting the human rights of all citizens. A statement by the ministry contended that he was arrested and detained by NIA “following due process under law”, and his bail applications were rejected by courts because of the “specific nature of charges against him”. Authorities “act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights”, and all such “actions are strictly in accordance with the law”, the ministry said. In life, Stan Swamy, who traversed the long journey from his village in Tamil Nadu to Jharkhand to Philippines to Bengaluru and then back to Jharkhand and finally a jail and hospital in Mumbai, dedicated himself to the most dispossessed and marginalised. And with his death, he brought the focus back on fundamental rights of all Indian citizens, the legal architecture that curtailed these rights, what it meant for those who worked with communities, at the grassroots, through legal and non-violent means, and the conditions of prisons. In his life and death, Swamy left lessons for India. (With inputs from Sharan Poovanna and Vishal Kant)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-life-and-death-of-father-stan-swamy-101626061660105.html
12-07-2021||India||After Kerala and Bengal, now Lucknow: Another Al-Qaeda module busted within a year||The arrest of three people linked to terror group Al-Qaeda in Lucknow on Sunday is the busting of third major terror module within a year in the country. In September last year, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested nine Al-Qaeda terrorists in West Bengal and Kerala. The agency said that these terrorists were planning attacks in several places in the country, including National Capital Region (NCR).The terror operatives were arrested from Ernakulam in Kerala and Murshidabad in West Bengal. The NIA said that their targets included Kochi naval base and shipyard.The agency seized weapons and bomb-making material from the men. The six from Murshidabad and three from Ernakulam were planning lone wolf attacks, the NIA said.The investigators further said that these men were radicalised by Al-Qaeda terrorists on social media and were motivated to undertake attacks at multiple locations in India.In the Lucknow arrest too, the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) recovered incriminating material, including two semi-prepared IED-based pressure cooker bombs and explosive materials.The arrested operatives - Minhaz Ahmed (30) and Maseeruddin (50) - were living in Lucknow and associated with Al Qaeda-linked Ansar Ghazwatul Hind. In fact, Ahmed's father has been running amotor workshop in Lucknow's Dubagga area.These men were in touch with their handler Umar Halmandi, the head of the Uttar Pradesh module of Al-Qaeda, according to Uttar Pradesh Police. "They were planning to unleash terror activities before August 15 (Independence Day) in different cities of the state, including Lucknow," said Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar. The men were planning explosions, including using human bombs, Kumar added.The Bihar Police on Sunday issued an alert in all districts and railway stations after the arrest of two Al-Qaeda-linked terrorists in Lucknow.PK Mishra, former additional director general of the Border Security Force (BSF) and security affairs expert told Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan that Al-Qaeda's sleeper cells are present in many parts of the country. "We will have to get their handlers to stop their funding and demolish the network," Mishra said.The Uttar Pradesh ATS, meanwhile, is looking for two associates of Ahmed and Maseeruddin, who escaped just before the two were arrested on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-al-qaeda-module-busted-within-a-year-after-2-terrorists-held-in-lucknow-101626060485237.html
12-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Priyanka Gandhi to meet UP Congress leaders today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Priyanka Gandhi to meet UP Congress leaders today, 2022 polls on agendaCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will hold a virtual meeting with senior leaders of the party's Uttar Pradesh unit on Monday, in an exercise which is being seen as a bid to prepare for next year's assembly election. The Congress is looking to make a comeback in the state after more than 30 years. Read more.28 killed due to lightning as heavy rains lash Rajasthan, Uttar PradeshLightning killed 28 people in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh as many places in north India received rain on Sunday. Thirteen animals, including 10 goats a cow, were also killed by lightning. Read more.Puri to hold devotee-less Rath Yatra today: Check all details herePuri in Odisha is set to hold the second deovtee-less Rath Yatra on Monday due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Jagannath Temple administration has said that the yatra will be organised in strict adherence to Covid safety protocols. According to the Administrator of Puri Jagannath Temple, Ajaya Jena, only those servitors who test negative for Covid-19 would be allowed to participate in pulling of the chariots, reports news agency PTI. Read more.IMD predicts heavy to very heavy rains in several parts of north India todayThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast "heavy to very heavy rains" on Monday in parts of north India, which continue to suffer from the unforgiving heatwave. The IMD prediction is for Uttarakhand, Punjab, Chadigarh, Haryana and national capital Delhi. Read more.Mancini's Italy one match shy of levelling longest unbeaten run in international football after Euro 2020 winRoberto Mancini has turned the fortunes of the Italian national football team around in just a little over three years after becoming the team's manager. The former Inter Milan and Manchester City coach was put at the helm of affairs of the Azzurri after a disastrous campaign under Gian Piero Ventura saw the team fail to qualify for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. It was a national shock for Italy as they had played in every FIFA World Cup since their failure to qualify in 1958. Read more.Mahira Khan answers if she is ‘secretly married’, asks Siri to call her ‘secret husband’. WatchPakistani actor Mahira Khan, in a new promotional video for her venture Mashion, took on fans’ assumptions about her and revealed if there is any truth to them. The first assumption made about her was that she is ‘secretly married’. Read more.Sussanne Khan shares cardio and abs-sculpting exercises in new video: WatchHrithik Roshan's former wife Sussanne Khan motivated her fans to hit the grind by sharing an intense workout video of herself exercising at home. Her followers were impressed by the dedication the Indian interior and fashion designer showed in the clip. She did cardio and abs-sculpting routines in the 2-minute-long video, and it will be a perfect motivation to begin your week. Read more.Man holds 16 bowling balls at the same time to create record. WatchGuinness World Records often takes to Instagram to share such videos of records which are astonishing. Just like their latest share that may leave you amazed. It shows a man named Chad creating a record that involves bowling balls, 16 of them to be precise. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-priyanka-gandhi-to-meet-up-congress-leaders-today-101626058743440.html
12-07-2021||India||PM Modi, Prez Kovind greet people on Jagannath Rath Yatra in Puri||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday extended their greetings to the people of the country on the occasion of Lord Jagannath's Rath Yatra in Puri.Taking to Twitter, PM Modi posted, "Greetings to everyone on the special occasion of the Rath Yatra. We bow to Lord Jagannath and pray that his blessings bring good health and prosperity in everyone’s lives. Jai Jagannath!"Greetings to everyone on the special occasion of the Rath Yatra. We bow to Lord Jagannath and pray that his blessings bring good health and prosperity in everyone’s lives. Jai Jagannath!President Ram Nath Kovind posted a message on Twitter and said he wished for the happiness and good health of the people of the country on the blessings of Lord Jagannath.भगवान जगन्नाथ की रथ यात्रा के शुभ अवसर पर सभी देशवासियों, विशेष रूप से ओडिशा में सभी श्रद्धालुओं को मेरी हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं। मैं कामना करता हूँ कि प्रभु जगन्नाथ के आशीर्वाद से सभी देशवासियों का जीवन सुख, समृद्धि और स्वास्थ्य से परिपूर्ण बना रहे।Rath Yatra, or the chariot festival, is an annual festival associated with Lords Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra and is being held in Odisha's coastal town Puri for centuries in July. This year, the Odisha government announced the Rath Yatra would commence on July 12.However, similar to the previous year the Rath Yatra is being celebrated without the participation of devotees, along with strict adherence to coronavirus disease-induced protocols with an aim to check the spread of the viral disease.The administration at Puri's Jagannath temple said around 3,000 servitors and 1,000 temple officials was allowed to carry out the rituals involved with the Rath Yatra after RT-PCR tests were conducted on them.The Supreme Court had last week refused to allow the Rath Yatra in other cities of Odisha, apart from Puri, and observed that the people should worship at home at a time when India is battling a deadly pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-people-on-jagannath-rath-yatra-in-puri-101626058152934.html
12-07-2021||India||Rain deficiency looms large as monsoon revival remains sluggish||Monsoon revival, after a hiatus of ten days, has been very slow, according to India Meteorological Department. It has started raining in some parts of the country, specially in central and peninsular India but the northern limit of the monsoon (NLM) has continued to be in the same position for 22 days since June 19.The NLM is the northernmost limit of monsoon up to which it has advanced. On Sunday, NLM continued to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar, which means the monsoon is yet to cover the entire country. It should have covered the entire country by July 8.The sluggish revival of monsoon is due to several large-scale features, scientists said. While IMD is expecting good rain in the next two weeks which is likely to cover the rain deficiency, overall July rain is expected to be "below normal" over several parts of northwest India and some parts of south peninsula, central, east and northeast India.As on Sunday, there is an 8% deficiency in rains with 23% deficiency over northwest India; 6% deficiency over east and northeast India and 9% deficiency over central India. There is 7% surplus over south peninsula.Delhi has a large rain deficiency of 64%; Gujarat 47%; Haryana 37%; Punjab 41%; Kerala 39%; Odisha 20%; Manipur 62%; Arunachal Pradesh 23%, among others.Also Read | Central Delhi most rain-deficient district in India, shows IMD dataThe slow revival has also led to inaccurate forecasts of monsoon onset over Delhi. IMD, for example, forecast that monsoon would advance to Delhi, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana on July 10. It is now likely to make onset only by the morning or afternoon of July 12. “Monsoon revival is very slow. While easterly winds did set in over Delhi, clouds did not form until Sunday. The easterly winds bring a moist air parcel but for clouds to form there has to be vertical ascent of this air which did not happen. Also, there was isolated rain in Rajasthan and Punjab but spatial distribution of rain was limited on Saturday. Now it seems like monsoon is likely to make onset on Monday over Delhi,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Farmers have had to deal with very unusual weather conditions in July due to the slow revival of monsoon. “Temperatures have been very high and there is no rain. This is unexpected in July. Diesel consumption has increased to run our pumps which has led to higher costs to farmers. There are power outages too. In some places, the paddy crop couldn’t sustain so it has to be sown again,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union.“There are local and global factors which influence the advance of monsoon. While the break monsoon phase was mainly due to the Madden Julian Oscillation being in an unfavourable position which has gradually resolved. The slow revival of monsoon may be due to negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) in combination with neutral El Niño/Southern Oscillation conditions,” explained OP Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD Pune.“Normally negative IOD with La Niña brings good rain. But due to the impact of negative IOD with neutral La Niña, we are expecting rains to be below normal in some parts of the country. Overall, however, rains may be normal over the country during July,” Sreejith added.The Indian Ocean Dipole is defined by the difference in sea surface temperature between two areas– a western pole in the Arabian Sea (western Indian Ocean) and an eastern pole in the eastern Indian Ocean south of Indonesia, according to the Australian Bureau of Meteorology. IOD affects the climate of Australia and other countries that surround the Indian Ocean Basin, and is a significant contributor to rainfall variability in this region.The next two weeks will be critical for monsoon. Lower level easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal have further extended northwestwards, reaching up to Delhi, Haryana and East Rajasthan since Sunday. Low level relative humidity has also increased over the region. Hence, the conditions continue to remain favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of West Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours. Conditions are also becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over remaining parts of the country during the subsequent 48 hours.Under the influence of these conditions, widespread rainfall is very likely over northwest India during next 4-5 days and isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during July 11 to 13; over Punjab, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh during July 11 to 13; over east Rajasthan during July 11 to 12.A low pressure area has formed over westcentral and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts and an east west shear zone is running in middle levels across Central India. Under their influence, widespread rainfall very likely over central India (Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh and Odisha) during next 4-5 days and isolated heavy rainfall very likely over West Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on July 11.Due to strong southwesterly winds from Arabian Sea; enhanced rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely along the west coast and adjoining peninsular India during next 5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-deficiency-looms-large-as-monsoon-revival-remains-sluggish-101626058780024.html
12-07-2021||India||Maharashtra records 8,535 Covid cases; 8 districts keep caseload high||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 8,535 Covid-19 cases and 156 deaths due to the infection. While most parts of the state have reported a decline in the number of cases, eight districts — Kolhapur, Satara, Palghar, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Pune (rural) and Sangli — continued to record a high number of cases and have also reported a high testing positivity rate. The district administrations have been directed to go for aggressive testing and screening to contain the infection and the test positivity rate. Test positivity rate is the proportion of tests reporting positive out of the total tests conducted for a particular infection.Also Read | Covid-19 curbs eased in Tamil Nadu from today: What’s allowed, what’s notThe large number of cases in eight districts has kept the daily caseload in the state hovering at 8,000-9,000 for the past month. On Sunday, Kolhapur recorded 1,468 new cases, while Sangli saw the addition of 1,097 new Covid-19 patients. Satara and Ratnagiri recorded 755 and 455 new cases, respectively. Pune with its rural areas and Pimpri-Chinchwad saw 1,072 new cases on Sunday.The eight most affected districts have the highest number of active cases. Kolhapur has 19,034 active cases, Sangli has 11,717, Satara 8,505, Kolhapur 13,157, while Ratnagiri has 3,569 active infections.All these districts have a high case fatality rate (CFR), above the state rate of 2.04% .Kolhapur is at top with 2.9%. Sangli (2.7%), Solapur (2.6%), Satara (2.4%), Sindhudurg (2.4%). Case fatality rate is the number of cases leading to deaths out of the total number of reported cases of a particular infection.According to state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate, the administration has taken a twin approach. “We are identifying the hotspots in these districts, say some particular area and mass testing the population there. We are isolating the positive patients from the rest of the population to stop the transmission,” said Dr Awate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-8-535-covid-cases-8-districts-keep-caseload-high-101626058539849.html
12-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi to meet UP Congress leaders today, 2022 polls on agenda||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will hold a virtual meeting with senior leaders of the party's Uttar Pradesh unit on Monday, in an exercise which is being seen as a bid to prepare for next year's assembly election. The Congress is looking to make a comeback in the state after more than 30 years.The meeting holds significance in view of the party's dismal performance in the recently concluded block pramukh elections. Congress-supported candidates managed to win only two of the 825 seats. The elections were swept by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is aiming to retain power in the state.Earlier, the UP Congress held training camps for block presidents, district-city presidents and state officials which concluded on July 10. The focus during these camps was to discuss strengthening the organisation, booth constructions and several social media campaigns.According to news agency PTI, Priyanka Gandhi's meeting with the party leaders will take place at 10am where discussions will be held on preparations for assembly elections, and devise strategy to energise the cadre.Monday’s meeting comes just a day after Priyanka Gandhi met Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday. Baghel is likely to play an important part in preparing the Congress for the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, focusing on strategising and booth management, according to the news agency.Baghel had earlier served as an observer for the Congress in this year’s Assam assembly elections, where he was tasked with the responsibility of replicating the party’s success in the 2018 Chhattisgarh elections. Congress, which was a part of the Mahajot alliance in this year’s assembly elections in Assam, won 29 seats of the total 95 contested.Meanwhile, UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu had last on July 4 stated the party had the capacity to fight the assembly elections without forming an alliance, adding under Priyanka Gandhi’s leadership, the Congress would make a comeback in the state. Lallu’s comments come days after Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party eliminated the possibility of forging any major alliance for the elections.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-to-meet-up-congress-leaders-today-2022-polls-on-agenda-101626057105156.html
12-07-2021||India||Amit Shah performs aarti at Jagannath Temple in Ahmedabad||Union home minister Amit Shah performed 'aarti' at Jagannath Temple in Ahmedabad on early Monday morning before the annual Rath Yatra takes off from the temple.Jagannath Temple is all decked up ahead of Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad. Heavy security has been deployed outside the temple.Shah is on a three-day visit to his home state Gujarat from July 11 to take part in a host of programmes, including Lord Jagannath's rath yatra in Ahmedabad today.After taking part in 'mangla aarti' at Lord Jagannath temple, Shah would visit Nardipur village of Gandhinagar district to launch several schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-performs-aarti-at-jagannath-temple-in-ahmedabad-101626056067622.html
12-07-2021||India||Central Delhi most rain-deficient district in India, shows IMD data||Central Delhi has emerged as the most rain-deficient district in the country, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. Many part of north India have received rain, but national capital Delhi is still waiting for the arrival of the southwest monsoon.According to IMD data, Central Delhi received only 8.5 mm rainfall against the normal of 125.1 mm since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, thus recording a shortfall of 93 per cent.Overall, Delhi has received 64 per cent less rainfall than normal so far, putting it in the category of "large deficient" states.The maximum temperature in the national capital settled at 39 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's average, while the minimum settled at 28.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal.The IMD, meanwhile, is hopeful that Delhi will receive rain on Monday. "The conditions continue to remain favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours," the IMD said in its forecast on Sunday.The Southwest Monsoon has reached almost all regions of the country but has stayed away from parts of north India. It is yet to reach Delhi, Haryana, parts of west Uttar Pradesh and west Rajasthan.The IMD had predicted that monsoon is expected to cover these parts by June - a little less than a month back, but its predictions are yet to come true.The IMD expects a revival in the next two weeks, but the overall July rainfall is expected to be "below normal" for several parts of northwest India and some parts of south peninsula, central, east and northeast India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-delhi-most-rain-deficient-district-in-india-shows-imd-data-101626055184116.html
12-07-2021||India||28 killed due to lightning as heavy rains lash Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh||Lightning killed 28 people in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh as many places in north India received rain on Sunday. Thirteen animals, including 10 goats a cow, were also killed by lightning.Out of the 28 fatalities, 18 were recorded in Rajasthan. Twenty-one people, including six children, were also injured during lightning in various villages in the state, according to the police.Those killed include seven children in Jaipur, Kota, Jhalawar and Dholpur districts, the police said. Those killed in Jaipur were taking selfies on a watch tower on a hill near the Amber Fort, they added.In Jhalawar's Lalgaon village, a 23-year-old shepherd, identified as Tara Singh Bheel, was killed on the spot after a bolt of lightning struck him. Two buffaloes were also killed in the incident, police said.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Governor Kalraj Mishra expressed grief over the loss of lives in the tragedies. Gehlot announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each to the kin of those who lost their lives due to lightning strikes in the state.He has also ordered compensation for the injured.In Uttar Pradesh, 10 people including two teenagers, were killed by lightning as rains lashed parts of the state.In yet another rain-related incident, three people, including an eight-year-old boy, were killed at a village in Uttarakhand after their house collapsed in a landslide caused due to heavy rains.The monsoon, however, gave a miss to national capital Delhi which is reeling under heatwave-like conditions. The increased humidity has added to the woes of the people living here.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, said it is expecting a good spell of rain in Delhi and other nearby areas on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-killed-due-to-lightning-as-heavy-rains-lash-rajasthan-uttar-pradesh-101626054044983.html
12-07-2021||India||Covid-19 curbs eased in Tamil Nadu from today: What’s allowed, what’s not||The relaxations in Covid-19 curbs, announced by the Tamil Nadu government, will come into effect from Monday. These include resumption of bus service to Puducherry. The relaxations were announced by the MK Stalin government on Saturday as part of the unlocking process as number of fresh Covid-19 cases continue to register a drop in Tamil Nadu.The government order said that restaurants, shops and a variety of other retail stores that were previously allowed to function till 8pm with 50 per cent occupancy rider, would get an additional hour from Monday.Tamil Nadu reported 2,775 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, pushing the overall caseload to 25.18 lakh, while the toll mounted to 33,418 with 47 additional deaths. The state reported its highest daily infection at 36,184 on May 21 and since then it has been witnessing a decline.Tamil Nadu clamped a lockdown from May 10 to combat the second wave of Covid-19 and from last month phased relaxations were provided in lockdown norms corresponding with a decline in coronavirus cases.Here are the fresh guidelines:1. Competitive examinations for central and state government services shall be permitted, an official release said.2. Till July 19, schools, colleges, zoos, cinemas, bars and swimming pools would continue to be closed down.3. Social, political, sports, entertainment and cultural events would remain prohibited as before.4. Norms already in force, related to wedding ceremonies and funerals, that cap the number of participants at 50 and 20 respectively, shall continue, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-curbs-eased-in-tamil-nadu-from-today-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101626051792573.html
12-07-2021||India||Chirag Paswan meets RJD's Shyam Rajak, speaks to Lalu Yadav||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan met Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Shyam Rajak, giving rise to speculation about a new political equation in Bihar. The meeting was held in Delhi on Saturday.However, the RJD leader described it as a courtesy meeting. "I went there to meet the Paswan family including Chirag Paswan," news agency ANI quoted Rajak as saying.आज नई दिल्ली स्थित 12 जनपथ आवास पर आदरणीय बड़े भाई स्व॰ रामविलास पासवान जी की धर्मपत्नी श्रीमती रीना पासवान जी व उनके पुत्र व सांसद श्री चिराग पासवान जी से शिष्टाचार मुलाकात किया। pic.twitter.com/DBKUHfbBXxA day before meeting Paswan, Rajak met RJD chief Lalu Yadav, which led to further speculation about the LJP leader's future plans.Asked whether Chirag is welcome in RJD or not, Rajak said after the meeting on Saturday, "All those who want to take forward the ideology of Lohia and Ambedkar are welcome, be it Chirag Paswan or anyone else."ANI further reported that Paswan also spoke to Lalu Yadav and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on phone.The development comes amid a bitter political fight between Chirag Paswan and his uncle Pashupati Paras over the control of LJP, which was founded by Ram Vilas Paswan.A rebel group in LJP has chosen Paras as their leader; the Chirag-led faction, also played a counter move by removing his uncle from all party posts. Chirag has vowed to fight for his father's legacy. He also sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi after induction of Paras in the Union Cabinet following a reshuffle.पार्टी विरोधी और शीर्ष नेतृत्व को धोखा देने के कारण लोक जनशक्ति पार्टी से श्री पशुपति कुमार पारस जी को पहले ही पार्टी से निष्काषित किया जा चुका है और अब उन्हें केंद्रीय मंत्री मंडल में शामिल करने पर पार्टी कड़ा ऐतराज दर्ज कराती है।Chirag Paswan has blamed Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar for orchestrating the split in the party and accused him of scuttling the chances of his own partymen by sending Paras to the Centre.The fallout between Paras and Chirag has been attributed to a range of issues including the former's dissatisfaction with his nephew's decision to break away from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the Bihar Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-meets-rjd-s-shyam-rajak-speaks-to-lalu-yadav-101626052195421.html
12-07-2021||India||IMD predicts heavy to very heavy rains in several parts of north India today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast "heavy to very heavy rains" on Monday in parts of north India, which continue to suffer from the unforgiving heatwave. The IMD prediction is for Uttarakhand, Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and national capital Delhi.On Sunday, Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 39 degrees Celsius, three degrees over the season’s average while the minimum temperature settled at 28.8 degrees Celsius.Earlier, the IMD had stated that the Southwest Monsoon would arrive in parts of North India on July 10, but it did not occur till Sunday evening.“Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, the Gujarat region, Madhya Maharashtra, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Telangana, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal,” the IMD said in its bulletin. Thunderstorms along with lightning and gusty (30-40 kmph) winds are likely over Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Telangana, Chandigarh, the bulletin added.The IMD has also issued alerts for several states in north India and a red warning for parts of Maharashtra, which was severely affected by the impact of Cyclone Tauktae in May.Heavy rainfall is also expected in isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, west Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Sikkim, Odisha, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, West Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Lakshadweep, north interior Karnataka, the weather department’s bulletin showed. Of these, Andaman and Nicobar islands is likely to experience thunderstorms along with lightning and gusty winds.On Monday morning, lighting at isolated places is also expected over J&K, Ladakh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Sikkim, Assam, Puducherry, Nagaland, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, coastal Andhra Pradesh, central Maharashtra, Rajasthan etc.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imdpredicts-heavy-to-very-heavy-rains-in-several-parts-of-north-india-today-101626052477333.html
12-07-2021||India||Bihar schools and colleges to partially reopen from today after dip in Covid cases||As Covid-19 cases are declining in Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar has permitted schools, colleges and other institutions to resume in an offline mode from Monday. All government and private schools in Bihar can reopen for Class 11 and 12 students, according to state government order. Schools can open on alternate days with 50 per cent capacity and by following strict Covid-19 protocols, the government order said.Taking to Twitter, Sanjay Kumar, Additional chief secretary, Education, Bihar, announced the reopening of Bihar educational institutes. He wrote, "#bihar is opening its universities, colleges and class 11th and 12th with 50% attendance on alternate days and full COVID safety protocol."Earlier, Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Chowdhury had announced plans to reopen schools and colleges in a graded manner. Guidelines for holding classes in schools were also issued for the safety of students and teachers amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Here's the latest guidelines for Bihar school reopening:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-schools-and-colleges-to-partially-reopen-from-today-after-dip-in-covid-cases-101626050456315.html
12-07-2021||India||UP extends relaxation in Covid curfew: Check new guidelines||The Uttar Pradesh government has extended the relaxation in the Covid-19 curfew by two hours. Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi on Sunday issued new guidelines allowing markets and shops to remain open from 6am to 10pm from Monday to Friday.The order said that weekly closure will be observed on weekends. The new guidelines will come into effect from Monday.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has extended Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) - which prohibits the assembly of four or more people - in Noida till August 30. The decision was taken in view of the upcoming festivals and the possibility of a third wave of Covid-19.Uttar Pradesh had lifted Covid-imposed restrictions from all districts on June 8. Later, it announced to relax the night curfew hours by another two hours as the situation continued to improve in the state.Here are the latest guidelines:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-extends-relaxation-in-covid-curfew-from-today-check-new-guidelines-101626048978916.html
12-07-2021||India||Puri to hold devotee-less Rath Yatra today: Check all details here||Puri in Odisha is set to hold the second deovtee-less Rath Yatra on Monday due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Jagannath Temple administration has said that the yatra will be organised in strict adherence to Covid safety protocols. According to the Administrator of Puri Jagannath Temple, Ajaya Jena, only those servitors who test negative for Covid-19 would be allowed to participate in pulling of the chariots, reports news agency PTI."Like last year this year also Rath Yatra will be held without devotees on July 12, 2021, as per the order of the Supreme Court and SOP issued by the Odisha Government. No devotees were allowed to participate in Rath Yatra. Chariot pullers who test RT-PCR negative and have been fully vaccinated will be permitted to attend the yatra. Around 1,000 officials excluding police personnel will be deployed," Jena said.As per the Administrator, 3,000 'sevayat' (servitors) and 1,000 temple officials will be allowed to perform all rituals and RT-PCR tests are going on at four places at Puri since July 8.Earlier on Tuesday, the Supreme Court rejected several pleas seeking direction to conduct Rath Yatra across Odisha and not only in Puri Jagannath temple, as permitted by the Odisha state government in its order earlier."This year more people died, and last year, lesser number of people died," the three-judge bench of the apex court, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana observed.The Odisha state government had permitted the Rath Yatra only in Puri Jagannath temple with strict Covid-19 restrictions and protocols.Puri is currently under a 48-hour curfew, which came into force on Sunday. According to the district administration's order, the restrictions will remain in place from 8pm on Sunday to 8pm on July 13. The Odisha government has sealed all entry points to Puri and restrictions have been imposed to keep devotees at bay in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Rath Yatra is a festival associated with Lord Jagannath held at Puri annually in the state of Odisha. The celebrations for Lord Jagannath's annual Ratha Yatra began in Puri on Friday with the 'Naba Jauban Darshan' of the sibling deities, during which they are worshipped after spending 14 days in 'Anasara Ghara' or quarantine. The Trinity - Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra - during the 'Naba Jouban Darshan' reappeared after spending 14 days in the 'Aasara Ghara'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-to-hold-devotee-less-rath-yatra-today-check-all-details-here-101626047612454.html
12-07-2021||India||Arrested Al-Qaeda-linked terrorists were planning to use human bombs: UP Police||The Uttar Pradesh Police arrested two operatives of the Al Qaeda-linked Ansar Ghazwatul Hind. The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) said that the two arrested men - Minhaz Ahmed and Maseeruddin - were planning explosions, including using "human bombs" at several places in state.While Ahmed is a resident of Lucknow’s Dubagga area, Maseeruddin lived in Madiyaon area of the Uttar Pradesh capital, said the police. A huge amount of explosive was seized from their houses, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar told reporters.They were planning to "unleash terror activities before August 15 (Independence Day) in different cities of the state, including Lucknow," Kumar said. According to the police official, members of this module are not only from Lucknow, but also from Kanpur in the state.The accused were working on the instructions of Umar Halmandi, the head of the Uttar Pradesh module of Al-Qaeda, the ADGP added.The ATS is conducting raids at different places to catch the associates of the two terrorists, who escaped before Ahmed and Maseeruddin were arrested.Both the Al-Qaeda operatives will be produced before a court, and then taken into police custody.Ahmed's father runs a motor workshop in the area where the family lives; they have been staying there for the past 15 years, said a policeman on condition of anonymity. Incriminating material, including two semi-prepared IED-based pressure cooker bombs, explosive materials and a pistol was recovered by the ATS form the house, which has now been sealed.The police have intensified checking at all vital installations in Uttar Pradesh, including airports. Checking at highways and bus stations has been intensified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-al-qaeda-linked-terrorists-were-planning-to-use-human-bombs-up-police-101626049230340.html
12-07-2021||India||Section of rice exporters to get a 6-month breather on pesticide inspection||The government has given fresh six-month breather to pandemic-hit exporters by allowing them exemption from mandatory inspection of pesticide residue before exporting both basmati and non-basmati rice to European destinations, barring the European Union (EU) and four other countries in the region.While government’s certificate of inspection is already compulsory for exporting rice from India to 27 EU countries and Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland; its mandatory requirement for remaining 23 European countries have been extended from July 1, 2021 to January 1, 2022, an official said requesting anonymity.Thus, exporters get a six-month breather to export rice without the certificate of inspection by Export Inspection Council (EIC) or Export Inspections Agency (EIA) for European countries, such as Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Monaco, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom (UK) and Vatican City, he said.EIC is India’s official export certification body that ensures quality and safety of products prior to export. It also provides mandatory certification for various food items such as fishery products, dairy products, honey, egg products, meat and meat products. It also certifies other food and non-food products on voluntary basis. EIC has global acceptance and it is assisted by EIAs.“To ensure adherence to EU norms on pesticide residues, EIC/ EIA certification has been made mandatory for Basmati/ non-Basmati rice export to EU countries and 4 other European countries – Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland,” a commerce ministry spokesperson said.The need of inspection was felt after some consignments of rice to EU were rejected because of pesticide residue mainly because EU in January 2018 imposed stringent norms for chemicals such as tricyclazole and buprofezin. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had made EIC testing mandatory for rice exports to EU in November 2019, which led to decrease in the number of alerts.The inspection was to be made mandatory for other European countries, but it was deferred due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “EIC/ EIA certification for exports to the remaining European countries was to become mandatory from July 1, 2020. However, due to Covid-19 situation, the date was first extended to January 1, 2021 and later to July 1, 2021. The date has now been further extended to January 1, 2022 in view of the disruption caused by 2nd wave of pandemic,” the spokesperson said.Gurnam Arora, rice exporter and a member of All India Rice Exporters Association (AIREA) said exporters wanted extension from the inspection requirement for non-EU countries in Europe due to technical reasons as well as cost of compliance. He is not in favour of over-regulation. “Industry is self-disciplined as any rejection would mean loss to the exporter,” he said.Exporters also want that pre-shipment inspection should not be limited to EIC and EIA laboratories. “It is noteworthy that for export to EU pre-shipment inspection mechanism has been operative for quite some time and testing could be done through any NABL [National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories] accredited laboratories,” Arora said.Former president of AIREA, Vijay Setia said instead of over-regulation, educating farmers would be more fruitful in the long run.The commerce ministry has already taken initiative in this direction, the first official said. “As a result of constant follow-up by the commerce department, the Punjab government imposed a ban on sale of nine chemicals, including tricyclazole and buprofezin, during the Kharif season 2020, which helped Indian rice to pass stringent pesticide residue norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-of-rice-exporters-to-get-a-6-month-breather-on-pesticide-inspection-101626048199112.html
12-07-2021||India||Number theory: How to read today’s inflation numbers||The National Statistical Office (NSO) will release the June numbers for Consumer Price Index (CPI), India’s benchmark retail inflation measure, on Monday. A Reuters forecast of economists expects CPI to grow at 6.58% on a year-on-year basis in the month of June. If true, this will be the highest inflation number since the November 2020 value of 6.9%. This will also make June the second consecutive month when retail inflation will be higher than the upper limit of the Reserve Bank of India’s tolerance band of 6%. Here are five charts that can help make sense of the latest inflation numbers.1. What is happening to core and non-core inflation?Fuel prices have dominated the discussion around prices in the recent past, and for good reason. Petrol prices crossed ₹100/litre in all four metropolitan cities on July 7. However, the headline inflation number is indicative of much more than just fuel prices. In fact, the fuel and light category has a weight of just 6.84% in the CPI basket. Given the fact that both food and fuel prices tend to have larger volatility, economists often apply the distinction of what is called core and non-core inflation while looking at prices. Core inflation refers to the non-food non-fuel component of the inflation basket. The respective weights of core and non-core categories in India’s CPI basket are 54.1% and 45.9%. Episodes of inflationary spike in India have often been driven by a sharp jump in non-core inflation. Both core and non-core inflation increased in May 2021 compared to the April 2021 levels. Core inflation in May was at 6.5% and the non-core component was at 6%. While a jump in non-core inflation is to be expected given the hike in fuel prices, an increase in core inflation will underline broad-based inflationary pressures in the economy.Also read: Delayed monsoon hits sowing of kharif crops2. The other oil which is driving India’s food inflationWhat was remarkable about the May inflation numbers was the sharp spike in food inflation, which increased from 2% in April 2021 to 5% in May. It needs to be kept in mind that these numbers come on a high base. Food inflation was 9.2% in May 2020. However, what has changed between May 2020 and May 2021 are the factors which are driving food inflation. The contribution of cereals, milk and products and vegetables, the three most important sub-components of the CPI food basket, has gone down in May 2021 compared to May 2020. But the role of edible oil in fuelling food inflation has increased significantly. Because India is a net importer of edible oils, and international edible oil prices are at an all-time high, any immediate relief is unlikely on this front. To be sure, international inflation for edible oil seems to have peaked in May 2021. However, heavy rain in parts of the country during June could add to a spike in vegetable prices, generating additional tailwinds for food inflation.3. Services inflation could increase as the economy unlocks and demand picks upThe miscellaneous category of CPI has a weight of 28.3% in the CPI basket. This largely includes the prices of services and includes the sub-categories of household goods and services, health, transport and communication, recreation and amusement, education, stationery, etc., and personal care and effects. The inflation for the miscellaneous category grew at 7.5% in the month of May 2021, the highest value since March 2013. As the economy unlocks and demand picks up for these categories, there could be additional inflationary pressures going forward.4. The role of global commodity pricesRetail inflation also depends on what is happening to producer prices, which are captured in a better way by the Wholesale Price Index (WPI). The WPI will be released later this week. It crossed the 10% mark in the month of May 2021 to reach 12.94%.The sharp spike in WPI is also a result of the rise in commodity prices in the international market as demand picks up with revival of growth in advanced countries. A look at the Bloomberg Commodity Index (BCOM), however, shows that international prices peaked in the month of June. The BCOM, which is a weighted index of energy, grain, industrial metal, precious metal, livestock and sugar, coffee and cotton prices, reached a value of 95.02 on June 10, 2021, the highest since July 23, 2015. It was valued at 93.06 on July 9. The question is whether prices will stay at present levels, which are quite high compared to historical standards, or come down further. A stickiness or reversal in the declining trend in the last one week could generate additional headwinds on the domestic inflation numbers.“A closer look revealed a faster rise in the (May) CPI inflation momentum compared to WPI inflation, likely led by more pass-through of higher input costs, higher oil prices and logistical disruptions due to the lockdowns. As the lockdowns ease, these disruptions will likely abate, pushing CPI inflation back below 6% (by July/August). That is the likely story of 1HFY22”, said a research note by Pranjul Bhandari and Aayushi Chaudhary at HSBC Capital Markets and Research. However, the note warned that upside risks to inflation could re-emerge in the second half of the fiscal year, likely driven by two factors: corporates likely feeling more confident about passing on higher prices to consumers as vaccination reached critical mass and demand side pressures fuelling service inflation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-how-to-read-today-s-inflation-numbers-101626045486853.html
12-07-2021||India||Greenpiece: Key steps that can help promote green travel||Electric and hydrogen cars are widely written about today. But who can afford an electric car? Someone with minimum ten lakh rupees plus and easy access to a charging point: a rich person. The rest still use what they can afford. To make a real shift, we need safe, affordable, reliable public transport run on clean technology. The question is what is clean?Let’s start with electric. We need a robust system to handle the spent batteries. India has a terrible record so far. Not only have manufacturers of lead-acid batteries evaded their responsibility for years, so have other battery and cell manufacturers. What we need is not just a law, but deep disincentives to violate it and public transparency in implementing it. Hydrogen critics have red-flagged the issue of flammability and electric shocks. Both can be addressed by refined tech.But, a study by Logan et al from the UK says hydrogen buses at full capacity result in 1.8 times less emissions per person than a car. Yet, it says, electric buses produce less emissions than hydrogen. Luckily, Indian states are veering towards electric buses. What more can they do?That apart, charging any bus or car requires electricity, mostly polluting. That needs to be urgently addressed. We need the cycle to be green, not only the road emissions.Indian states can lead this transformation. Many have begun procuring electric buses. Now, lets procure green energy and expand charging stations with national standards, so we can genuinely travel green.(The writer is Founder and Director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greenpiece-key-steps-that-can-help-promote-green-travel-101626042166342.html
12-07-2021||India||Rajasthan city tense after teen’s murder, Section 144 imposed||Three men were arrested and prohibitory orders were clamped and internet services suspended till early Monday morning in Baran city of Rajasthan following the murder of a 16-year-old boy, police said on Sunday.The prime accused Hemant Rathore and his two accomplices - Manish Goutam alias Bittu Sharma and Rohit Nagar alias Rahit Amlawada were arrested on Sunday, superintendent of Police (SP) Vineet Bansal said, adding efforts were on to nab others involved in the case.The three accused were arrested for murdering 16-year-old Aazad, a resident of Shramik Colony in Talab Para area, on Saturday over an old enmity between two groups, they said.“The murder is the result of personal rivalry between two groups with no communal angle,” assistant superintendent of Police Vijay Swarnkar said.CCTV footage showed the prime accused, Hemant Rathore, allegedly firing at the victim outside Baran grain mandi gate. Rathore and his accomplices then attacked him using iron rods, the police said.A video of the incident appeared online on Saturday night. The district administration imposed Section 144 of the CrPC, prohibiting the gathering of four or more people, on Saturday night to prevent a possible flare-up. Internet services were also suspended for 24 hours till 3 am on Monday in the municipal council area, said Brijmohan Bairwa, CEO Baran Zila Parishad, who holds the additional charge of ADM.A case under Section 302 (murder) was lodged against the three arrested and some unidentified persons on the complaint of the victim’s family, SHO Mangilal Yadav said.(With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-city-tense-after-teen-s-murder-section-144-imposed-101626041539557.html
12-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Sputnik V shows strong safety profile among elderly, says RDIF||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), an investor of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, announced on Sunday that the vaccine demonstrated a higher or equal tolerability profile among the 60 plus age group in San Marino during the inoculation campaign in the country.An official release from the RDIF said that the results are based on a nationwide study conducted, between March 4 and April 8, among individuals in San Marino who received one or both doses of Sputnik V. A descriptive analysis was later conducted to quantify the incidence of adverse events following immunisation on both occasions.“Our results, albeit preliminary, suggest that Sputnik V has a high tolerability profile in the population aged ≥60 years in terms of short-term AEFIs. This preliminary analysis suggests a higher or equal tolerability profile of the Sputnik V vaccine in the 60+ age group, after both doses, as compared with other widely adopted Covid-19 vaccines,” said the statement.The results were published in EClinicalMedicine, an open access clinical journal published by The Lancet.“Our results also align with the findings of phase 1 and 2 previously conducted studies, then confirmed by phase 3 of the vaccine trial, in terms of overall safety and tolerability. No hospitalizations or deaths were reported. Nearly all reported AEFIs were mild or moderate and/or lasted less than 2 days,” the statement added.Sputnik V was the third vaccine to be granted an emergency use authorisation in India on April 12, 2021 after indigenously developed Covaxin and Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-sputnik-v-shows-strong-safety-profile-among-elderly-says-rdif-101626031584305.html
12-07-2021||India||Cong demands judicial probe into corruption allegations against CM BSY||Bengaluru Lashing out at chief minister Yediyurappa for his alleged involvement in wide scale corruption, BS Dinesh Gundu Rao, senior Congress legislator and former state president of the party, on Sunday demanded a judicial probe into the possible involvement of the chief minister in corruption cases and said that the latter has no moral right to remain in the top post after such allegations. Rao who is in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Goa and All India Congress Committee spokesperson, Prof. Gourav Vallabh, while addressing the media on Sunday demanded Yediyurappa’s resignation over corruption charges. “Mr. B.S. Yediyurappa has no moral right to remain the chief minister after allegations of such serious nature and of direct involvement. Karnataka chief minister Mr. B.S. Yediyurappa should resign immediately from the post of CM,” Rao said in a statement on Sunday. He added that a judicial probe must be initiated under the supervision of the chief justice of Karnataka to uncover the “entire matter” and send the culprits behind bars. “We urge central agencies like CBI, ED and IT authorities to carry out an exhaustive investigation and uncover the truth. They should not be just lap dogs of the BJP, they should act independently and these are serious allegations, serious revelations made by a very responsible individual and this has been happening at a very-very regular interval and these things are in the notice of the BJP leadership, national leadership, but, they are not acting, they are not doing anything, the biggest question is ‘Why’?” Rao said. The Congress has been piling on the pressure against the 78-year-old CM who already faces uncertainty over continuing in the top post over allegations of corruption, levelled by his own colleagues from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “The Yediyurappa government and the CM himself, there have been so many exposes on him, right from the time when the coalition government was being toppled. There were audio recording which Mr. Yediyurappa admitted that it was his own voice, where he is trying to bribe the opposite party MLAs offering huge sums of money, also speaking about how he can manage Supreme Court Judges, how he can manage speaker and this is on record on the audio tapes and the CM had admitted that it was his own voice,” Rao further added. Multiple cases of corruption have been resurfacing against Yediyurappa in recent times which are likely to add to the challenges of the chief minister who wished to remain in power for the next two years until the 2023 assembly elections. Questioning why the BJP at the centre are quite on the issue, Rao said, “BJP Government in Karnataka headed by CM B.S. Yediyurappa is allegedly involved in the most brazen acts of corruption and misuse of power. The undue interference in day-to-day administration by his maverick younger son B.Y. Vijayendra and other close relatives are allegedly involved in many cases. Despite facing embarrassing situations arising from serious allegations made by the aggrieved sections who have dragged the CM and his family members to court seeking justice, there is no sign of either remorse or repentance on the part of CM B.S. Yediyurappa and his kith and kin.” Rao alleged that a qualified senior engineer had to cough up ₹9.75 crore to “satisfy the greed of the CM’s close relatives”. There was no immediate reaction from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-demands-judicial-probe-into-corruption-allegations-against-cm-bsy-101626029858184.html
12-07-2021||India||Intercaste couple attacked by kin after 28 years of marriage||In another incident of rising atrocities against members of the SC/ST (scheduled caste/scheduled tribe) community in the city, a couple, married for 28 years, was allegedly beaten up and urinated on by the relatives of the husband in the Gadag district. The husband belongs to an upper caste while the wife belongs to the Valmiki community, classified as a scheduled tribe, the police said.“The incident occurred on July 8 in Ron Taluk, roughly 385km from Bengaluru. The husband’s relatives had gotten into a fight with the couple, and the wife was injured during the incident. On July 9, we booked a case under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act (SC/ST Act). Further, the investigation is on,” a police official said on condition of anonymity.The incident has highlighted a sharp spike in atrocities against marginalized communities in the state. Between April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, there have been 2,327 cases of murder, exploitation and other cases against members of the SC/ST community in Karnataka, according to data from the state government.This shows an increase of over 54% since the previous year, in which there were a total of 1,504 cases registered, according to data from the National Crime Records Bureau.The cases include murder, exploitation, burns and other crimes against the members of the community.In the last month alone, Karnataka witnessed at least three victims of “honour” killing, including several others, that include name-calling, denial of services and conflicts between groups that rarely make it to the books.Two teenagers, a Dalit boy and a Muslim girl were killed in Saladahalli village in Devara Hipparagi taluk in Vijayapura district by the girl’s family, who smashed their heads with rocks, Hindustan Times reported on June 24.In another case in Baragur village in Koppal district, a boy who belonged to the Madiga community was murdered by the family of the girl, who was from the dominant Kuruba community for being romantically involved.Activists are taking out a rally in protest against the continued atrocities against Dalit groups in the Koppal district on July 19.Activists said that there are skirmishes almost daily in rural Karnataka that exposes the dark belly of a state that is globally known for its prowess in technology, startups, aerospace and biotechnology among other attributes.However, data suggests that the reporting of cases are low, but the conviction rates are even lower. Between April 2020 and May 2021, there were 87 murders, 216 cases of exploitation, 2,024 other instances and three incidents of fire, according to government data.The government has allocated around ₹2,842.38 lakh as compensation for these crimes.Out of the 2,775 arrested persons and 2,945 charge-sheeted from crimes and atrocities against SC/ST communities in 2019, only 50 were convicted, and 1,513 were acquitted, the data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intercaste-couple-attacked-by-kin-after-28-years-of-marriage-101626029798818.html
12-07-2021||India||Write clear, short judgments that litigants can understand: SC||The Supreme Court said that the judgments delivered need to be “more crisp, clear and precise” if a common man has to understand the law being laid down by courts.A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court on Thursday observed that it is high time that judges adopt the Wren & Martin principles of précis writing to enable litigants understand Court decisions. “It is the need of the hour to write clear and short judgments which the litigant can understand…There may be times when the complexity of matters gives rise to complex opinions. But we find that judgments are becoming more complex and verbose,” said a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy in a postscript to its judgment allowing Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee to summon Facebook as part of its proceeding in relation to the communal violence in the Capital in February last year.The six-page postscript was added to the judgment by the three judges who felt strongly about making judgments meaningful to the common man.“The purpose of our postscript is only to start a discussion among the legal fraternity by bringing to notice the importance of succinctly framed written synopsis in advance, and the same being adhered to in course of oral arguments to be addressed over a limited time period and more crisp, clear and precise judgments so that the common man can understand what the law is being laid down. After all, it is for ‘the common man’ that the judicial system exists,” stated the postscript.While judges have a big role in this, the bench said that lawyers share an equal responsibility by making time-bound arguments and supplying brief, precise synopsis of arguments and laws. “Instead of restricting oral arguments it (court) has become a competing arena of who gets to argue for the longest time.”In the recent past, complex cases decided by the Supreme Court have invited bulky decisions. The decision in September 2018 declaring Aadhaar card valid with riders numbered 1448 pages. The Ayodhya title suit dispute decided in November 2019 was 1045 pages thick. The Court decision declaring right to privacy as fundamental right in August 2017 had 547 pages while the September 2018 ruling decriminalising gay sex ran into 495 pages. The Court also rued that precious judicial time is consumed to decide routine matters, bail pleas and interim orders in civil matters that have no precedential value.Currently, the pending cases in the top court as on July 2, 2021 are 69,212 of which 447 cases are before Constitution benches with composition of five, seven and nine judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/write-clear-short-judgments-that-litigants-can-understand-sc-101626029583380.html
12-07-2021||India||Gehlot sworn in as 19th guv of K’taka||Bengaluru Former union minister, Thawarchand Gehlot, on Sunday took oath as the 19th Governor of Karnataka in Raj Bhawan. Ghelot replaces Vajubhai Vala who has been the head of the state since September 1, 2014. “I am today sworn in as the Governor of Karnataka, committed to the protection and immunity of the Constitution and Law of India and the service and well-being of the people of Karnataka,” Gehlot said in a post on Twitter in Kannada. “Attended the swearing ceremony of Hon’ble @TCGEHLOT Ji who took oath as the 19th Governor of Karnataka and extended my greetings & wishes to him. Hon’ble Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court Shri Abhay Srinivas Oka, outgoing Governor Hon’ble Vajubhai Vala ji were present,” BS Yediyurappa, the chief minister of Karnataka said in a post on Twitter on Sunday. Leaders across party lines were seen sharing a laugh and holding conversation during the swearing in ceremony that, at least for a day, saw political rivals using the opportunity to set aside their differences. Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition, referred to Karnataka chief minister as a “friend” and stated that he took a break from politics and “enjoyed it”. “Congratulated the newly appointed Governor of Karnataka Shri. Thawar Chand Gehlot. I wish him the best for his new responsibility,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition said in a post on Twitter. Vala had presided over the state during one of its most turbulent political times in which there were four chief ministers in a span of seven years. Gehlot takes charge at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high command is contemplating replacing Yediyurappa who has been under pressure over allegations of corruption, management--or mismanagement--of covid-19, non-performance and charges that his son BY Vijayendra running a parallel government under the aegis of his father. Most of the criticism has come from within the BJP who have predicted even the date of the replacement and even accused Yediyurappa and his family members of embezzling thousands of crores to remain in power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-sworn-in-as-19th-guv-of-ktaka-101626029739707.html
12-07-2021||India||Spotlight on 2015 caste census ahead of K’taka polls||Bengaluru Almost six years since the commissioning of the “Socio-Economic and Education Survey”, better known as caste-census, by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015, a section of leaders from some of the most marginalised groups in Karnataka are attempting to take the legal route to get chief minister BS Yediyurappa release the findings, HT has learned. With just two years to go before assembly elections in 2023, making the report public is likely to have a significant impact on the complex caste equations in a state where dominant communities like Lingayats and Vokkaligas have ruled the narrative.The newly formed Athi Hindulida Jagruti Vedike (Kannada for extreme backward classes awareness forum) has now approached former chief minister Siddaramaiah and the Congress to make the report public.“The reservation that is being given out today is based on unscientific data and there are extremely backward classes who have no representation economically, socially or politically to raise their voices,” Mukyamanthri Chandru, former legislator and popular Kannada cinema actor told Hindustan Times on Sunday. Chandru is also the honorary president of the newly formed forum.The forum is targeting to file a petition of Mandamus (judicial writ to command to order to perform a public or statutory duty) by July 16 or coming Friday.“The commission conducted the survey directed by the government which was their mandate. They (backward classes commission) have collected all the data and the report is also ready as they have shared it under RTI,” AS Ponanna, former Additional Advocate General of Karnataka and senior counsel said.The senior counsel added that ₹162 crore of the state’s money has been spent on this purpose and this information should be available to the public.Siddaramaiah, from the backward yet politically formidable Kuruba community, attempted to conduct the caste census in 2015, the first since 1931 anywhere in the country, as a way to challenge the dominant caste theory in Karnataka.Successive governments, including the one that commissioned it, have steered clear of considering the sensitive nature of the information that has the potential to review the perceived size of caste groups which have allowed a few communities to have better bargaining power compared to others.Siddaramaiah, who stormed to power in 2013 riding on the support base of AHINDA (acronym for Muslims, backward classes and Dalits) is hoping the release of the data would also help his claim to the top post from within his party to rule out the likes of state Congress president DK Shivakumar among others if the Congress returns to power in 2023.To be sure, the forum has also approached Shivakumar for his support.Karnataka’s political landscape has been ruled by the Lingayats and Vokkaligas, believed to be the two largest communities in the state, which has been challenged in the past by smaller groups who are fighting to get the same kind of representation.These small communities, who account for no more than a few thousand in each constituency, are also key for political parties as they can become the deciding factor in close contests.The developments come at a time when Yediyurappa, a Lingayat, has doled out handsomely for caste-specific programmes as a way of reaching out to groups that are not known to support the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Though Yediyurappa is known to be the tallest leader of the Lingayats, some of the bigger sub-sects like Panchamasalis are demanding that one of their own be considered for the top job, should the BJP high command enforces a replacement of the chief minister.The chunk of most benefits of reservation in Karnataka and other states in the country are often taken up by the large communities, experts said, leaving hundreds, if not thousands, of smaller groups with no representation or benefits.There are at least 36 caste groups in Karnataka who have been waiting for almost a decade to get the government to look their way for better reservation opportunities, Hindustan Times reported on February 15. The recent reservation-related demands by Panchamasali, Kurubas, Vokkaligas and Valmikis among others, have added to apprehensions of smaller communities, with scattered populations across the state, of further injustices. All three major political parties in Karnataka, BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), have a core-caste or community support base which has allowed them to remain politically relevant in the south Indian state. BJP enjoys the backing of the dominant Lingayats while Dalits, communities that come under other backward classes and minorities are seen to back the Congress. Former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and his former chief minister son, HD Kumaraswamy-led JD(S) relies heavily on the Vokkaligas, another dominant and politically influential community found largely in the Old Mysuru region. The leaked findings of the caste census, which were not authenticated by the then Siddaramaiah-led government in 2015, indicate the downward revision of the percentage of Lingayats and Vokkaligas from its earlier believed figures of around 17% and 14% respectively to just around 10%. But his plan to get the support of the Lingayats backfired when he, on the advice of ministers like MB Patil among others, mooted to accord the community the status of a separate religion just before the 2018 assembly elections, demonstrating the nature of deep-rooted caste-based politics in the state. “Hundreds of crores have been spent for Caste-based census. Hence, leaders from the backward class met me and said it should not go to waste. There is nothing wrong in their demand,” Shivakumar said on Sunday.He added that he was unaware of the contents but said that he will discuss the same with other party leaders.“First, we shall learn what is BJP’s stand on this. When asked, they’ve replied that the report hasn’t been submitted and they were unaware of this,” he said. According to people aware of the developments, the state backward classes commission has already submitted the report to the government, which is yet to take a call on its release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spotlight-on-2015-caste-census-ahead-of-k-taka-polls-101626029678118.html
12-07-2021||India||Kanimozhi dismisses reports of TN division||Chennai: Dismissing reports that the Union government plans to bifurcate Tamil Nadu’s western region into ‘Kongu Nadu’, the ruling DMK and its allies said that nobody can divide Tamil Nadu and it is a ‘figment of imagination’. “Nobody can divide Tamil Nadu. No one needs to worry about such things, the state is now under a safe government,” DMK MP Kanimozhi told reporters on Sunday. While Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) chief K S Alagiri termed the demand for Kongu Nadu as a “figment of imagination”, senior Congress leader Thirunavukuarasu said, “There is no chance for this. Though it has happened to other states there is no necessity for it here in Tamil Nadu for now.” Taking a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the reports, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader G Balakrishnan said that the BJP was attempting this for political gains. “This is dangerous. People of Tamil Nadu will not allow this. Such actions by the BJP to enter Tamil Nadu through the backdoor will only cause severe repercussions for the party,” Balakrishnan said on Saturday. AMMK chief T T V Dhinakaran called this a divisive measure along caste lines and urged chief minister M K Stalin to clear the issue. The speculation that the Government of India would carve out this region into either a separate state or a union territory began after profiles of the new cabinet minister were released on July 7. The profile of Tamil Nadu’s outgoing BJP chief L Murugan, who was inducted into the union cabinet, referred to him as hailing from ‘Kongu Nadu, Tamil Nadu’. BJP leaders in the state have spoken in favour of such a move if that’s what the people desire. “Why are they (DMK) scared about this?” BJP legislative party leader, Nainar Nagendran, asked reporters on Sunday, adding that several places in Tamil Nadu end with a ‘Naadu’. “But one must keep in mind Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh were divided into two. If that (bifurcation) is the desire of the people of the state, then the government must fulfil it.” BJP state general secretary Karu Nagarajan also echoed the same view. “There is even a political party named after Kongu Nadu so it’s not a wrong word. I think calling it Kongu Nadu is the desire of the people from that region,” Nagarajan said.On June 10, a vernacular daily published a report that the Centre was planning a bifurcation as a befitting response to the DMK government referring to the Narendra Modi-led government as ‘Ondriya Arasu” in Tamil meaning Union Government and not the Central government. On the same day, BJP national president of the ‘Mahila Morcha’, Vanathi Srinivasan, on her Facebook page quoted ancient Tamil texts to support the claim that Kongu was a separate geographical region. Srinivasan hails from the western region and is an elected MLA from Coimbatore which is a part of the region. The western regions has been the bastion of the AIADMK and two MLAs from BJP were elected from here in the election results that were announced on May 2. The AIADMK-led alliance with the BJP won 33 of the total 50 seats. While the DMK combine swept other regions in the state, the AIADMK alliance registered its best performance in the Kongu region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanimozhi-dismisses-reports-of-tndivision-101626029498093.html
12-07-2021||India||Kerala:Zika tally reaches 18 with three fresh cases||Three more Zika virus cases were detected in Kerala on Sunday, taking the toll of total cases to 18, said state health minister Veena George. Among the infected are a health worker, a mother and her two-year-old baby. All cases are from the Thiruvananthapuram district. The minister said now at least four laboratories will have the facility to test the virus and it will save enough time. Currently, the state is sending samples to the National Institute of Virology in Pune, which takes enough time. The minister said a state-wide vector control programme has been launched and sought people’s help to destroy the breeding ground of Aedes mosquitoes that spreads the virus. “We are doing everything possible to contain it,” she said. A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Parasala in Thiruvananthapuram district was first to test positive for the Zika virus on Wednesday and two days later, 14 more people were added to the list. The Union health ministry then rushed a team of experts to the state to help contain the virus. Zika cases surfaced at a time when the state is struggling with a heavy caseload of Covid-19 cases. For more than a month, the state has topped the Covid-19 charts in daily caseload and test positivity rate. On Sunday, the state reported 12,220 new cases with a TPR of 10.48 per cent. It also reported 97 deaths. Experts said unlike Covid-19, Zika is not a major malady and it can be controlled with effective vector control programmes. The virus is spread mostly through mosquitoes but it can also be transmitted through casual sex and the fatality rate among patients is very low and only one in five develops symptoms, they said. The symptoms of the disease, first identified in monkeys in Uganda in 1947 and among humans in Nigeria in 1954, include joint pain, fever and headache. In May 2015, it was reported in Brazil, where it spread rapidly. The virus can cause shrunken brain in children and a rare auto-immune disease called Guillain-Barre syndrome, experts said, adding it was first reported in the country in Gujarat in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralazika-tally-reaches-18-with-three-fresh-cases-101626029018105.html
12-07-2021||India||Expelled AIADMK leader joins DMK||Former AIADMK minister Thoppu Venkatachalam, who was expelled from the party, joined the DMK on Sunday with hundreds of his supporters.Besides Venkatachalam, former AIADMK MP and MLA PR Sundaram and others joined the DMK in the presence of its president and Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin, the party said in a release here.It is a boost to the ruling party trying to strengthen its base in the western region ahead of the local body polls slated for later this year. The Supreme Court has set a deadline for civic polls to be conducted in nine districts before September 15. Venkatachalam’s joining the DMK follows an exodus to the ruling party of AIADMK functionaries expelled for their truck with the ousted VK Sasikala. A senior AIADMK leader admitted that since their loss in the assembly elections, they have been worried about their cadre joining the DMK. “People moving was expected especially after the DMK gave cabinet berths to former AIADMK members,” the leader said. He said deputy leader of opposition O Panneerselvam addressed the issue at the AIADMK meeting held on Friday.According to the leader, Panneerselvam said people left the party after MG Ramachandran’s death and after J Jayalalithaa lost the 1996 elections. “But the true cadre will remain and that is the AIADMK’s strength,” he said. “We are starting preparations for local body elections. The leaders will have a meeting with each district secretary in the coming days.”Venkatachalam was the minister for environment and revenue in late Jayalalithaa’s cabinet from 2011-2016. He wasn’t given a ticket in this year’s assembly election, so he contested unsuccessfully as an Independent that led to his expulsion. He said that more than 900 cadre from other parties and organisations have joined him. Venkatachalam hails from Erode, a part of Tamil Nadu’s western region, which has been the AIADMK’s citadel. In this year’s elections, the DMK that swept all other regions couldn’t win over the western region, where the AIADMK-led alliance with the BJP won 33 of the total 50 seats. “I will change Erode into an unshakable fort of the DMK,” Venkatachalam said in DMK leader MK Stalin’s presence. He said he would bring in 25,000 functionaries from the district if Stalin approves.On Thursday, actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan’ lieutenant R Mahendran, who quit the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), joined the DMK. Mahendran has been the MNM’s best performing candidate in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from the Coimbatore constituency. While addressing the new inductees on Thursday, Stalin said that if Mahendran had joined earlier, they could have performed well in Coimbatore, which is part of the western belt otherwise known as the Kongu region. “Though we got enough seats to form our government, we did not win the expected numbers in Coimbatore and Kongu region,” Stalin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expelled-aiadmk-leader-joins-dmk-101626028958046.html
12-07-2021||India||Acted against 133 posts and 18,000 profiles: Twitter||In its first grievance redress report mandated under the new social media and intermediary guidelines, Twitter has said it took action on 133 posts for reasons ranging from harassment to privacy infringement and suspended over 18,000 accounts for “child sexual exploitation and non-consensual nudity”.The social media firm is in a standoff with the government over compliance with the new guidelines. It told the Delhi high court that it has appointed an interim grievance officer, nodal contact person and compliance officer. “In addition to the above data, we processed 56 grievances which were appealing Twitter account suspensions. These were all resolved and the appropriate responses were sent. We overturned 7 of the account suspensions based on the specifics of the situation, but the other accounts remain suspended,” the report released on Sunday said. The report covers the period from May 25 to June 26.Also read: Twitter appoints grievance officerTwitter became the third major social media firm, after Facebook and Google, to release a report in keeping with the rules that the government has asserted it is in violation of, even going so far as to warn that the company has lost immunity from prosecution for third party content.“In compliance with Rule 4(1)(d) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, Twitter is required to publish a monthly compliance report which includes the details of complaints from users via the India grievance mechanism and action taken on them, as well as information related to Twitter’s proactive monitoring efforts under the IT Rules. This inaugural report covers the reporting period from May 26, 2021 through to June 25, 2021. Going forward, we will be publishing this report on a monthly basis, and we are committed to making improvements over time, based on feedback received from the government, or in accordance with internal changes that allow for us to provide more granular data,” Twitter said.Twitter suspended 18,385 accounts for child sexual exploitation and 4,179 for promotion of terrorism. “Proactive monitoring refers to content proactively identified by employing internal proprietary tools and industry hash sharing initiatives,” the firm said in its report.Facebook removed a little over 30 million pieces of content – posts, profiles pages – between May 15 and June 15 in India, the company said in a first action-taken disclosure.The links taken down related to content that was violent and graphic, contained adult nudity and sexual activity, and suicide and self-injury. The report released on Friday is an interim disclosure and the company said it will publish details on July 15.Facebook-owned Instagram said it took action on two million links across nine categories in the same period. Another Facebook company, WhatsApp, has challenged the IT rules over the traceability clause.“Facebook’s India-specific numbers are more detailed than offered to other countries,” a person familiar with the matter said. “The list of categories is not exhaustive”. According to the social media firm’s last quarter transparency report, from January 2021 to March 2021, it took action on 31.8 million URLs for adult nudity, while in India the number stood at 1.8 million for the month.In terms of graphic and violent content, the company proactively took down 34.3 million posts, pages and profiles, of which India’s number for May 15 to June 15 was 2.5 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acted-against-133-posts-18k-profiles-says-twitter-in-first-compliance-report-101626028898759.html
12-07-2021||India||Kerala may withdraw its plea in assembly violence case: Counsel||Thiruvananthapuram: After a series of setbacks in courts, the Kerala government is planning to withdraw its petition seeking quashing of the case related to the violent incidents in the state assembly in March 2015, said a senior counsel close to the government. Last week the Supreme Court had slammed the government for seeking permission to withdraw the case against six legislators and adjourned its petition for further hearing on July 15. According to the counsel, the government fears that more adverse remarks are likely during the hearing stage and it got legal advice that it is better to withdraw the petition and proceed with the case in the trial court. But legal experts said even if the government wants to withdraw the petition at this juncture, it needs permission of the apex court. Earlier the chief judicial magistrate court in Thiruvananthapuram and the Kerala high court had turned down the government’s plea to withdraw the case. The government later moved the Supreme Court, which also passed serious observations. While hearing the plea, the apex court said it can’t condone destruction of public property by legislators in the House and asked the petitioner what message it will give it to people. The case also ruffled feathers of one of the allies of the ruling Left Democratic Front, Kerala Congress (Mani). During the hearing of the petition in the apex court, the counsel for the Kerala government had reportedly said protests on the floor of the House was a natural one against a corrupt politician, a reference to then finance minister KM Mani. But later CPI(M) leaders pacified the agitated KC (M), saying a section of the media misquoted the counsel. The Kerala assembly had witnessed violent incidents in March 2015 after then opposition LDF legislators tried to prevent then finance minister KM Mani from presenting the state budget, alleging his role in the bar bribery case. Angry members snapped mikes, threw chairs, destroyed furniture and damaged lights in the melee, and two legislators were later hospitalised. The session was live when violence took place in the House. Then Speaker N Sakthan later filed a police complaint against six LDF legislators, and one of them, V Sivankutty, is the education minister in the Pinarayi Vijayan ministry and KT Jaleel is a sitting member. In his complaint, the Speaker said property worth ₹2.20 lakh was damaged and the legislators brought shame to the House. After the LDF came to the power in 2016, it tried to withdraw the case, but a local court rejected it. Then the government moved the high court, which also turned down its plea. The government had invoked the privilege of legislators to justify its decision to withdraw the case, but the high court rejected it, saying privilege was not a licence to carry out violent activities in the House. During a discussion in the assembly last year, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had blamed the Congress-led UDF for dragging an assembly issue to the court. Later former opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also joined the case as a party. After the death of KM Mani in 2019, his party split and his son took the major faction to the LDF camp. A predominant Christian party, Kerala Congress (Mani)’s foray into the LDF had helped it win many seats in Christian-dominated areas, but now the CPI(M) is forced to swallow its earlier charges against KM Mani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-may-withdraw-its-plea-in-assembly-violence-casecounsel-101626028838099.html
12-07-2021||India||UP ATS: Major attack averted with arrest of 2 Qaeda-linked terrorists||The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Sunday claimed to have foiled plans for major terrorist attacks in crowded areas of Lucknow and other cities in the state with the arrest of two operatives of the Al Qaeda-linked Ansar Ghazwatul Hind.“The ATS has arrested two active members belonging to Al qaeda-supported ‘Ansar Ghazwatul Hind’. Minhaz Ahmed, a resident of Lucknow’s Dubagga area, and Maseeruddin, a resident of Lucknow’s Madiyaon area, have been arrested. Explosive material has been recovered from them,” said UP police additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar.Kumar said Ahmed and Maseeruddin, along with their accomplice Shakeel, were planning attacks in Lucknow and other parts of the state ahead of the Independence Day. “They were planning explosions at important places, memorials and crowded places, and also to use human bombs. For this, they were collecting weapons and explosives,” said Kumar. The accused were working on the instructions of Umar Halmandi, the head of the Uttar Pradesh module of Al Qaeda, he added.The ATS teams are carrying out searches at different locations in Lucknow as some more members of this module have escaped before the arrest of two accused, said Kumar. Late on Sunday,the ATS team arrested another suspect from the Chamanganj area in Kanpur.A senior police official privy of the investigation, who did not want to be named, said Ahmed’s father runs a motor workshop near his house at Sita Bihar colony on Dubagga bypass, where they have been living for the past 15 years. During the nearly six-hour raid, the ATS team found several incriminating evidence, including two semi-prepared IED-based pressure cooker bombs, explosive materials and a pistol, following which the property was sealed, the official added.The police have also detained two people from Ahmed’s house, while two others managed to escape, the official said.Another team carried out searches at the home of Maseeruddin, who is aged about 50, in Lucknow’s Madhiau and found a large amount of explosives and a cooker set to be used as a crude bomb, an NDTV report quoted officials as saying.The two arrested are set to be presented in court where the police will request their custody, it added.Meanwhile, security has been beefed up at all vital installations in the state, including airports. Checking at highways and bus stations has been intensified.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-ats-major-attack-averted-with-arrest-of-2-qaeda-linked-terrorists-101626028779279.html
12-07-2021||India||3 suspected JMB terrorists held in Kolkata: Police||The special task force (STF) of the Kolkata Police on Sunday arrested three Bangladeshi nationals with suspected links with the terrorist organisation Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), police said.The three men have been identified as Naziur Rahman Pavel,30, Mekail Khan,30, and Rabiul Islam,22, police said in a press conference. The police are trying to find out if the three men had plans to carry out a terror attack in Kolkata. The suspects were living in a rented apartment at Haridevpur in the outskirts of Kolkata, said V Solomon Nesakumar, joint commissioner of police, STF.The arrested men posed as traders and used to sell fruits and mosquito nets, police said.“Militant literature and documents seized from the suspects prove their links with JMB. Fake identity cards were also seized. There is a diary that contains the names of Islamic State (IS) leaders,” Nesakumar added.“We have scrutinized their social media profiles. There is proof of their links with JMB terrorists,” said Aparajita Rai, deputy commissioner of police, STF. “These men had links with Al Amin, the JMB leader based in Bangladesh,” she added.The arrested men were being interrogated, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-suspected-jmb-terrorists-held-in-kolkata-police-101626028778086.html
12-07-2021||India||Chaos shrouds the hills amid influx of tourists||Thousands of tourist vehicles have been turned away from hill stations close to Delhi over the last few days for not meeting travel document requirements linked to Covid-19, with traffic snarls being reported in popular destinations because of a heavy rush of visitors amid a heatwave in the northern plains and a significant decline in infections, officials said on Sunday.The Union health ministry said last week that a spurt in travel after lifting of Covid-19 restrictions — the government termed it “revenge travel” — led to “frightening” scenes of overcrowding in hill stations that could lead to increased outbreaks of the infectious disease. Visuals from tourist destinations point out violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour, with people not wearing masks or ensuring social distancing.Heavy traffic jams have been reported on highways in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh over the last few days. Records of the Uttarakhand Police show that close to 4,000 vehicles were denied entry to hill stations, an official said, asking not to be named. The official said those who did not have negative Covid-19 test reports and advance booking confirmation for hotels were being turned away as per “well-publicised” protocol for visitors.“We are stopping tourists who do not have a negative test report, online hotel booking confirmation and registration on smart city portal,” Mussoorie Police station incharge Rajeev Rauthan said. About 3,900 tourist vehicles were not allowed into Mussoorie and nearby areas, and 550 were stopped in Nainital, according to official records reviewed by HT.Visuals showed tourists being stuck in traffic as a long queue of vehicles choked a key road in Mussoorie on Saturday. Similar snarls were reported on Sunday.Ramesh Talwar, a resident of Green Park Extension in New Delhi, said: “My family has been stuck in our apartment for the past one year... When we have reached the outskirts of the town, the police didn’t let us enter the town... We had made a booking in a hotel.” However, the police said Talwar did not possess a negative Covid-19 report, an urgent requirement to allow travel.While Uttar Pradesh resident Pankaj Rathore said he was turned away because he had a negative rapid antigen test report (RAT) and not one conducted with the RT-PCR method, official documents detailing the guidelines said RAT reports were permitted for travel.As the tourist influx increased in Uttarakhand, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Friday said the state government issued an order to allow only 50% occupancy at hotels in Nainital and Dehradun.Many hoteliers and travel companies in hill stations say this is a make-or-break summer for them as their revenues have taken a hit since March last year, the first time travel restrictions came into effect to control the spiralling spread of Covid-19. Health experts warn that non-compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour at this juncture could result in a dangerous third wave of infections. The second wave, which has peaked but is still lingering, overwhelmed the health care infrastructure across the country, prompting many states to clamp lockdowns.Ashok Kumar, director general of police (DGP), Uttarakhand, said the restrictions have been put in place to ensure that the Covid-19 precautions are strictly implemented. “Some tourists faced some inconvenience after being turned back but it is necessary to ensure the health safety of people...”Dinesh Chandra Sah, president the Nainital Hotel and Restaurant Association, said with police returning tourists, many are calling to find out if they will be allowed to enter Nainital. “Many have also cancelled hotel bookings but there are also many who couldn’t come as they were stopped,” he said.In Himachal Pradesh, the growing rush of tourists, particularly during the weekends, has pushed the state government to deploy additional police personnel in hill stations. “More than 1.3 million tourists have visited Himachal Pradesh since May. Of them, about 600,000 came to the state since June-end, when Covid-19 restrictions were eased,” said state tourism director Amit Kashyap. Close to 10,000 vehicles crossed the Parwanoo border on Saturday, he said.“Hotel occupancy in Himachal Pradesh, which was almost nil when the pandemic was raging, has now gone up to about 80%,” he added. The state government has not imposed any limit on hotel bookings in the state and, but it has not made negative Covid-19 test reports mandatory for visitors.Ajit Kumar, a resident of Shimla, said: “It’s true that our economy is dependent on tourists but they should follow Covid protocol...”Images on social media of tourist frenzy at Atal Tunnel in Manali, at Kempty Falls in Mussoorie and several other tourist locations in the hills have led to concerns among health experts and officials over a possible rise in cases of Covid-19 again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaos-shrouds-the-hills-amid-influx-of-tourists-101626028658077.html
12-07-2021||India||Arun Kumar to oversee BJP-RSS coordination||Joint general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Arun Kumar has been given charge as the points person for coordination between the Sangh and its political arm, the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP).Arun Kumar, who is from Delhi and earlier held the position of All India Prachar Pramukh, will replace Krishna Gopal, also a joint general secretary who held the position since 2014.Kumar also held the post of prant Pracharak of Haryana and spent a considerable length of time in Jammu and Kashmir. He was instrumental in shaping a campaign to create awareness about article 370 that gave the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir its special status. The Article was read down by Parliament in 2019.According to a person aware of the details, the coordinator has a key role in monitoring the functioning of the BJP, and ensuring a smooth coordination between the Sangh and the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arun-kumar-to-oversee-bjp-rss-coordination-101626028239886.html
12-07-2021||India||Covid-hit doctor airlifted to Hyderabad for lung transplant||A resident doctor at the gynaecology department of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here, who has been battling for her life since Covid-19 caused irreparable damage to her lungs in April, was on Sunday airlifted to Hyderabad for a transplant.30-year-old Dr Sharda Suman was taken in an ambulance from the RMLIMS campus at around 10.40am. “She will undergo lung transplant surgery at the Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) hospital,” said Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson for the institute.Dr Sharda reached KIMS hospital and was admitted to Medical ICU4 (MICU4)..., said the RMLIMS administration in a press statement in the evening. “Her condition is stable as per medical details received,” said the statement issued at 6.30pm.The state government sanctioned ₹1.50 crore for the transplant, Dr Srikesh Singh said.Dr Sharda was on duty in the Covid ward despite being pregnant and had tested positive for Covid in April. Later, her condition worsened. She had to be put on ECMO (extra corporeal membrane oxygenation) support,which works as artificial lungs. Dr Sharda Suman later tested negative for Covid. An expert panel recommended lung transplant. A team from KIMS reached RMLIMS on July 10 and prepared for her shifting, said Dr Srikesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covidhit-doc-airlifted-to-hyd-for-lung-transplant-101626028178172.html
12-07-2021||India||UP, Assam’s population control policies in line with RSS demand||The announcement by two Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states, Uttar Pradesh and Assam, about their intent to introduce a population control policy is in line with the demand of the party’s ideological fount, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, for a nationwide policy to check what it calls “demographic imbalance”.On Sunday, UP, the most populous state in the country with an estimated 220 million population, announced a new policy that will incentivise population control. A draft bill of the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilisation and Welfare) Bill, 2021, has been created by the state’s law commission with the intent to incentivise those with two children through preference in government jobs and social schemes such as free or subsidised ration.In Assam, a similar policy is being discussed. In the state with an estimated population of 36 million, the government is also considering a two-child policy for access to government schemes. In 2017, the government introduced the Population and Women Empowerment policy that mandated government officials to abide by the two-child norm. Notably, SC and ST communities and tea garden workers in the state will be exempt from this policy.For long, the RSS has advocated a pan-Indian law that would be uniform for all communities and override religious or social restrictions pertaining to family planning. The policy, the Sangh functionaries explain, will check the “imbalance” in total fertility rates (TFR) or the average number of children a woman will have during her childbearing years, claiming that even in states with the ideal TFR of 2.1 such as Kerala, there is a mismatch among communities.In 2018, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat pitched for a common law to ensure “demographic balance”. He said there should be a population policy applicable to everyone and implemented without exception.While the opponents of the RSS and the BJP perceive the population control policies as coercive and intended against minority communities, senior functionaries of the Sangh say the intent of a uniform law is to bring uniformity in the TFR rates and in turn stabilise India’s burgeoning population.“In 2015, when the RSS, passed a resolution seeking a population policy, it clarified that the policy should be drafted keeping in view the availability of natural resources...,” said an RSS functionary, asking not to be named.The clarification notwithstanding, the resolution makes a pointed reference to the Sangh’s concerns about what it calls “severe demographic changes” brought forth by its analysis of the religious data of Census 2011. “Vast differences in growth rates of different religious groups, infiltration and conversion resulting in religious imbalance of the population ratio ... may emerge as a threat to the unity, integrity and cultural identity of the country,” the resolution had said.Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, while speaking in Rampur on Sunday defended the policy and said population control is the need of the hour.SY Quraishi, former chief election commissioner and author of the book, The Population Myth: Islam, Family Planning and Politics in India, however, said 25 of the 29 states have already reached the ideal TFR of 2.1 without coercion, and any forced intervention will lead to a backlash from all communities. “The population of Muslims is not increasing any faster than that of Hindus. Muslims are increasingly adopting family planning measures faster than Hindus and 20 years ago if Hindus had one child and Muslims had 2.1 that difference has now come down to half a child,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assam-s-population-control-policies-in-line-with-rss-demand-101626028058192.html
12-07-2021||India||Delayed monsoon hits sowing of kharif crops||Planting of kharif or summer-sown crops has been hit by patchy rains in many parts of the country as the southwest monsoon showed a seasonal deficit of more than 5% for the first time this year on July 10.Forecasters said the rain-bearing system should reactivate soon. But the total acreage of kharif crops stood at 49 million hectares, nearly 11% less than 55 million hectares sown during the corresponding period last year, data from the agriculture ministry showed.Monsoon for the season was 7% deficient between June 1 and July 10, latest available data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed.While rains were plentiful after their onset in the first week of June, the rain-bearing system entered a hiatus around June 19 driven by unfavourable weather patterns.The monsoon is critical for Asia’s third largest economy, as nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area doesn’t have irrigation access and half of the country’s population depends on a farm-derived income. The rains also replenish more than 100 nationally important reservoirs, critical for drinking water, power supply and irrigation.Millions of farmers depend on the rains to sow a range of summer crops, such as rice, oilseeds, pulses, millets, sugarcane, and cotton. Driven by robust showers during the 2020 kharif season, sowing of kharif crops had picked up sharply, exceeding normal levels in June 2020.As on July 10, 2021, the area under rice, a key driver of farm incomes, stands at 11 million hectares compared to a normal area of 11.6 million hectares during the corresponding period. Acreage of total coarse cereals, which includes millets such as jowar, has been estimated to be 7.3 million hectares so far compared to a normal of 8.7 million hectares, the ministry’s data showed.On June 25, total sown area was 21% lower compared to the area cultivated in the same period a year ago.The rains turned deficient from June 21, IMD data shows. The week ending June 30, rainfall for the whole country was 30.2% below the “long-period average”, which is considered the normal level.The IMD has forecast normal rainfall for July, saying that the monsoon should pick up by mid-July. “Monthly rainfall for July 2021 over the country as a whole is most likely to be normal (94 to 106 % of Long Period Average),” its latest bulletin for July rainfall stated.Meteorological subdivisions such as east Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, east Rajasthan, west Rajasthan, parts of Gujarat region, Saurashtra, Kutch, Vidarbha, Madhya Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, coastal Karnataka, and south interior Karnataka received lower than average precipitation, the data showed.“July rainfall is the most critical during the four-month kharif season. In areas where irrigation is not available, there will be impact in sowing..,” said Jeet Singh Sandhu, vice-chancellor of the SKN Agricultural University, Jaipur.Till July 9, the actual cumulative monsoon rainfall received in the country stood at 223 mm against a normal of 234.5 mm between June 1 and July 9.An agriculture ministry official said sowing was less than normal in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana, and Punjab due to erratic rain or little rain during the monsoon period so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delayed-monsoon-hits-sowing-of-kharif-crops-101626027938709.html
12-07-2021||India||Yogi unveils policy to curb population growth in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday unveiled a population policy which is aimed at stabilising the state’s population and reducing maternal and infant deaths.The Uttar Pradesh Population Policy 2021-2030, unveiled on the occasion of World Population Day, also aims at bringing down the gross fertility rate among women to 2.1 by 2026 and to 1.9 by 2030.Calling the rising population a “hurdle in development”, Adityanath said, “Our first job is to create awareness among the masses to control population growth.”“Population control is directly connected with awareness among the people and poverty,” he said.The announcement has come days after the a draft of the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill was put up on the website of the UP State Law Commission inviting suggestions from the public by July 19.The policy proposes to make people with more than two children ineligible for government jobs, disentitle those already in service to promotions and exclude them from benefits of 77 schemes.Under the policy, people who have more than two children will be prohibited from contesting local body elections or receiving any kind of subsidy. It also proposes incentives such as tax rebates for those with up to two children.Unveiling the policy on Sunday, Adityanath said, “Across the world, concerns have been raised from time to time about increasing population being a hurdle in development. Discussions on it have been going on for the four decades.”“The countries and states which have made efforts in this direction have seen positive results. However, more efforts are needed,” he said, adding the Uttar Pradesh government was implementing this policy keeping in mind all sections of the society.Uttar Pradesh is India’s most populous state with a population of around 220 million.The chief minister also linked the gap between the birth of two children to malnutrition and the child mortality rate. The health of a mother and her child have to be linked with this, the CM said.The policy also proposes to ensure better facilities for the elderly and better education, besides health and nutrition for adolescents between 11 and 19 years.The state’s health minister Jai Pratap Singh said, “It is estimated that our (India’s) population will overtake China by 2027. If we implement the new population policy, then it is estimated that the population of this state will stabilise by 2052.”The population policy and the draft bill for population control have become a political flashpoint in the state where elections are slated to be held early next year.Questioning the timing of unveiling the policy, Congress leader Priyanka Gupta said, “Why did the BJP get reminded of bringing this policy when barely six months are left for the election? The government must ensure that the policy does not have any adverse impact on the poor. Till now, no awareness programme has run... they (BJP government) came up with this only to divert the attention of the people from the serious issue of unemployment. It wants to send the public a message that it is the population which is responsible for unemployment, and not the government.”Hitting out at the BJP government over its draft population control bill, Samajwadi Party MP Shafiqur Rahman Barq asked where will India get manpower in case of war if people are not allowed to procreate. “As far as Yogi (Adityanath), PM (Narendra) Modi and (RSS chief) Mohan Bhagwat are concerned, do not have children... This (draft population control bill) will prove to be a loss-making deal,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-unveils-policy-to-curb-population-growth-in-up-101626027938020.html
12-07-2021||India||Allies may be key for BJP in V-P and presidential polls||The upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, the forthcoming Rajya Sabha biennial polls, and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s equations with its allies and other parties will be crucial for the party’s performance in the presidential and vice-presidential elections scheduled to be held next year, according to people aware of the developments.As on date, the BJP doesn’t have the required majority to push its presidential candidate alone. The ruling party has 474,102 votes of the total 1,098,903 in the presidential electoral college. The halfway mark is 549,452 votes.The President is elected by votes of MPs and MLAs in accordance with the system of proportional representation where each vote is given weightage proportionate to the population represented by the lawmaker. An MLA of Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state, carries the highest weightage of 208. The value of an MP’s vote is 708.The BJP faces two big elections in UP and Punjab before the presidential election is declared in July next year. In the UP assembly, it currently holds 305 seats, which translate to 63,440 votes in the electoral college. In Punjab, on the other hand, the BJP has just two MLAs.Apart from a good performance in these two elections, the other factor that can help the BJP improve its standing in the presidential race would be the forthcoming Rajya Sabha biennial polls.Between now and June 2022, 41 Rajya Sabha seats, including six nominated ones, would see elections. These seats are distributed over 13 states, including Assam, Tripura, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh.Any gains made by the BJP in these polls will further improve its chances in the presidential and vice-presidential polls.The party is focusing on retaining Uttar Pradesh as the outcome in the state can have a major impact on its strength in the Upper House. “Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur have limited impact by way of their respective House strength, and in Punjab, the party is not expecting to do well owing to the mood on the ground about the farm legislation. That leaves only UP to focus on,” said a BJP member who asked not to be named.In the Rajya Sabha, where the BJP is the single largest party, it is still short of majority that would reduce the party’s dependence on allies and friendly parties for passage of key and controversial bills and for eliciting support for its candidates for the presidential and vice-presidential elections. In the VP poll, only parliamentarians are entitled to a vote.Nominated members are barred from participating in the presidential poll as they are selected by the President, but in the past seven years, many nominated MPs have given up their independent status and joined the ruling BJP, making them eligible for voting in the presidential elections.As on date, the BJP has 94 members in the Upper House of Parliament and is hopeful of bagging more after the biennial elections are held in 2022, though it appears unlikely that the party will reach the halfway mark of 123.It requires National Democratic Alliance partners as well as supporting parties such as AIADMK, Naveen Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal, Jagan Mohan Reddy’s ruling YSR Congress Party and K Chandrasekhar Rao’s Telangana Rashtra Samithi.The party has also begun working on its ties with its allies. Parties such as the Janata Dal (United), Republican Party of India, Apna Dal, Lok Janshakti Party have found a place in the Union council of ministers in an attempt to strengthen ties and address their concerns of not being given their due. The party has also made a concerted effort to smoothen ties with parties that are not NDA allies but are considered friendly parties such the YSRCP, AIADMK, BJD and TRS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allies-may-be-key-for-bjp-in-v-p-and-presidential-polls-101626027638068.html
12-07-2021||India||Twitter appoints grievance officer||Twitter has appointed a resident grievance officer, days after designating a chief compliance officer, as it also released its first transparency report with regard to the new IT rules on Sunday, a day when new minister for electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw held a review meeting to discuss the social media and intermediary guidelines.The new guidelines, which were rolled out in February and that demanded extra due diligence from social media intermediaries such as Facebook and Twitter, have been at the centre of a debate recently. The rules also brought digital news media outlets, including websites of traditional news media platforms, and over-the-top content providers such as Netflix and Amazon, under the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021.“Reviewed the implementation and compliance of Information Technology Rules, 2021 along with my colleague Shri Rajeev Chandrasekhar Ji. These guidelines are empowering and protecting users and will ensure a safer and responsible social media ecosystem in India,” Vaishnaw posted on Koo, the domestic alternative to Twitter. Chandrashekar is minister of state for MeitY.The new minister was briefed about the status of the compliance of each firm, an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The move to bring in the new rules saw pushback from many stakeholders, with eight different legal challenges being lodged in various high courts. Though some intermediaries complied with the guidelines, the government has been locked in an escalating conflict with Twitter.The US social media company’s website has listed Vinay Prakash as the new grievance officer, providing contact details and procedure for users to report potential violations of its rules and terms.Twitter previously appointed Dharmendra Chatur as its interim grievance officer for India after the new IT rules came into force. However, Chatur stepped down within weeks of taking over. California-based Jeremy Kessel was named as India’s grievance redressal officer, on the platform’s website – although the appointment did not meet the requirements of IT rules that mandate key officers – grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer – to be resident in India.Twitter’s website on Sunday showed Vinay Prakash as the resident grievance officer (RGO). Users can contact him using an email ID listed on the page. “Twitter can be contacted in India at the following address: 4th Floor, The Estate, 121 Dickenson Road, Bangalore 560 042,” the page said.Prakash’s name appears along with Kessel, who is the Global Legal Policy Director, and is based in the US. Twitter did not share additional details of the new resident grievance officer.The company previously informed the Delhi high court that it made new interim appointments and sought eight weeks to make permanent ones.A ministry official said Vaishnaw was apprised on the status of compliance of each social media firm, as significant social media intermediaries, which have five million users or above, have to appoint a grievance redressal officer, a nodal contact person and a compliance officer. While most of the prominent social media firms such as Google, WhatsApp and Facebook have made the key appointment, whether or not Twitter is fully compliant is unclear. The official declined to comment on the status of Twitter’s compliance with the new guidelines. “The issue of Twitter was discussed, as was every other social media firm,” the official said, asking not to be named.The social media company also published its first grievance redressal report, saying that it actioned 133 posts for reasons ranging from harassment to privacy infringement, and suspended over 18,000 accounts for “child sexual exploitation and non-consensual nudity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-appoints-grievance-officer-101626026918050.html
12-07-2021||India||India pulls its staff out of Kandahar for now||India evacuated about 50 officials and security personnel from Kandahar in an air force aircraft following intense clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters who seized key areas near the city in southern Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said on Sunday.The evacuation was done on Saturday, just four days after India said there were no imminent plans to close its mission in Kabul and consulates in the cities of Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif. However, officials previously said India is closely tracking the deteriorating security situation across Afghanistan and all steps would be taken to ensure that Indian officials and nationals were not put in harm’s way.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “The consulate general of India in Kandahar has not been closed. However, due to the intense fighting near Kandahar city, India-based personnel have been brought back for the time being.” He didn’t give details of the evacuation.“India is closely monitoring the evolving security situation in Afghanistan. The safety and security of our personnel is paramount,” Bagchi said.He described the evacuation as a “purely temporary measure until the situation stabilises”, and said the consulate “continues to operate through our local staff members”.Arrangements are being made to ensure continued delivery of visa and consular services through the Indian embassy in Kabul. “As an important partner of Afghanistan’s, India remains committed to a peaceful, sovereign and democratic Afghanistan,” Bagchi said.Among those flown out to New Delhi were diplomats, support staff and guards from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. They added that a very limited number of officials remained at the consulate.The presence of hundreds of terrorists from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the southern provinces of Kandahar and Helmand provinces is believed to have been a factor in India’s decision to pull out officials and security personnel from the city.According to a recent estimate by Afghan security agencies, more than 7,000 LeT fighters are believed to be fighting alongside the Taliban in southern Afghanistan.Kandahar city and the areas around it have witnessed a spike in fighting between the Taliban and Afghan security forces since last week, with reports saying the militants entered the city on Friday after capturing key districts surrounding it.The strategic district of Panjwai fell to the Taliban last weekend, just days after US forces abandoned the Bagram airbase near Kabul.Taliban fighters seized houses in Kandahar city’s seventh police district on Friday, triggering fierce clashes that continued till Saturday. The Afghan military said about 70 Taliban fighters were killed in fighting in the seventh police district and nearby Dand district.About 2,000 families from the seventh police district were displaced and forced to take refuge in other parts of the city.Kandahar, the second largest city in Afghanistan and the capital of the province of the same name, has for long been of strategic and commercial importance. It served as headquarters of the Taliban from the mid-1990s till 2001, when the group was ousted from power by the US invasion.New Delhi has been working on plans to ensure the safety of diplomats and some 3,000 Indian nationals in Afghanistan in view of what officials have described as a “fluid and dynamic” situation because of the fierce fighting across the country. India is also keeping a close eye on steps being taken by key countries such as the US for the safety of diplomats as it weighs its options.The Indian side also doesn’t want to take any steps that will be perceived as abandoning the Afghan government or ceding space to Pakistan-backed elements.In April last year, India shuttered its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad, ostensibly because of the spread of Covid-19, though some reports suggested security was a factor in the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pulls-its-staff-out-of-kandahar-for-now-101626026858185.html
12-07-2021||India||Delhi: Monsoon late by another 24 hours, says IMD||Another day went by without monsoon rain in Delhi.Monsoon forecast by the India Meteorological Department was off the mark for the fourth time this season on Sunday as the southwest monsoon did not arrive in the national capital.On Saturday, IMD’s daily bulletin said monsoon rain will take “another 24 hours” to reach the Capital. The bulletin repeated this on Sunday.This is the second most delayed monsoon onset in Delhi since IMD began documenting the arrival dates in 1920. The only time that the arrival of the monsoon was later than this was on July 19, 2002. The usual onset date for Delhi is June 29.“This century’s most delayed monsoon arrival in Delhi was in 2002 when it arrived on July 19. The monsoon has breached the July 9 mark, which has made it the second most delayed in this century,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD student at the University of Reading in England. He added that the 2002 record is unlikely to be broken.An initial rapid advance of monsoon across India last month raised hopes of a Delhi onset by June 15. That would have been the earliest that monsoon showers hit the city since recordings began, weather scientists said.Instead, unfavourable weather conditions and an unusual “break” spell slowed the progression, prompting the weather department to shift the forecast to a June 29 arrival, and when that didn’t happen, a July 10 arrival. IMD officials said on Sunday that easterly winds are blowing into the national capital, increasing humidity levels and creating “favourable conditions” for the onset, but it is waiting for the city to record a considerable spell of rainfall for at least 24 hours to declare the arrival.“While easterly winds did set in over Delhi, clouds did not form until Sunday. Easterly winds bring moist air, but for clouds to form air must rise, which didn’t happen. Now it seems the monsoon is likely to make an onset on Monday over Delhi,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre, IMD.“As per the standard operating procedure, monsoon onset is declared based on rainfall reported during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 hours IST (Indian standard time) of the day. Hence, though it is forecasted to rain today (Sunday), we may be able to declare monsoon arrival officially by Monday,” said a senior IMD official, who asked not to be named.On Sunday, some parts of the city received sporadic rainfall. The forecast said that gusty winds and light rain were expected over Delhi-NCR on Sunday night and Monday morning, which means monsoon arrival may be officially declared on Monday, IMD scientists said.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, said that the monsoon trough is on the south of Delhi, which is causing heavy rain in parts of Rajasthan and neighbouring areas.“In Delhi, all the conditions are favourable for the onset of the monsoon — we have easterly winds, humidity is high and the temperatures are also decreasing — but we are only waiting for rain. If it rains on Sunday night and through Monday, then we can declare monsoon onset by Monday evening,” said Palawat. He added that Delhi may receive patchy rainfall until Wednesday.The maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, considered representative for the city, was 39°C on Sunday, three degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 28.8°C, a notch above normal. Humidity levels hovered around 70%.IMD scientists said rainfall has begun in central and peninsular India but the advance of the monsoon has been slow.The northern limit of monsoon (NLM) — the northernmost point until which the weather system has progressed — is roughly on the same position since June 19.On Sunday, NLM continued to pass through Barmer (Rajasthan), Bhilwara (Rajasthan), Dholpur (Rajasthan), Aligarh (Uttar Pradesh), Meerut (Uttar Pradesh), Ambala (Haryana) and Amritsar (Punjab).This sluggish pace is likely to result in deficient monsoon rain in the month of July despite heavy showers expected over the next two weeks. Until Sunday, there was an overall 8% deficiency in rain in the country, with 23% shortfall in northwest India, 6% in east and north-east India, and 9% in central India. Only in the southern peninsula was there a surplus of rainfall of 7%, according to IMD data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-late-by-another-24-hours-says-imd-101626026798100.html
12-07-2021||NA||Breaking News Highlights: Fire breaks out in godown in Delhi's Tikri Kalan PVC market||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Fire breaks out in godown in Delhi's Tikri Kalan PVC marketDelhi | Fire breaks out in a godown, set up in an open area, at Tikri Kalan PVC market. 26 fire tenders rushed to the spot. So far, no causality reported. Operation underway: Delhi Fire Service pic.twitter.com/TlqDAxvhYwDigvijaya booked for alleged violation of Covid normsBhopal Police register FIR against eight people, including Congress Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh, for allegedly violating Covid-19 norms at a party event in the city.Jammu Police foil bid to smuggle weaponsJammu Police say they foiled a bid to smuggle weapons and explosives, recovering them from a truck near Jammu city.Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 19Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown by a week till July 19. 100 people allowed in gatherings for weddings and funerals; 200 people allowed to gather in open spaces.Priyanka Gandhi to hold virtual meeting of UP Congress leadersCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi will on Monday hold a virtual interaction with leaders of the Uttar Pradesh unit to strategise for the upcoming assembly elections in the state.Eid al-Adha to be celebrated on July 21Eid al-Adha to be celebrated on 21st July, announces Syed Shaban Bukhari, Naib Shahi Imam Jama Masjid, Delhi.3 dead in Uttarakhand house collapseThree members of a family killed in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district after their house collapsed in a landslide caused due to heavy rain: Shikha Suyal, district disaster management officerMaharashtra reports 8,535 new Covid-19 casesMaharashtra's Covid-19 tally rises to 6,157,799 with 8,535 new cases. Related death toll rises to 125,878 with 156 fresh fatalities, and 194 reconciled deaths. Recoveries mount to 5,912,479 as 6,013 more people recover.FM Sitharaman hosts women Union ministers for teaDelhi: Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman hosted women members of the Union Council of Ministers, at high-tea at her residence today. pic.twitter.com/0jL7sVvDy9Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman hosts women members of the council of ministers for tea at her residence.BJP president JP Nadda cancels Goa visitBJP national president JP Nadda's visit to Goa on 12th July stands cancelled, reports ANI.Delhi reports 53 new Covid-19 cases and three deathsDelhi reports 53 new #COVID cases (positivity rate - 0.07%), 99 recoveries, and 03 deaths in the last 24 hours Active cases: 743Total recoveries: 14,09,325Death toll: 25,015 pic.twitter.com/IFUJWt69UrDelhi reports 53 new Covid-19 cases, 99 recoveries and three deaths, as infection tally reaches 1,435,083. Positivity rate at 0.07%.Maharashtra assembly speaker to be from Congress: PawarNCP chief Sharad Pawar says the three parties (NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress) have agreed that the next speaker of the Maharashtra assembly will be from the Congress only.ATS UP has uncovered a big module, says ADG law and orderATS UP has uncovered a big terror module. The team has arrested two terrorists linked with al-Qaeda's Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind. Cache of arms, explosive materials recovered: Prashant Kumar, ADG Law and Order, UP, on Lucknow ATS' operation in Kakori today.Puducherry govt announces portfolio allocationCM N Rangasamy to hold 13 portfolios while A Namassivayam to hold six portfolios, including home, education, industries and sports.Traffic snarls in Hyderabad due to continuous rainfall#WATCH | Telangana: Continous rainfall in Hyderabad causes traffic snarls and waterlogging in parts of the city. pic.twitter.com/d2ZAnFVd5bContinous rainfall in Hyderabad causes traffic snarls and waterlogging in parts of the city.PM Modi to interact with India's Olympic contingent on July 13PM Narendra Modi to interact with India's Olympic-bound contingent on July 13 via videoconferencing. Sports minister, law minister and MoS (Home) to be present as well.IMD issues orange alert for five districts in KeralaIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) issues orange alert (very heavy rainfall from 6 cm to 20 cm) for five Kerala districts -- Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod.3 suspected terrorists arrested in KolkataKolkata Police's special task force arrests three suspected terrorists of the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh.Pakistan records 1,980 new Covid-19 cases and 27 deathsPakistan's Covid-19 tally and death toll reach 973,824 and 22,582 respectively with 1,980 new cases and 27 related deaths.Expert 'concerned' over tourists visiting hill stations"Second Covid-19 wave hasn't settled yet. If a tourist coming from all over the country reaches a hill station he'll bring virus, and it'll be a super spreader due to crowd mixing. It can be fatal," warns Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.Colleges in Puducherry to open from July 16All schools for students in classes 9-12 will reopen from July 16. All colleges will also be reopened from July 16: Chief Minister N RangaswamyDelhi to move SC against Haryana over water sharingDelhi Jal Board has decided to move Supreme Court against Haryana Government seeking due supply of Delhi's legitimate share of water as already determined by the SC in 1995: Raghav Chadha, DJB vice chairman and AAP MLARussia reports 25,033 new Covid-19 cases, 749 deathsRussia reported 25,033 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, including 5,410 in Moscow, taking the official national tally since the pandemic began to 5,783,333.Two terror suspects held from a residential colony in LucknowTwo terror suspects held from a residential colony near Dubagga in Lucknow. They are claimed to be associated with Al Qaeda.Arvind Kejriwal promises free electricity to Uttarakhand if AAP voted to powerAfter Punjab, Arvind Kejriwal promises free electricity to Uttarakhand if AAP voted to power.At least 12 killed as bus carrying migrants crashes in TurkeyA bus carrying Afghan, Pakistani and Bangladeshi migrants crashed in eastern Turkey early on Sunday, killing at least 12 people and injuring 26 others, local authorities said.'Every community has been taken care of': Yogi Adityanath launches UP population policyIncreasing population can be a hurdle in way of development. Every community has been taken care of in Population Policy 2021-2030: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.Tourist sites closed in China's Beijing amid 2021's heaviest rainfall warningAmid the heaviest rainfall warning of the year, China's capital has closed multiple tourist sites and issued emergency safety warnings for residents.Netanyahu vacates prime minister's residence in JerusalemBenjamin Netanyahu and his family vacated the Israeli prime minister's official residence early Sunday, nearly a month after the longtime leader was ousted from office with the formation of an alternate government.Health condition of ex-UP CM Kalyan Singh improving, says hospitalThe health condition of former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, who is admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences here, is improving, the hospital said on Sunday.Arunachal logs 478 new Covid-19 cases, 2 fresh fatalitiesArunachal Pradesh's Covid-19 tally soared to 39,563 on Sunday as 478 more people tested positive for the infection, the highest single-day spike in July, while two fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 188, a senior health official said.Nominate your choice of inspiring people for Padma awards: PM Modi to citizensPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to nominate their choice of persons, who are doing exceptional work at the grassroots, for Padma awards.Thawarchand Gehlot takes oath as governor of KarnatakaChief Justice of the Karnataka High Court, Justice Abhay Srinivas Oka, administers the oath of office and secrecy to Thawarchand Gehlot.Heat wave blankets US West as fires rage in several statesFirefighters struggled to contain an exploding Northern California wildfire under blazing temperatures as another heat wave blanketed the West, prompting an excessive heat warning for inland and desert areas.Delhi schools allowed to reopen auditoriums with 50% capacityDelhi government allows auditoriums/assembly halls in schools and educational institutions for educational training to function with 50% capacity, reports news agency ANI.Vinay Prakash is the new Resident Grievance Officer for IndiaTwitter names Vinay Prakash as Resident Grievance Officer for India: Company website.Investigation report of fake Covid-19 tests at Kumbh Mela is likely to be received in next 2-3 daysInvestigation report of fake Covid-19 tests at Haridwar Kumbh Mela is likely to be received in next 2-3 days. Report would be sent to Uttarakhand govt for action. 60 thousand telephone numbers have been checked so far. 25 thousand are yet to be investigated: Haridwar DM37 arrested from top Kolkata hotel for partying amid Covid restrictionsAt least 37 people were arrested in the early hours of Sunday from a five-star hotel in Kolkata for partying, defying the Covid-related restrictions, police said.2 firefighters die as plane goes down while surveying blazeTwo firefighters died Saturday after a aircraft they were in to respond to a wildfire crashed in Mohave County, local media reported.India's daily new Covid-19 cases down to 41,506, active cases 1.47% of totalIndia reports 41,506 new cases in the last 24 hours. Active caseload currently at 4,54,118. Total Recoveries across the country so far are 2,99,75,064.Leaders of China and North Korea vow to strengthen ties: KCNAChinese President Xi Jinping and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un have vowed to bring their relations to a "new stage" as the two countries mark the 60th anniversary of a friendship pact, Pyongyang's state media reported Sunday.One more case of Zika virus confirmed in KeralaOne more case of the Zika virus confirmed in Kerala. With this, total 15 cases of Zika virus confirmed in the state: Kerala Health Minister Veena GeorgeArunachal govt mulling lockdown as Covid-19 cases riseAfter recording a Covid-19 positivity rate of over 5 per cent for the last few days, the Arunachal State government has recommended a complete lockdown in Itanagar to curb the spread of the virus.PM Modi likely to visit Varanasi on July 15 to inaugurate convention centrePrime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit his parliamentary constituency Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on July 15, official sources informed.Longer lockdown looms in Sydney as virus cases keep risingThe Australia state of New South Wales recorded 77 new virus cases on Sunday, with authorities warning numbers are likely to rise again in coming days.5.1 magnitude quake hits Alaska in USAn earthquake with a magnitude of 5.1 jolted 285 km ESE of Attu Station, Alaska at 0008 GMT on Sunday, the US Geological Survey said.California wildfire advances as heat wave blankets US WestFirefighters struggled to contain an exploding Northern California wildfire under blazing temperatures as another heat wave hits the US West this weekend, prompting an excessive heat warning for inland and desert areas.Explosion in Sudan port city kills fourAn explosion killed at least four people at a sports venue in a key Sudanese Red Sea port city, medics said Sunday.'We need help': Haiti's interim leader requests US troopsHaiti’s interim government has asked the US and UN to deploy troops to protect key infrastructure as it tries to stabilize the country and prepare for elections in the aftermath of President Jovenel Moïse’s assassination.J-K health workers cross river to vaccinate people in remote areasA team of health workers were seen crossing a knee-deep river to reach a remote village in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri to hold a Covid-19 vaccination drive.Sydney imposes stricter rules to curb spread of Delta variantAuthorities in Australia's largest city, Sydney imposed new stricter rules to curb the spread of the Delta variant of coronavirus.9 dead, 19 missing in Japan's Atami mudslidesJapanese authorities on Saturday confirmed that nine people died and 19 others were unaccounted in Atami mudslides.Thawarchand Gehlot to take oath as Karnataka Governor todayFormer union minister Thawarchand Gehlot will be sworn in as the 19th Governor of Karnataka on Sunday.Boy rescued after wall of house collapses in Mumbai's DahisarA 12-year-old boy was severely injured after a wall of a house collapsed in the Dahisar area of Mumbai on Saturday.Pope to deliver Sunday blessing from Rome hospitalPope Francis will follow in the footsteps of St. John Paul II and deliver his weekly Sunday blessing and greeting from the Rome hospital where he is recovering from intestinal surgery, the Vatican said Friday.Indonesia short on oxygen, seeks help as virus cases soarJust two months ago, Indonesia was coming to a gasping India’s aid with thousands of tanks of oxygen.Today, the Southeast Asia country is running out of oxygen as it endures a devastating wave of coronavirus cases and the government is seeking emergency supplies from other countries, including Singapore and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-11-2021-101625960121382.html
