13-07-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal meets MGP’s Dhavalikar brothers, sparks AAP’s Goa alliance buzz||PANAJI: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) chief Sudin Dhavalikar at a city hotel on Tuesday, sparking buzz that the two parties could deliberate on a possible alliance or an arrangement ahead of the state elections in early 2022.Kejriwal, who is staying at a hotel in the Dona Paula locality of the capital city, spent most of the day holding a series of meetings with the local party leaders. In between, he also met the Dhavalikar brothers, Ramkrishna “Sudin” Dhavalikar and his younger brother Pandurang “Deepak” Dhavalikar, who play the lead role in the MGP.Kejriwal last year announced his party’s decision to contest assembly elections in states such as Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Gujarat. There has been no word from Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) if it will join hands with local parties in Goa. Kejriwal didn’t speak with the media on Tuesday but will address a Press conference on Wednesday.AAP state convener Rahul Mhambre only referred to the internal meetings. “There were a series of meetings lined up with the local leadership of the AAP including one-on-one meetings,” he told HT.Sudin Dhavalikar insisted his meeting with Kejriwal was just a courtesy call. “There is nothing on that as yet. This was just a courtesy visit,” Sudin Dhavalikar said to repeated questions about speculation around his meeting with Kejriwal.“There is nothing about an alliance. We discussed the good work he has done and the good work I have done with regard to water supply in Goa,” Sudin said.“For a long time we had not met each other... now for two months because of corona we had not met. He had even come to Goa once (recently) but we couldn’t meet. I was supposed to go to Delhi but I didn’t get the time,”Sudin Dhavalikar’s MGP was once a powerful regional party that ruled Goa for the first three decades after its liberation in 1961, giving Goa its first chief minister Bhausaheb Bandodkar. The MGP, which had a dedicated support base among the state’s politically powerful Bahujan Samaj, however, has lost much of its sheen. The party has managed to become a part of every government in Goa between 1999 and 2019 when Sudin Dhavalikar was left stranded.The MGP’s three MLAs played a key role in helping the BJP capture power in Goa despite winning only 13 seats in the 40-member house. Pramod Sawant, who took charge of the state after Manohar Parrikar’s death, inducted Sudin Dhavalikar as deputy chief minister on 17 March 2019 but stripped him of his portfolios within a week. Dhavalikar’s two MLAs also defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party government led by Sawant. The MGP, which had three MLAs, was left with just one, Sudin Dhavalikar.Earlier this month, Dhavalikar indicated that the MGP was not keen on aligning with either the BJP or Congress, saying that the party was not interested in aligning with national parties ahead of the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-meets-mgp-s-dhavalikar-brothers-sparks-aap-s-goa-alliance-buzz-101626199137454.html
13-07-2021||India||BJP leaders meet to fine tune strategy ahead of monsoon session||With less than a week for the monsoon session of Parliament to begin senior Bharatiya Janata Party leaders went into a huddle on Tuesday evening to prepare the government’s action plan.According to people aware of the details, a meeting was held at the residence of Union defence Minister Rajnath Singh which was attended by BJP chief JP Nadda, Union ministers Amit Shah, Prahlad Joshi, Bhupender Yadav, Dharmendra Pradhan among several others.The government is expecting a belligerent opposition to pin it on issues such as the response to the second wave of the Covid pandemic which was exacerbated by deficiencies in the healthcare sector.The Monsoon session of Parliament, which is scheduled to start from July 19, will be the first session after the second wave of Covid-19, which took several lives and paralysed the healthcare infrastructure in several states of the country.The issue of price rise is also expected to figure high on the opposition’s agenda. On Tuesday, Congress leader and former Union Minister P Chidambaram said the Congress party condemns the “callous negligence” of the government on the issue of price rise.Around 17 bills are listed for introduction in Lok Sabha, including five bills for consideration and passage, and a similar number of bills are expected to be introduced in Rajya Sabha as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-meet-ahead-of-monsoon-session-101626195115013.html
13-07-2021||India||Not vaccinated? Submit Covid negative reports every week: Goa to school teachers||PANAJI: The Goa education department has asked all teaching and non-teaching staff to get vaccinated “without any further delay”, cautioning that teachers who do not get vaccinated will have to submit a negative Covid test report every week.In a circular issued by the state education department, director of education DR Bhagat said those teachers who either cannot get vaccinated nor can get themselves tested every week will need to produce a doctor’s certificate explaining the medical reasons why they should be exempted from being able to produce either report.“In the interest of the health of the students, all the teaching and non-teaching staff of the schools should get vaccinated urgently without any further delay. The staff who do not get vaccinated for any reason, must submit [an] RT-PCR report possibly weekly to attend their duties in the school,” Bhagat said in a circular issued on Tuesday. “The teaching and non teaching staff members must also ensure that their family members are also vaccinated without any further delay as a precaution to prevent any transmission through them,” he added.As in other parts of the country, schools in Goa have remained closed for students since March last year when the central government opted for a national lockdown and have not reopened since then. As of now, only online classes are held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-vaccinated-submit-covid-negative-reports-every-week-goa-to-school-teachers-101626194154728.html
13-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: SIT close to 1st arrest in Mahakumbh Covid-19 testing scam case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mahakumbh Covid testing scam: 60,000 numbers verified, SIT close to 1st arrestThe committee probing alleged fake Covid-19 tests conducted during Mahakumbh in Haridwar said it had completed verification of about 60,000 phone numbers of visitors, who the laboratories under scanner claimed to have tested for the infection during the mega religious event earlier this year. Read MoreIndian, Afghan foreign ministers discuss developments in AfghanistanExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Afghan counterpart Haneef Atmar on Tuesday discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan against the backdrop of a violent campaign by the Taliban to take control of territory. Read MoreUttarakhand govt cancels Kanwar yatra over coronavirus fearsThe Uttarakhand government on Tuesday decided to cancel the annual Kanwar Yatra scheduled this year in view of the raging the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease and a possible third wave of the pandemic. Read MoreAfter brief delay, Sher Bahadur Deuba takes oath as Nepal’s PM for fifth timeNepal Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba on Tuesday took oath as prime minister for the fifth time hours after he refused swear in seeking a correction in his appointment letter that did not mention the constitutional clause under which he was appointed, multiple news agencies reported. Read More'We have lost one of our cricketing heroes': BCCI mourns the demise of World Cup-winner Yashpal SharmaBCCI have sent their tribute to 1983 World Cup-winner Yashpal Sharma, who died on Tuesday due to a cardiac arrest. The 66-year-old breathed his last in New Delhi. Sharma, who represented the country in 37 Tests and 42 ODIs, scored 2,489 runs in international cricket. He also had 2 hundreds and 13 half-centuries to his name. Read MoreShaheer Sheikh pens note on playing Sushant Singh Rajput's role in Pavitra Rishta 2: 'Sushant, you will always be Manav'Shaheer Sheikh steps into the shoes of Sushant Singh Rajput to play Manav in the second season of Pavitra Rishta. The show made Sushant a household name when he essayed the role in 2009. Read MoreWhatsApp could soon rollout 'Tap to Join' feature for users; here’s how it will workThe latest news about WhatsApp is that the app-maker is working on an improvement to group voice calls feature and that it is set to completely change the way it works. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sit-close-to-1st-arrest-in-mahakumbh-covid-19-testing-scam-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101626190652849.html
13-07-2021||India||Indian, Afghan foreign ministers discuss developments in Afghanistan||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Afghan counterpart Haneef Atmar on Tuesday discussed the latest developments in Afghanistan, cooperation in the fight against terrorism and establishing peace and stability in the region.Jaishankar and Atmar met in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe on the margins of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). They will also participate in a meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan on Wednesday.The meeting provided an opportunity for the two sides to compare notes on developments in Afghanistan, especially the security situation, amid the rapid drawdown of US and foreign forces and the Taliban’s violent campaign to capture territory, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.After his meeting with Atmar, Jaishankar tweeted: “Began my Dushanbe visit by meeting with Afghan FM @MHaneefAtmar. Appreciate his update on recent developments. Looking forward to the meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan tomorrow.”The Afghan foreign ministry said in a statement that Atmar and Jaishankar discussed the political and security situation, the peace process, and “India’s cooperation with Afghanistan in various fields, including the joint fight against terrorism and the establishment of lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan and the region”.Atmar referred to the escalation of Taliban attacks on civilians and Afghan forces in “collusion with foreign fighters and regional and international terrorist networks”, and said that “overcoming this common threat was of vital importance to regional security”.He underscored India’s constructive role in strengthening regional consensus on the Afghan peace process and preserving the achievements of the past two decades.Jaishankar expressed concern at the escalation of violence and stressed the need to end the bloodshed in Afghanistan, the statement said. He assured Atmar of India’s continued cooperation in “strengthening regional and global consensus to achieve a political settlement in Afghanistan”.In a separate meeting with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Atmar described the “presence of foreign fighters and regional and international terrorist networks alongside the Taliban” as a major threat to the region. Atmar emphasised the need for “practical cooperation between regional countries, particularly Pakistan, in closing shelters and ceasing funding sources of the Taliban, and encouraging the group to resume meaningful talks and find a political solution”.The Taliban have stepped up attacks on rural areas of numerous provinces, especially in northern Afghanistan, and taken control of key border crossings and regions bordering Iran, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan. The violence has coincided with the US saying it has completed 90% of the withdrawal of its troops and that the process will be completed by August 31.While India is a member of the SCO, Afghanistan has observer status with the grouping. Jaishankar is expected to hold more meetings with counterparts from SCO member states, including Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi. This will be the first in-person meeting between the two ministers since they held talks on the margins of another SCO meeting in Moscow in September last year.India has repeatedly expressed concern at the spike in violence across Afghanistan and called for a comprehensive ceasefire while efforts continue to find a political settlement. Jaishankar has also asserted the need for having a legitimate government in Kabul amid fears that the Taliban will try to capture power by force.New Delhi pulled out all its diplomats, staffers and security personnel from its consulate in Kandahar over the weekend after fierce clashes erupted between the Taliban and security forces in and around the southern Afghan city.In a separate development, an 11-member team of Afghan politicians is expected to travel to Qatar by the end of this week for talks with the Taliban, Tolo News channel reported.Abdullah Abdullah, the chief Afghan peace negotiator, former president Hamid Karzai, former vice president Yunus Qanooni, Mohammad Mohaqiq, Abdul Rashid Dostum, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, and Fatima Gailani will be part of the team. It is not clear who would represent the Taliban in the talks in Doha.Abdullah Abdullah, the head of the High Council for National Reconciliation, and Karzai said on Tuesday they expected important steps in the peace process within the next few days.The US special envoy for reconciliation in Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, is also visiting the region and has met negotiators in Doha this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-afghan-foreign-ministers-discuss-developments-in-afghanistan-101626190434552.html
13-07-2021||India||MHA asks CBI to investigate death of 2 Nagaland residents in Gurugram||NEW DELHI: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe the mysterious deaths of two Nagaland residents, Rosy Sangma and Samuel Sangma, in Gurugram last month, a statement by the ministry said on Tuesday.Rosy Sangma died at a private hospital in Gurugram on June 24 after a medical condition. “On the next day, June 25 the Delhi Police (which has a special police unit for the north-east region) received information regarding the death of Shri Samuel Sangma in New Delhi,” the statement said. Rosy Sangma “The family of the deceased has alleged that Ms. Rosy Sangma had died due to negligence on part of the hospital. They also attributed some alleged foul play in the death of Shri Samuel Sangma by the hospital personnel,” the home ministry statement said.Before his death, Samuel made videos in the hospital accusing the doctors of feeding her ice-cream while she was in the intensive care unit, and insisted that their negligence led to her aunt’s death.The local police, however, treated his death as a suicide. But his family alleged that Samuel’s body had marks on his body, possibly due to assault.His family also stressed that he had no reason to give up his life and it was only on his insistence that his aunt - he referred to her as elder sister in the video clips - was taken to hospital on June 22 on account of severe pains.Officials cited above said a formal notification for a CBI probe will be issued in a few days.Several prominent leaders from the north-east including Lok Sabha member Agatha Sangma, former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma and Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik have written to Union home minister Amit Shah to seek a thorough probe into their deaths over the last few days. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma too has expressed concern over their deaths and assured the family that the mystery behind their deaths will be unraveled. Meghalaya-based body – Achik Holistic Awakening Movement (AHAM) also appealed to Union minister Kiren Rijiju for a fresh autopsy on the body of Samuel Sangma.The North East Students’ Organisation (NESO), an umbrella body of several student unions of the region, has expressed deep anguish over the incident. It has demanded a thorough investigation on both the deaths.AHAM described Samuel Sangma’s death as “highly suspicious in nature”.“One does not need to be a medical doctor or forensic expert and just one glance into the victim’s body speaks volumes. There were injury marks all over the body, with broken teeth and swollen lips,” AHAM said, echoing concerns that the police hadn’t done a “genuine investigation” into his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-asks-cbi-to-probe-deaths-of-2-nagaland-residents-in-gurugram-101626190194434.html
13-07-2021||India||Implement micro-containment zones to control Covid, PM tells northeast CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said some districts of northeast were showing high test positivity rate and asked the states to rigorously implement micro-containment zone policy to ensure that Covid does not spread.“We have to be more alert and urge the public as well to do the same. In order to control the spread of the infection, we have to take steps at the micro level to contain the pandemic,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said.Here are the details of his interaction with the chief ministers of different northeastern states.ASSAM: Assam chief minister Dr Himanta Biswa Sarma highlighted the efforts taken to vaccinate the tea garden population at the earliest, noting the importance of containing the pandemic there. The chief minister also informed about the status of medical oxygen production, ICU beds, oxygen beds, isolation wards etc as part of the Covid-19 treatment infrastructure in the state. He requested the Prime Minister to increase the allotment of vaccines to Assam enabling coverage of the entire population at the earliest. Sarma said Assam had followed the ‘Testing-Tracking-Treatment’ strategy to contain the pandemic by declaring more than 6,000 micro-containment zones without going for total lockdown. Both the economy and the fight against Covid were sustained simultaneously, he said. The CM expressed confidence that Assam’s positivity rate will come down below 1% at the earliest. Assam has been recording around 2,500 new cases and around 25-30 deaths daily for more than two weeks now. The positivity rate has been hovering between 1.5% and 2% and the state has over 19,000 active cases. Though the state announced a campaign to vaccinate 300,000 persons daily from June 21 and complete 9 million doses in a month, it hasn’t been successful due to shortage of doses. Till Tuesday, the state has been able to administer at least one vaccine dose to 8.33 million of the state’s 23.1 million eligible persons above 18 years. At 19% vaccination, Assam has the lowest figure among all NE states. MEGHALAYA: Chief minister Conrad K Sangma said Meghalaya felt the delay in the onset of the 2nd wave compared to the rest of the country was a blessing in disguise. “We got to prepare the required infrastructure, augment oxygen generation capacity and others in advance,” the CM said, adding, “Though the graph is plateauing down, it’s not at the rate we anticipated because of the scattered population. In the dense areas cases go up but also come down fast, but in rural areas, the cases increase slowly and come down slowly, so it is a matter of concern.” On the vaccination front, while admitting that it was below the national average in Meghalaya, the CM optimistically said, “We are on the job to improve this and if we can achieve a target of 20 to 25 thousand doses per day, we should be able to complete the vaccination process by end of December or even early October.”Sangma also revealed that it had received 14 oxygen plants, oxygen cylinders, concentrators and other equipment from the Central government apart from free vaccines. 918 lives have been lost in Meghalaya due to Covid-19 and the number of active cases stands at 3,964. It recorded 365 new positive cases on Tuesday and five deaths. The State with an estimated population of around 3.2 million has administered 823,404 doses including 722,976 1st doses and 100,428 2nd doses. MANIPUR: Chief minister N Biren Singh presented the overall preparedness and preventive steps to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and others for support and cooperation at this crucial juncture. Manipur has been recording around 800 new cases daily and 10-15 deaths. The state has currently around 7,500 active cases. On the vaccination front, over 876,000 doses have been administered across the state till Monday. TRIPURA: Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb assured that the state will do the necessary to bring the positivity rate under 5% and reduce the number of cases. The state recorded a total 70,749 Covid-19 positive cases including 714 deaths, as per state health department. A senior health official said that the state registered 400 positive cases and two deaths on an average in the past week with a 5.5% positivity rate. On the vaccination front, the state has administered 2.733 million doses of vaccines including 2.074 million first doses and 659,043 second doses. Currently, the state has a total 190,190 doses in stock. However, the state is expected to receive 22,000 Covaxin and 50,000 Covishield doses in July. ARUNACHAL PRADESH: Chief minister Pema Khandu said that during the past week the state recorded a case fatality ratio of 0.57%, which was the lowest among all northeastern states. He added that despite the challenging topography including vastness, and remoteness, the state was able to vaccinate around 15,000 persons daily. During the past week, the state recorded negative vaccine wastage by administering 1,700 extra doses, by saving from each vial of vaccine supplied by the Centre. MIZORAM: Mizoram has been recording around 500 new cases daily, very high for the small state with around 1.2 million population. The state has around 4,700 active cases at present. Till Tuesday afternoon, Mizoram had administered over 695,000 doses—nearly 592,000 first doses and over 100,000 second doses.NAGALAND: Chief minister Neiphiu Rio told the Prime Minister how the state started its first phase of unlocking from July 11 following the lockdown in May. According to the state health and family welfare department, the weekly sample positivity rate in the state has gone down to 6% in the past week. However, health officials have expressed concern that the positivity rate in capital Kohima, Mokokchung and Wokha districts were still above 10%.The state on Tuesday reported 88 new cases, taking the state’s caseload to 26,140 including 962 active cases. Three Covid deaths on Tuesday have also sent the total number of fatalities past the 500-mark. As of July 12, the state has administered a total of 617,690 vaccination doses, with 97,752 persons having received both doses and 519,938 receiving the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implement-micro-containment-zones-to-control-covid-pm-tells-northeast-cms-101626187794360.html
13-07-2021||India||Himachal flash floods: Yellow alert in Kullu; bar on adventure sports activities||The district administration of Kullu on Tuesday suspended all adventure sports activities as parts of Himachal Pradesh continued to receive heavy rainfall, triggering devastating flash floods and landslides. A 'yellow alert' is also in effect in the district, PTI reported quoting additional deputy commissioner Prakash Singh.According to the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) and the Revenue Department, over 100 people, including 80 students and a few families, have been rescued from the popular Triund trekking route. Four persons have also been rescued from flood-hit Boh village in Kangra district.According to a report by ANI, the floods have claimed at least two lives, while 10 others are missing. The floods have also caused damage to houses and vehicles. In Kullu, at least 25 roads were closed and eight transformers were down hampering electricity supply.Chief minister Jairam Thakur appealed to tourists to avoid visiting high-risk areas following the flash floods.Meanwhile, teams from the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) have been rushed to the state for relief work. The Union ministry of home affairs has also assured of all help from the Centre and is continuously monitoring the situation.On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed concerns over heavy rains in the state. "The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the State Government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-flash-floods-yellow-alert-in-kullu-bar-on-adventure-sports-activities-101626186855789.html
13-07-2021||India||Mahakumbh Covid testing scam: 60,000 numbers verified, SIT close to 1st arrest||The committee probing alleged fake Covid-19 tests conducted during Mahakumbh in Haridwar said it had completed verification of about 60,000 phone numbers of visitors, who the laboratories under scanner claimed to have tested for the infection during the mega religious event earlier this year. Meanwhile the Uttarakhand Police, which is also investigating the alleged scam, said it was about to make its first arrest in the case in the next couple of days.The probe committee led by chief development officer (CDO) of Haridwar, Saurabh Gaharwar, said another 35,000 phone numbers remained to be verified and the process was likely to take 10 more days to complete. However, he refused to reveal any detail from the investigations conducted so far.Gaharwar led committee earlier questioned the representatives of the agency named Max Corporate Services which had subcontracted testing to two laboratories-- Nalwa Laboratories and Dr Lal Chandani Laboratories. They labs claimed to have conducted about 1.50 lakh tests but have been marred by allegations that they had made up the figures by including fake and fudged data such as contact numbers and Aadhaar card numbers.The Gaharwar committee is examining the phone numbers in its investigation to find out the number of actual fake tests conducted. “We had to verify about one lakh phone numbers mentioned in the tests. Of that, we have completed verifying 60,000 phone numbers while about 35,000 are still left,” said CDO Gaharwar. He added that the verification would take at least 10 days to complete.Meanwhile, the special investigation team (SIT) of the Haridwar district police, which is also probing the case, said it was likely to make the first arrest in the next few days. “The SIT has gathered many details after questioning the accused involved and examining the documents. With to the findings so far, it is somewhat sure that a scam had happened in the Covid-19 tests to siphon off money from the administration by the testing laboratories in a fraudulent manner,” said one of the officers in the SIT, who was privy to the probe details but didn’t wish to be quoted. “The SIT would soon make its first arrest in the next few days with the accused from one of the testing laboratories,” said the official. Haridwar’s senior superintendent of police Senthil Avoodai K Raj refused to confirm anything, but said, “The SIT is probing all the angles of the alleged scam by questioning different people. It will soon be completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-covid-testing-scam-60-000-numbers-verified-sit-close-to-1st-arrest-101626185034191.html
13-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand govt cancels Kanwar yatra over coronavirus fears||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday decided to cancel the annual Kanwar Yatra scheduled this year in view of the raging the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease and a possible third wave of the pandemic. This is second time in a row that the pilgrimage was cancelled. Earlier, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had said the Kanwar Yatra is not a one-state affair and his government will take the decision after holding talks with other states, including Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.While speaking about the cultural significance of the yatra, the newly appointed chief minister said his government's priority remains saving lives amid the coronavirus pandemic."Kanwar is part of the Sanatan culture but saving lives is paramount. Government's focus is to ensure that COVID does not spread," Dhami said.Hours ago, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) wrote to Dhami urging him to disallow the Kanwar Yatra this year in light of the pandemic. In the letter, IMA Uttarakhand State Secretary Dr Ajay Khanna expressed concerns about the crowds that may gather for the annual pilgrimage and urged Dhami not to allow devotees from outside to enter the state for the Yatra.Every year, during the Hindu calendar month of 'Saavan' (July and August), thousands of 'Kanwariyas' (devotees of Lord Shiva) from northern states travel on foot or by other means to collect water from River Ganga at Haridwar to offer at Shiva temples in their areas as part of the yatra.Dhami had earlier said the yatra is a matter of shraddha (reverence) and aastha (faith), and God would not like anyone to die.Earlier in March, another religious pilgrimage, the Kumbh Mela, was curtailed in light of rising COVID-19 cases and deaths.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has urged that only a minimum number of people should participate in the annual yatra this year and directed officials to ensure strict implementation of the COVID-19 protocol, an official spokesman said here on Tuesday.The UP government, which has allowed the yatra from July 25 despite concerns raised in various quarters over the risk posed by such events, said a negative RT-PCR test report can be made compulsory for pilgrims, if required.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-cancels-kanwar-yatra-over-coronavirus-fears-101626184746553.html
13-07-2021||India||'Good news' in Punjab soon, says Harish Rawat after meeting Rahul Gandhi||Congress' Punjab unit will get "good news" in next three to four days, party's in-charge of the state Harish Rawat said on Tuesday after meeting Rahul Gandhi as the central leadership has been trying to resolve the discord between chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu.Harish Rawat's comment came days after Amarinder Singh met Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Sidhu also met with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.The Congress’ central leadership set up a three-member committee headed by Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge to settle the infighting in the Punjab unit. The panel met all the party's legislators as well as Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu. The committee has presented the chief minister with an 18-point to-do list and it was discussed at the hour-long meeting between Sonia Gandhi and Singh earlier this month.Also read | AAP always recognised my work, vision for Punjab: Navjot Singh SidhuHT reported earlier that Singh's leadership was not challenged and Sonia Gandhi told him "to take Sidhu into confidence." Singh was also told that the party has to be united ahead of the Punjab assembly elections and to be accessible to his party colleagues.Meanwhile, Rawat also commented on the meeting between Rahul Gandhi and poll strategist Prashant Kishor in the national capital. The meeting was also attended by Priyanka Gandhi and KC Venugopal. "Rahul Ji is a national leader. So many leaders meet him and convey their views. He takes input from different people. Prashant Kishor didn't meet him to negotiate something regarding Punjab," Harish Rawat said according to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-news-in-punjab-soon-says-harish-rawat-after-meeting-rahul-gandhi-101626183016711.html
13-07-2021||India||2 more confirmed Zika virus cases in Kerala take total to 21||Two more persons tested positive for vector-borne Zika virus in Kerala on Tuesday, taking the total number of infected to 21, said the state health ministry. Both cases were reported from Thiruvananthapuram. State health minister Veena George has asked people to be vigilant and take part in the ongoing vector-control measures.“We have already started a campaign to clean water-logging [prone] areas and all will have to chip in to contain it. We will do everything possible to check its spread,” the minister said, adding testing of samples of suspected Zika virus had begun in three medical college hospitals in the state and a special Zika ward had been set up in Thiruvananthapuram medical college. Earlier the state was sending samples to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for testing. A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram district was the first case of Zika virus reported this year. Later, she gave birth and both mother and infant were stable now. In one week, Zika cases went up to 21. Later, the Union health ministry rushed a team of experts. Grappling with the high caseload of Covid-19, the latest Zika outbreak has overstretched the health machinery. Medical experts said unlike Covid-19, Zika was not a major threat and it could be controlled with effective vector control programmes. The virus spreads mostly through mosquitoes but can also be transmitted through casual sex, however, the fatality rate was very low and only one in five develops symptoms, they said. The main symptoms of the disease, first identified in monkeys in Uganda in 1947 and among humans in Nigeria in 1954, include joint pain, fever and headache. In May 2015, it was reported in Brazil, where it spread rapidly. The virus can cause a shrunken brain in children and a rare auto-immune disease called Guillain-Barre syndrome, experts said. They add that it was first reported in the country in Gujarat in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-confirmed-zika-virus-cases-in-kerala-take-total-to-21-101626182394193.html
13-07-2021||India||Covid-19 positivity over 10% in 55 districts, cases surging in major NE states: Govt||The number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is concentrated in “limited geography,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday. Data from the ministry showed that the positivity rate remained above 10 per cent in 55 districts spread across 13 states and Union territories in the country. The health ministry also highlighted that some states in the northeastern region are reporting a surge in the number of new Covid-19 infections.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Spread of infection concentrated in limited geography.- JS, @MoHFW_INDIA #Unite2FightCorona #StaySafeStayHealthy pic.twitter.com/x0KtTMfAA3In a regular press briefing, joint secretary of the ministry Lav Agarwal said that the number of districts with more than 10 per cent positivity rate has come down in the country. Data shared during the briefing showed that nine such districts are in Rajasthan, the highest in a single state. It was closely followed by eight districts each in Kerala and Manipur and Meghalaya with seven such districts.Also read | Don't take Covid third wave predictions as 'weather update', says govtMeanwhile, Maharashtra, Odisha and Puducherry contributed one district each to the list. Nagaland has five districts where the positivity remained above 10 per cent while Mizoram has four districts. Among other northeastern states, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura contributed three districts each to the list and Assam added two.However, the ministry also noted that there were 531 districts reporting over 100 daily new Cvodi-19 cases as of the week ending on May 4, 2021, and this number has gradually reduced. While it came down to 262 districts as of the week ending June 2, 2021, it is now at 73 districts as of the week ending on July 13, 2021. The joint secretary also said that the active caseload has been declining steadily and the daily new recoveries have been increasing.The ministry also warned about the surging number of infections in Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh. The warning came following the meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers of these states earlier in the day to review the Covid-19 situation. The ministry also said that central teams have been deputed to these states along with Chattisgarh, Kerala and Odisha for helping in handling the coronavirus pandemic.Warning people that the pandemic is far from over, the ministry pointed to data from other countries globally and said that the infections are surging in countries like the United Kingdom, Russia, Bangladesh and Indonesia. It further insisted on the need for non-pharmaceutical interventions, especially wearing a facemask, in controlling the transmission of the disease. It also warned of the impending dangers of the third wave of Covid-19 as more crowds gather at tourist destinations in the country.On the vaccination front, Agarwal said that more than 381 million doses of the vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in the country. This includes over 306 million first doses and close to 75 million second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-positivity-over-10-in-55-districts-cases-surging-in-major-ne-states-govt-101626180902826.html
13-07-2021||India||All you need to know about Kanwar Yatra||The Uttarakhand government is yet to decide whether to allow Kanwar Yatra this year even as experts have warned that allowing it could spark a possible third wave of Covid months after the Mahakumbh seeded clusters of infections during the second wave. Here is all you need to know about the yatra that in 2019 attracted over 36 million pilgrims:What is Kanwar YatraIt is an annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees, known as Kanwariyas, to Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand to fetch Ganga water. They take the water back to their native places for Shiv Lingams in temples. Amid fears of the third wave and delta plus variant of the virus, the state government last week decided not to allow the yatra. But two days later, after Uttar Pradesh allowed the yatra, Uttarakhand decided to review its decision by holding talks with other states. The government does not seem to be willing to annoy traders and religious leaders months before the polling in the state.Almost impossible to check Covid violationsThe Mahakumbh experience made it clear that it is difficult to ensure people follow social distancing and wear masks during religious congregations. At least 9.1 million pilgrims visited Haridwar for the Mahakumbh this year amid violations of Covid-19 protocols and massive overcrowding. The gatherings coincided with a surge in cases that inundated hospitals and sparked critical shortages of medical supplies. At least six million people congregated for the mega fair in April amid the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic.Also Read | DMs to be responsible if Covid situation worsens: Uttarakhand issues fresh SOPRoughly 100,000 of the rapid antigen tests conducted at the Kumbh were also found fake, raising doubts about the efficacy of testing during the event.Officials in many states such as Madhya Pradesh found local cases that were traced to Kumbh returnees. Between April 1 and April 30, active cases in Uttarakhand registered a spike of 2,392%. The Uttarakhand high court rapped the government and said holding the Kumbh was a mistake.Haridwar, Dehradun and US Nagar reported 855 or nearly 70% of 1,210 backlog deaths reported in the state, mostly after Mahakumbh, in May and June.Kanwar Yatra is expected to attract three to four times more devotees than Mahakumbh. Around 30 to 40 million pilgrims are likely to visit Uttarakhand over 15 days compared to over 9 million pilgrims at Mahakumb. Sanjay Shah, vice president of the Association of Physicians of India, Uttarakhand chapter, said with newer variants of Covid being reported across the country, governments have to be extra cautious. “So, it is very dangerous to allow pilgrimage of this magnitude at this crucial juncture between slowing down of the second wave and the country being on the brink of the third wave. When millions of pilgrims will come, the medical infrastructure in Haridwar will hardly make any difference.”Challenge of managing huge numbersThe Kanwar Yatra was cancelled because of Covid-19 spread in the country last year. A majority of Kanwariyas in 2019 arrived from Haryana (31 %) and Uttar Pradesh (27 %). Kanwariyas arrive in Uttarakhand via Haridwar district, the gateway to the Garhwal division. Nearly 10 million Kanwariyas arrive on foot to fetch sacred Ganga waters. The remaining Kanwariyas arrive on two-wheelers, four-wheelers, trucks, trolleys and on public buses and trains. Prior to 2019, the yatra was not funded by the state government and was managed on the district levels. Since then, the state government has been allocating ₹1 crore for the annual fortnightly pilgrimage.Also Read | 8,000 tourists on their way to Mussoorie and Nainital sent backIn 2019, nearly 7,000 security personnel were deployed for Kanwar Yatra. A nodal Kanwar Mela Force officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police is also appointed for it.The Kanwar Mela zone is bifurcated into super zones, zones and sectors. As many as 50 odd sector magistrates are appointed to administer the yatra.Ananya Bhatnagar, a social activist, said the yatra should not be allowed this year. “With such a huge number of pilgrims expected to arrive, the state government should endanger the lives of millions of people.”Diversion of resources and manpower for the mega eventExperts say when the state is preparing for the third wave, directing huge resources and manpower for the yatra is not a good idea. The same resources and manpower could help the state in improving its readiness for the third wave.“Uttarakhand is not at all ready and does not have the wherewithal to handle the widely anticipated third wave post the Kanwar Yatra. If the state government relents in the face of pressure from larger states like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, the yatra could trigger the third wave not only for Uttarakhand but for the entire nation,” said Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Social Development for Communities Foundation, which has been analysing the Covid data in the state.Nautiyal said while taking a decision on the yatra, the government needs to bear in mind that Standard Operating Procedures are impossible to implement on the ground as was seen during MahakumbhWhat the government is sayingSubodh Uniyal, cabinet minister and a government spokesperson, said that the state government is yet to take a final decision on whether to allow the Kanwar Yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-kanwar-yatra-101626181313953.html
13-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu’s power consumption dips after spells of rainfall||The power consumption of Tamil Nadu witnessed a significant drop after heavy rainfall lashed most parts of southern and western Tamil Nadu last week.During the summer months, the daily consumption peaks to an average of 36 crore units. The power consumption that peaked to 37.27 crores units on April 9 turned out to be a record high. The lockdown announced in Tamil Nadu on May 10 significantly brought down the industrial power consumption as the commercial establishments, including big malls, remained shut.The domestic power consumption at houses went down to 25 crore units during the first phase of the lockdown. As the lockdown restrictions were eased in a phased manner, the power consumption started to increase gradually once the shops and industrial establishments resumed operations. The consumption touched the mark of 33 crore units in the beginning of July.But the torrential rainfall in the southern and western districts of Tamil Nadu last week caused the drop in power consumption. State capital Chennai witnessed sporadic rainfall, too. During this time the consumption recorded a declining trend with 32 crore units on July 8, then 31 crore units on July 9, 28.91 crore units on July 10, 26.33 crore units on July 11, respectively. The rainfall brought down the need for air-conditioning and irrigating the agricultural lands.Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre in Chennai made a forecast that three districts of Tamil Nadu will receive rainfall as the southwest monsoon turned intense. The weather bulletin stated that Theni, Dindigul and Tenkasi districts along the Western Ghats will receive rainfall on Monday and Tuesday. Sporadic rainfall is likely in Krishnagiri, Ranipet, Tirupathur, Chennai, Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts these days.Chennai is likely to get mild showers on Tuesday, the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-s-power-consumption-dips-after-spells-of-rainfall-101626178993081.html
13-07-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: SC admits NIA appeal, bail to 12 accused stays||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to set aside the bail granted to 12 accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case but agreed to examine whether smuggling of gold amounts to a terrorist act under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act of 1967.The Union of India represented through the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had challenged a February 18, 2021 order of the Kerala High Court which released the 12 accused on bail while holding that “gold smuggling with a mere illegal profit motive” could not fall within the definition of a terrorist act as defined under Section 15(1)(a)(iiia) of the UA(P) Act .The above section of the 1967 act defines smuggling of high-quality counterfeit Indian paper currency, coin or of any other material with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the economic security of the country as a “terrorist act”, which is not bailable.The Kerala high court held that the expression “any other material” will not include gold. At the same time, the high court allowed NIA to seek cancellation of bail if it succeeds in digging out material to show complicity of the accused in a terrorist act.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana issued notice on Centre’s appeal stating that the only question to be considered is the question of law arising out of the HC order. The bench was not inclined to interfere with the bail granted to the 12 accused.Additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj appearing for NIA submitted that the Kerala HC’s conclusion that smuggling of gold does not amount to terrorist act will seriously impact pending cases probed by NIA and other central agencies.He pointed out a judgment given on February 1 this year by the Rajasthan high court which upheld charges under UA(P) Act against a man caught for smuggling more than 18 kilograms of gold. This order was later challenged by the accused before the Supreme Court and is still pending consideration.The bench directed the present appeal of NIA to be listed along with the pending appeal against the Rajasthan HC order.The NIA began its probe into the Kerala gold smuggling case after the Customs Department seized 30 kilograms of 24 carat gold from Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5, 2020, concealed within a diplomatic baggage sent from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Further probe led to arrest of the then principal secretary to Kerala chief minister among others. The 12 accused granted bail by the high court had allegedly arranged funds for smuggling gold through diplomatic channels or conspired together for arranging the same.The NIA had booked the accused under the UA(P) Act claiming the initial inquiry had revealed that the proceeds of the smuggled gold could have been used for financing terrorist activities in India.The Special NIA court granted bail to the accused on October 15 last year. This order came to be upheld by the Kerala high court. The accused had questioned the power of NIA to investigate the case relating to smuggling which is punishable under Section 135 of the Customs Act of 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-sc-admits-nia-appeal-bail-to-12-accused-stays-101626181014065.html
13-07-2021||India||Don’t deduct from relief fund without pensioners’ consent: Kerala HC||The Kerala high court on Tuesday ordered that no amount be deducted from the pension of retired employees for the CM’s relief fund without their consent, and directed the Kerala state electricity board (KSEB) to refund the deducted amount to pensioners. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order while hearing a plea of pensioners M Kesavan Nair and EG Rajan which questioned the deduction of a portion of their pension towards the CM’s relief fund under the ‘vaccine challenge’ without their consent or knowledge. The petitioners said they wanted the court to set aside the decision of the KSEB and reimburse amount deducted from their pensions. Also Read | No action for not complying with IT rules: Kerala high courtThe KSEB argued that it was not a forcible deduction and a decision was arrived at after consulting with the association of pensioners. “The KSEB or the state had no case that employees, serving or retired, were under any legally sanctioned obligation to suffer any remittance under the vaccine challenge. The deduction without consent or volition is not allowed,” the court ruled. The government had started a ‘vaccine challenge’ three months ago after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the state will have to foot the vaccine bill of 18-45 age group people and Kerala was the first state to oppose it. Later, the government started accepting contributions from the public under the ‘vaccine challenge’. The PM later tweaked the policy and the Centre decided to procure vaccines for this age group as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-deduct-from-relief-fund-without-pensioners-consent-kerala-hc-101626180593836.html
13-07-2021||India||AAP always recognised my work, vision for Punjab: Navjot Singh Sidhu||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Tuesday the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has always recognised his work and the vision for Punjab amid the bitter infighting between cricketer-turned-politician and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. "Our opposition AAP has always recognised my vision and work for Punjab. Be it Before 2017- Beadbi, Drugs, Farmers Issues, Corruption and Power Crisis faced by People of Punjab raised by me or today as I present “Punjab Model” It is clear they know - who is really fighting for Punjab," he wrote on Twitter.Our opposition AAP has always recognised my vision & work for Punjab. Be it Before 2017- Beadbi, Drugs, Farmers Issues, Corruption & Power Crisis faced by People of Punjab raised by me or today as I present “Punjab Model” It is clear they know - who is really fighting for Punjab. https://t.co/6AmEYhSP67 pic.twitter.com/7udIIGkq1l"If the Opposition dares to question me, yet they can’t escape my Pro-People Agenda ... This means they have resigned to their fate !!" the cricketer-turned-politician also said in the following tweet.The tweets were in response to a video clip that showed AAP's Sanjay Singh appreciating Sidhu about how he and his wife have raised a voice against various issues including corruption and drug abuse. They also come a day after AAP's Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann took a dig at Sidhu and asked him to tweet about the "funds" allegedly accepted by the ruling Congress from private power companies in the state.Mann had alleged that the Punjab government was not scrapping the power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the former SAD-BJP government as the ruling Congress had accepted "funds" from the three private companies that have set up thermal plants in the state.The remarks have revived the speculation that the senior Congress leader who resigned from the Singh cabinet in 2017, might be looking for options out of the party. In April, Sidhu denied that he has any plans to leave the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-always-recognised-my-work-vision-for-punjab-navjot-singh-sidhu-101626179605270.html
13-07-2021||India||New IT rules to safeguard digital space, says Centre||The Centre on Tuesday debunked the claims that the new IT Act only pertains to intermediaries and does not include digital news publishers are untrue.The Act identifies the originator of an electronic message as one being different from an intermediary. While intermediaries only deal with third party content, originators directly control the content which is being published, the Centre said. "In this regard, while the Act provides safe harbour for the content being published by an intermediary, originators are not entitled to any safe harbour provisions and take full responsibility for the content hosted and/or published by them. Publishers of news and current affairs content are originators, and therefore, well within the scope of the Act," it said in a statement.The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Codes) Rules, 2021, formulated under the Information Technology Act, 2000, were notified by the Centre on February 25.It also refuted assertions that the rules are not necessary since there is the Press Council Act, 1978, the Cable Television Networks Regulation Act, and News Broadcasters Standards Authority. It said while the Press Council Act covers newspapers (including replica e-versions of a newspaper), the news portals/websites are not covered under it. "Similarly, digital news portals/websites of traditional TV organisations are not covered under Cable Television Networks Regulation Act. NBSA is a non-statutory body whose role as a self-regulator has already been questioned by various High Courts, including the Bombay High Court in Nilesh Navalakha vs. Union of India," the Centre said.Since the digital medium is format agnostic, there exists a difference in the content published and broadcast by traditional media entities on newspaper and television and the content published by their digital media arms."Digital platforms of many newspapers conduct panel discussions in the audio-visual format. These are not published in the newspaper, but are made available on digital media in the form of videos or podcasts on the websites and social media handles of the newspaper entities. Similarly, digital media platforms of many television news channels publish textual reports and editorial/opinion articles, which cannot be broadcast on television," it further said.Before the notification of the Rules, digital news media was largely unregulated. In respect of print media, the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867 provides for registration of publications, including newspapers. The Press Council of India, under the Press Council Act, 1978, has the powers to conduct enquiries on the basis of complaints and take suitable action including warning, admonition, censor, etc. The Council has prepared the Norms for Journalistic Conduct for this purpose. Similarly, television news channels are required to follow the Programme and Advertising Codes laid down under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995. No such mechanism was in operation with regard to news on digital media.The Centre further said that it is wrong to say the Code of Ethics contains vague and subjective notions like ‘half-truths’, ‘good taste’ and ‘decency’. The Code of Ethics for publishers of news and current affairs content requires adherence to the Norms of Journalistic Conduct of the Press Council of India under the Press Council Act, 1978; and Programme Code under section 5 of the Cable Television Networks Regulation) Act, 1995. These are identically the same norms which are presently applicable to traditional print and television news media under the statutes.The Centre also debunked the notion that the new IT rules seem like an attempt to intimidate the news media into self-censorship, apart from vesting the government with overreaching powers over news content.Calling the apprehensions totally misplaced, the Centre said that the rules neither contain any provision related to censorship of news, nor that related to monitoring of content by the government or any other body. "Therefore, any question of censorship or surveillance of news media does not arise," it says.The concept of Inter-Departmental Committee under the Rules is similar to that of the time-tested Inter-Ministerial Committee which looks at certain grievances relating to the violation of the programme code by TV channels."Over the last 15 years, the IMC has given recommendations by way of Advisories, Warnings, etc in many cases and in almost every such case, the TV channels have accepted the recommendations of the Committee," the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-it-rules-to-safeguard-digital-space-says-centre-101626179039300.html
13-07-2021||India||Goa assembly session: Congress to move resolution against defection||Leader of Opposition in the Goa assembly, Digambar Kamat, will move a private members resolution seeking significant changes to the anti-defection law in its present form. The Congress leader said “there needs to be accountability and responsibility of every elected representative towards the people”. The party has suffered huge losses because of defection. Right after the 2017 assembly elections, when the Congress won a decent 17 out of the 40 seats, one party MLA resigned, and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Down to 16, the Congress then saw two more MLAs move to the BJP the next year. It managed to win Manohar Parrikar’s Panaji seat, bringing its numbers to 15. Of these 15, 10 MLAs defected to BJP in 2019, reducing the party to just 5 MLAs in the assembly.Also Read | Arvind Kejriwal in Goa today with eye on next year’s assembly polls“Today, in spite of the mandate given by the people, the elected representatives violate that mandate. We elect a representative for five years. Our mandate given to the people by our elected representatives is very clear. In spite of that, elected representatives start defecting,” said Kamat.“One option is that such matters be referred directly to the high court or the Supreme Court for an express judgment -- should be given within a period of 60 days. Second, if someone has a difference of opinion with his party leadership, he has an option to resign and seek a fresh mandate from the people. But under no circumstances are people who have been elected for five years should defect,” said Kamat, who himself left the BJP for the Congress in 2005 after resigning as an MLA and contesting again.“I will move a private members resolution in the legislative assembly suggesting that the House should resolve to recommend to the Centre to make necessary changes in the anti-defection law which will stop all such defection and I appeal to all my colleagues to unanimously support this resolution,” he said.A three-day session of the assembly has been planned from July 28-30. The Congress wasn’t the only party to lose legislators to the BJP. Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party lost two of its three legislators to the BJP which managed to win only 13 seats in the 40 member House but formed the government with the help of regional parties such as the Goa Forward Party and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party. Congress state unit chief Girish Chodankar said this time, not a single MLA would defect. “We have changed our selection process. We will field 75-80% young faces in the coming election,” Chodankar said. The state goes to polls in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-assembly-session-congress-to-move-resolution-against-defection-101626179634023.html
13-07-2021||India||Kashmir train service to resume fully as Covid cases plunge||Train services on the Budgam-Baramulla railway section of Kashmir will be restored from Wednesday following marked improvement in Covid-19 situation in the valley, officials said. This will make the entire 137 km long Baramulla- Banihal section connecting north and south Kashmir operational.“The existing train services running between Budgam in central Kashmir to Banihal in south and back are being extended for full run up to Baramulla in north Kashmir and vice versa,” the railways said in a statement.The Kashmir stretch of the railways is yet to be connected to the rest of the country. The standalone section from Banihal, considered the gateway to Kashmir in the south, to Baramulla in north Kashmir is 137 km long and is very popular among the locals. The train services were suspended from May 10 owing to Covid-19 and were partially resumed from July 01. The full resumption in rail service comes when the valley is mostly registering under 150 daily Covid cases, a big improvement from a high of 3,500 cases daily, registered in May when the second wave had peaked. Two trains currently starting from Banihal and terminating at Budgam will be extended to Baramulla from Wednesday whereas another train will start from Baramulla for Banihal at 8 am.The railway communiqué also said that one extra train service will start at 3:10 pm from the north and will pick up the route of ex-Budgam at 4:15.Train services in the valley were also suspended for 11 months from March 19, 2020 owing to the novel coronavirus pandemic outbreak.In Kashmir, railways used to run with high occupancy. In summers 35,000 to 40,000 commuters used train services daily while it came down to 25,000 in winters.The train service in the valley has often been marred by political developments. In August 2019, the service was suspended for 100 days following the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. During the 2010 agitation, the services came to a halt after the coaches were damaged. In 2016, after the killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani, the services remained suspended for over six months. It also remained shut for over two months during 2014 floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-train-service-to-resume-fully-as-covid-cases-plunge-101626178915710.html
13-07-2021||India||Don't take Covid third wave predictions as 'weather update', says govt||The government said on Tuesday the predictions about a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic should be taken seriously as it warned that the gains made so far will come to a nought if people continue to violate Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The comments by Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, came amid reports of thousands of people flocking to hill stations and flouting Covid-19 norms.Agarwal, while addressing a press conference on the coronavirus pandemic in the country, said people have failed to understand that adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour will prevent or cause any future waves of the coronavirus pandemic. "We would like to request to everyone -- when we talk about the third wave, we are taking it as a weather update and not understanding its seriousness and our responsibilities associated with it," Agarwal said.Agarwal said that approximately 73.4 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases reported so far in July were from Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. He added that 55 districts across the country reported a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the week ending July 13.Also read | Covid-19 negative test report must for tourists to enter NilgirisHe also said that central teams have been rushed to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Meghalaya, Odisha, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland and Tripura to support them in COVID-19 management.NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul, who was also present at the press conference, said a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic is being reported from across the world as he urged people to make efforts to ensure that it does not happen in India.Also read | DMs to be responsible if Covid situation worsens: Uttarakhand issues fresh SOPIndia on Tuesday reported 32,906 new cases of Covid-19 and 2020 related fatalities, which pushed the overall tally to 30,905,819 and the death toll to 410,784, according to the Union health ministry's data.Also watch | ‘Covid 3rd wave warning not like a weather update’: Govt warns citizens Prime Minister Narendra Modi also pointed out the issue earlier in the day during a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of the eight northeast states. PM Modi said it was a matter of concern to see crowds without masks and not following social distancing in hill stations."It is true that tourism and business have been greatly affected due to Corona. But today I will say with great emphasis that it is not right to have huge crowds in hill stations, markets without masks. We all need to work together to stop the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic," Modi said.PM Modi urged people not to compromise on Covid-19 protocol to prevent a third wave of coronavirus pandemic and said that experts are constantly studying how troubling the virus could be after mutations and that prevention and treatment are very important in such a dynamic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-take-covid-third-wave-predictions-as-weather-update-says-govt-101626177766357.html
13-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sher Bahadur Deuba becomes new Nepal prime minister and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sher Bahadur Deuba becomes Nepal prime minister as KP Oli resignsSher Bahadur Deuba was appointed as the next prime minister of Nepal on Tuesday. Deuba's appointment came a day after the country’s Supreme Court approved his claim to the premiership, replacing incumbent KP Sharma Oli. Read more DMs to be responsible if Covid situation worsens: Uttarakhand issues fresh SOPInflux of tourists to hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh has raised serious concerns among the authorities as fears of an imminent third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease lingers. With weekend crowds on the rise, the Uttarakhand government has now made district magistrates responsible to ensure the situation in tourist spots does not worsen. Read morePM Modi to interact with CMs of 6 states on Covid situation on July 16Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday meet the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha and Maharashtra, where the number of Covid-19 cases have risen in several districts or have not come down in the recent past. Read more'Just respect the Universe Boss': Gayle says people should be 'happy to still see' him on the fieldChris Gayle might be 41 years old but he continues to produce the goods for his team on the field. After the two T20 internationals against Australia, there was pressure on Gayle to perform as he had scores of 13 and 4 in the two matches. But Gayle bounced back in style in the third match of the series. Read moreAnushka Sharma’s new selfie from the UK is proof of her love for butterfly filters. See hereAnushka Sharma has long been a fan of butterfly-themed filters on Instagram and her new selfie from the UK, where she is currently stationed with her husband Virat Kohli and their daughter Vamika, is proof. She took to Instagram Stories to share a new picture of herself wearing a black jacket with a quirky white print on it. Read moreMahindra Bolero Neo SUV launched: Price, variants, dimensions, features and moreBuilt on the third-generation chassis that also underpins Scorpio and Thar, Bolero Neo's Body on Frame construction and rear-wheel drive helps it brag about its abilities on rough terrain. Read moreShilpa Shetty flatters lockdown style in ₹13k denim crystal fringe pants, topOne can never go wrong with a white top and denim jeans combo but Shilpa Shetty Kundra recently rocked a flattering style in the same as she showed how to add a dash of whimsy and romance to our look while effortlessly drawing attention to our casual style and lift an otherwise unassuming piece. Read more‘Proud of my boy,’ says Priyanka Gandhi in tweet about son Raihan Vadra’s photography exhibitionA heartwarming post by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra about her son Raihan Vadra is winning hearts on social media. In a post shared on Twitter, she shared details about Raihan’s first photography exhibition, adding that she is proud of her son. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sher-bahadur-deuba-becomes-new-nepal-prime-minister-and-all-the-latest-news-101626175452221.html
13-07-2021||India||PM Modi cheers Tokyo Olympic-bound athletes, urges them to resist pressure||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held talks with athletes of the Indian contingent ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. Union sports and youth affairs minister Anurag Thakur, minister of state Nisith Pramanik and law minister Kiren Rijiju also present during the talks. Modi started the conversation by asking the sportspersons about their aims and challenges ahead of the international event. He first spoke to archers Deepika Kumari and Pravin Jadhav and asked them not to feel the pressure of expectations at home.Modi told Kumari the nation is talking about her following her feat in Paris. "You're world number 1 now. Your journey is very special," he said."My journey has been good from the beginning, I started with bamboo bow and then moved to modern bow gradually," Kumari said."...There are expectations, but one expects the most from oneself. So, I am focusing on my practice and the way in which I will perform."Thakur said as many as 126 athletes from 22 states will represent 130 crore Indians in 18 sports disciplines in Tokyo Olympics. "I feel that under your (PM) leadership, our players will be able to give their best in the Tokyo Olympics: Anurag Thakur(Details to follow)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-cheers-tokyo-olympic-bound-athletes-urges-them-to-resist-pressure-101626176951233.html
13-07-2021||India||Covid-19 negative test report must for tourists to enter Nilgiris||Covid-19 test with negative report has been made mandatory for tourists to visit the Nilgiris. The move comes after the Tamil Nadu government extended the Covid-19 restrictions till July 19 but with certain relaxations for the tourists, following which the popular tourist destination has been drawing a large crowd, Dinakaran reported on Tuesday.Though an e-pass issued by Tamil Nadu is mandatory to enter the Nilgiris district, the tourists are eager to visit the hill station after the lockdown norms were relaxed in the state. The district administration fear the surge in tourist flow may lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases in the hills.The Nilgiris administration announced that the tourists visiting the district should possess a Covid-19 negative report along with e-passes. “Visitors from neighbouring states like Kerala and Karnataka will be permitted through the state borders only after producing both these documents. Locals should also keep relevant passes and a Covid-19 report handy while commuting between the districts. Without a report, they will be stopped at the district's border check-posts,” the district administrative official said.The Nilgiris comprise of popular hill stations such as Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri. Called the Queen of Hill Stations in Tamil Nadu, the district attracts thousands of tourists every season. After the state government allowed inter-district travel, these hill stations are witnessing increased tourist flow. Recently, the Kodaikanal administration shut all the tourist spots in the town over fears of a spike in Covid-19 cases after tourists flocked to the hill station.The lockdown relaxations that came into effect from Monday would allow the shops and restaurants to function for an extra hour till 9 pm. Bus services to Union territory Puducherry were resumed as part of the relaxations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-negative-test-report-must-for-tourists-to-enter-nilgiris-101626175316407.html
13-07-2021||India||NHRC files final report on Bengal post-poll violence at Calcutta high court||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday afternoon submitted its final report on post-poll violence in West Bengal during hearing of the case by a five-judge bench of Calcutta high court headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal. The voluminous report and its annexures were submitted in sealed envelopes. The NHRC filed an interim report on July 2. Senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal, who are representing the state government, said copies of the interim and final reports should be given to the state government so that it may prepare its reply. The court asked the NHRC to give copies to the state and all the petitioners, said advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is representing many victims of the alleged violence. Tibrewal filed a supplementary affidavit seeking DNA test to identify the body of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporter Abhijit Sarkar who was allegedly strangled to death by a mob in the Narkeldanga area of Kolkata on May 2, the day the assembly poll results were declared. The court ordered a DNA test by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory and asked for the report to be submitted within a week. The bench had earlier ordered a fresh autopsy of the body at the army’s Command Hospital in Kolkata. The victim’s brother, Biswajit Sarkar, is among the petitioners who moved the Supreme Court in May seeking formation of a special investigation team for probing alleged violence by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers. Tibrewal told the court on Tuesday that members of Sarkar’s family could not identify the body. The court said that DNA samples from the corpse should be matched with the DNA of Biswajit Sarkar. Representing the state, advocate general Kishor Dutta accused Sarkar’s family of not cooperating with the police. He said several attempts were made to record their statements. The five-judge bench of acting chief justice Bindal and justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar on July 2 directed the police to record the statements of all the victims of violence, based on the recommendations of the NHRC and asked the state government to provide medical treatment and ration to the affected families. On Tuesday, Tibrewal alleged before the court that while recording the statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the government was collecting ₹600 from each person for videography. The court wanted to know who is collecting this money and whether receipts are being given. The case will be heard again on July 22. On June 21, the bench dismissed a petition seeking recall of its June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe allegations of human rights violation during the alleged violence. Dismissing the state’s plea for recall, justice Bindal remarked that there are allegations that police are not taking action while more complaints are being filed. He observed that the conduct of the state does not inspire confidence of the court. The TMC government suffered a setback on July 2 when the court took cognisance of the NHRC’s preliminary report which mentioned allegations of murder, rape and arson. The court gave more time to the seven-member panel of the NHRC and asked it to visit the districts, meet more complainants and file the final report on July 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-files-final-report-on-bengal-post-poll-violence-at-calcutta-high-court-101626175073573.html
13-07-2021||India||Sputnik V developer partners with SII for 300mn jabs a year||The developers of Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine and Serum Institute of India (SII) announced a partnership agreement on Tuesday to manufacture more than 300 million doses in India, with production set to start in September.Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), told a virtual news briefing that the developers of Sputnik V are looking at using the vaccine along with the AstraZeneca dose (marketed as Covishield in India) in a “mix and match” format. Results of the first trials using a mix of the two vaccines in Azerbaijan are set to be released in the next two weeks.September will be a “key month” for scaling up the production of Sputnik V in India as SII and several other companies are expected to launch production by then, and RDIF is in talks with the Indian government to allow the export of “some portion” of the vaccines after the immediate needs of the Indian population are met, he said.Though the RDIF-SII partnership agreement was announced on Tuesday, Dmitriev said the two firms had been working jointly for the past three months. As part of the technology transfer process, SII has received cell and vector samples from Russia’s Gamaleya Center.“We have all the ingredients approved by the Drugs Controller General of India and we have started the cultivation process,” he said.“We are quite advanced in the technology transfer process with Serum Institute,” he said, adding the work done over the past few months will facilitate the ramping up of production in the country.On July 4, the drugs controller general of India (DCGI) granted a test license to SII for manufacturing small batches meant for examination, test, and analysis at SII’s licensed Hadapsar facility in Pune.SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said: “We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in the month of September. With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that the Sputnik vaccine is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world.”SII is the world’s largest company in terms of Covid-19 vaccines production. In addition to developing its own vaccine, it currently manufactures Covishield and Covovax (developed by Novavax) and is conducting trials of Codagenix in the UK.Talking about the “mix and match” approach of vaccines – which is now being considered by a growing number of countries due to shortage of doses – Dmitriev said Sputnik V was a “leader in this field” and was the first to start trials along with AstraZeneca vaccines in Azerbaijan and some other countries.“We expect to release the results of the trials in the next two weeks. We are open to the mix and match approach with Covishield vaccine in India. We believe that it can produce a great result,” he said.“We believe the trials in Azerbaijan will show the high efficacy of this approach and Serum Institute of India will be able to produce Sputnik V for a mix and match and booster approaches,” he added.Dmitriev said RDIF perceives India as a major production hub for Sputnik V as agreements were earlier reached with pharmaceutical companies such as Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen.Sputnik V has so far been registered in 67 countries with a total population of more than 3.5 billion. Data obtained by regulators of several countries during vaccination, including Argentina, Bahrain, Mexico and the UAE, has demonstrated Sputnik V is safe and effective, Dmitriev said.Sputnik V has an efficacy of 97.6% based on the analysis of data on Coronavirus infection rate among people in Russia vaccinated with both components of the vaccine from December 5, 2020 to March 31, 2021.Dr Reddy’s laboratories has a partnership with RDIF to market the first 250 million doses of Sputnik V in India and it announced on Tuesday that commercial launch will begin in the coming week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-developers-unveil-partnership-with-sii-to-make-300mn-doses-a-year-101626173393358.html
13-07-2021||India||Prashant Kishor meets Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at his residence in Delhi on Tuesday, days after he held talks with Sharad Pawar of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and KC Venugopal were also present during the meeting.The meeting also comes as the Congress is trying to resolve the infighting within its Punjab unit as chief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu have been at loggerheads over several issues just ahead of the state polls scheduled to be held next year. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka have met Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu separately in recent weeks. After that, Amarinder Singh met Congress president Sonia Gandhi earlier this month to resolve the crisis facing the party in the state ahead of next year’s assembly elections. Singh said after the meeting that they discussed the development of Punjab and “internal matters of the party” and that he would follow any decision taken by Gandhi.Also read | MP Manish Tewari slams Navjot SidhuSidhu has been tweeting about several issues and on Tuesday he posted saying that the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has always recognised his vision and work for Punjab. Before switching over to the Congress from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Sidhu also comtemplating about joining the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP.Sharad Pawar and Prashant Kishor met in Delhi for the second time in nearly two weeks on June 21 amid buzz about a national front of opposition parties against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre ahead of the general elections scheduled to be held in 2024. The closed-door meeting between Kishor and Pawar at the NCP chief’s residence lasted for about one-and-a-half hours.Before that Sharad Pawar and Prashant Kishor met for nearly three hours in Mumbai on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-meets-rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-101626173002419.html
13-07-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with CMs of 6 states on Covid situation on July 16||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday meet the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha and Maharashtra, where the number of Covid-19 cases have risen in several districts or have not come down in the recent past. The next round of these review meetings comes after PM Modi's interaction with the chief ministers of eight northeastern states on Tuesday.The government said later on Tuesday that nearly 73.4 per cent of new Covid-19 cases reported so far in July are from Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. During a press briefing, officials also said that 55 districts in India reporting more than 10 per cent positivity rate for week ending July 13.PM Modi met the chief ministers of the northeastern states virtually and expressed concerns about people rushing to tourist spots and marketplaces without wearing masks and not following social distancing. The Prime Minister also said the pace of the country's vaccination drive needs to be continuously ramped up to deal with the coronavirus pandemic."The number of Covid-19 cases is rising. We need to take strict action to curb the situation at the micro-level. It is a matter of concern," PM Modi said. "We need to encourage people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour," he added.Also read | India has administered at least 380 million Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia's Covid-19 tally is now over 30.91 million and the country's caseload is the world's second-highest behind the United States. On Tuesday, 32,906 new Covid-18 cases, the lowest daily tally since mid-March, were recorded along with 2020 fatalities. The death toll included a backlog of hundreds of previously unreported fatalities in Madhya Pradesh, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. India's death toll has now mounted to 410,784.Also read | India’s first Covid patient tests positive again for coronavirusPM Modi also called for vigilance against new variants of the coronavirus and a faster vaccination campaign to get people inoculated. The Delta variant is spreading in many countries and was first detected in India and now experts have identified what they say is a new variant called Delta Plus.The PM said stricter steps were needed at the micro-level to check the spread of the coronavirus and called for greater emphasis on micro-containment zones. "We need to continue accelerating our vaccination drive," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-cms-of-6-states-on-covid-situation-on-july-16-101626172013957.html
13-07-2021||India||PM reviews Covid situation in N-E; asks states to track variants||In a review meeting of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the northeastern states on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed on strict monitoring of the mutations and keeping track of all variants circulating in the region, adding that the main focus should be to look at ways to prevent the third wave.Addressing the chief ministers of Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Assam via video conferencing, the PM expressed his concern over the growing number of cases in some districts and stressed the need to take strict action at the micro level, according to a press and information bureau statement. “Noting the fast mutating nature of the virus, the Prime Minister advised strict monitoring of the mutation and keeping track of all variants. He informed experts are studying the mutations and their impact. In such a scenario, prevention and treatment are critical, he said, emphasising Covid appropriate behaviour. He emphasised that utility of physical distancing, mask, vaccine is clear. Similarly, strategy of testing tracking and treatment is a proven strategy,” read the government statement.Also Read | Newly inducted ministers find place in key Cabinet committeesThe PM also acknowledged the impact of pandemic on tourism and business, and strongly cautioned against crowding at hill stations without observing proper precautions.“Rejecting the argument that people want to enjoy before the arrival of the third wave, he said the main question in our mind should be how to prevent the third wave. Experts are repeatedly warning against carelessness and crowding as they can lead to massive surge in cases. He strongly advocated preventing avoidable crowding,” read the statement.The Prime Minister also said that there was a need to accelerate the vaccination process. To deal with the myths pertaining to vaccination, PM Modi asked the states to enlist the help of social, educational institutes, and also organisations of religious faith. Keeping in mind the difficult northeastern terrain, he also underlined the need to establish temporary hospitals. The PM spoke about the need to scale up Covid-19 testing in the affected districts. He also stressed on random testing to track, isolate and treat the infected as fast as possible to stop the spread of infection. “There are some districts in the region that have shown a high positivity rate, and the chief ministers of states were asked to pay special attention to those,” said a person who attended the meeting, on condition of anonymity. Positivity rate is the percentage of those who test positive for the virus out of the total number of people tested for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-reviews-covid-situation-in-n-e-asks-states-to-track-variants-101626172553342.html
13-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 380 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 380 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, July 12, even as the tussle over Kanwar Yatra continued, with experts warning that allowing the pilgrimage could spark a possible third wave.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Monday, 381,104,836 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,703,423 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,661,804 were given the first dose while 140,806 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 114,134,915 persons across the country have received their first dose and 3,888,828 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states: Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 5 million first doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the 18-45 age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.With 31,443 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, India on Tuesday recorded the lowest daily cases in 118 days, said the Union health ministry.India’s active caseload is at 431,315, the lowest in 109 days. Out of the people infected since the beginning of the pandemic, 30,063,720 people have recovered and 49,007 recovered in the last 24 hours, said the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-380-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101626168174422.html
13-07-2021||India||Govt’s wrong policies, inept economic management led to inflation: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday accused the Narendra Modi government of wrong polices and inept economic management that resulted in soaring inflation amid the pandemic. The party demanded that the GST rates on certain items be slashed and pre-emptive measures be put in place to cushion people from any possible economic woes related to the Covid-19 pandemic’s third wave. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, former finance minister P Chidambaram said, “This inflation has not been caused by a spurt in demand. On the contrary, private consumer demand is low. This inflation has not been caused by excess liquidity or too much money in the hands of the people. This inflation has been caused by the wrong policies of the government and its inept management of the economy.” He said consumer price inflation has breached the upper limit of 6% while core inflation has moved up in a month from 5.5% to 5.8%. Reading out the inflation rates on pulses (10.01%), fruits (11.82%), oil and fats (34.78%), Chidambaram said, “Will the government please tell the people what they should eat, how they should light their homes and how they should go to work?” Also Read | PM Modi to review Covid situation in N-E states todayThe former minister and the Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala both hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said the government’s pre-emptive action for the pandemic’s third wave should not just include ramping up oxygen supply or the number of Covid beds. “If the third wave comes, the economic situation will be worse. Jobs have been cut and income is reduced. In the third wave, further income cut, job losses will take place. The government must act to cushion people from the economic impact,” said Chidambaram. The party also wants GST rates to be slashed but slammed the government and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for their scant regard for the GST council. “The government continues with multiple rates of GST as well as high rates of 12% or 18% on an array of items, including toothpaste, toiletries, processed food, other food items, home appliances, etc. GST is an indirect tax and by definition it is a regressive tax,” read the statement from Chidambaram. “The Congress party demands that the Central government should immediately reduce, substantially, the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. We demand that import duties be reviewed and re-set so that prices of essential imported goods are cheaper. We also demand that GST rates be reduced on an array of goods that are mass-consumed by the people. We are convinced that these steps alone will bring relief to the people from the crushing burden of high inflation,” the former minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-wrong-policies-inept-economic-management-led-to-inflation-congress-101626168172885.html
13-07-2021||India||Serum Institute to begin Sputnik V vaccine production in September||Serum Institute of India (SII) will begin production of the Russian-made Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, in September, with an annual production capacity of 300 million vaccine doses, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that markets the vaccine globally, announced on Tuesday.On July 4, the drugs controller general of India (DCGI) granted test license to SII for manufacturing small batches meant for examination, test, and analysis at SII’s licensed Hadapsar facility in Pune.“The first batch of Sputnik vaccine is expected to be produced at SII’s facilities in September. The parties intend to produce over 300 million doses of the vaccine in India per year. As part of the technical transfer process, SII has already received cell and vector samples from the Gamaleya Center. With their import approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the cultivation process has begun,” said RDIF in a statement. Also Read | Sputnik V vaccine effective against new variants of coronavirus: StudySII is also currently manufacturing Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Covovax that is the local name for the Novavax Covid-19 vaccine, and also conducting trials of Codagenix in UK.“I am delighted to partner with RDIF to manufacture the Sputnik vaccine. We hope to make millions of doses in the coming months with trial batches starting in the month of September. With high efficacy and a good safety profile, it is critical that the Sputnik vaccine is accessible in full measure for people across India and the world. Given the uncertainty of the virus, it is important for international institutes, and governments to collaborate and further bolster up our fight against the pandemic,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer (CEO), SII, in a statement.India is the leading production hub for production of Sputnik vaccine, with RDIF having reached agreements with a number of pharmaceutical companies in India for manufacturing and looking at about 850 million doses to be produced annually. The companies RDIF has tied up with are Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen for production of the Russian vaccine.“RDIF is delighted to cooperate with Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. This strategic partnership is a major step to substantially increase our production capabilities demonstrating a perfect example of joining forces and expertise to save lives both in India and around the world. With technology transfer underway we expect the first batches of the vaccine to be produced jointly with SII in coming months,” said Kirill Dmitriev, CEO RDIF. To date, Russian Sputnik V vaccine has been registered in 67 countries with a total population of over 3.5 billion people. Meanwhile, Dr Reddy’s laboratories that entered a partnership with RDIF to market the first 250 million doses of Sputnik V in India on Tuesday announced that commercial launch of the vaccine in India will begin in the coming week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-begin-sputnik-v-vaccine-production-in-september-101626167092874.html
13-07-2021||India||Jharkhand readies paediatric ICUs to tackle Covid cases among kids||Jharkhand is sprucing up the paediatric wards across government hospitals in all its 24 districts ahead of an anticipated third wave of Covid-19, with at least a 20-bed intensive care unit in every district hospital. Walls covered with cartoons, colourful curtains and bed covers, television sets and dedicated play areas are being put in place.“The curtains, bed sheets and covers used in PICU (paediatric intensive care unit) are colourful bright. Walls have been painted with illustrations of cartoon characters. Television sets are being installed, besides a dedicated play area in the courtyard. Bookshelves are also being installed to stock storybooks and other learning material,” a public relations department official said. Also Read | Jharkhand’s ruling alliance seeks Central policy on population controlDedicated paediatric wards are being developed across the state with equipment such as infant ventilators, paediatric ventilators, and oxygen supply facility. Officials said districts, such as Koderma, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Gumla, Latehar, Giridih have completed PICU-related work.State surveillance officer Dr Rakesh Dayal said the health department will also rope in private players for Covid management in case of a third wave. “Private child care hospitals and practitioners have been roped in. The government would also help them in all possible way. Our staff is also being trained in private hospitals providing health care to children,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-readies-paediatric-icus-to-tackle-covid-cases-among-kids-101626165713950.html
13-07-2021||India||Serum to produce Russia's Sputnik V vaccine from September: RDIF CEO||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) will begin production of anti-coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V in September, said the CEO of Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Kirill Dmitriev. He said some other manufactures are also ready to produce this vaccine in India.According to a report in AFP, a deal had been struck with SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, to produce 300 million doses annually. "The parties intend to produce over 300 million doses of the vaccine in India per year with the first batch expected in September 2021," the RDIF said in a statement, adding that SII has received cell and vector samples from Russia's Gamaleya Centre. With their import approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the cultivation process has begun, the Russian sovereign wealth fund said.Dmitriev described the partnership as example of "key partnership" between countries and producers. The developers are also looking at using a "mix and match" format with AstraZeneca's anti-Covid-19 vaccine, which is being developed and distributed by Serum as Covishield, and hope to publish its findings by end of July.Dmitriev further said some doses of SII-manufactured Sputnik V will also exported to other countries.Earlier, the Gamaleya institute said the vaccine is effective against all the new variants of the coronavirus, including Alpha and Delta strains.Meanwhile, Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which was the first to sign a deal with the Russian manufacturers to distribute and then locally produce the vaccine in India, has made a soft-launch of the doses in 50 cities and town across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-produce-russia-s-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-from-september-rdif-101626164483948.html
13-07-2021||India||Adhir may be replaced as Cong leader in LS? Here are the likely contenders||Amid speculation about the change in Congress’s leadership in Lok Sabha, several names are being seen as a possible replacement for Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, a five-term Member of Parliament. Here are some of the names:Manish Tewari: A former Union minister, who represents Punjab’s Anandpur Sahib, Tewari is seen as a strong contender. He is deep-rooted within the party, having risen through the ranks after heading the Congress’s students and youth wings. Two Congress leaders said Tewari’s name was proposed as head of the party in Lok Sabha in 2019 but the leadership opted for seniority as criteria for the role. Tewari’s elevation will be significant as elections are due in Punjab next year.Also Read | Monsoon session of Parliament from July 19-August 13, says LS Speaker Om BirlaGaurav Gogoi: The son of late three-time former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi is the party’s deputy leader in Lok Sabha. He is seen to be close to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and known for his oratory skills. But the Congress’s failure in winning the Assam election this year may work against his elevation.Shashi Tharoor: A former Union minister, Tharoor is the other big contender as a lawmaker from Kerala, where the Congress in 2019 swept the Lok Sabha polls even as it lost the second national election in a row. But the case related to his wife’s death may go against his elevation.Ravneet Singh Bittu: The Member of Parliament from Punjab’s Ludhiana was given charge of the party in Lok Sabha when Chowdhury was busy campaigning for the March-April West Bengal polls. Many saw this as a possible sign of him eventually replacing Chowdhury. Bittu too is seen to be close to the Gandhi family. If Tewari gets the charge of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, Bittu can emerge as a serious contender from the state for the party’s leadership in Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adhir-may-be-replaced-as-cong-leader-in-ls-here-are-the-likely-contenders-101626164512868.html
13-07-2021||India||At Covid-19 review meet with northeast states, PM Modi shows concern over tourist rush||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a high-level review meeting on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with the chief ministers of the northeastern states. At the conference, held virtually over video-conferencing, the Prime Minister expressed his concerns over the influx of unmasked tourists at hill stations and marketplaces, calling for greater emphasis on micro-containment zones."The number of Covid-19 cases is rising," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, addressing the chief ministers present at the meet, "We need to take strict action to curb the situation at the micro-level.""It is a matter of concern", the Prime Minister said, highlighting the fact that people are travelling without face masks at hill stations and marketplaces. "We need to encourage people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour," he said.Also Read | 66 districts, over 10% Covid positivity rate: What these 2 maps tell about India's present situationPrime Minister Modi also said that officials need to keep an eye out for the various Covid-19 variants which are currently being studied by experts. "We need to keep an eye on each Covid-19 variant. Timely prevention and treatment are very important in such a dynamic situation," he said.Noting that the Covid-19 situation is "worrisome" in some districts of the northeastern part of the country, Prime Minister Modi called for greater cooperation to prevent a potential third wave of the pandemic.The northeastern states have witnessed a recent spike in Covid-19 cases, despite a decrease in the number of cases across India. The Union ministry of health and family welfare had earlier said that around 80% of the Covid-19 cases in India at the moment are being witnessed from 90 districts. As many as 14 of them are from the northeast, it added.Also Read | Covid-19: Arunachal Pradesh recommends imposing lockdown in capital ItanagarThe Centre had rushed multi-disciplinary expert teams to six states earlier this month, four of which were from the northeast -- Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, and Tripura.A recent letter circulated by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that Arunachal Pradesh is an area of concern that the state has a weekly positivity rate of 16.2% (between June 28 and July 4) and the trend saw an upward rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-covid-review-meet-with-northeast-states-pm-modi-shows-concern-over-tourist-rush-101626162943788.html
13-07-2021||India||2 more cases of Zika virus confirmed in Kerala; infection tally reaches 21||The number of people affected with the Zika virus in Kerala reached 21 after two more cases were confirmed on Tuesday. Both the cases are from Thiruvananthapuram suburbs, state health minister Veena George said."Two more people in the state have been diagnosed with the Zika virus. A 35-year-old resident of Poonthura and a 41-year-old resident of Sasthamangalam. With this, 21 Zika virus cases are confirmed in the state," said George.The first case surfaced on Wednesday last week when a 24-year-old pregnant woman from Parasala in Thiruvananthapuram district tested positive for Zika virus. Two days later, 14 more people were added to the list.On July 12 (Monday), a 73-year-old woman tested positive for Zika virus. On Sunday, three people, including a toddler, had contracted the virus.The Kerala government launched a state-wide vector-borne disease control programme after the cases of Zika virus started surfacing. It also arranged testing facilities at Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode Medical colleges and at National Institute of Virology (NIV), Alappuzha.The health minister said on Sunday that hospitals have been instructed to test patients, especially pregnant women, with fever, rashes and body pain.According to experts, Zika is not a major malady and can be controlled with effective vector-borne disease control programmes. The virus is spread mostly through mosquitoes but it can also be transmitted through casual sex and fatality rate among patients is very low and only one in five develops symptoms, they added.Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, which share their borders with Kerala, have increased surveillance in border districts. Travellers arriving from Kerala through various modes of transport are being checked at the point of entry such as bus terminus and railway stations.Zika virus is transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquitoes that also transmit dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-cases-of-zika-virus-confirmed-in-kerala-infection-tally-reaches-21-101626163498094.html
13-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand: 8,000 tourists on their way to Mussoorie and Nainital sent back||The Uttarakhand Police sent back 8,000 tourists from Mussoorie and Nainital over the weekend to prevent overcrowding during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The police have also set up border checkposts to regulate the flow of people visiting the popular tourist destinations."After videos went viral of huge crowds bathing in Kempty falls, the Uttarakhand government has taken steps to control the number of tourists. People have been given notices to carry negative RT-PCR reports and register on the online portal," said Uttarakhand Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Nilesh Anand Bharane.He further appealed to people to consider other places like Bhimtal, Ranikhet and Landsdowne and not gather at one or two places.This comes amid concerns of Covid protocol violations at hill stations as state governments gradually lift lockdown restrictions.The Uttarakhand government has instructed district magistrates to control the weekend crowd in all tourists places. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) were issued by chief secretary Sukhbir Singh Sandhu on Monday."If the situation worsens in the tourist places of Uttarakhand now, then the District Magistrate will be responsible. They have been authorized to take the decisions regarding the crowds on weekends," the guidelines released by the state government said.The DMs has been empowered to decide the percentage of tourists at a place based on its geographical conditions and the administration's capacity for crowd control.The district magistrates will also ensure strict action against those who violate the rules, the Uttarakhand government said in its order.As per the SOPs, all persons coming from outside the state will be allowed entry only with a negative report of RT-PCR, True Net, CBNET, or Rapid Antigen Test of a maximum period of 72 hours.The Uttarakhand government has extended the Covid curfew in the state till July 20. A cap of 50 people has also been imposed for weddings and funerals.As per the union health ministry, there are currently 932 active Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand. As many as 3,32,957 recoveries and 7,341 deaths have been reported in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-8-000-tourists-on-their-way-to-mussoorie-and-nainital-sent-back-101626161961135.html
13-07-2021||India||Anti-terror law should not be used to quell dissent: SC judge DY Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud has emphasised that criminal laws, including anti-terror legislation, should not be used for muzzling dissent and that courts must act as the “first line of defence” against deprivation of liberty. Justice Chandrachud was speaking at Indo-US Joint Summer Conference on Indo-US legal ties on Monday evening when he underscored that no law can be employed to harass citizens and take away their freedom. “Criminal law, including anti-terror legislation, should not be misused for quelling dissent or harassment to citizens. As I noted in my judgement in Arnab Goswami Vs the State, our courts must ensure that they continue to remain the first line of defence against the deprivation of liberty of citizens,” said the judge. Justice Chandrachud added that depravation of liberty for even a single day is “one too many” and that judges must always be mindful of the deeper systemic issues of their decisions. “Today, the world’s oldest and largest democracy represent these ideals of a multicultural, pluralist society where their constitutions are focused on a deep commitment and respect for human rights,” said the judge. Justice Chandrachud’s remarks have come amid outrage over the death of 84-year-old activist Stan Swamy, who arrested under the anti-terror law in the Elgar Parishad case last year. He died last week in Mumbai while his bail plea on health grounds remained pending before the high court there. Also Read | UAPA’s inherently flawed architecture and the role of courtsSeveral other cases where the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UPA) has been invoked have also courted controversies recently. Only a few days ago, Assam leader Akhil Gogoi walked out of jail after spending 17 months behind bars in connection to a case under UAPA against him over violent protests against the contentious citizenship law. Last month, while granting bail to student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, the Delhi high court made some sharp observations on the indiscriminate invocation of UAPA by the government and police. It said that foisting extremely grave and serious penal provisions engrafted in UAPA frivolously upon people would undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our nation. Sharing his views at the online conference hosted by the American Bar Association (ABA) and Society of Indian Law Firms (SILF), justice Chandrachud also highlighted that the Supreme Court of India, which is the last court of appeal in the country, has a wide reach over its population, executive and lower courts. The Supreme Court of India, he said, provides greater access to individuals by exercising not just its appellate jurisdiction but also its rich jurisdiction by protecting its fundamental rights enshrined in its constitution. About the role of the Supreme Court in ensuring jails are decongested, justice Chandrachud pointed out that during the first wave of the pandemic in March 2020, the top court ordered all states to set up high-level committees to consider releasing convicts on bail or parole, who had been jailed for up to seven years. “When the first wave subsided, those released were re-imprisoned. In view of the second wave in May 2021, the Supreme Court on May 7, ordered that those who were released in the first wave of the pandemic were eligible for immediate release and passed orders regarding improvement in prison sanitary conditions and regular Covid testing of inmates and prison staff,” said the judge, adding it is important that prisons are decongested because they are highly susceptible to becoming Covid hotspots. Justice Chandrachud also said that the Supreme Court of India has often relied on comparative jurisprudence emanating from the US, indulging often in a transnational judicial dialogue. “For instance in my judgement in Navtej Johar Vs Union of India, where the Indian Supreme Court decriminalised same-sex relations between adults, I relied on comparative law developments from the United Kingdom, the European Court of Human Rights and the celebrated decision in Lawrence Vs Texas of the US Supreme Court to hold that there was the growing liberal consensus towards the equal treatment of LGBTQ rights and that India could not be left behind in this transformational revision,” noted the judge in his address. Dr Lalit Bhasin, president, SILF and Joseph L Raia, chair, ABA International, thanked justice Chandrachud for addressing the conference as its chief guest. In his November 2020 judgment granting bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment to suicide case, justice Chandrachud had said: “It is the duty of courts across the spectrum — the district judiciary, the high courts and the Supreme Court — to ensure that the criminal law does not become a weapon for the selective harassment of citizens.” In the Navtej Johar case, a five-judge bench had partially struck down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, decriminalising same-sex relations between consenting adults. In his opinion, justice had examined how, when Section 377 interacts with the existing social and moral proscriptions, its effect is to confine the LGBT+ community to the proverbial closet, causing great harm to their individuality, personhood, and dignity. The legal provision, thus, was held to be discriminatory and was read down to decriminalise consensual sex between consenting adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiterror-law-should-not-be-used-to-quell-dissent-sc-judge-dy-chandrachud-101626162172968.html
13-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD says monsoon has covered the entire country and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon has covered the entire country, says IMDMonsoon has covered the entire country, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD), four days late from the normal date of July 8. In 2019, monsoon had covered the entire country only by July 19. There have been several instances when monsoon covered the country very late. For example, in 2002, it covered the entire country only by August 15. Read more.India clocks 32,906 single-day Covid-19 cases, 2,020 new deaths reportedIndia on Tuesday recorded 32,906 new coronavirus infections, taking total tally of Covid-19 cases to 30,907,282, according to the Union health ministry update at 8am. The death toll climbed to 41,07,84with 2,020 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours. Read more.Sputnik V vaccine effective against new variants of coronavirus: StudyThe Russia-made Sputnik vaccine is effective against all the new variants of the coronavirus, the Gamaleya institute has said. It is developing the vaccine against Covid-19, along with Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF). Read more.Delhi HC directs activist Saket Gokhale to remove tweets defaming Lakshmi PuriThe Delhi high court on Tuesday directed activist Saket Gokhale to remove all his tweets ‘defaming’ Lakshmi Puri, the former assistant secretary-general to the United Nations. The activist had earlier made several posts on the social media platform making allegations regarding the sources of income of the diplomat and her husband, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Read more.Watch: Himachal villager, trapped in flash flood, rescued by NDRFThe National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that a villager was rescued after a long and technical operation over the night at the Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh, where flash floods have wreaked havoc following incessant rainfall. Flood-affected areas in Dharamshala are now left with damaged buildings and vehicles; even the airport at Gaggal was shut down a day prior owing to the monsoon situation. Read more.Watch: Why NDA ally Nitish Kumar differs with BJP's population control pushBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that educating women will control unchecked population growth. Kumar added that he was not in favour of bringing in laws to achieve the end. Read more.‘May his soul rest in peace’: Sachin, Sehwag, Yuvraj & others mourn death of 1983 World Cup winner Yashpal SharmaFormer India cricketer and a member of 1983 World Cup-winning squad Yashpal Sharma passed away on Tuesday due to cardiac arrest at the age of 66. He is survived by his wife Renu Sharma, two daughters and a son. Read more.Tesla would die if I wasn't CEO, says Elon MuskTesla would have died, if he wasn't the CEO - this is what famous EV company boss Elon Musk told to a court defending his position in the Tesla-SolarCity deal. Read more.Vikas Khanna posts pic of stunning new dish, asks tweeple to guess what it isSometimes, pictures of special dishes created by chefs look so stunning, one wonders if even a bite should be taken out of it. One such breathtakingly beautiful dish has been created by Chef Vikas Khanna. He posted a picture of the dish on his Twitter handle and asked people to guess what it is. Can you tell what it is? Read moreMira Rajput is surviving the humidity in this breezy floral kurta worth ₹12kShahid Kapoor’s wife Mira Rajput Kapoor has discoveredthe perfect look to beat the humidity this season, and she revealed the same with her latest post on Instagram. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imd-says-monsoon-has-covered-the-entire-country-101626159016723.html
13-07-2021||India||2 dead, 10 missing, 20 stranded in Himachal flash-floods||As parts of Himachal Pradesh continue to receive heavy rainfall triggering devastating flash floods, at least two people have died, 10 are missing and 20 are stranded in different locations in Kangra district.As per the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) and the Revenue Department, over 100 people, including 80 students and a few families, have been rescued from the popular Triund trekking route. Four have also been rescued from flood-hit Boh village.The SDMC further reported that about 11 houses and several vehicles have been damaged. Electricity supply has been hampered at various locations and nearly 60 roads have been closed in different parts.A yellow alert had been issued in Kullu on Monday, Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Singh informed, adding that at least 25 roads had been shut in the district and eight transformers were down hampering the electricity supply.Several vehicles were stranded on both sides of NH3 in Lahaul Spiti due to a flash flood in a nalla following heavy rainfall. The district Police, BRO and local administration teams undertook restoration work to clear the route.The district Police, Border Roads Organisation and the local administration teams are engaged in restoration work to clear the route.As flash floods and landslides triggered by heavy rains swept away buildings and cars at tourist spots in Himachal Pradesh, Chief Minister Jairam Thakur had appealed to tourists to avoid visiting high-risk areas following the flash flood in Dharamshala on Monday.Teams from the National Disaster Relief Force have been sent to the state for relief work. The Ministry of Home Affairs assured all help from the Centre and is continuously monitoring the situation.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed concerns over heavy rains in the state and said the Centre is closely monitoring the situation and all possible support is being extended to the state government."The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the State Government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas," Prime Minister Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-dead-10-missing-20-stranded-in-himachal-flashfloods-101626159781714.html
13-07-2021||India||Monsoon covers entire country after delay of five days: IMD||Monsoon finally advanced to Delhi on Tuesday, 16 days behind the normal schedule of June 27, as it covered the entire country five days later than usual, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. The monsoon normally covers the entire country by July 8 even as it did so by July 19 in 2019 and August 15 in 2002. The monsoon advanced into Delhi on July 19 in 2002.The arrival of the monsoon is announced based on factors such as wind speed, consistency of rainfall, intensity, and cloud cover. It is crucial to the country’s farm-dependent economy and arrives in Kerala first around June 1 before covering the rest of India in over a month.The progress of the monsoon towards Delhi and neighbouring states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Punjab was delayed as it entered a “break spell” from June 29 to July 8. The “break” is normal for monsoon weather systems and usually lasts around a week. A longer break can affect agriculture. India receives about 70% of its annual rain during the four-month monsoon that is crucial for rice, soybean, and cotton cultivation.IMD’s May 31 forecast for early Monsoon onset over Kerala raised hopes of fast advance across the country. But the Met department revised this at the last minute on May 30 and said the monsoon will arrive in India on June 3, two days later than the normal schedule.Also Read | Delhi sees light rainfall; IMD announces arrival of monsoonThe IMD on Tuesday said the monsoon further advanced into the remaining parts of the country, including Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan. It added there has been a continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels for the four days. IMD said there has been enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall.IMD said from 8.30 am on Monday to 8.30 am on Tuesday, Delhi’s Safdarjung recorded 2.5 cm rainfall, Ayanagar 1.3 cm, Palam 2.4 cm, Lodi Road 0.9 cm, and Ridge 1 cm. In Haryana, Gurugram received 5.1 cm rainfall, Faridabad 2.8 cm, Panipat 1 cm, Rohtak 2.2 cm, Hisar 3.3 cm, Fatehabad 3 cm. Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer recorded 7.7 cm, Bikaner 6.8 cm, and Churu 9 cm rainfall.DS Pai, who heads IMD’s climate research and services, said their models are showing normal to above normal monsoon conditions till the end of July. “Due to development of a low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal, Peninsular India is getting good rains. The cross-equatorial flow is also strong.” Pai said the monsoon has revived completely. “As we forecasted earlier, the monsoon started reviving from July 8, and many parts of north and northwest India started getting good rains, including Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. A small area however did not get rain. Today, even that area is covered.”IMD said widespread rainfall was very likely in parts of northwest India during the next three days. Isolated heavy to very rainfall was expected in Uttarakhand, west Uttar Pradesh over the next five days and in Himachal Pradesh from Tuesday to Saturday.A low-pressure area was over the Saurashtra coast and neighbourhood and an east-west shear zone in middle levels across Central India. Strong westerly winds were also prevailing along the west coast. Under the influence of these conditions, IMD said widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall was very likely along the west coast, adjoining inland areas, and peninsular India during the next four days. Moderate to a severe thunderstorm with lightning was very likely in Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar during the next 24 hours.Good rainfall has been a prime reason for the farm sector’s resilience for two years, and its ability last year to buck the Covid-19 pandemic. As much as 60% of the sown area does not have access to irrigation in India, where over 150 million farmers and nearly half of the population are dependent on a farm-based income. The monsoon also replenishes 89 nationally important reservoirs critical for drinking and power generation.In its second long-range forecast In June, IMD said monsoon rainfall was likely to be normal at 101% of the long-period average (LPA) after two years of above-average rainfall. LPA is the average rainfall (88cm) recorded in India every year between June and September from 1961 to 2010. In 2020 and 2019, the monsoon was above normal at 110% and 109% of LPA. In 1996, 1997, and 1998, the monsoon was normal at 103.4%, 102.2%, and 104%, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-has-covered-the-entire-country-says-imd-101626159412534.html
13-07-2021||India||Sputnik V vaccine effective against new variants of coronavirus: Study||The Russia-made Sputnik vaccine is effective against all the new variants of the coronavirus, the Gamaleya institute has said. It is developing the vaccine against Covid-19, along with Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).The Gamaleya institue said that during a study conducted by it, vaccination with Sputnik V has produced protective neutralising titers against new variants, including Alpha (B.1.1.7) - first identified in UK - Beta (B.1.351) - first identified in South Africa - Gamma (P.1) - first identified in Brazil - and Delta (B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3), first identified in India.The vaccine is also able top provide protection against Moscow endemic variants B.1.1.141 and B.1.1.317, the institute further said.The Gamaleya institute study methodology was based on the assessment of virus neutralising activity (VNA) using the live virus. It said that the sera were obtained from individuals after vaccination with two doses of Sputnik V.The vaccine is a two-dose shot (but two unidentical doses unlike other two-dose vaccines) that is 91.6% effective in preventing serious illness as was found in phase 3 clinical trials.It has so far been registered in 67 countries globally with a total population of over 3.5 billion people, said the Gamaleya institute.Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd, which is marketing the product in India, said that Sputnik V could be commercially launched “in the coming week” in the country."Starting initially in Hyderabad today, the soft launch rollout of Sputnik V has scaled up speedily and reached cities and towns all over India- including but not limited to Hyderabad, Vizag, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, NCR, Chennai, Miryalaguda, Vijayawada, Baddi, Kolhapur, Kochi, Raipur, Chandigarh, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik," it said in a tweet on Monday.The Indian drug regulator has granted permission for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-vaccine-effective-against-new-variants-of-coronavirus-study-101626158252992.html
13-07-2021||India||Jharkhand’s ruling alliance seeks Central policy on population control||The constituents of the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)-led alliance in Jharkhand have backed a central policy on population control amid demands for a policy on the issue on the lines of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled Uttar Pradesh. Jharkhand Congress chief and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said population control was required but it will be better for the Centre to come up with a policy on the issue. “The population policy has been brought in Uttar Pradesh... We all know what is their (BJP)’s agenda. However, as a student of economy, (I)... admit we cannot afford a population explosion because that stresses our resources. So, there should be a balance between the population and the resources. But this is a national issue. The central government conducts Census every 10 years. So, the Centre should come up with a policy on it,” he said.Also Read | The life and death of Father Stan SwamyJMM spokesperson Manoj Pandey echoed Oraon and called the introduction of a population policy in Uttar Pradesh a poll gimmick. “On one hand, RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) leaders say Hindus should have more children and on other hand, the BJP brings a (policy)...ahead of the election in Uttar Pradesh. ...there needs to be a population check. But it needs to be looked into how awareness and education could play a role in it. Instead of doing politics, the BJP government should bring a national policy on it.”Opposition BJP has asked the Jharkhand government to come up with a population control policy while welcoming its introduction in Uttar Pradesh. Sanjay Seth, the BJP Lok Sabha member from Ranchi, said it is time for all state governments to follow suit. “Anyone having more than two children should not get any benefits from the government. If we do not take strict measures now, the future generation would not forgive us. ...the Jharkhand government should prepare a policy and implement it in the state. I raised this issue in Lok Sabha and would like to see a pan India policy on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhands-ruling-alliance-constituents-seek-central-policy-on-population-control-101626157852332.html
13-07-2021||India||Delhi HC directs activist Saket Gokhale to remove tweets defaming Lakshmi Puri||The Delhi high court on Tuesday directed activist Saket Gokhale to remove all his tweets ‘defaming’ Lakshmi Puri, the former assistant secretary-general to the United Nations. The activist had earlier made several posts on the social media platform making allegations regarding the sources of income of the diplomat and her husband, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri.The Delhi high court took note of Gokhale's tweets on Tuesday and asked the activist to immediately remove them. If the tweets are not deleted within 24 hours, Twitter India has been directed to take down the posts. The court directed the social media firm to file its compliance report in the matter on the next date of hearing.Gokhale, in his tweets on June 13 and 26, made reference to a certain property purchased by Lakshmi Puri in Switzerland and also referred to her husband Hardeep Singh Puri, the Union minister of housing and urban affairs.Challenging the remarks made in the posts, Lakshmi Murdeshwar Puri, through her counsel, filed a defamation suit seeking ₹5 crore in damages from Gokhale. She also sought direction from the court to take down or delete the tweets, wherein “false and factually incorrect, per-se defamatory, slanderous and libellous statements/imputations have been made by him” against her and her family.The Delhi high court asked Gokhale to delete all the pertaining tweets but preserved his right to seek a modification to the order. The bench, according to reports, noted that while any citizen has to right to comment on a public servant's sources of income, the law of the land requires the concerned citizen to first seek clarification from the individual or approach the authorities regarding the matter before publishing their allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-directs-activist-saket-gokhale-to-remove-tweets-defaming-lakshmi-puri-101626154416210.html
13-07-2021||India||India to appoint National Maritime Security Coordinator for maritime security||Two decades after the Kargil Group of Ministers' recommendation, the Narendra Modi government is all set to create and appoint a National Maritime Security Coordinator (NMSC) to interface between the civilian and military maritime domain with the objective of enhancing security architecture and energy security of India. The Maritime Security Coordinator will work under Indian National Security Advisor and be the principal advisor to the government on maritime security domain.According to South Block sources, the Ministry of Defence and Military Affairs has sought Union Cabinet approval for the NMSC post and there is all likelihood that a serving or recently retired Vice Admiral of Indian Navy will be appointed to the job. The NMSC has been a long pending requirement since the Kargil GoM recommended it and its need was most felt during the 2008 Mumbai massacre when 10 Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) gunmen directed by ISI handlers in Karachi intruded into Mumbai and created mayhem with the maritime security agencies like Navy, Coast Guard and Mumbai Port all at sea figuratively. The appointment of NMSC fills the need of the hour as the Navy, Coast Guard and state maritime boards all tend to work in silos with overlapping jurisdictions and are constantly at odds with each other.While India has suffered from sea blindness over centuries with land based security doctrines, historically and geo-strategically, the country is a maritime nation with over 7000 km of coastline and over 2 million kilometres of Exclusive Economic Zone. Over 70 per cent of Indian trade including vital crude oil is transported through sea and protection of sea shipping lanes is vital to India’s security with Modi government on June 16 clearing the Deep Ocean Mission for blue water economy.India has nine coastal states and four union territories, who believe that maritime and coastal security is responsibility of the central government and have little to increase the maritime domain awareness.With China moving towards a sea based security doctrine and penetrating into Indian Ocean through Pakistan and Myanmar, the post of NMSC will be vital for maritime and energy security as Beijing plans to reach to eastern sea board of Africa through Indian maritime domain.However, the creation of NMSC is part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Act East Policy, SAGAR (Security and Growth of All in the Region), Deep Ocean Mission and the Sagarmala project to make India’s 12 major ports into world class standard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-appoint-national-maritime-security-coordinator-for-maritime-security-101626154622796.html
13-07-2021||India||Editors Guild of India ‘deeply disturbed by high-handedness in Uttar Pradesh’||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Monday said it is “deeply disturbed” by the “continuing trend of heavy-handedness by the state authorities” in Uttar Pradesh with journalists after a video showing a civil servant purportedly assaulting a journalist went viral.“In a video that has gone viral on social media, Krishna Tiwari, a local journalist, is seen being beaten up by Divyanshu Patel (chief development officer), as well as reportedly some BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) workers. EGI finds this incident highly condemnable and actionable. This incident has come against the backdrop of using tools like increased persecution of journalists in the state of UP (Uttar Pradesh)…” The guild noted Patel may have apologised but the “heavy-handedness by the administration is hurting the democratic rights of the media, which becomes all the more crucial given that the state goes into polls next year.” It demanded strict action against Patel. The guild called for concrete steps to “improve the environment for independent journalism in the state.” The incident happened on July 10 when Tiwari was covering the block ‘pramukh’ elections. In a video that has gone viral on social media, Tiwari is seen being beaten up by Patel and some alleged BJP workers.It said the government has “punished, penalised, and incarcerated journalists.” The guild added that journalist Siddique Kappan, who was arrested while on his way to report a rape and murder case last year, “still remains in jail under the draconian UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act). It added his incarceration continues despite several appeals by the family and the civil society to at least “afford him (Kappan) a fair trial and treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/editors-guild-of-india-deeply-disturbed-by-high-handedness-in-uttar-pradesh-101626154612165.html
13-07-2021||India||Sputnik vaccine to be launched commercially ‘in the coming week’: Dr Reddy’s||The Russian-made coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, could be commercially launched “in the coming week” in India as modalities to administer a large number of vaccine doses are currently being worked out, according to the company marketing the product in India. They added that the commercial launch has not been put on hold.“The Sputnik V vaccine was launched on a soft pilot basis in India on May 14, 2021. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories will strengthen the commercial roll-out of Sputnik V in the coming week,” said Dr Reddy’s Laboratories in a statement issued on Tuesday.“Neither the ongoing soft commercial launch nor work towards its ramp up in India has been put on hold,” added the statement from Dr Reddy’s Labs.Also Read | India clocks 32,906 single-day Covid-19 cases, 2,020 new deaths reportedSputnik V vaccine is developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute with assistance from Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), that is also marketing the vaccine globally.RDIF entered a partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs to market the first 250 million doses of the Russian vaccine in India.The vaccine is a two-dose shot (but two unidentical doses unlike other two-dose vaccines) that is 91.6% effective in preventing serious illness as was found in phase 3 clinical trials.Starting initially in Hyderabad on May 14 this year, the soft launch roll-out of the Russian vaccine has been scaled up. The vaccine has been sent to at least 50 cities and towns across the country, with at least 100,000 doses having been administered so far.The cities and towns where the vaccine is being currently administered include Vizag, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi-NCR, Chennai, Miryalaguda, Vijayawada, Baddi, Kolhapur, Kochi, Raipur, Chandigarh, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Coimbatore, Ranchi, Jaipur, Lucknow, Patna, Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Palakkad, Allahabad, Dimapur, Kohima, Indore, Bhopal, Surat, Cuttack, Dharward, Ernakulam, Ratlam, Faridabad, Srinagar, Gandhinagar, Vadodara, Gulbarga, Madurai, Guntur, Kannur, Jabalpur, Jalandhar, Kanpur, and Mysore.“Dr Reddy’s has partnered with major hospitals across the country for this purpose, all of whom have successfully administered Sputnik V in India, including ongoing commercial roll-outs to the public,” added Dr Reddy’s Labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-vaccine-to-be-launched-commercially-in-the-coming-week-dr-reddys-101626153891916.html
13-07-2021||India||India clocks 32,906 single-day Covid-19 cases, 2,020 new deaths reported||India on Tuesday recorded 32,906 new coronavirus infections, taking total tally of Covid-19 cases to 30,907,282, according to the Union health ministry update at 8am. The death toll climbed to 41,07,84with 2,020 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours.The active cases went down further to 4,32,778 and now comprise 1.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.22 per cent.A decrease of 1,81,21 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, according to the health ministry.The number of people who have recuperated from the coronavirus disease increased to 3,00,63,720 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, the data stated.As many as 17,40,325 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 43,40,58,138, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).India commenced its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 this year. Till date, 37,73,52,501 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.The health ministry on Tuesday said that more than 39.46 crores of Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs), so far. "More than 39.46 Cr vaccine doses were provided to States/UTs. More than 1.91 Cr balance & unutilized doses still available with States/UTs & private hospitals to be administered. The total consumption including wastages is 37,55,38,390 doses (as per data available at 8 am today)," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-clocks-32-906-single-day-covid-19-cases-2-020-new-deaths-reported-101626140313033.html
13-07-2021||India||Watch: Himachal villager, trapped in flash flood, rescued by NDRF||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that a villager was rescued after a long and technical operation over the night at the Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh, where flash floods have wreaked havoc following incessant rainfall. Flood-affected areas in Dharamshala are now left with damaged buildings and vehicles; even the airport at Gaggal was shut down a day prior owing to the monsoon situation."In a most difficult and technical operation, the precious life of Sunil, a resident of the Rajol village in Shahpur Kangra, was saved by the NDRF during the midnight," the Bathinda unit of the disaster response force tweeted. "The victim was trapped between two seasonal nullahs in spate due to the flash floods in Dharamshala and areas around yesterday," it added.In a most difficult and Technical operation precious life of Sunil of vill Rajol,Shahpur Kangra was saved by NDRF during the midnight. victim was trapped between two seasonal nullahs in spate due Flash Floods in Dharamsala and areas around yesterday. @satyaprad1 @NDRFHQ @PIB pic.twitter.com/xhSMY5BwdEFlash floods, triggered by heavy rainfall, damaged several buildings and swept away vehicles in Himachal Pradesh, most notably at Dharamshala and near the Kangra airport at Gaggal. Videos that went viral a day ago showed the flash floods disrupting traffic movement in the state. Several buildings, including one housing a government school, sustained damage due to the floods.A woman was killed and as many as 10 people were reported missing in landslides triggered by heavy rains in the Boh village (45km from Dharamshala) in Shahpur sub-division. A drain near Bhagsunag in upper Dharamshala, adjoining McLeodganj, changed its course owing to heavy rains, sweeping away about 10 cars and bikes, video clips showed.All rivers and rivulets in Dharamshala and Palampur besides Kullu were in spate as rain lashed the region since Sunday night. Manjhi rivulet, that was flowing dangerously close to settlements, damaged three houses while some shops were damaged in Chetru and Bagli area near Dharamshala. People whose houses are on the riverside have moved to safer places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-himachal-villager-trapped-in-flash-flood-rescued-by-ndrf-101626148381249.html
13-07-2021||India||'Don't believe rumours around coronavirus variants, follow ABCD', says Centre||The government has asked people of the country to not believe rumours around the various variants of the coronavirus, namely Alpha, Beta, Gamma or Delta, and follow the basic protocol in fight against the pandemic."Do NOT believe in rumours about any coronavirus variant - Alpha, Beta, Gamma, or Delta. Follow A-B-C-D of the fight against infodemic: A: Advise, B: Believe, C: Cross-check, D: Do NOT promote fear," the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting posted on its Covid-19 handle on Monday.#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Do NOT believe in rumours about any coronavirus variant - Alpha, Beta, Gamma, or Delta.➡️Follow A-B-C-D of the fight against infodemic:✅A: Advise✅B: Believe✅C: Cross-check✅D: Do NOT promote fear#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe #We4Vaccine pic.twitter.com/7PnaeJUBRxThe Delta variant, which first emerged in India in December last year, has been blamed for driving the infection spike in India in April-May during the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Delta variant has been leading the spread of infection in South Africa and even scuttled UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to open the country on June 21.US top coronavirus adviser Dr Anthony Fauci has characterised the Delta strain of coronavirus as a "nasty variant". He reiterated his request for people to get vaccinated as soon as possible.Stressing that the science is clear, he said that the best way to protect an individual against the virus and the variants is to be fully vaccinated. "It works. It is free. It is safe. It is easy. And it is convenient," he added.The mutations in coronavirus has also resulted in other variants which have spread to different countries. A highly transmissible Delta Plus variant has now threatening the population, and it shows resistance to certain vaccines and therapies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-believe-rumours-around-coronavirus-variants-follow-abcd-says-centre-101626147586851.html
13-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Arvind Kejriwal in Goa today with eyes on Assembly polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Arvind Kejriwal in Goa today with eye on next year's assembly pollsDelhi chief minister and Aaam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal will visit Goa on Tuesday to give a boost to the party's campaign ahead of assembly elections next year. AAP is contesting elections in five states in 2022, including Goa, Uttarakhand and Punjab. Read more.Himachal Pradesh flash flood updates: NDRF teams rushed, more rain likely todayHeavy rainfall triggered a flash flood in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district on Monday, which led to about a dozen vehicles being swept away and buildings damaged in Dharamshala. Chief minister Jairam Thakur has appealed to tourists to avoid visiting high-risk areas following the flash flood. Read more.Sputnik V's commercial roll-out in coming weeks: Dr Reddy'sDr Reddy's Laboratories has assured to strengthen the commercial roll-out of Sputnik V vaccines in the coming weeks. "We will strengthen the commercial roll-out of Sputnik V in the coming weeks. Neither the ongoing soft commercial launch nor work towards its ramp-up in India has been put on hold," Dr Reddy's Laboratories said in a statement, posted in its Twitter handle on Monday. Read more.Nasa study predicts record flooding in 2030s due to Moon's 'wobble'Climate change has caused sudden weather changes on Earth, which has led to flood in many countries, especially the United State. But now, a new study has linked extreme weather events with Earth's neighbour, the moon. Read more.Days after Centre's statement, Delhi and other states claim vaccine shortageDelhi has run out of its stocks for the Covishield vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency PTI reported on Monday night, citing officials familiar with the matter. Manish Sisodia, the deputy chief minister of Delhi, also took to his official handle on Twitter to inform denizens regarding the vaccine shortage in the national capital. Read more.Arjun Kapoor recalls being a ‘terrible assistant’ on Kal Ho Naa Ho: ‘I used to sleep off on set’Before Arjun Kapoor made his debut as an actor with Ishaqzaade in 2012, he worked as an assistant director to Nikkhil Advani on Kal Ho Naa Ho and Salaam-e-Ishq. During a chat on Sunday, he recalled being a ‘terrible assistant’ at first. Read more.‘It’s a different thing if you see WTC as a big failure’: Former cricketer has his say on Shastri’s tenure as IND coachIndia's defeat in the World Test Championship final against New Zealand at Southampton has posed some questions for the Virat Kohli-led Indian team as fans are wondering why, despite having some of the best players in the squad, India have been unable to win ICC trophies since 2013. Read more.Phoebe Philo to launch her own brand backed by LVMHFashion enthusiasts everywhere have a big news to rejoice about. Phoebe Philo is returning to fashion and how. The designer is debuting with a label under her own name and minority investment from LVMH, the world's largest luxury group. The news was announced by Business of Fashion on Monday, causing waves in the fashion community that has been affected by the pandemic blues. Read more..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-arvind-kejriwal-in-goa-today-with-eyes-on-assembly-polls-101626144339400.html
13-07-2021||India||Jaishankar to meet Wang Yi: Afghanistan and Ladakh situation on the plate||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will meet his Chinese counterpart and State Councilor Wang Yi on the sidelines of the SCO foreign ministers meeting in Dushanbe to discuss the unfolding security situation in Afghanistan and discuss the ways to fast track de-escalation and disengagement in East Ladakh. Jaishankar leaves for Dushanbe, Tajikistan, today and will also be attending an international meeting on connectivity between south and central Asia in Uzbekistan.The focus of SCO Dushanbe meeting will be Taliban offensive in Afghanistan with the fundamentalist force encircling the Afghan nation by capturing the two land routes to Tajikistan over Amu Darya and another one to Iran via Herat. It is quite evident that the largely Sunni Pashtun force will try and capture the land route from Mazar-e-Sharif to Termez in Uzbekistan too after which it will launch an offensive towards Kabul from all the directions forcing the Afghan Army to surrender or get killed. The brutal killing of surrendered Afghan Army commandoes, shown on western TV networks, shows that the fundamental nature of Taliban has not changed 20 years after it was evicted by the US forces in 2001.While the agenda of the SCO ministerial meeting is the security situation in Afghanistan and its ramifications on neighbouring South and Central Asia, EAM Jaishankar will also discuss the East Ladakh situation with foreign minister Wang Yi as the PLA is dragging its feet on disengagement and de-escalation in East Ladakh. It is understood that the dates for the 12th round of senior military commanders meeting will be finalized after the two foreign ministers speak on the way forward.The PLA wants the senior commanders to discuss on disengagement from Gogra-Hot Springs area near Kongka La and leave the Depsang Bulge to the local commanders as it claims that it is a 2013 legacy issue. However, the Modi government is very clear that the Depsang Bulge issue should also be discussed as the PLA is blocking the ingress route to the area and not allowing the Indian Army to patrol points 10 to 13 in the region. “As the Depsang and Gogra-Hot Springs situation has been created due to PLA transgressions, it is important that the military commanders find a resolution to the aggravated situation as armies on both sides are packed up on either side of Line of Actual Control in East Ladakh,” said a senior official. The Depsang Bulge area is south of Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) area between the Indian Darbu-Shyok-DBO road and Chinese built Tainkong Highway on the other side.India and China will also discuss the Afghanistan situation with the Taliban unilaterally giving assurances to Beijing that they will not allow Uighur militants territory to operate against “friend” China through the Wakhan Corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-meet-wang-yi-afghanistan-and-ladakh-situation-on-the-plate-101626145247471.html
13-07-2021||India||PM Modi to review Covid situation in N-E states today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of eight northeastern states today morning on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, said people familiar with the matter. “PM will interact with CMs of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram at 11am via video conferencing on the Covid-19 situation in these states,” said a government communiqué.The northeastern states have shown a spurt in cases of Covid-19 lately with several of the worst affected districts in terms of high case load belonging to these states. As many as 66 districts in the country are reporting high Covid-19 case positivity of 10% or more. Of these worst affected districts, 39 are from the northeast, according to the data shared by the government last week. Case positivity is the percentage of tests returning positive against the total number of tests conducted for an infection.Also Read | Delhi runs out of Covishield, multiple states flag vaccine shortageLast week, Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Guaba also chaired a meeting to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the northeastern states. Arunachal Pradesh has the maximum districts, 10, reporting high case positivity, followed by Manipur (9 districts), Meghalaya (6 districts), Assam and Sikkim (4 each), Tripura (3), Mizoram (2) and Nagaland with 1 district reporting more than 10% case positivity. In one of its recent press briefings on Covid updates of the Union health ministry, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Balram Bhargava, also said the second wave of Covid-19 was far from over and special focus was needed on districts that were reporting high case positivity. “We are encouraging the northeastern states to do more testing... there is heavy testing going on there...,” he said earlier. The Centre recently rushed two-member expert teams to Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Manipur, to assist local governments in intensive containment measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-review-covid-situation-in-n-e-states-today-101626144951432.html
13-07-2021||India||Days after Centre's statement, Delhi and other states claim vaccine shortage||Delhi has run out of its stocks for the Covishield vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency PTI reported on Monday night, citing officials familiar with the matter. Manish Sisodia, the deputy chief minister of Delhi, also took to his official handle on Twitter to inform denizens regarding the vaccine shortage in the national capital.'Covishield' is the brand name for the AstraZeneca-Oxford University Covid-19 vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Maharashtra's Pune.Also Read | Amid cabinet reshuffle, health ministry again issues statement over vaccine shortage claimsHighlighting that Covishield vaccine stocks have run out in Delhi, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia claimed that the central government only provides stocks that last a day or two, at max. "Vaccines have run out in Delhi again," Sisodia wrote in his tweet, "The central government gives vaccines for a day or two, then we have to keep the vaccine centres closed for several days."Delhi's Covishield Covid-19 vaccine stocks keep running out from time to time, the deputy chief minister said, asking why is it that India's vaccination drive is faltering even after days since its inception."Why is our country's vaccine programme faltering even after so many days?" Sisodia tweeted.Not just Delhi, several states have flagged an acute shortage in Covid-19 vaccine supply over the past several days, crippling the inoculation drive.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told news agency PTI that the state has the capacity to vaccinate 1.5 million people daily, but as of now, only 200,000 to 300,000 people are being inoculated due to a shortage of stock. In Odisha, the drive was halted in 24 out of 30 districts with state health secretary P K Mohapatra saying that the next consignment of the Covishield vaccine was expected to arrive on July 15.Also Read | Odisha, MP halt vaccination as states complain of vaccine shortageThe central government, however, has refuted claims of Covid-19 vaccine shortage and clarified that all states and Union territories are informed well in advance about the number of vaccines to be sent to them for the month of July. In an official statement last week, the health ministry said, "It is clarified that all states or UTs are being informed much in advance about the doses that will be available during the month of July 2021, including the supply to private hospitals. The states or UTs have been advised to plan their Covid-19 vaccination sessions based on the availability of the vaccines."Government data shows a drop in average daily inoculation since June 21, when the drive was opened to everyone above 18 years of age. As per data available on the Centre's Co-WIN platform, 1.33 million doses were administered on Sunday, which is the lowest since May 30 when 1.11 million doses were administered.An average of 6.21 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines was administered daily in the last week of June which dropped to 4.18 million in the first few days of July. Between July 5 and 11, the daily average vaccine doses further dipped to 3.50 million doses.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-runs-out-of-covishield-multiple-states-flag-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-101626143104870.html
13-07-2021||India||Scattered thunderstorm expected over south, southwest Delhi this morning: IMD||The monsoon advanced to Rajasthan, parts of Punjab, parts of Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh on Monday according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Monsoon has advanced over Delhi, according to IMD. It warned on Tuesday around 6.30am that thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and winds with speed of 20-40 km/hour would occur over and adjoining areas of a few places in southwest Delhi, south Delhi ( Jafarpur, Dwarka, Palam, Ayanagar, Deramandi), NCR ( Gurugram, Manesar, Ballabhgarh) Rohtak, Meham, Jhajjar, Farukhnagar, Nuh, Sohana, Palwal (Haryana) Kasganj on Tuesday morning.The normal date for monsoon onset over Delhi is June 27.There is a 7% rain deficiency over the country since June 1 and a 67% deficiency over Delhi.Continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels since the past three days, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to widespread rainfall during the past 24 hours led to advancement of monsoon over northwest India. The norther limit of southwest monsoon (NLM) is passing through Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Bharatpur, Aligarh, Karnal and Ganganagar. Also Read | Rainfall likely in multiple states today as flash floods, lightning wreak havoc. Details hereIMD is continuously monitoring further progress of monsoon into remaining parts of the country, it said in its Monday bulletin.Under the influence of these conditions, fairly widespread rainfall is very likely over parts of northwest India during the next two days and isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab during the next two days; over Uttarakhand during the next five days and over Rajasthan during the next four days. Very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also very likely over Himachal Pradesh.There is a low pressure area over westcentral and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts; another low pressure area has formed over south Gujarat and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea and an east-west shear zone is running in middle levels across central India. Lower level westerly winds have strengthened along the west coast. Under the influence of these conditions, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely along the west coast and adjoining peninsular India during the next five days.Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning is very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scattered-thunderstorm-expected-over-south-southwest-delhi-this-morning-imd-101626144171447.html
13-07-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh flash flood updates: NDRF teams rushed, more rain likely today||Heavy rainfall triggered a flash flood in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district on Monday, which led to about a dozen vehicles being swept away and buildings damaged in Dharamshala. Chief minister Jairam Thakur has appealed to tourists to avoid visiting high-risk areas following the flash flood.Thakur said that no casualty has been reported in the area so far.The state government as well as the central government are monitoring the situation with teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) deployed in the region.It has been reported that the national highway 3 has been blocked at the Pandoh area of Mandi district due to a landslide. The road from Mandi to Kullu has also been blocked, along with the Mandi-Kataula road.Here are the key developments on Himachal Pradesh rain and landslide:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-flash-flood-updates-ndrf-teams-rushed-more-rain-likely-today-101626143130132.html
13-07-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal in Goa today with eye on next year's assembly polls||Delhi chief minister and Aaam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal will visit Goa on Tuesday to give a boost to the party's campaign ahead of assembly elections next year. AAP is contesting elections in five states in 2022, including Goa, Uttarakhand and Punjab.Ahead of his two-day visit, Kejriwal said that Goa wants change and honest politics and there is no shortage of funds."Goa wants change. Enough of parties buying and selling MLAs. Enough of dirty politics. Goa wants development. There is no shortage of funds, only shortage of honest intent. Goa wants honest politics. See you in Goa tomorrow," he tweeted on Monday.The chief minister echoed the line taken by AAP in the state, which has launched a 'Let's Clean Goa's Politics' campaign. It has been targeting the Congress party accusing it of selling its MLAs to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The party is hoping for a better performance in the assembly elections in Goa this time. In the 2017 election, it failed a win a single seat.Earlier, Kejriwal has visited Punjab and Uttarakhand. He has promised 300 units of free electricity if the AAP comes to the power in these states. Among other promises made by the AAP chief were waiving old bills and giving freee electricity to farmers.Kejriwal highlighted the work done by his government in Delhi and said that AAP can do the same in other poll-bound states if given a chance."There will be no power cuts. Free electricity doesn't mean long outages. When we took over in Delhi 7-8 hours long power outages were common. We set that right," Kejriwal said in Dehradun on Sunday.Kejriwal had last year announced a 100 per cent subsidy for those households which consume up to 200 units of electricity in Delhi. Consumers of 201-400 units received approximately 50 per cent subsidy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-in-goa-today-with-eye-on-next-year-s-assembly-polls-101626140623336.html
13-07-2021||India||PM Modi to chair Covid-19 review meet today with chief ministers of northeast states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be virtually interacting on Tuesday with the chief ministers of the northeastern states over the Covid-19 situation ahead of a potential third wave of the pandemic, news agencies reported on this day citing officials familiar with the matter. Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, and Mizoram have all received invites for attending the high-level meeting with the Prime Minister on July 13, the reports added.Prime Minister Modi will interact with the chief ministers of the northeastern states at 11am on July 13 through video conferencing, government sources told news agency ANI. The proposed meeting follows Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba's interaction with the officials of the northeastern states' home departments last Wednesday amid concerns over rising cases of coronavirus infection in the region.The northeastern states have witnessed a recent spike in Covid-19 cases, despite a decrease in the number of cases across India. The central government had rushed multi-disciplinary expert teams to six states earlier this month, four of which were from the northeastern region -- Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, and Tripura.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said that around 80% of the Covid-19 cases in India at the moment are being witnessed from 90 districts. As many as 14 of them are from the northeast, it added.A recent letter circulated by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that Arunachal Pradesh is an area of concern that the state has a weekly positivity rate of 16.2% (between June 28 and July 4) and the trend saw an upward rise.Meanwhile, India reported 37,154 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, informed the Union health ministry on Monday.India's active caseload of Covid-19 cases is at 4,50,899. The active cases constitute 1.46% of the total cases.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-chair-covid-19-review-meet-today-with-chief-ministers-of-northeast-states-101626139093745.html
13-07-2021||India||Stringent curbs in Assam's Golaghat from today to check Covid-19 spread||The Assam government has tightened the restrictions in Golaghat district due to the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the area. The stringent curbs will come into effect from today, and will last till Wednesday, according to state government order. Golaghat, along with neighbouring Jorhat, have been identified as districts of concern by the government where Covid-19 norms have been violated.The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chairman issued an order on Monday, which said that all grocery shops, retail shops, vegetable and fruit vendors, except pharmacy and milk vending points, will remain closed on July 13 and 14 in Golaghat.The decision was in view of the rising trend of Covid-19 cases in the district and to stop the spread of the disease, the order added.Jorhat and Golaghat have been under containment since July 7, along with five other districts of Assam. These two districts reported the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, with 185 cases detected in Jorhat and 180 in Golaghat, according to the National Health Mission bulletin.In Jorhat too, only establishments providing essential services like pharmacies, veterinary clinics, milk vending and paper delivery services are allowed to remain open. All other services have been closed.Jorhat deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Barman said the containment measures have been tightened because people were using the exemptions as excuses and violating Covid-19 protocols.People who have received confirmation after booking a slot at a vaccination centre will only be allowed to come out, the deputy commissioner said. Warning of stringent action against violation of Covid-19 protocols, Jorhat superintendent of police (SP) Ankur Jain said, "People are coming out for morning and evening walks. All the walks will now end at the police station.""Many people come out with false documents of being associated with essential services or some fake emergency. When such people are caught, they will be punished as per provisions of law," he added.He said foot patrol was being conducted by security forces, including CRPF personnel in the morning as well as in the evening hours. People in rural areas tend to come out in greater numbers from 4pm to 7pm, so in those areas foot patrol is undertaken in the evening, he added."We have been fighting Covid-19 for one-and-a-half- years now. People are not ignorant of the protocols. It is not correct to ignore the rules," Jain said, urging the people to cooperate in enforcing the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stringent-curbs-in-assam-s-golaghat-from-today-to-check-covid-19-spread-101626137395195.html
13-07-2021||India||BJP MPs to push for population control bills||The need for a population control policy is likely to be raised in the monsoon session of Parliament as the Rajya Sabha is expected to take up BJP MP Rakesh Sinha’s private members’ bill on the subject and Lok Sabha BJP MP Ravi Kishen is expected to introduce one on the same issue.The Population Regulation Bill, introduced in the Upper House in 2019, seeks to incentivise families who plan no more than two kids. According to a person familiar with the matter, the private members’ bills are taken up for discussions during the second half of the day’s proceedings on Fridays and are chosen by way of a lottery. So far, Sinha’s bill has made it to the second slot on the lottery list.“If the House runs as per schedule, it could come up for discussion in the second week,” the person cited above said, wishing not to be named.Several MPs, cutting across party lines, have in the past raised the issue of population control laws through private members’ bills and special mentions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpmps-to-push-for-population-control-bills-101626136526767.html
13-07-2021||India||Loni assault case: Karnataka HC order today on Twitter India MD's plea against police summons||The Karnataka high court is expected to dictate its order in the plea filed by Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari against the Uttar Pradesh police summoning him for questioning in connection with an allegedly misleading video on the social media platform, that showed an elderly Muslim man being assaulted in the Loni area of Ghaziabad district.The Loni assault video, which went viral on social media, reportedly shows a Muslim man alleging that he was assaulted and forced to chant "Jai Shri Ram", with the miscreants also chopping his beard off. Although the Uttar Pradesh police has ruled out any 'communal angle' in the case, an FIR was registered over offenses insinuating criminal conspiracy and enmity between religious groups.Also Read | Plea for relief from physical appearance: HC reserves order on Twitter head’s pleaTwitter India MD Manish Maheshwari has been held accountable by the Uttar Pradesh government for the uploaded video, which the prosecution says "resulted in violence". The defense, on the other hand, argued that Maheshwari is merely an employee at Twitter, a company managed from the United States, and as such cannot be held accountable for a video uploaded by any user on the platform."Who am I? An employee," Maheshwari submitted in his petition to the Karnataka high court, adding, "Twitter is not controlled or administered by me."The UP government says Manish Maheshwari is to be held accountable for the uploaded video since he, being the managing director of Twitter India, is a representative for the firm. The video "resulted in violence" and thus the representative has a "responsibility to the people" to come clean before the investigating authorities.The government also contended the jurisdiction of the Karnataka high court in hearing the case and deciding on the matter. The alleged offense was committed in Uttar Pradesh, the prosecution pointed out, questioning the grounds under which the court is hearing out the case.Twitter was earlier last month also issued a second notice by the Ghaziabad police to seek “account details” of the suspects accused by cops of posting and promoting the alleged Loni assault video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loni-assault-karnataka-hc-order-today-twitter-india-md-manish-maheshwari-plea-up-police-notice-101626135937294.html
13-07-2021||India||Sputnik V's commercial roll-out in India in coming weeks: Dr Reddy's Laboratories||Dr Reddy's Laboratories has assured to strengthen the commercial roll-out of Sputnik V vaccines in the coming weeks. "We will strengthen the commercial roll-out of Sputnik V in the coming weeks. Neither the ongoing soft commercial launch nor work towards its ramp-up in India has been put on hold," Dr Reddy's Laboratories said in a statement, posted in its Twitter handle on Monday.The Sputnik V vaccine was launched on a soft pilot basis in India earlier on May 14. The nationwide soft launch of Sputnik V has reached over 50 cities and towns across the nation.Starting initially in Hyderabad, the soft launch roll-out of Sputnik V has scaled up speedily and reached cities and towns all over India - including but not limited to Hyderabad, Vizag, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, NCR, Chennai, Miryalaguda, Vijayawada, Baddi, Kolhapur, Kochi, Raipur, Chandigarh, Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Coimbatore, Ranchi, Jaipur, Lucknow, Patna, Bhubaneshwar, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Palakkad, Allahabad, Dimapur, Kohima, Indore, Bhopal, Surat, Cuttack, Dharwad, Ernakulum, Ratlam, Faridabad, Srinagar, Gandhinagar, Vadodara, Gulbarga, Madurai, Guntur, Kannur, Jabalpur, Jalandhar, Kanpur, Mysore," said Dr Reddy's Laboratories statement.Dr Reddy's has partnered with major hospitals across the nation for this purpose, all of whom have successfully administered Sputnik V in India, including ongoing commercial roll-outs to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-s-commercial-roll-out-in-india-in-coming-weeks-dr-reddy-s-laboratories-101626134976763.html
13-07-2021||India||Growth in income in last three decades: How consumer trends evolved in India||The last three decades have brought consumption front and centre into Indian lives, irrespective of age or income. The major life focus of all Indians is to strive to earn more and save more in order to buy a better quality of life for themselves and their family. The tenet that consumption is wasteful and best done in moderation has been replaced by “it’s OK to want it, now let’s see how we can afford it”. What hasn’t changed, though, is belief that the Almighty needs to lend a hand too. The PayTM sign at the Kedarnath temple high up in Himalayas says it all. The moral purification of consumption is complete.Pragmatic ConsumptionPopular narratives of India’s new consumption as hedonistic and a means of self expression are shaped by interactions with or anecdotes of the richest 10 or 20% of urban India, accounting for less than 10% of Indian households (HHs), and 15 to 20% of HH income (pre-Covid); less than 10% of Indian HHs have people with a regular job and salary, while almost 60% of this group does. The fact is that pragmatic consumption remains the hallmark of most of Consumer India’s spending.Also read: Fuel, food prices keep inflation high at 6.26%Quality of life improvement is about getting a better house, be it a first-time bathroom or a second home; more water than the municipality supplies, brought in tankers to posh buildings or bastis alike; getting 24x7 electricity whether through inverters or Chinese rechargeable torches; better health care in America or from a private doctor or nursing homes (even in underdeveloped rural districts and in the poorest 20% of Indian households, 50-60% seek private health care).Child-centric spending is huge but its focus is mostly about giving children a better shot at the future -- education abroad, capitation fees, private colleges and even among the poor, private non-government schools, and tuition and coaching of all shades. Even modest income HHs will stretch to buy a timeshare resorts subscription because their children can have exposure to swimming pools and sophisticated augmented reality games a few weeks every year. They will buy a bike for the child to get to coaching class on time and fresh.Two-wheeler purchases are mostly pragmatic productivity tools for the self-employed and smart phones have the utility of cheap entertainment, though good looks are a must.Don’t Indians believe in spending for emotional not utilitarian payoffs and to get fun? First, pragmatic consumption, while appearing utilitarian, has strong status and emotional payoffs. Secondly, “affordable indulgences”, whether food, fashion, travel or entertainment are definitely seen as part of better living. As adman Santosh Desai puts it, for Indians now, life is not a condition to be endured but a product to be experienced. And Indians are excitedly seeking experience, provided the price fits the pocket.There is mass market demand for everything, provided affordable supply exists. Whenever it does, demand explodes, as we have seen with air travel after Indigo or data consumption after Jio or apparel after Myntra or temple tourism in the Himalayas.Borrowing to consume has also been morally purified. The cultural label of debt has changed from “irresponsible living beyond your means” to “responsible ways of achieving your goals of a better quality life”. Consumer India has mostly proved to be a responsible borrower with consumer durable and housing loans forming a large part of retail credit and debit cards outnumbering credit cards and by not borrowing when the future seems uncertain. After credit scores and CIBIL, they are even more cautious.More volatility in ConsumptionToday consumption is a lot more volatile than in 1991, despite economic growth. Earlier, there were only the haves and the have-nots, and it was mostly the “haves”, typically quite secure in their employment, who consumed, such consumption being further smoothened by controlled supply. With income growth in the last thirty years and more supply at various price points, and better access to credit, there are a whole class of “have-somes” who are consuming now.But these “have-somes” have stayed small-time self-employed, in a more volatile economy with low resilience to income shocks (60% of India has less than 5-6% surplus income after all their expenditure and account for 50% to India’s household consumption).Despite their optimism, they fall off various compartments of the consumption bandwagon frequently and get back on it when they can.A more complex consumer khichdiEarlier consumer categorisation was simple and binary. Today as exposure and experiences have increased, leading to more choices of how to live, it is a continuum with many shades of modern-traditional , westernised-Indian, rural-urban etc.A rich land-owning joint family living in the village with children studying abroad or in the city, with cars and modern appliances, but still steeped in traditional ritual celebrations is one example that defies simple stereotyping, and there are hundreds more.Food is a great metaphor for this. We commonly see vegetarian Mexican and Italian, “100% Belgian Waffles but no egg”, many shades of where and how non-vegetarian, north Indian homes now easily make dosas and south Indian eat Amritsari Chole (use a mix or just heat and eat or learn it on YouTube).This fluidity compared to the rigidity of 30 years ago makes marketing more complex but provides far more opportunities to capture value.Blurring urban-rural divideThis blurring of boundaries is most evident in the rural-urban divide. Roads, the internet, TV, cars, cell phones have collapsed distances and provide a quantum jump in urban-like exposure to a lot of rural India. The diversification of rural India’s occupation away from agriculture provides better income increases and along with that, amorphous entities called census towns have morphed into something best called “rurban”. The most interesting thing about this blurring of the urban-rural divide in income and exposure is the creation at last of a singular mass market that straddles both (See Chart 3 --mass market at last).Digital Moksha is hereThe education deficit has still not been fixed in these last 30 years, but digital literacy has stepped in, providing knowledge, information, ability of various kinds hitherto not possible. Digital environments now provide status-blind service for those lower in the social hierarchy (humans discriminate, IVRs and chatbots don’t).Middle Consumer India’s confidence is on the rise. A lot has been written about how digital ability creates livelihoods so I won’t repeat any of that. But in an everyday sense it helps too.A vernacular medium person with middle school knowledge of English alphabets who doesn’t speak English now confidently communicates via text with customers and employers in Roman Hindi. WhatsApp helps you project who you are (check out your tailor or subziwala’s DP), improves social bonding, allows easy assertion of decreased social distance (see who is sending you good morning messages or festival greetings) and easy e-commerce without spending on a website. When temples, government services, train ticketing and mobile recharges have gone online, when you can find everyday information or get an SMS that saves you a trip and money, when 57% of the poorest 20% of households have a smart phone, Cyber Consumer India is well and truly entrenched.But Consumer India is a spoilt brat who loves “and” doesn’t like “or” , so all permutations of physical and digital are here to stay.Also read | Number theory: How to read today’s inflation numbersThe cookie toughensConsumer India has seen prices come down and quality go up of a lot of things (think airlines, telecom durables) and seen inconvenience turn into convenience; e-commerce and China have done their bit too by dropping price-performance points, upping convenience and variety and providing better service at no extra cost and the new sharing economy says pay only for what you need to use. Amazon and Instagram have made “unorganised” or “boutique” suppliers mainstream and weakened the draw of big brands and reduced switching costs or costs of trying and experimenting. So, the “value conscious” Indian Consumer has become “value expecting and demanding” and loyalty has given way to promiscuity in purchaser choices.The spirit is willing, the flesh, weakConsumer India is very keen to consume more, but its income and income growth are the constraint.The good news is that Consumer India’s income has grown substantially these last three decades. The bad news is that we are, and will be for a long time to come, a large economy with lots of modest-income consumers, a fact that we don’t honestly enough acknowledge. The good news is that income growth has happened across the board, geographically and by income classes, which makes for more and more robust consumer economy.In the past thirty years, at an accelerating pace, Consumer India has grabbed all opportunities that have come its way to evolve both as a consumer and as a person.The supply side has not kept pace and embraced the new Consumer India, focusing instead on operational efficiency improvement and scale building simplicity.Rama Bijapurkar is co-founder of People Research on India’s Consumer Economy (PRICE). All data in this article is from ICE360 pan Indian surveys of PRICE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/growth-in-income-in-last-three-decades-how-consumer-trends-evolved-in-india-101626131123533.html
13-07-2021||India||Rainfall likely in multiple states today as flash floods, lightning wreak havoc. Details here||Weather update on Tuesday says the southwest monsoon has arrived in full might across several states in north India, with heavy rains continuing to disrupt normal life on Monday. While flash floods swept away vehicles and damaged buildings in Uttarakhand, relentless downpours accompanied by lightning strikes wreaked havoc in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan. The meteorological department has predicted the rainfall to continue over the next two days.Also Read | Flashflood at Bhagsunag in Himachal’s McLeodganj washes away carsWeather predictions, issued by the India Mereological Department (IMD), notified that heavy rains are likely on Tuesday across multiple states. Colour-coded weather alerts were issued, based on the severity of the situation. The met department has issued an orange alert for Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir, and a yellow alert for Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Uttar Pradesh for Tuesday with a warning of heavy rains.The IMD has four colour-coded warnings based on the intensity of an extreme weather event and issues them in the ascending order of green, yellow, orange, and red.States expected to receive heavy rainfall on TuesdayThe IMD has issued a weather alert for the following states, expected to witness heavy rainfall on Tuesday:Rajasthan (orange alert)Jammu and Kashmir (orange alert)Himachal Pradesh (yellow alert)Uttarakhand (yellow alert)Uttar Pradesh (yellow alert)An orange alert is relatively more serious than a yellow one. It means that there is a possibility of life and property due to extremely bad weather. The met department advises people to stay at home when an orange alert, the second-most threatening alert after red, is issued.A yellow alert is issued to notify that there is a possibility of heavy rainfall for a few hours, with a chance of flooding.Flash floods, lightning wreak havoc across north IndiaFlash floods, triggered by heavy rainfall, damaged several buildings and swept away cars in Himachal Pradesh, most notably at Dharamshala and near the Kangra airport at Gaggal. Videos that went viral a day ago showed the flash floods disrupting traffic movement in the state. Several buildings, including one housing a government school, were also damaged due to the floods.The heavy rainfall led to rising water levels in major rivers, including the Tawi, in Jammu. Meanwhile, lightning strikes killed six people, including two minors, and injured 11 others in parts of Madhya Pradesh.Also Read | Climate crisis reason behind increase in lightning strikesThe death toll due to lightning strikes in Uttar Pradesh also rose to 42. The maximum number of deaths (14) was reported from Allahabad, followed by five each at Kanpur Dehat and Fatehpur. As many as 23 people are likely to have been injured in the lightning strikes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-likely-in-multiple-states-today-as-flash-floods-lightning-wreak-havoc-details-here-101626133361748.html
13-07-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics: PM Modi to interact with Indian contingent today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the Indian athletes' contingent for the Tokyo Olympics on Tuesday via video conferencing. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said that the interaction by PM Modi is an endeavour to motivate the athletes ahead of their participation at the Games which will begin on July 23.The virtual interaction is expected to take place at 5pm.PM Modi had recently reviewed the preparations for the facilitation of the Indian contingent at Tokyo 2020. He had also discussed the journeys of some of the athletes on his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio broadcast, besides urging the country to come forward and support them, the PMO stated.A total of 126 athletes across 18 sports disciplines from India will be heading to Tokyo. This is the biggest-ever contingent India is sending to any Olympics, the PMO said, adding that the 69 cumulative events across 18 sport disciplines that India will participate in is also the highest ever for the nation.The PMO highlighted the "notable" firsts in terms of participation and said that for the first time a fencer from India (Bhavani Devi) has qualified for the Olympic games.Nethra Kumanan is the first-ever female sailor from India to qualify for the Olympics, while Sajan Prakash and Srihari Nataraj are the first swimmers from India to qualify for Olympic games by achieving the "A" qualification standard in swimming, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tokyo-olympics-pm-modi-to-interact-with-indian-contingent-today-101626133282650.html
13-07-2021||India||Climate crisis reason behind increase in lightning strikes||At least 74 people have been killed in lightning strikes in the past 24 hours in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh. Of these, 11 are visitors who were killed on Sunday when lightning struck them at Amer Fort near Jaipur.The numbers may seem high but should not surprise anyone.Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning strikes (usually in the pre-monsoon and monsoon months) are the single-largest killers among natural disasters (extreme weather events) in India, according to National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). Lightning strikes have killed at least 2,000 people every year in India since 2004, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said last month in an awareness workshop on lightning strikes.In 2019, there were 2,876 deaths due to lightning, compared to fewer than 1,500 on an average, annually, between 1968 and 2004. There was a brief period of three to four years in between when lightning strikes killed more than 1,500 people, but the larger trend held.The disaster management division of ministry of home affairs is yet to update the data on lightning deaths for 2020.According to a paper published in Elsevier journal, Weather and Climate Extremes by the ministry of earth sciences titled “An assessment of long-term changes in mortalities due to extreme weather events in India: A study of 50 years’ data, 1970–2019”, the mortality rate of tropical cyclones reduced by 94% over a 20 year period, whereas that for heatwaves and lightning, increased by 62.2% and 52.8%, respectively.Monsoon break created conditions for strikesNormally, lightning strikes are high in frequency during the pre-monsoon season, and when the monsoon is about to make an onset over Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states. This is the time when moisture levels increase, and the surface temperature is high, creating favourable conditions for development of thunder clouds.This year, however, there have been massive lightning strikes and associated casualty in mid-July, mainly due to the long monsoon “break” when surface temperatures were very high in the absence of rain.“There has been around a 10-day break in monsoon. There has been significant surface heating during this period. As the monsoon is reviving, moisture levels have also increased. This is the most favourable condition for development of thunder clouds and collision of ice particles which leads to charging and lightning strikes,” said SD Pawar, project director, Thunderstorm Dynamics, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. Thunder clouds require heat and moisture to form. They are also required to be deep, around nine to 10 kilometres for collision of ice particles to take place. And that’s what is happening now.Why are we seeing a spike in recent years?According to Pawar, the spike in lightning strikes can certainly be linked to the climate crisis.“Both surface temperature and moisture levels have increased significantly in recent years. Urbanisation leading to loss of tree cover also contributes to the rise in surface temperature. We think the two have mainly contributed to rise in incidence of lightning. The rise in deaths can be because more people are outdoors and possibly exposed to lightning in recent years,” he said.Lightning mortalities are only going to increase in coming years. “Climate projections indicate that temperature and moisture will increase further in the future,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM).How can deaths be prevented?IMD’s Damini app provides area specific lightning warnings, but lightning is an extremely localised phenomenon, and the warnings often don’t reach the last mile. However, one can do certain things in the event of a lightning strike to save one’s life, such as going to a safe structure but avoiding metal constructions and finding shelter in low-lying areas that aren’t flooded. Crouching with your arms and legs together to make a smaller target, and keeping away from utility lines (phone, power, etc) as well as metal fences, trees (they conduct electricity) and hilltops are some other ways to keep safe during such an event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-crisis-reason-behind-increase-in-lightning-strikes-101626129386299.html
13-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive hit as states run out of stock||The critical shortage of Covid-19 vaccines has crippled the vaccination drive in several states with government data showing a drop in the average daily inoculation since June 21 – when the drive was opened to everyone above 18 years of age.As per data available on the Centre's CoWin platform, 1.33 million doses were administered on Sunday, which is the lowest since May 30 when 1.11 million doses were administered. The figure rose to 4.04 million by 10 pm on Monday. An average of 6.21 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered daily in the last week of June which dropped to 4.18 million in the first few days of July. Between July 5 and 11, the daily average vaccine doses further dipped to 3.50 million doses.The country’s per day vaccination had peaked on June 21, at 8.87 million, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination.On Monday, the health ministry said over 15.4 million balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered.“Normally, fewer vaccinations are reported on Sunday when fewer vaccinations sites operate,” a health ministry official said, wishing not to be named.India has so far administered 376.29 million doses to 303.01 million people since January 16, 2021, when the national Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched.“We are preparing to administer close to 10 million doses in a single day by August,” Dr NK Arora, chairman of the working group on Covid-19 vaccines, had said in June.In Delhi, government officials said the national capital has run out of Covishield stock and some vaccinations are likely to remain shut on Tuesday. “Why is our country’s vaccine programme faltering even after so many days?” Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told news agency PTI that the state has the capacity to vaccinate 1.5 million people daily, but as of now, only 200,000 to 300,000 people are being inoculated due to shortage of stock. In Odisha, the drive was halted in 24 out of 30 districts with state health secretary P K Mohapatra saying that the next consignment of Covishield vaccine was expected to arrive on July 15.Madhya Pradesh immunisation officer Santosh Shukla issued an order saying that the state has run out of vaccines and no drive will take place on Monday and Wednesday (vaccination days). “We were regularly receiving doses but the manufacturers have limited supply,” state medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said.Rajasthan health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said the state received only 3.163 million vaccine doses, an average of 0.175 million doses, between June 21 and July 8. Jharkhand government officials said the state has the capacity to administer 0.15 million doses everyday but only 19,586 people were inoculated on Sunday. Bihar also recorded its lowest vaccination on Sunday after it administered only 18,064 doses.Former Niti Aayog vice chairperson Arvind Panagariya on Monday tweeted: “India’s current vaccination rate of 3 to 4 million per day is simply not good enough.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-hit-as-states-run-out-of-stock-101626123921611.html
13-07-2021||India||PM to review Covid-19 situation in northeastern states today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to review the situation pertaining to Covid-19 with the chief ministers of the northeastern states at 11am on Tuesday, people familiar with the development said on Monday.PM Modi’s proposed meeting follows Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba’s interaction with the officials of the northeastern states’ home department last Wednesday amid concerns over rising cases in the region.Earlier this month, the Centre deployed multi-disciplinary expert teams to six states, including Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, after they showed a spurt in Covid-19 cases.During the review meeting last week, it was found that of the 73 districts in the country with case positivity rates above 10%, as many as 46 belonged to the northeastern states, prompting the Centre to put its focus on the region.A recent letter circulated by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that Arunachal Pradesh is an area of concern since the state has a weekly positivity rate of 16.2% (between June 28 and July 4) and the trend saw an upward rise.Other northeastern states, such as Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya and Nagaland, too, have been reporting high positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-northeastern-states-today-101626120419241.html
13-07-2021||India||Rajinikanth dissolves RMM, says no intention to be part of politics||Actor Rajinikanth on Monday dissolved the Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), a conglomeration of his fan clubs which was formed as a precursor to his political launch, as he reiterated his decision to not get involved in politics in the future.After a meeting with RMM office-bearers, the actor in a statement said: “Due to various situations, our wish to launch a political party was not possible. I have no intention of getting involved in politics in the future also, so I’m kindly informing you that the Rajini Makkal Mandram will be disbanded and it will continue to function as Rajinikanth Rasigar Narpani Mandram (Rajinikanth Fans Services Forum) for public service.”He released the statement a little after he met reporters on Monday morning when he gave rise to another round of speculation about his political foray.“Office bearers... and my fans have questions about whether the RMM should continue or not. What are the duties of the Mandram? And whether I would be entering politics in the future or not. I will discuss these issues with the office bearers of RMM and will let you know,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-dissolves-rmm-says-no-intention-to-be-part-of-politics-101626119632950.html
13-07-2021||India||Told BJP chief everything, says Bengal unit’s Dilip Ghosh on Babul Supriyo, Khan||Kolkata: Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh on Monday briefed party chief JP Nadda about the political situation in the state and brought charges of indiscipline against at least two Lok Sabha members from the state, people familiar with the matter said.Leaders aware of the discussions at Nadda’s residence in New Delhi said Ghosh complained that last week former union minister Babul Supriyo and state Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Saumitra Khan made some objectionable remarks on social media. “I have told the national president everything. Certain things are supposed to be discussed inside the party and not in public. The BJP’s disciplinary action committee will look into this,” Ghosh told the media in Delhi when specifically asked about Supriyo and Khan. He did not take any name.Incidentally, the two leaders made the statements after the reshuffle in union ministries on July 7 when four Lok Sabha members from Bengal became ministers of state and two junior ministers, Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri, resigned. The new appointments were seen in political circles as a reward for those who represent regions where the BJP did well in the state elections.Chaudhuri, the MP from north Bengal’s Raiganj, did not react to her resignation but Supriyo, the MP from Asanol in West Burdwan who unsuccessfully contested the Tollygunge assembly seat in Kolkata in the recent polls, put out a tweet that indicated he wasn’t going on his own.Supriyo initially tweeted that he was made to resign but when this immediately triggered a controversy, he changed his stance. “Yes, I have resigned from the Council Of Ministers. As I had framed it earlier, “Asked to resign” may not be the right way to put it. I thank Hon’ble Prime Minister @narendramodi for giving me the privilege to serve my country as a Member of his Council of Ministers..” Supriyo said.“I am extremely happy that I go today without a spot of corruption on me, having served my constituency with all my might & having enjoyed their confidence when Asansol voted me back as their MP once again, with triple the Margin in 2019,” he said in a second tweet. Khan, a two-time MP from Bishnurpur in Bankura district who left the TMC before the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 and retained the seat on a BJP ticket, did not comment on the cabinet reshuffle but attacked Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly who switched over from the Trinamool Congress and defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the assembly elections by around 1,900 votes. “The leader of the opposition is constantly visiting Delhi and trying to convince our national leaders that he is the one doing everything for the party. He is only projecting himself. Have the others not contributed to the BJP’s growth? I raised this before the state president. He understands a few things but doesn’t seem to understand the rest,” Khan said in a video message shared on social media. He also resigned from the BJYM saying, “I take responsibility for the party’s loss in the assembly polls” but without hours, withdrew his offer to resign.Ghosh had earlier described Khan’s statement as a breach of discipline. Supriyo and Khan did not react to Monday’s development till late evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/told-bjp-chief-everything-says-bengal-unit-s-dilip-ghosh-on-babul-supriyo-khan-101626119089905.html
13-07-2021||India||Flash floods, landslides wreak havoc in Himachal Pradesh, J&K||A woman was killed and about 10 people were reported missing in landslides triggered by heavy rain in Boh village (45km from Dharamshala) of Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district on Monday, while 11 people were rescued following flashfloods in Kathua district of Jammu region, officials in both districts said.About a dozen vehicles were swept away while many buildings were damaged in flashfloods in various parts of Kangra district as bad weather also led to the closure of the Gaggal airport, according to a district official. A drain near Bhagsunag in upper Dharamshala changed its course after heavy rain, sweeping away about 10 cars and bikes, with video clips of the flashfloods being shared on social media.Confirming the death of a woman, Kangra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vimukt Ranjan said: “We don’t have exact information of causalities. Exact figures regarding loss of life and property will be known in the coming days.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “The situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the state government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas.” Union home minister Amit Shah said National Disaster Response Force teams were heading to the affected areas.India Meteorological Department has issued an orange weather warning of heavy to very heavy rain in the middle and low hills for Tuesday.In Jammu, 11 people belonging to a nomadic community were stuck in flash floods in Ujh river in the Rajbagh area and were rescued by police and SDRF personnel, officials said, adding that several farm animals were washed away. The district administration in Kathua and Samba sounded a flood alert.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flash-floods-landslides-wreak-havoc-in-himachal-pradesh-jk-101626118570940.html
13-07-2021||India||B’luru remains a priority in vaccine drive even as other districts lag behind||Bengaluru Even as the Karnataka government on Monday said that it is expediting the vaccination process as a measure to ensure safety for students when it does decide to reopen physical classes above pre-university and graduation, however, data suggests that the vaccination drive in other districts other than Bengaluru have not been able to keep up with the pace. This could leave students from rural parts of the state with a considerable disadvantage.“So far we have not decided when we are going to open the colleges but we are anyhow preparing to open them. The exams are going on as per the schedule and as planned by the respective universities. Regarding opening of colleges, the vaccination programme is going on across the state inviting all the students to get vaccinated,” Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister said on Monday. As per data, the daily vaccination in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area of Bengaluru on Monday (till 6.20 pm) stood at around 54,777 doses in total as against just 1,354 in Tumakuru, about 70 kms from Bengaluru. Though the daily vaccination numbers for persons aged between 18-45 years are above 100,000 to 200,000 per day, data shows that most of the doses have been in Bengaluru. On Sunday, out of the total 55,313 doses administered to persons between 18-45 years of age, nearly half or 22,359 doses were administered in the BBMP area or Bengaluru city, according to data on CoWin. From July 1 to July 11, Karnataka has administered 1743,028 doses to persons between 18-45. Of this 5,19,739 were in Bengaluru. Though Karnataka has seen a steady decline in new Covid-19 infections, the threat of a third wave looms large in the state. Karnataka reported 1386 new infections on Monday, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. There were 3,204 recoveries and the active caseload came down to 34,858. The positivity rate was at 1.26% as the state conducted 109,399 tests in total, according to government data. The fatality rate continued at a high of 4.40% as 61 more persons died, taking the toll to 35896, according to data. Bengaluru, the largest city in Karnataka and its economic centre, reported 319 new infections in a 24 hour period, according to the health department on Monday. There were 784 recoveries which brought down the active caseload to 12,985, data shows. The city also reported 9 deaths which took the toll to 15,745. Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru reported 10 deaths each, data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-remains-a-priority-in-vaccine-drive-even-as-other-districts-lag-behind-101626117648971.html
13-07-2021||India||HC upholds Karnataka govt’s decision to hold SSLC exams||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Monday dismissed a petition challenging the state government’s decision to hold Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) exams in July. The SSLC examination for the academic year 2020-21, was to be held on July 19 and 20. A Bench of Justices BV Nagarathna and Hanchate Sanjeevkumar dismissed a petition filed by one SV Singre Gowda seeking cancellation of examination in view of the pandemic, after the Advocate General (AG), appearing for the state, made a submission of the precautionary steps to be taken. The AG in the high court observed that the exams were being held keeping Covid-19 safety norms in place. The exams will be held for only two days and will last three hours, from 10.30 am to 1.30 pm. The state has also condensed all Class 10 subjects into two exam papers of multiple-choice questions (MCQ). “We will have only 12 students in a classroom. One desk for one student. There will be social distancing, health screening, 2 paramedical staff,” the AG said. In response, the bench said that it finds that the state has taken the required precautions. “Court is not inclined to interfere in the matter. We find that state has taken care to conduct exams by issuing SOP in form of a circular to be complied with by all students, teachers and all stakeholders. Petitioner is not able to point out how state conducting the exam is arbitrary. Hence, we do not find any merit in the petition. Hence, the petition is dismissed,” the court ordered. The petitioner pointed out that exams for Class 10 students have been cancelled in most states and added that the CBSE also has cancelled its board exams for Class 10 and 12. The petitioner also argued that the Union government is yet to roll out any vaccination drive for children. The petition also stated that the parents of students are anxious to send children to attend the exams. When the petitioner pointed out that only Karnataka will be holding the exams while the rest of India has cancelled the exams, the high court responded by saying that it was a policy decision of the state. “Many parents are single parents or have a single child and if anything happens to that child can the state government get the life of the child back? Keeping this in view, cancelling the examination is absolutely required,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-upholds-karnataka-govt-s-decision-to-hold-sslc-exams-101626117528903.html
13-07-2021||India||NEP to be implemented in K’taka govt colleges from this academic year: DyCM||Bengaluru Deputy chief minister of Karnataka and minister for higher education, Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, on Monday said that the National Education Policy (NEP) will be implemented from the current academic year. “NEP will be implemented in government higher education institutions by making use of LMS (learning management system) and Unified University College Management System (UUCMS),” Narayan said in a statement on Monday. He added that private colleges which have good infrastructure should come forward to implement the NEP from the current year itself. “Other institutions should also get ready to implement this in a gradual manner,” he added. “NEP aims to integrate various capabilities of the human intellect. It aspires to provide global exposure to the students even as it wishes to make them aware of the roots of the Indian tradition,” he said in the statement. The development comes at a time when the state government is trying to usher in the contentious NEP while reopening physical classes and the academic year after almost over a year of Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns in Karnataka and other parts of the country. NEP-2020, which will replace the National Policy on Education-1986, is an inclusive framework focusing on the elementary level of education to higher education in the country. The union cabinet had approved the NEP in July 2020 with an objective of universalisation of education from pre-school to secondary level. The policy also aims to enable an individual to study one or more specialised areas of interest at a deep level, and also develop character, scientific temper, creativity, the spirit of service, and 21st-century capabilities across a range of disciplines including sciences, social sciences, arts, and humanities, among others. The state government has started to speed up the process of vaccinating students above the age of 18 years to help reopen colleges in the state. Narayan is also the head of the Covid-19 task force in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-to-be-implemented-in-k-taka-govt-colleges-from-this-academic-year-dycm-101626117468981.html
13-07-2021||India||3 IS members arrested from south Kashmir, says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday said they had arrested three people affiliated with the Islamic State from south Kashmir who were allegedly using cyberspace to spread propaganda through the online magazine “The Voice of Hind(VOH).”The agency identified them as Umar Nisar, Tanveer Ahmad Bhat, and Rameez Ahmad Lone, all residents of Achabal in Anantnag district.In a statement, NIA said a large number of ‘incriminating documents, multiple digital devices, and T-shirts with ISIS logo’ had been recovered from their possession.“Preliminary examination of the seized material and examination of the accused persons revealed that they are active cadres of ISIS and have been using cyberspace to propagate inciting material by the online magazine –VOH,” it said.After examination of the trio the agency said it led to more searches at two places in Anantnag on Monday. “A number of digital devices and other materials have been seized,” it said.On Sunday, NIA conducted multiple raids in Kashmir’s Anantnag district and Srinagar districts in connection with the alleged conspiracy to spread the Islamic State (IS) propaganda through its online magazine ‘The Voice of Hind’, the agency said.“In order to execute its nefarious plan, an organized campaign has been launched over the cyberspace which is supplemented by on-ground terror financing activities... In this connection, an India-Centric online propaganda magazine ‘the Voice of Hind’ ( VOH) is published on monthly basis with an aim to incite and radicalize impressionable youth by projecting a skewed narrative of imagined injustices in India to arouse a feeling of alienation and communal hatred,” the NIA had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-is-members-arrested-from-south-kashmir-says-nia-101626117410551.html
13-07-2021||India||Leadership row: Yediyurappa continues outreach to different groups to gain support||Bengaluru Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday continued his review meetings of caste-specific boards and corporations in what is being seen as an attempt to reach out to groups that are traditionally not known to back the 78-year-old or the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The chief minister held meetings on the Basava Kalyana, Kaginele and Sangolli Rayanna development board meetings on Monday, which relates to the Lingayat and Kuruba communities. In the Basava Kalyana development board meeting, the chief minister approved an action plan for the ongoing fiscal which involves several projects. “Out of 134 works taken up by the board, 76 works have been completed and 58 works are pending. The state government has earmarked Rs.500 crore for the Anubhava Mantapa Project and Rs.200 crore have been allocated during the current financial year. Anubhava Mantapa is coming up in an area of 101 acres of land. Philanthropists have donated 11.25 acres of land freely and the remaining 69 acres needs to be acquired from various farmers,” a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) stated. The board pertains to the Lingayats, believed to be the single largest caste-group in the state, and who have until now considered Yediyurappa to be their undisputed political leader. However, the recent row involving the Panchamasali, the biggest sub-sect within the Lingayats, has bracketed Yediyurappa into a member of the Banajiga sub-sect and have sought to have one of their own instated in the top office if the BJP high command does decide to replace the 78-year-old. This was followed by Kaginele Development Board, a place where saint-poet Kanakadasa is believed to be buried and is one of the most important places for the politically active Kuruba community. Even the Sangolli Rayanna development board meeting was held on Monday, which appears to be an effort to expedite all works to show visible progress in the outreach to communities, like the Kurubas, who have backed former chief minister and leader of the opposition, Siddaramaiah. Yediyurappa has made boards for Lingayats, Vokkaligas, Kurbas, Brahmins and Marathas among other groups to help earn their backing to keep him in power till 2023 and also aspires to lead the BJP to the assembly elections two years later. On July 6, Yediyurappa approved around ₹223 crore worth of works in the Kempe Gowda Development Board. During the 512th Kempe Gowda Jayanthi celebrations on June 27, a prominent Vokkaliga seer also requested the chief minister to rename the Metro project and put up a bust of the person widely believed to have installed the foundation for the city of Bengaluru. He is also associated with the politically dominant Vokkaliga community, believed to be the second largest in the state. The request came in after Yediyurappa announced to install the statue of the 12th century social reformer, Basavanna inside Vidhana Soudha’s premises. The developments come at a time when Siddaramaiah has also backed marginalised communities to take the legal route to get Yediyurappa to release the findings of the Socio economic and educational survey, better known as caste-census, as a way to get the government to review the perceived size of dominant groups and the benefits they currently get under the existing provisions of reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leadership-row-yediyurappa-continues-outreach-to-different-groups-to-gain-support-101626117409004.html
13-07-2021||India||Despite curbs, B’luru traffic dept collects record fines till May 31||Bengaluru traffic department has collected more money in fines this year till May 31, as compared to previous years, even though the city was under lockdown that extended up to two months, due to Covid-19 second wave. As per the records of the traffic police, this year, till May 31, 2021, the traffic police have collected ₹58.9 crores in fines. In comparison, the fines collected for traffic violations was ₹99.5 crores in 2020, and in the year 2019, the amount collected was ₹89.1 crore. As per the traffic police’s estimate, the department could set the record for the highest fine collected so far, surpassing ₹112.3 crores in 2017. The traffic police department pointed out various reasons behind the high fine collection rate. Ravikanthe Gowda, the joint commissioner of police, traffic, said that even though people were asked to stay at home, the number of violations of lockdown rules were high. “Since we didn’t have much traffic management duties due to the lockdown, police were able to book more violations,” he said. On June 9, The Karnataka high court had allowed the police department to release over 1.5 lakh vehicles seized for violation of Covid-19 restrictions imposed across the state. The court noted that since a large number of vehicles have been seized, it would be difficult for the police to find adequate space to park these vehicles. As per the data submitted to the HC, 137,503 two-wheelers, 7,432 four-wheelers and 7,123 other vehicles have been seized in the state so far. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj ordered that such vehicles can be released to their owners after verification of documents along with an undertaking and deposit of fines. Junior rank officers say that apart from the violations of lockdown norms, there were strict instructions from the higher officers to increase the random checks of vehicles in the city, since January. “We have been asked to check documents of vehicles and also check if owners have any past violations against them. Many people have evaded paying fines have now asked to pay up during these random checks,” said an officer posted in Bengaluru east division, on the condition of anonymity. People not paying fine has been a big problem for the traffic department and that is the reason for the increasing the random checks, said Gowda. According to the department documents, more than 9.5 million traffic violations amounting to ₹390 crores have remained unpaid for the past three years because these challans were sent by post. “People were ignoring the challans issued to them. So, last year we began a drive to collect these fines by going to the violator’s home. The drive didn’t give the desired results. With more than ₹390 crore worth of fines, we have no options but conduct random vehicle checking across the city,” Gowda added. Since the random document checks have increased, in an effort to add one more option for contactless enforcement, the Bengaluru traffic police have enabled payment of fine amounts using Paytm. Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant launched the service on July 5. Earlier, there were options to pay traffic fines through Bangalore-one, BTP website and PDA machines. However, as the Paytm option is already in use in other states, the BTP decided to introduce the option in the city. Paytm has tied up with the traffic police to offer the payment option free of cost. Also, since there were issues regarding difficulties in carrying the original documents, the Bengaluru Traffic Police has advised vehicle users to use digital documents and produce them using Digilocker or mParivahan mobile applications during vehicle checks. “Documents such as registration certificate, driving licence, insurance, fitness certificate, permits, and emission test certificates can be downloaded onto Digilocker and mParivahan mobile applications. When asked by traffic police, vehicle users are requested to produce digital documents, which will help keep original documents safe and also weed out fake ones,” Gowda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-curbs-b-luru-traffic-dept-collects-record-fines-till-may-31-101626117288897.html
13-07-2021||India||2 Assam cops attacked by Karimganj trader for shutting shop during Covid curfew: Police||Silchar: Two police constables were allegedly attacked with a sharp object by a shopkeeper in Assam’s Karimganj district on Monday when they asked him to close his shop due to Covid-19 curfew.Superintendent of police of Karimganj district Padmanabh Barua asked his department to register an attempt too murder case against the shopkeeper, identified by the police as Abdul Mannan.The incident took place at Bhanga Bazar area in Karimganj district on Monday afternoon. As per the state government’s Covid-19 regulations, all the shops and business establishments have to close by 1pm. Curfew starts in the district from 2pm.But according to the police, Abdul Mannan refused to down the shutters when two constables, Aminuddin Laskar and Badrul Hussain Laskar, asked him well past 2pm to comply with the restrictions.A heated argument followed. At one point, police said, Abdul Mannan and his friends started throwing broken tea cups at police. When the constables forcibly shut his shop, Abdul Mannan allegedly attacked them with a sharp object. Police said the two policemen also gave it back to Abdul Mannan, mostly using their sticks.The constables and the shopkeeper were taken to the Karimganj civil hospital.Later some videos emerged where the police officers were reportedly seen threatening to open fire. Some locals claimed the constables did fire, an allegation that was promptly rebutted by the district police chief Barua.“Our constables were trying to control the situation in spite of being attacked with sharp objects. But they did not use bullets to control the situation. In this critical time of Covid-19 spread, police officers are working hard to control public gatherings. But such attacks on them will not be condoned. We are going to file a case against Abdul Mannan for attempt to murder and some other charges.”On the other hand, the local traders’ association alleged that it was police constables who misbehaved and physically assaulted the shopkeeper first.“All shopkeepers in our bazaar close their shops at 1pm as per the state government’s guidelines. Abdul Mannan was not selling anything when police came. He was doing some work and assured them that he would close his shop in a few minutes. But the police constables misbehaved with him and in his defence, he attacked. Police should learn how to behave with common people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-assam-cops-attacked-by-karimganj-trader-for-shutting-shop-during-covid-curfew-police-101626116629443.html
13-07-2021||India||19-yr-old held for hate speech against Muslims||A 19-year-old man was arrested on Monday for allegedly making provocative comments against the Muslim community at a mahapanchayat in Gurugram’s Pataudi sub-division on July 4, police said, adding that a complaint was lodged in this regard soon after the event a week ago.Police have identified the accused as Gopal Sharma, who refers to himself as Ram Bhakt Gopal, a resident of Pataudi. Sharma earlier allegedly opened fire during a protest near Jamia Millia Islamia in Delhi on January 30,2020. He was arrested from Gurugram’s Sector 83 and produced before a court, which sent him to judicial custody for 14 days, police said.“His speech was inflammatory. It could have caused riots and ruined the law and order situation,” said Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao.He added that they received a complaint from a resident of Jamalpur who attended the mahapanchayat. Police booked Sharma under sections 153A (promoting enmity on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence) and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code.The complainant alleged, “In his speech, he called for attacks on the Muslim community. A video of his speech went viral on social media and the situation turned tense in the village...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19yrold-arrested-for-hate-speech-against-muslims-101626116268849.html
13-07-2021||India||‘Don’t disown kids to get elected’: SC upholds Sena leader’s removal||One should not “disown” her or his child only to grab a political post, observed the Supreme Court on Monday while upholding the disqualification of a Shiv Sena leader whose election as a corporator of the Solapur Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra was set aside for having more than two children.“You have put a cross to bear for your child just because you wanted to get elected. Don’t disown your children only because you want to get elected and get a political post,” said a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta while dismissing the petition filed by Anita Magar.Magar challenged an order by the Bombay high court, which noted that there was enough evidence on record to show that Magar and her husband had three children on the date of filing of her nomination, and therefore, she was disqualified under the state’s two-child norm to run for public office.In her appeal, Magar told the top court that she only had two biological children, and the third child was not hers, but of her brother-in-law. She also asked the court to interfere in the interest of the girl child since her parentage was now in question.“The child has a birth certificate that mentions a different couple as her parents but the high court has called Magar and her husband as her parents. This case requires consideration to protect the child,” Magar’s lawyer said.Dismissing Magar’s petition, the bench said: “In your anxiety to get elected, you only created such a scenario. They are identified as your children in the school. And then the birth certificate was changed. To get over the legal requirements, all this is done. We cannot help you. You should think of your child.”On May 24, the Bombay high court upheld a 2018 civil court order that set aside Magar’s election as corporator of the Solapur Municipal Corporation in the polls conducted in 2017. Magar and three others contested from a ward in Solapur, and she was declared elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-disown-kids-to-get-elected-sc-upholds-sena-leader-s-removal-101626116208860.html
13-07-2021||India||India invited to SCO meet on Afghanistan||Three meetings scheduled in the Central Asian states of Tajikistan and Uzbekistan this week will allow external affairs minister S Jaishankar to compare notes on the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan with interlocutors from several key countries.Jaishankar will visit the Central Asian states against the backdrop of growing concern in the region over the Taliban’s violent campaign aimed at capturing territory while stalling on peace talks aimed at finding a political settlement.He will visit Tajikistan during July 13-14 at the invitation of foreign minister Sirojiddin Muhriddin to participate in a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). On the second day of the visit, he will take part in a meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan.Jaishankar will then travel to Uzbekistan to participate in a conference on regional trade, transport and connectivity in Tashkent during July 15-16. He is expected to meet several key interlocutors on the margins of the conference with the theme “Central and South Asia: Regional connectivity. Challenges and opportunities”.Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi is set to attend all three events, but people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that no bilateral meeting with Jaishankar has been lined up.Though the main item on the agenda of the SCO foreign ministers’ meeting is the preparations for meeting of the SCO heads of states to be held in Dushanbe during September 16-17, the people cited above said, adding that the situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure prominently in the discussions.Afghanistan has observer status with SCO, which includes India, Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, and Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar is expected to participate in both meetings in Dushanbe.Though the focus of the conference in Uzbekistan is on regional trade and connectivity, the presence of top leaders will provide opportunities for the Indian side to discuss the situation in Afghanistan on the margins of the meeting. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani is expected to attend the meeting in Tashkent.The Uzbek government was keen to rope in the Indian and Pakistani prime ministers for the meeting in Tashkent, but the two countries will be represented by their foreign ministers. Representatives of China, Russia, Iran, the European Union and the US are also set to participate in the meeting.India has expressed strong concerns about the levels of violence in Afghanistan and Jaishankar asserted the need for a legitimate government in Kabul during a joint news conference with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov in Moscow last week. Russia has its own concerns about the violence in Afghanistan spilling over into the Central Asian states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-invited-to-sco-meet-on-afghanistan-101626116148825.html
13-07-2021||India||Kashish institutes short film grant for LGBTQIA directors||New Delhi: For over a decade, director Sridhar Rangayan and his team have organised south Asia’s biggest LGBTQIA+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, asexual) film festival, Kashish, in Mumbai.Now, the group has come together to offer a grant to a director from the community to finish their own queer-narrative-based 10-15 minute film. The motivation, they say, is to nurture queer filmmakers who usually struggle for opportunities. “We wanted to ensure better resources for LGBTQIA+ filmmakers, considering the uphill task they have to make their films in the most sensitive and truest manner possible,” said Rangayan.Formally known as the Kashish QDrishti Film Grant, the award of R2 lakh is being offered by the Kashish Arts Foundation, a non-profit organisation that hosts the film festival and is open to emerging LGBTQIA+ directors of Indian origin based in India. “The Kashish QDristhi award empowers the members of the LGBTQIA+ filmmakers to own their narrative and boldly bring their own stories on their own terms to the world. The award celebrates the optimism, courage, and indomitable spirit of these visionary risk-takers,” said Neeraj of Lotus Vision Productions, whihc is supporting the grant.The initiative is in its sixth year but this is the first time it is targeted towards a filmmaker from the community. The winner will be announced on September 5. “We felt that it is important to support filmmakers who belong to the LGBTQIA+ community have no funding support to realise their dream projects. They are often sidelined by production houses and OTT platforms, because the LGBTQIA+ filmmakers believe in being true to their content and do not chase after bringing on board big stars,” said Rangayan. Previous winners of the grant have shown their shorts at various festivals around the world. “The grant enabled me to put my plan for my short film into motion. It’s not just the money but the confidence of being awarded the grant by an eminent jury that gave wings to me and the film,” said Arun Fulara, who received the grant in 2020 for his short, My Mother’s Girlfriend||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashish-institutes-short-film-grant-for-lgbtqia-directors-101626115368792.html
13-07-2021||India||NCPCR seeks report on rape and murder of minor in Kerala||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has taken up the brutal rape and murder of a 6-year-old girl in Idukki suo motu on Monday and directed the district police superintendent to submit a report in a week. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala visited the victim’s house on Monday and sought a court-monitored probe. Police had arrested a 22-year-old youth who was the victim’s neighbour three days after the murder on June 30. Daughter of tea plantation workers the incident happened when her parents went out for work. The girl was found to be hanging in her home when her brother returned home in the evening. During the post-mortem, it was found that the victim was brutally raped and later suffocated to death, said police. There were also attempts to skip post-mortem and hush up the case. Later, the police found that the accused was exploiting the girl for more than two years after enticing her with chocolates. Although he had abused the girl on several occasions earlier, police said, the victim turned unconscious on that particular day and the accused got panic and hanged her in the room with a shawl. The accused had even participated in the girl’s funeral and acted grief-stricken and insisted that the girl got hung accidentally while playing with the shawl, police said. During the investigation, it was found that her parents had given her the freedom to visit their house regularly and he used to bring sweets and he used this to allegedly exploit the victim. The ruling CPI(M) was red-faced after the accused Arjun P was found to be an active worker of the party youth wing, the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DFYI). But later the DYFI claimed he was expelled from the party long ago. “We don’t want the case to meet the fate of two siblings’ death in Walayar. There are many attempts to weaken the case. We need a court-monitored probe,” said Chennithala in Vandiperiyar (Idukki) after meeting the parents of the victim. In 2017 in Walayar (Palakkad) two siblings aged 13 and eight were found hanging inside their hut in a span of 50 days. Later post-mortem examinations revealed that they were subjected to sexual assault before their deaths. Following protests, five people were arrested by the police but later they were acquitted by the trial court and there was a big outrage in the state. Now the Central Bureau of Investigation is investigating the case afresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-seeks-report-on-rape-and-murder-of-minor-in-kerala-101626115189397.html
13-07-2021||India||Customs plans to shift Kerala gold smuggling accused to other state||The customs department probing the Kerala gold smuggling case is planning to shift the main accused in the case to a neighbouring state, alleging intervention from many quarters. Last week, one of the accused, P S Sarith stated before a court that he was pressurised to take the names of the Congress and BJP leaders.Five main accused are in jail under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (Cofeposa). One of them, Sarith deposed before a court alleging that the jail authorities were torturing him and forced to take names of the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party leaders to implicate them in the case. But later, the central jail authorities in Thiruvananthapuram denied this and filed a counter-complaint against him and another accused KT Ramees, saying they regularly flout jail norms and discipline. “It is a serious issue. We are planning to move the high court with a plea to shift these accused to another jail. Threat to Cofeposa detainees is serious, and we also have informed the central government about this,” said a senior customs officer, who did not want to be named. He said the Centre could also move the supreme court to shift all cases relating to the gold smuggling to another state if the situation continued like this.Earlier, the mother of another accused Swapna Suresh had also alleged that her daughter was facing threat to life for not changing her statements. She had alleged that many in the CM’s office were aware the smuggling was done through the consulate office and that the consulate head used to visit the CM quite often. The Congress and BJP deplored the alleged move to implicate its leaders. “The ruling CPI(M) will have to pay a heavy price for this,” said state Congress chief K Sudhakaran. “Desperate, the government wants to sully the image of opposition party leaders,” said BJP state president K Surendran. At least four central agencies (customs, revenue intelligence, enforcement directorate (ED) and NIA) are involved in the gold smuggling probe. The sensational case came to light on July 5 last year after 30 kg gold was seized from a consignment that came to the United Arab Emirates consulate in the state capital camouflaged as a diplomatic consignment. The central agencies and state government have locked horns several times over the case. The government had filed a case against the ED last year and later constituted a judicial commission against it, saying it was trying to implicate many state leaders, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-plans-to-shift-kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-to-other-state-101626115188812.html
13-07-2021||India||Ahead of 2-day visit, Kejriwal says Goa wants change||Ahead of the two-day visit to Goa where assembly polls are due next year, Aam Aadmi Party national convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the state “wants change” adding that it has had “enough of dirty politics” .“Goa wants change. Enough of parties buying and selling MLAs. Enough of dirty politics. Goa wants development. There is no shortage of funds, only shortage of honest intent. Goa wants honest politics. See you in Goa tomorrow,” Kejriwal tweeted on Monday.The local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party has launched a ‘Let’s Clean Goa’s Politics’ campaign and has been targeting primarily the Congress for having ‘sold’ its MLAs to the BJP.Despite an impressive campaign in 2017, AAP failed to win any seats and its candidates lost their deposit in 39 of the 40 seats that were contested but is hoping for a better showing this time round. Kejriwal’s arrival is expected to take forward the party’s campaign as well as make a significant electoral promise during his stay here.“The AAP has a role to play to split the opposition vote and help the BJP and the last time they succeeded...They hurt our chances in 3-4 constituencies without which we would have been able to form a government on our own,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.In the recent past, the BJP has brushed aside the threat posed to the party by the AAP with state party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade, saying, “They (AAP) can go ahead and declare their candidates as well. We are confident that we will return to power with a full majority on our own strength”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2-day-visit-kejriwal-says-goa-wants-change-101626115008807.html
13-07-2021||India||SC gives govt 2 weeks to reply to petitions against sedition law||The Supreme Court on Monday gave the Centre two weeks’ time to respond to a petition challenging the validity of the sedition law under which expressions of dissent or valid criticism of governments are being penalised as attempts to spread hatred, contempt or disaffection towards elected regimes at the central and state level.The offence of sedition is punishable under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. In 1962, the Supreme Court upheld the constitutional validity of this law in Kedar Nath Yadav v State of Bihar.On April 30 this year, the top court issued a notice to the Centre on a petition filed by two journalists Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla, working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh, who demanded a relook at the 1962 judgment in the light of blatant misuse of this law by governments to suppress criticism. The petitioners claimed that the said provision violated their freedom of speech and expression, a constitutionally guaranteed right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The court had even sought the assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal in the matter.On Monday, the bench of justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi gave solicitor general Tushar Mehta two weeks’ time to file an affidavit on behalf of the Centre. Before the next date of hearing on July 27, the court allowed the attorney general to file his written submissions.Meanwhile, three applications have also been filed in the matter by Foundation of Media Professionals, journalist Shashi Kumar and law professor Sanjay S Jain supporting the petition in challenging the constitutional validity of Section 124A of the IPC. Senior advocate Arvind Datar appeared for the foundation while advocates Kaleeswaram Raj and Namit Saxena represented the other two. The foundation said, “The internet has not only completely revolutionised the modes of communication, but also equipped nation states to exercise control over the minutest of actions, thoughts and speech of their citizens.”Shashi Kumar in his application stated that the “vague nature of the provision” allows Section 124A to be used as a “political weapon to create a chilling effect” on free speech. He cited sedition cases against anti-CAA protesters and farmers to highlight the misuse of the law. The third applicant showed how globally, the UK and New Zealand have repealed the sedition law while Australia replaced the term “sedition” with “urging violence offences” in 2010.The original petition filed by the two journalists was argued by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves.It pointed out that the SC may have been right in 1962 to uphold Section 124A but the application of this provision in recent times has made it “undemocratic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-govt-2-weeks-to-reply-to-petitions-against-sedition-law-101626114948803.html
13-07-2021||India||1 year on, issues of Pilot camp remain unresolved in Rajasthan||On July 12, 2020, Sachin Pilot, the then Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state Congress chief and 18 MLAs rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot, leading to a 30-day-long turmoil that saw conversations of rebel MLAs and a Union minister leaked on social media, a protracted legal battle over powers of the legislative assembly speaker to disqualify MLAs that reached the Supreme Court, and an anti-climatic compromise that ended the revolt, but which, as recent events have shown, did nothing to address the underlying issues.A year later, the Pilot camp claims most issues remain unresolved and that many promised political appointments are yet to happen. Congress’s Rajasthan in-charge Ajay Maken last week indicated that a cabinet expansion to fill nine vacant positions and appointments in state-run corporations and boards would happen “very soon” without giving any clear time frame. Maken reached Jaipur and held two rounds of meetings with Gehlot in presence of state party chief Govind Singh Dotasara last Tuesday and Wednesday. “The exercise on Cabinet reshuffle and political appointments is a work in progress...,” Maken stated.At 9pm on July 12 last year, Pilot’s camp released a statement on WhatsApp, claiming that the Gehlot-led Congress government was in minority, and that Pilot was being backed by 30 Congress MLAs and some independents, threatening the stability of the Congress government. The rebels stayed in Gurugram, Haryana till August 11, 2020 and returned to Jaipur after a month when it became clear that Gehlot had a majority on the floor of the House; the Congress high command set up a committee under Ahmed Patel to resolve issues.In June, Pilot expressed his displeasure at the lack of action by the committee.“We have apprised the party high command about everything... Our issues have not been resolved yet,” said Deepender Singh Shekhawat, MLA and former assembly speaker.A senior Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that even a cabinet reshuffle is unlikely to resolve the matter. Gehlot is pitching for independents and former Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs who saved his government during the floor test in August.Efforts were made to contact Gehlot and Pilot but neither responded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-yr-on-issues-of-pilot-camp-remain-unresolved-inraj-101626114889503.html
13-07-2021||India||Nullification of Article 370 an attempt to loot J&K: Mehbooba||The president of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday slammed the Centre over the nullification of Article 370, calling it an “attempt to loot Jammu & Kashmir”, and said that new orders by the administration led by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha were “testimony to the attack” on the region’s economy and social fabric.“I have been meeting several delegations in Jammu for the past few days. Following abrogation of Article 370 and 35A, we were sold dreams of rivers of milk and honey everywhere in J&K, especially in Jammu, but the move has aggravated problems...be it jobs, livelihood or our identity,” Mufti told reporters.The special status accorded to J&K under the Constitution were revoked on August 5, 2019 — a move opposed by mainstream parties in the state.Mufti also slammed the LG’s administration for dismissing government employees “without being proven guilty by the courts”, and the decision to do away with the Darbar move (the biannual shifting of the seat of power to Srinagar and Jammu).Mufti questioned the need for a delimitation exercise, which was stressed upon by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an all-party meeting on June 23.J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina, said: “...those who sympathise with Article 370 are in reality sympathisers of Pakistan and separatists and not of the common people of J&K.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nullification-of-article-370-an-attempt-to-loot-j-k-mehbooba-101626114888867.html
13-07-2021||India||PNB fraud case: Choksi granted bail for treatment in Antigua||The high court of justice in Dominica on Monday granted interim bail to fugitive Indian businessman Mehul Choksi and allowed him to travel to Antigua and Barbuda “strictly for medical treatment”, people familiar with the development said.Choksi will have to return to Dominica, where he is facing illegal entry charges, once he is fit to travel, the court ruled.Also Read | ‘Strictly for treatment’: Mehul Choksi gets interim bail, can travel to AntiguaIt asked Choksi to deposit Eastern Caribbean dollars 10,000 ( ₹275,000) as surety for the bail and return to the island after his treatment. He is likely to be flown in an air ambulance to Antigua on Wednesday after completing legal formalities, the people cited above said.His legal team approached the Dominica high court last week seeking relief on the ground that his health was deteriorating and he needed urgent medical attention.The 62-year-old businessman, wanted in India in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case, has been in the custody of Dominican authorities for illegally entering the island on May 24 and faces charges on this count. He was admitted to the Dominica-China Friendship hospital soon after and has been under treatment since May 31.His legal team sought permission for him to travel to Antigua on the grounds that he has a heart condition, is diabetic, has hypertension, and a clot in the brain.Choksi also submitted a medical certificate of Princess Margaret Hospital in Dominica in support of travel to Antigua, which said he would be examined by a private physician for a neurological assessment and a neurosurgeon from the US will also assist the physician.“Dominica courts finally upheld the rule of law and rights of a human to be treated in the medical facilities of his choice. And all attempts by various agencies did not bear fruit...,” said Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal.Also Read | Mehul Choksi alleges ‘collusion’ between India, DominicaThere was no formal response from New Delhi to Monday’s development. Indian government officials, however, have termed Choksi’s claim of poor medical health as a “drama” to stay away from prison in Dominica.As reported by HT, Choksi approached the high court last week to seek a judicial review of the illegal entry case against him alleging that he didn’t leave Antigua and Barbuda on his own but was brought to Dominica as part of “collusion” between governments, an allegation that has been rejected.Choksi, who fled India in January 2018 and has been living in Antigua, went missing from the country on May 23. He turned up on a Dominican beach about 200km away and was arrested, prompting the Indian government to seek his deportation as he was a prohibited immigrant in the country in contrast to Antigua, where he enjoys constitutional and legal protection by virtue of being a citizen.In Antigua, he, however, faces proceedings to extradite him to India as well as to revoke his citizenship. Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne has previously said that his country will not take Choksi back and that he should be sent directly to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pnb-fraud-case-choksi-granted-bail-for-treatment-in-antigua-101626114829434.html
13-07-2021||India||Ashwini Vaishnaw reviews delayed bullet train project||Union railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has reviewed the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project that has faced several delays due to the slow pace of land acquisition and the Covid-19 pandemic, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.The project connecting the two cities through a high-speed rail network was scheduled to be completed by December 2023, but top railway officials indicated that the timeline may be revised. “The ongoing pandemic and slow land acquisition process in Maharashtra is adversely affecting the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail project. The revised timelines will be worked out after assessing the exact impact of the pandemic on the entire project, land acquisition, and tender finalisation in the state of Maharashtra,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity.The 508.17km rail corridor project comprises 348.04km in Gujarat, a 155.76km stretch in Maharashtra, and 4.3km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli.Vaishnaw, 50, took charge on Thursday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inducted the bureaucrat-turned-politician into the Cabinet in last week’s mega reshuffle.He reviewed the high-speed rail project on Sunday.“All matters were reviewed with an aim to ensure that no stone is left unturned to achieve the objective,” the official added.HT reported in September last year that the bullet train may not be able to meet its 2023 deadline.The official cited above said 74% of the land acquisition project has been completed, mostly in Gujarat but the process hasn’t been on track in Maharashtra.The official added that work in Maharashtra is limited to land acquisition and utility shifting, and only 25% of the land is being acquired. “A major hindrance for contract award in the Maharashtra part of the alignment is the land availability since at least 80% of the land should be available before any of the work could be awarded,” the official said.The project has had to face issues ranging from protests by landowners to rising costs because of a widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen; 81% of the ₹1 lakh crore needed to fund the project will come from a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan. Officials said there was a possibility that the project cost could go up.According to the current project status compiled by the ministry, civil work contracts for the construction of 92% of the alignment in Gujarat and the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (325km out of 351km and 5 stations) have been awarded, and construction work has commenced in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishnaw-reviews-delayed-bullet-train-project-101626114828769.html
13-07-2021||India||In 24 hour, lightning kills 74 across three states||Lightning strikes killed 74 people in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh over 24 hours, making it one of the worst such disasters in the region in the recent past, according to data provided by the governments of the three states on Monday.On Sunday, 11 visitors at the historic Amber Fort on the outskirts of Jaipur were killed when a lightning bolt struck at a watchtower on which they were taking a selfie. Another 20 visitors were injured in the incident, the local police said.A witness said the incident occurred between 6.30pm and 7pm. “It was already raining when the people were there. As the rain intensified, they huddled together in the tower,” said senior police officer Saurabh Tiwari, adding that up to 30 people were there on the tower when lightning struck.Elsewhere in Rajasthan, seven children were killed in lightning strikes of whom four were in Kota and three in Dholpur. On Sunday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced ex-gratia payment of ₹5 lakh each to the kin of the dead and ordered compensation for the injured.There were 41 deaths in Uttar Pradesh across 16 districts on Sunday evening in lightning strikes. “Thirty people have been injured as well. Ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh will be paid to the kin of the deceased,” Uttar Pradesh Relief Commissioner Ranvir Prasad told a news agency.He added that 250 animals were also killed in the lightning strikes and 20 were injured.In Madhya Pradesh, at least 11 people, including four minors, were killed and 13 sustained burn injuries due to lightning strikes on Sunday evening, the police said. Seven were killed in Gwalior and Chambal region, two in Rewa, and one each in Betuka and Hoshangabad, said a statement from the state disaster management authority.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was briefed about these incidents and the loss of lives, a person aware of the developments said. “Deeply saddened by the demise of people. I express my deepest condolences to the families of the deceased: PM @narendramodi,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a tweet.Later, the PMO issued a statement in which it said that ex-gratia relief of ₹2 lakh each to the families of the dead and ₹50,000 to the injured was announced.On June 7, lightning strikes in several districts of West Bengal killed at least 27 people. This prompted the India Meteorological Department to point to a trend of increasing danger from the weather phenomenon. Scientists there said that lightning strikes have killed nearly 2,000 people every year in India since 2004, which is nearly twice the number of deaths recorded since the late 1960s.Former director general IMD KJ Ramesh said that more deaths are being reported because of better reporting and compensation being awarded.“We need to create lightning alert systems to warn people as some states such as Odisha have done,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-24-hrs-lightning-kills-74-across-three-states-101626114768771.html
13-07-2021||India||Kanwar yatra tussle sparks Covid 3rd wave fears||An ongoing tussle over holding the kanwar yatra continued on Monday, with experts warning that allowing the religious pilgrimage that attracts millions of people could spark a possible third wave of Covid cases, months after the Mahakumbh drew 9.1 million devotees and seeded clusters of infections during the second wave.Uttar Pradesh has announced the yatra – in which Shiva devotees travel hundreds of kilometres to fetch water from the Ganga and carry it back to their villages – will begin from July 25, but Uttarakhand, home to the yatra’s destination, Haridwar, remained non-committal.The hill state earlier cancelled the yatra but decided to review the order last week after a request from UP. Both states are scheduled to go the polls in 2022.“The government respects religion and related traditions. But it is also the duty of the government to protect the life of every single person in state. Hence, a final decision would be taken only after proper analysis,” said Uttarakhand minister Subodh Uniyal.Doctors warned that allowing the event could propel a surge in infections because devotees typically travel through several states and maintaining Covid protocols is challenging.Health experts had issued similar warnings before the Mahakumbh — which was also hosted in Haridwar earlier this year – that appeared to spark infections in various north Indian states during the second wave.On Monday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) wrote a letter of caution to the state government. “The Uttarakhand government shouldn’t allow the Kanwar Yatra to happen in July-August in which lakhs of devotees from other states participate, as the third wave is ready to knock on the door of this country as per the statements of several specialists,” said the letter by Dr Ajay Khanna, secretary of IMA’s Uttarakhand chapter.“Learning from the previous failure, we should not allow the devotees to enter the boundaries of our state and keep the state safe from the third wave of Covid,” the letter added.Mahakumbh impactThe Mahakumbh attracted six million pilgrims in April alone, coinciding with the worst surge in infections – and only ended after an appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 17.By then, officials in many states such as Madhya Pradesh found local cases that were traced to Kumbh returnees. Between April 1 and April 30 active cases in the hill state registered a spike of 2,392%.The Uttarakhand high court later rapped the government and said holding the Kumbh was a mistake. It also cancelled the Char Dham Yatra — which attracted 3.2 million people in 2019 for a pilgrimage of the holy sites of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath – but the state government challenged the verdict in Supreme Court.Other experts warned that the kanwar yatra posed a logistical and health care challenge even more daunting than the Kumbh.The kanwar yatra attracted upwards of 30 million devotees in its last iteration in 2019 with pilgrims hailing from 10 states -- Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh -- walking or cycling to Uttarakhand.The fortnight-long pilgrimage was cancelled last year due to Covid but is set to be held from July 23 to August 6 this year.“Kanwar yatra shouldn’t be allowed in the state at any cost considering what happened after the Mahakumbh in Haridwar,” said Dr DD Choudhury, a senior doctor in Dehradun.In Uttar Pradesh, officials said the state government was planning to hold the yatra with all safety protocols. On July 9, chief minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed preparations and ordered that the yatra should be completed in complete adherence to Covid protocols.“The officers should ensure that there is no unnecessary assembly of crowd… Covid protocols should be implemented along with respecting public sentiments and faith,” he said.Hard to check violationsBut experts warned that elaborate guidelines were issued before the Mahakumbh — which included random testing, asking all pilgrims for Covid reports and masking – but the event saw rampant violation of Covid rules and mass gatherings without any masks. Moreover, roughly 100,000 of the rapid antigen tests conducted at the Kumbh were later found fake, raising doubts about the efficacy of testing during the event. “We know during Mahakumbh hardly anyone followed Covid guidelines,” said Dr Choudhury.Similar problems might force some other states to hold off on the yatra.Bihar said it will take a final decision on August 8 but indicated that holding the full pilgrimage may be difficult.“As per Unlock-4 guidelines, all the shrines and temples in the state have to remain closed till August 8. Fresh instructions will be issued afterwards,” said Subrat Sen, district magistrate of Bhagalpur, which is the node for the pilgrimage in the state.“In 2020, no kanwar yatra was allowed...this year also government is preparing to confront the third wave and huge gatherings need to be avoided. During events like kanwar yatra, it may be difficult to maintain social distancing,” he added.Despite increasing pressure from health experts, Uttarakhand said it was yet to take a final decision.Chief minister Pushkar Dhami -- whose predecessor Tirath Singh Rawat stepped down on July 3 after controversy over his decision to greenlight the Kumbh -- met Modi on Saturday and later hinted that the government was in two minds about holding the event.“The matter of faith is related to God and even God will not want that anyone should die. Our priority is that under no circumstances there should be danger to someone’s life,” he saidOpposition parties also opposed the yatra.Suryakant Dhasmana, vice president of the Uttarakhand unit of the Congress, said “During Kanwar yatra, which is mostly unorganised, people come from different states. How can they manage such huge numbers at a time when they should be readying for the third wave? PM Narendra Modi should intervene and stop this. Everyone knows what happened in Mahakumbh...they should not repeat the same mistake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanwar-yatra-tussle-sparks-3rd-wave-fears-101626114708815.html
13-07-2021||India||Supreme Court cancels bail of Rajasthan man accused of killing sister’s husband||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday cancelled the bail granted seven months ago to a man arrested for killing his sister’s husband in Rajasthan. The trial court has also been ordered to complete the trial within a year.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana cancelled Mukesh Chaudhary’s bail on a petition by his sister, Mamta Nair, who married the victim against her family’s wishes. He was shot dead at point blank range in May 2017.Mamta Nair had petitioned the top court against the December 1, 2020 order of the Rajasthan High Court granting bail to her brother Mukesh Chaudhary who was named as one of the conspirators in the crime registered at police station Karni Vihar in Rajasthan under the offences of murder (IPC Section 302), house trespass (IPC Section 452) and criminal conspiracy (IPC Section 120B).Mamta Nair told the court that she married the deceased against the wishes of her family. When she was six months pregnant in 2017, her family members barged into her house with some unknown persons and tried to forcibly take her away. When her husband tried to stop them, he was shot dead.The bench did not comment on the merits of the case since the trial is underway but set aside bail granted to Mukesh Chaudhary as there was prima facie material against him and only 21 out of 47 witnesses have been examined so far.The top court recalled that it had cancelled bail granted to Mukesh Chaudhary in November 2017 as well on the ground that there prima facie material against the accused, a change in the statement of the deceased’s wife recorded by the trial court did not provide for a “change in circumstance” for the high court to consider the fourth bail application of the accused.The top court asked Mukesh Chaudhary to surrender before the court of upper district and sessions judge, Jaipur and ordered the trial court to make all efforts to conclude the trial expeditiously and in no event later than one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-cancels-bail-of-rajasthan-man-accused-of-killing-sister-s-husband-101626114650603.html
13-07-2021||India||Fuel, food prices keep inflation high at 6.26%||Retail inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) grew at 6.26% in June on the back of higher food and fuel prices, the second straight month that India’s benchmark inflation measure has been above the Reserve Bank of India’s upper tolerance level, raising questions whether the country’s central bank will decide to continue with its easy interest rate regime when it meets next in August.The latest number, released Monday, is lower than the 6.59% forecast by a Bloomberg poll of economists, and also marginally lower than May’s 6.3%.Oils of all kinds seem to be the at the core of the problem -- inflation in oils and fats was 34.8% in the month, compared to May’s 30.8%, the result of high edible oil prices; and fuel and light inflation (as the head reads) was 12.68% (an all-time high) as compared to 11.6%, on account of spiralling fuel prices.Experts said the number could force the government to cut some duties on fuel to reduce retail prices.The National Statistics Office, which released inflation data, also put out factory output metrics for May, as measured by the Index of Industrial Production (IIP). The year-on-year growth of 29.3% in IIP is basically a base-effect driven illusion given the 33.4% contraction in May 2020 caused by last year’s hard lockdown to combat Covid-19. To be sure, May numbers this year too were expected to suffer because of the restrictions during the second wave, although many factories continued to remain open during India’s crippling second wave (unlike last year).While some high frequency indicators such as the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) suggest a sharp revival in economic activity – NIBRI jumped to 95.7 in the week ending July 11, where 100 captures the per-pandemic levels of activity – other indicators such as Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) suggest a loss of momentum in June compared to May. The composite PMI index fell from 48.1 to 43.1 between May and June 2021.The latest inflation numbers suggest that fuel prices are pushing up prices of other commodities. The moderation in headline inflation number is basically a result of reduction in inflation for pan, tobacco and intoxicants and housing category. Food inflation rose from 5.01% to 5.15% and inflation in clothing and footwear increased from 5.3% to 6.2% . Within food items, which have an overall share of 39% in the CPI basket, the oil and fat category reached yet another record high with an annual inflation number of 34.78%. Prices for cereals and vegetables continued to contract, although prices of the latter seem to be gaining momentum. Pulse prices also posted a double-digit growth in June.There could be multiple sources of tailwinds to inflation in the month of July. Fuel prices continue to increase. Petrol and diesel prices have increased by ₹2.38 and ₹0.54 per litre in Delhi between June 30 and July 12. Most dairy cooperatives have increased milk prices in the month of July. Inflation for the miscellaneous category of CPI was flat at 7.3% in May and June.In its June meeting, RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee projected an inflation number of 5.2% in the quarter ending June 2021. At 5.59%, the June inflation numbers have overshot the MPC projections by 39 basis points. The MPC forecast an annual inflation of 5.1% in 2020-21.“There is need for the government to start lowering taxes (on fuel) or CPI inflation will increase and put pressure on MPC,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, CARE Ratings.“The current inflation spike appears to be transitory, driven largely by supply side factors and going forward, it is expected to moderate in the third quarter,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das told Business Standard in an interview on July 8.But the challenge remains.“We forecast CPI inflation at 5.4% in FY22. The drivers of inflation will likely change, from logistical disruptions in 1H to cost push and services demand led inflation in 2H. Even as headline inflation falls over the next few months... the headline print is likely to remain higher than the 4% target. We expect the RBI to embark on a gradual normalization path starting 4Q2021,” Pranjul Bhandari, Chief India Economist, HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Private Limited, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-food-prices-keep-inflation-high-at-626-101626114648728.html
13-07-2021||India||Parliament gears up for full session||Parliament is gearing up to hold its first full session in over a year next week amid some relaxations, including a revised seating arrangement for MPs as Covid cases in the country have reduced considerably over the past month. But a ban on the entry of visitors, no access to Central Hall for former MPs and the media, and strict social distancing norms will remain in place, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said after a review of preparations on Monday.People aware of the matter said that the Congress party has called the meeting of its Parliament strategy group on Wednesday to decide its floor tactics. The virtual meeting will be attended by president Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Rajya Sabha leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh, among other leaders. The Congress is keen to raise issues such as the Centre’s vaccination policy, the economic situation and price rise, the people cited above added.With a week to go for the session, which runs from July 19 to August 13, speaker Om Birla said that about 311, or 58%, of 540 Lok Sabha MPs have been administered both doses of the Covid vaccine, and most of the remaining MPs have got at least one shot. Those who are yet to take their first shots — mainly because they contracted the virus in recent weeks — will be required to take RT-PCR tests.Over the past two sessions, MPs from both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha were seated in a dispersed arrangement that included members of one House sitting in the other and following the proceedings on giant screens. Both Houses were convened in shifts to enable this system to work.This time, MPs will sit in their own Houses, but some lawmakers may have to sit in the galleries to avoid crowding, the speaker said.“Adequate measures have been taken to ensure the safety of the members. MPs who have taken at least one dose of vaccination will not be required to undertake the RT-PCR test. Visitors will not be allowed during the session,” Birla told reporters.Ambulances, health centres, Covid testing facilities have also been kept ready for the session, he added.An all-party meeting will be organised on July 18 to discuss the agendas of the Treasury and Opposition members. Question Hour and Zero Hour will be conducted as per the usual norms.A senior Opposition leader said that a joint meeting of the Opposition’s floor leaders will take place before the session. The anti-Bharatiya Janata Party camp could not manage organised debates on these issues due to paucity of time in the last two sessions. This time, they expect to get at least two short duration discussions and call attention to debates.The list of pending bills includes The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021 and The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020. The government’s priority would be to clear four ordinances that are now in force.Birla stressed that despite Covid, the current Lok Sabha has transacted record business during its first five sessions compared to the previous Lok Sabhas. He urged the members not to resort to disruptions and “focus on raising issues through proper debate and discussion”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-gears-up-for-full-session-101626114468786.html
13-07-2021||India||Centre expedited search for drone tech before attack||The Centre accelerated the hunt for anti-drone technologies to detect, identify and mitigate the threat of rogue drones even before two such devices, in a first-of-its-kind attack, carried out explosions at the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) station in Jammu last month, people aware of the developments said on Monday.The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), a federal police think tank, has formulated detailed specifications and guidelines for anti-drone technologies and submitted them to the ministry of home affairs (MHA), the people quote above said.Details accessed by HT reveal that BPRD, since 2019, consulted various stakeholders, including Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO), Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), National Security Guard (NSG), Airports Authority of India (AAI), Indian Air Force (IAF), ECIL (Electronics Corporation of India Ltd), BEL (Bharat Electronics Ltd), BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security), IIT Kanpur, and private companies, among others, to discuss the menace of rogue drones before preparing a comprehensive draft on anti-drone policy.The suggestions made by BPRD are currently being considered by the government for implementation after finding the right technology, for which trials have taken place on various occasions, an official said, without elaborating on the exact dates. He added: “The entire process is currently in advanced stages.”Among the issues covered by BPRD are the threat posed by unregulated/rogue drones, including attack on critical structures such as oil, gas, military and space establishments and airports, apart from targeted assassinations; declaring particular areas as no-drone zones; training personnel in handling anti-drone systems and collaborating with the private sector for harnessing the technology.The bureau is currently also evaluating a proposal for the establishment of Centre of Excellence for Drones and Counter Drones at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, under the aegis of the National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS), the official quoted above said on condition of anonymity.Another official, who asked not to be named, said 30-35 drones from across the border are spotted every month – some are fired at by the BSF while some manage to pass through as they go unnoticed, which is a serious problem. As seen in the Jammu attack, these drones, mostly made in China, manage to fly 10-14km within the Indian territory from Pakistan to drop arms, drugs and explosives.Apart from using technologies involving radar, radio frequency, thermal detection and audio detection, security experts are also exploring other methods.“There has to be a mix of technological and conventional on-ground methods to deal with rogue drones and it has to happen fast,” said the second officer.In its annual internal book last year, BSF also spoke about some other methods to deal with unfriendly incoming drones. For example, security agencies can explore using counter-drone drones which engage the enemy devices on one-to-one basis and try to overpower/crash them. The use of high-powered laser beams, capable of destroying drones from a distance, possibility of using nets for the rogue drones, training eagles to intercept enemy drones and firing projectiles at them were also mentioned.For the use of drones by citizens and private companies, India already has a policy in place which says no unmanned aircraft system can be used unless it is registered by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The rule came into effect in March this year through a gazette notification.According to the March notification, the Centre has also sought to establish Unmanned Aircraft System Traffic Management system in the Indian airspace.Sameer Patil, fellow at the International Security Studies Programme at Gateway House, said: “Our adversaries – China and Pakistan – have developed, procured and already deployed armed drones... India must strengthen its defences by deploying anti-drone systems. Time is of essence when it comes to building counter-capabilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-expedited-search-for-drone-tech-before-attack-101626113928804.html
13-07-2021||India||4 days, four ‘tomorrow’ predictions by IMD, but southwest monsoon yet to arrive||On Monday, the monsoon missed yet another date with Delhi, and the India Meteorological Department got another forecast wrong.Since July 9, IMD has promised an onset over the Capital, where rainfall so far in the June-September southwest monsoon is 67% deficient, “in the next 24 hours”.And each time, the 24 hours have come and gone with no sight of the monsoon. Sure, Monday saw some clouds over the city early in the morning, and a stiff easterly breeze blowing -- but till evening there was no sign of rain.But IMD continued to hope.At around 5pm on Monday, its official Twitter account predicted a thunderstorm with “light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds” over isolated “places of Delhi, north Delhi, northeast Delhi, southeast Delhi, and east Delhi”.It followed up, a few minutes later with another tweet predicting “thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and winds with speed of 20-40 km/hr” in “few places” in “south, southwest, New Delhi...”.The thunderstorms never came.Earlier, at 8.15 am, IMD said: “Conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon over Delhi…today, the 12th July.”But the 3.30pm bulletin didn’t even mention Delhi.“In association with the continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal in the lower levels since past three days, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall during past 24 hours, the south-west monsoon has further advanced and covered most parts of Rajasthan and Punjab and some more parts of Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh today, the 12 July 2021. IMD is continuously monitoring further progress of the monsoon into remaining parts of the country,” the second bulletin said.On Monday, amid all this the skies over Delhi changed from cloudy to sunny to clear (but not rainy) -- a progression captured by people on social media. As of Monday, the monsoon is already delayed by 16 days over Delhi, the most it has been since 2002, when it was 22 days late. An independent meteorologist shared a GIF from the cult movie Lagaan where Amir Khan and other characters look up for rain clouds.On July 8, IMD forecast in its bulletin that monsoon was likely to make an onset over Delhi on July 10 raising the hopes of Delhi’s residents who have added the term heat-bulb temperature to their lexicon this year (to reflect the sweltering heat caused by a combination of high temperatures and humidity levels). All subsequent bulletins since July 9 to July 11 announced that monsoon would make an onset in the “next 24 hours” .Then, maybe, as an independent meteorologist seemed to suggest, maybe the monsoon winds are already here over the capital -- minus the rains.“The only reason preventing the declaration of the monsoon’s arrival in New Delhi in recent days is the absence of rainfall. The monsoon winds have reached the city, but they are not carrying sufficient moisture to trigger thunderstorms. Furthermore, there is no monsoon low-pressure system over eastern or central India, which could have boosted the monsoon’s progression in the remaining parts of northwest India,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD student at the University of Reading in the United Kingdom.But IMD should have still been able to predict this.“Thunderstorms will form only when the meteorological situation is totally favourable. If it is not ideal, say due to the lack of moisture, weather models will fluctuate, resulting in forecasting pitfalls. However, meteorologists should be able to detect such pitfalls through a careful and regular assessment of all factors, and exercise caution when thunderstorms appear uncertain during a period,” Deoras added.On Monday, M Mohapatra, director general, IMD only said: “The forecast for Delhi has been modified. Please see the new forecast.” The new afternoon forecast did not mention Delhi.IMD scientists said they strictly follow the criteria that it should rain before monsoon onset is announced. “We cannot announce the onset before it rains. There is cloud formation but the prime criteria for onset is rain. It has rained only in Aya Nagar, some parts of south Haryana and southeast Punjab. We are monitoring the conditions and we hope that monsoon will make an onset soon,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.He also defended IMD.“If you notice that we have been making monsoon onset forecasts for several places in the past few days. Not only Delhi. Monsoon has already covered 80% of the area for which forecasts had been issued. Only Delhi and a small area to its west is left.”While responding to questions raised by journalists on errors in monsoon forecast for Delhi, Sunitha Devi, IMD’s in charge for cyclones said on July 10: “As an operational meteorologist for the past 22 years, let me tell you with all humility that it will take still many more years to improve the predictability of tropical weather beyond a few days of actionable accuracy. It is highly complex and that is why we are keeping constant monitoring and frequent updates. This is more or less the same case even with mid latitude countries, where the weather systems are quite well defined and move from land to Sea, where monitoring is rather easy and numerical models can incorporate the physics in a better manner.”Later on Monday, while responding to HT’s queries, she said: “Monsoon winds are all over the country. Over Delhi also there are easterly winds and clouds but the clouds haven’t made rain. Its because the instability required for rain development is not there. The lower level convergence of winds is also not happening. The monsoon trough is to the south compared to its normal position which is why Maharashtra recorded 34 cm rain in the past 24 hours. Such changes can happen in forecasting. Every forecast will not be exact.”In a statement on Monday evening, IMD said, “Such type of failure by numerical models in prediction of monsoon advance over Delhi is rare and uncommon. It is needless to mention that IMD has predicted well with high accuracy about the advance of monsoon over Delhi quite accurately in the recent past years and also the advance of monsoon over different parts of the country during the monsoon 2021 accurately about four to five days ahead. IMD is monitoring the situation continuously and will provide the regular updates on advance of monsoon into remaining parts of northwest India including Delhi.”The only silver lining to Monday’s touch of grey: the northern limit of monsoon which was stationary passing through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar since June 19 moved slightly to Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Bharatpur, Aligarh, Karnal and Ganganagar. The NLM is the northernmost limit of monsoon up to which it has advanced on any given day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-days-four-tomorrow-predictions-by-imd-but-southwest-monsoon-yet-to-arrive-in-capital-101626113868734.html
13-07-2021||India||Lightning strikes have killed 74 people in 24 hours: An explainer||At least 74 people have been killed in lightning strikes in the past 24 hours in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh. Of these, 11 are visitors who were killed on Sunday when lightning struck them at Amer Fort near Jaipur.The numbers may seem high but should not surprise anyone.Thunderstorms accompanied by lightning strikes (usually in the pre-monsoon and monsoon months) are the single-largest killers among natural disasters (extreme weather events) in India, according to National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). Lightning strikes have killed at least 2,000 people every year in India since 2004, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said last month in an awareness workshop on lightning strikes.In 2019, there were 2,876 deaths due to lightning strikes, compared to fewer than 1,500 on an average, annually, between 1968 and 2004. There was a brief period of three to four years in between when lightning strikes killed more than 1,500 people, but the larger trend held.The disaster management division of ministry of home affairs is yet to update the data on lightning deaths for 2020.According to a paper published in Elsevier journal, Weather and Climate Extremes by the ministry of earth sciences titled “An assessment of long-term changes in mortalities due to extreme weather events in India: A study of 50 years’ data, 1970–2019”, the mortality rate of tropical cyclones reduced by 94% over a 20 year period, whereas that for heatwaves and lightning, increased by 62.2% and 52.8%, respectively.Monsoon break created conditions for killer strikesNormally, lightning strikes are high in frequency during the pre-monsoon season, and when the monsoon is about to make an onset over Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states. This is the time when moisture levels increase, and the surface temperature is high, creating favourable conditions for development of thunder clouds.This year, however, there have been massive lightning strikes and associated casualty in mid-July, mainly due to the long monsoon “break” when surface temperatures were very high in the absence of rain.“There has been around a ten-day break in monsoon. There has been significant surface heating during this period. As the monsoon is reviving, moisture levels have also increased. This is the most favourable condition for development of thunder clouds and collision of ice particles which leads to charging and lightning strikes,” explained SD Pawar, project director, Thunderstorm Dynamics, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune.Thunder clouds require heat and moisture to form. They are also required to be deep, around nine to 10 kilometres for collision of ice particles to take place. And that’s what is happening now.Why are we seeing a spike in lightning strikes in recent years?According to Pawar, the spike in lightning strikes can certainly be linked to the climate crisis.“Both surface temperature and moisture levels have increased significantly in recent years. Urbanisation leading to loss of tree cover also contributes to the rise in surface temperature. We think the two have mainly contributed to rise in incidence of lightning. The rise in deaths due to lightning can be because more people are outdoors and possibly exposed to lightning in recent years,” Pawar added.Lightning mortalities are only going to increase in coming years. “Climate projections indicate that temperature and moisture will increase further in the future,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM).“The use of electrical appliances has also increased significantly in the past 30 years, from mobile phones to TVs to power lines. Lightning can interfere with their electromagnetic field,” M Mohapatra, director general, IMD, said during the workshop last month.How can deaths be prevented?IMD’s Damini app provides area specific lightning warnings, but lightning is an extremely localised phenomenon, and the warnings often don’t reach the last mile. However, one can do certain things in the event of a lightning strike to save one’s life, such as going to a safe structure but avoiding medal constructions and sheetings and finding shelter in low-lying areas that aren’t flooded. Crouching with your arms and legs together, not lying flat on the ground to make yourself a wider target, and keeping away from utility lines (phone, power sockets, etc) as well as medal fences, trees (they conduct electricity) and hilltops are some other ways to keep safe during such an event. Rubber soled shoes and car tyres, however, do not offer protection from lighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-strikes-have-killed-40-people-in-24-hours-an-explainer-101626085783516.html
13-07-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Haryana govt postpones Khelo India Youth Games 2021 in view of third wave of Covid-19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update?Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Punjab govt offices to operate from 8am to 2pm till July 14Punjab government, late night on Monday decided state government office timings from 8am to 2pm. These timings are applicable in Punjab and will continue until July 14.Haryana govt postpones Khelo India Youth Games 2021 in view of third wave of Covid-19Haryana government on Monday postponed 'Khelo India Youth Games, 2021' in view of the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the Games will be held in February 2022. It was scheduled from November 21-30 at five places including Panchkula, Chandigarh, Shahbad, Ambala & Delhi, reported ANI.No new Covid-19 death in JharkhandCOVID19 | Jharkhand reports 43 new cases and 64 recoveries today; the number of active cases in the state is 390 pic.twitter.com/ckz8sblSteJharkhand reports 43 new Covid-19 cases, while no daily fresh fatality reported. 64 more people discharged after recovering. Cumulative infection tally atHaryana home minister Vij accuses Delhi CM Kejriwal of 'lying'Arvind Kejriwal has done PhD in lying. First, he showed fake data to get excessive medical oxygen and now he's falsely accusing us to hide his failure of not being able to provide water to Delhiites. It's his right to approach court, we'll reply in court: Haryana home minister Anil VijSubmitted all documents for Covaxin's EUL to WHO: Bharat BiotechAll documents required for emergency use listing of Covaxin have been submitted to WHO as of July 9. Expect to receive EUL from WHO at the earliest: Bharat BiotechUttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew till July 20Uttarakhand govt extends Covid-19 curfew till July 20; 50 people allowed in weddings as well as funerals.Dominican court allows Choksi to travel to Antigua and BarbudaDominican court allows Mehul Choksi to travel to Antigua and Barbuda, strictly for medical treatment. Bail granted till he is fit to travel back to Dominica.UK to lift most Covid-related curbs on July 19UK prime minister Boris Johnson confirms most Covid-related restrictions for England will be lifted on July 19, reports AFP.51 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths in UttarakhandUttarakhand reports 51 new Covid-19 cases, 205 recoveries and two deaths today. Total cases reach 341,230 including 326,968 recoveries, 7,341 deaths and 932 active cases.Delhi reports 45 new Covid-19 cases, lowest this yearDelhi reports 45 new Covid-19 cases, 92 recoveries and three deaths. Cumulative infection tally reaches 1,435,128 including 1,409,417 recoveries, 25,018 deaths and 693 active cases.Sher Bahadur Deuba to take oath as Nepal PM tomorrowSher Bahadur Debua to take oath as the next prime minister of Nepal tomorrow. We are holding a discussion about the portfolio of ministers: Former prime minister Baburam BhattaraiSKM to send 'warning letters' to oppn parties by July 17We will send warning letter to opposition parties by July 17 to raise their voice in Parliament for farmers. Every day during monsoon session till its end, five members from each farmers’ organisation, at least 200 farmers in total will protest outside Parliament: Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM)EAM Jaishankar to visit Tajikistan, says MEAExternal affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar will visit Tajikistan on 13-14 July at the invitation of Foreign Minister Sirojiddin Muhriddin to take part in the meeting of the SCO Council of Foreign Ministers: Ministry of external affairsMamata Banerjee's plea to be heard by the bench of Justice Sampa SarkarMamata Banerjee's PIL on Nandigram poll results will be has been allotted to the Bench of Justice Sampa Sarkar of Calcutta high court, After Justice Kausik Chanda recused himself from the hearing. Matter likely to be taken up this week, reported ANI.NEET (UG) 2021 to be held on September 12Education minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, announced on Monday, that the NEET exams will be held nationwide on September 12 of this year, and in compliance with Covid-19 protocols, reported ANI.Himachal flash floods: Situation is being closely monitored; all possible support extended, says PM ModiThe situation in Himachal Pradesh due to heavy rains is being closely monitored. Authorities are working with the State Government. All possible support is being extended. I pray for the safety of those in affected areas.NH-3 blocked in Himachal's Mandi due to landslideHimachal Pradesh: NH-3 blocked at Pandoh area of Mandi district, due to a landslide. pic.twitter.com/k2hEwLqp7HIMD predicts thunderstorm with light to moderate rainfall in Delhi and adjoining areasNCR ( Faridabad, Chhapraula, Noida, Dadri, Greater Noida) Rajaund, Narwana, Rohtak, Narnaul (Haryana) Garhmukteshwar, Siyana, Hapur, Bulandshahar, Sikandrabad, Gulaoti (U.P.) Viratnagar (Rajasthan) during next 2 hours: IMD issues update at 4:50 pmAmit Shah speaks to Himachal Pradesh CM, assures home ministry is monitoring situationHome Miniter Amit Shah spoke to Himachal Pradesh chief minister ai Ram Thakur about the heavy rainfall experienced in the state. "NDRF teams are reaching there soon for relief work. The Ministry of Home Affairs is continuously monitoring the situation," he tweeted.Rajeev Chandrasekhar loses verified badge on TwitterUnion minister for state Rajeev Chandrashekhar changed his username on Twitter, from rajeev_mp to rajeev_GOI, following which he temporarily lost his verified badge on microblogging platform on Monday.Covid-19: Delhi's Janpath market to remain closed until further ordersThe Delhi government announced on Monday that the Janpath market in the national capital will remain closed until further orders for non-adherence to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols and violation of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order. Read moreMonsoon session of Parliament to be held from July 19 to Aug 13The Monsoon Session of Parliament will take place from July 19 to August 13. Will have 19 business days: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla pic.twitter.com/fA5fCvSrEeLok Sabha speaker Om Birla announced on Monday that the monsoon session of Parliament will be held from July 19 to August 13.PM Modi to review Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of northeastern states at 11am tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation with the chief ministers of all northeastern states on Tuesday at 11am. Read moreRajinikanth dissolves Rajini Makkal Mandram, says he has no intention to enter politics in futureVeteran actor Rajinikanth on Monday dissolvedRajini Makkal Mandram by saying he has no intention to enter politics in future.PM Modi announces ex-gratia for families of those killed in lightning strikesPrime Minister Narendra Modi announced ex-gratia for the families of those who were killed in lightning strikes in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh during heavy rain on Sunday. Read moreNo cases of Zika virus detected in Tamil Nadu so farTamil Nadu health minister M. Subramaniam said on Monday that no cases of the Zika virus have been detected in the state so far, adding people coming into Tamil Nadu from Kerala are being screened for the virus.After Kerala & Bengal, now Lucknow: Another Al-Qaeda module busted within a yearThe arrest of three people linked to terror group Al-Qaeda in Lucknow on Sunday is the busting of third major terror module within a year in the country. Read moreIn 24 hours, India's Covid tally and fatality count dip to 37,154 and 724; active cases slide to 450,899India on Monday witnessed a fall in its daily cases and deaths due to the Covid-19 disease after 37,154 infections and 724 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. Read morePetrol prices hiked again, diesel prices down for first time in 3 monthsThe price of petrol & diesel in #Delhi is at ₹101.19 per litre & ₹89.72 per litre respectively todayPetrol & diesel prices per litre - ₹107.20 & ₹97.29 in #Mumbai; ₹109.53 & ₹98.50 in #Bhopal; ₹101.35 & ₹92.81 in #Kolkata respectively(File pic) pic.twitter.com/jz298m4QE3Petrol prices across India again saw a rise on Monday while prices of diesel witnessed a slight reduction for the first time in three months, according to the latest notification issued by oil retailers. Read morePM Modi greets people on Jagannath Rath Yatra in PuriPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday extended his greetings to the people of the country on the occasion of Lord Jagannath's Rath Yatra in Puri. Read morePriyanka Gandhi to meet UP Congress leaders today, 2022 polls on agendaCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will hold a virtual meeting with senior leaders of the party's Uttar Pradesh unit on Monday, in an exercise which is being seen as a bid to prepare for next year's assembly election. Read moreOdisha's Puri to hold devotee-less Rath Yatra todayPuri in Odisha is set to hold the second deovtee-less Rath Yatra on Monday due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Jagannath Temple administration has said that the yatra will be organised in strict adherence to Covid safety protocols. Read moreIMD predicts heavy to very heavy rains in several parts of north India todayThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast "heavy to very heavy rains" on Monday in parts of north India, which continue to suffer from the unforgiving heatwave. The IMD prediction is for Uttarakhand, Punjab, Chadigarh, Haryana and national capital Delhi. Read moreCuba witnesses protests over lack of freedom, economyOn Sunday, scores of Cubans took to the streets in various parts of the country to protest against the lack of freedom and worsening economic conditions. In the city of San Antonio de los Banos, just outside Havana province, hundreds of people defied a heavy police presence to air their complaints, reported CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-12-2021-101626048170908.html
