15-07-2021||India||Former Kerala police chief blames intelligence officials for forcing him to arrest ISRO scientist in 1994 fake espionage case||S Vijayan, who was among the 18 former policemen booked last month for allegedly framing scientist Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case, has accused the latter of influencing the probe into the matter through “financial transactions” with a federal investigator in the 1990s. He made the claims in his anticipatory bail plea in the Kerala high court on Wednesday and produced purported documents of land transferred to the then deputy inspector general of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), who probed the case in the 1990s and exonerated Narayanan. The claims came on the day former Kerala Police chief Sibi Mathews accused Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Research And Analysis Wing (RAW) officials of pressurising him to arrest Narayanan in the espionage case. He made the claim in his anticipatory bail application filed in the Thiruvananthapuram district court on Wednesday. Mathews was a deputy inspector general and headed the special investigation team that investigated the espionage case. The CBI booked former IB deputy director R B Sreekumar, Mathews, Vijayan, and 16 other policemen in June for allegedly framing Narayanan. The Supreme Court ordered the CBI to investigate the conspiracy behind the framing while calling the matter serious. It said the case required “deeper investigation” into the role of the police officers responsible while accepting the report of a committee the court constituted in 2018 to probe the circumstances that led to the framing. Narayanan, 79, was arrested in 1994 in the alleged espionage case. He was exonerated two years later after a CBI probe. Narayanan was arrested after his phone numbers were found in a diary recovered from two Maldivian women, Mariyam Rasheeda and Fousia Hassan, arrested in 1994 on charges of overstaying in the country. The Supreme Court ordered compensation for Narayanan and constituted the committee that recommended a central agency probe the conspiracy angle. Mathews insisted Narayanan was not heading ISRO’s cryogenic division when he was arrested and that he had moved an application for voluntary retirement in 1994 after some officials superseded him. He claimed Narayanan came up with a “cryogenic theory” to get more attention and sympathy. Mathews insisted Narayanan was in touch with some foreign nationals. The district court on Wednesday directed the CBI to produce case diaries of the 1994 case, the ongoing conspiracy probe, and details of the Supreme Court-appointed Jain Commission report. A retired RAW official, who preferred not to be named, said confidential issues related to the country’s security should not be raised while calling for in-camera proceedings in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-police-chief-blames-intelligence-officials-for-forcing-him-to-arrest-isro-scientist-in-1994-fake-espionage-case-101626373688727.html
15-07-2021||India||Denying people livelihood by linking jobs to jabs is illegal: Manipur HC||IMPHAL: The high court of Manipur ruled that “denying people their livelihood by linking their employment to their getting vaccinated would be illegal on the part of the state”.The ruling of the division bench of Justice Sanjay Kumar and Justice Kh Nobin Singh, issued on Tuesday, also observed that such a measure would also trample upon the freedom of the individual to get vaccinated or choose not to do so.“Restraining people, who are yet to get vaccinated from opening institutions, organizations, factories, shops, etc., or denying them their livelihood by linking their employment, be it NREGA job cardholders or workers in government or private projects, to their getting vaccinated would be illegal on the part of the State, if not unconstitutional,” the bench said.The July 13 ruling of the high court was issued responding to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed against Manipur government in connection with a state government notification which proposes to prioritise opening of institutions, organisations, factories, shops, markets, private offices etc where its employees and workers are Covid vaccinated.The state government order issued by the home department on June 30 also said that it would also apply to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act (MNREGA) job card holders and workers of government/private projects.The PIL said that the notification violates of Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India, which guarantee right to equality, freedom, and right to life and personal liberty, wherein unvaccinated people are being discriminated at large by prioritising the vaccinated people by the Government of Manipur.Observing that the state government apparently issued the impugned notification, in keeping with the policy of the central government, seeking to promote Covid vaccinations, the court in its order said that it is the duty of the State to spread awareness of the vaccination. “It is for the State Government to dispel such fears by educating people as to the advantages of getting vaccinated and erase their apprehension of the adverse consequences of getting vaccinated. Without addressing this issue, the State cannot seek to impose conditions upon the citizens so as to compel them to get vaccinated, be it by holding out a threat or by putting them at a disadvantage for failing to get vaccinated,” the bench added.The court ordered the state to file their reply within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/denying-people-livelihood-by-linking-jobs-to-jabs-is-illegal-manipur-hc-101626372848700.html
15-07-2021||India||Sisir Adhikari, Sunil Mondal get Lok Sabha notice on TMC’s disqualification plea||New Delhi: The Lok Sabha secretariat on Thursday evening issued notices to two Trinamool Congress (TMC) members and a rebel YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) member under the anti-defection law after their respective parties sought their removal from the House, people familiar with the matter said.Sisir Adhikari, senior TMC MP and father of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, and Sunil Kumar Mondal, Trinamool’s two-term MP, have been served notice months after the party filed a complaint under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution for anti-party activities.K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, who has taken on Andhra Pradesh chief minister and party chief Jagan Mohan Reddy, has also been issued notice.According to the Lok Sabha secretariat, the three members of Parliament (MPs) have been told to send their reply within 15 days of receiving the notice.People familiar with the matter said while TMC leaders filed for disqualification of the two MPs a few months ago but now, ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, the process of evaluating the alleged anti-defection cases has started. Sudip Bandyopadhyay, leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Lok Sabha, sought Sunil Kumar Mondal’s disqualification, on January 4 this year. The request to remove Sisir Adhikari was sent on May 17, a fortnight after his eldest son Suvendu defeated Mamata Banerjee from the Nandigram seat by 1,958 votes.Mamata Banerjee, who is yet to become a member of the Bengal assembly, has challenged Adhikari’s victory in the Calcutta high court. Her party on Thursday petitioned the Election Commission to hold early bypolls to enable her to contest.Sunil Mondal, TMC Lok Sabha member from the East Burdwan seat, joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah in December last year.Sisir Adhikari, the MP from Contai in the East Midnapore district, did not formally pick up the BJP flag but shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the election campaign.Section 2A of the Constitution’s Tenth Schedule provides for disqualification of MPs and MLAs “if he (a lawmaker) has voluntarily given up his membership of such political party.” Legal experts pointed out that this is being used by the Trinamool as it wants to argue that the two MPs campaigned for the BJP and therefore, they have voluntarily given up their membership.”Neither of the two lawmakers has formally quit the Trinamool, which won Bengal once again, but their acts triggered a long-drawn tussle between the BJP and the Trinamool.In June, the TMC twice approached Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to take a call on the disqualification petitions. After his second request on June 14, Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Lok Sabha, told HT that the speaker assured him that a committee to review the petitions for disqualification would be set up soon.The TMC’s hard push to force the two MPs out of the Lok Sabha coincides with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s efforts to seek disqualification of Mukul Roy, who won the Krishnanagar North assembly seat, on a BJP ticket in May and joined the TMC on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sisir-adhikari-sunil-mondal-get-lok-sabha-notice-on-tmc-s-disqualification-plea-101626371950892.html
15-07-2021||India||Govt waives import tax, GST for TN girl’s medicine worth ₹16 cr||Following the political intervention, the Union government has offered a special exemption from payment of customs duty and GST for importing a life-saving drug required for a 2-year-old baby girl KS Mithrra from Tamil Nadu. She suffers from a rare disease called spinal muscular atrophy for which treatment costs are exorbitant, HT has learnt.A statement from the Union finance ministry dated July 14 said that under exceptional circumstances and in the public interest, 55ml of Zolgensma, import taxes on 55ml of drug Zolgensma have been exempted. The exemption is one less burden on the baby’s family which has been crowdfunding for her treatment.“Her disease is getting progressive,” her mother Priyadarshini said over the phone amidst Mithrra’s loud wails. “She is much weaker than she was three months ago so it is crucial that we administer the drug for her at the earliest,” she said.The family-based in Namakkal, was in Bengaluru on Thursday for a medical assessment. The child’s father, a textile businessman, received help from donors to meet the drug’s cost which is about 16 crore for a single dose and required additional funds to meet various taxes levied while importing the drug.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, requesting her to take steps as a policy to exempt customs duty, integrated GST and other such taxes on the import of life-saving drugs for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy. Children affected by this rare disease should ideally undergo gene therapy before turning two years old. In Tamil Nadu, 90-100 such cases are being reported annually. Stalin’s letter to Sitharaman was in the backdrop of the vernacular media highlighting Mithrra’s case.On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu BJP president K Annamalai also wrote to Sitharaman regarding Mithrra’s treatment. The cost of the Zolgensma drug is around 16 crores while duties and GST come to around another ₹6 crore, Annamalai said in his letter. Annamalai requested Sitharaman to consider waiving off all duties and taxes on an “urgent basis” and “humanitarian grounds” so that the girl could be “saved in time”. This was followed up by BJP national Mahila Morcha president and Coimbatore MLA, Vanathi Srinivasan.The finance ministry has offered such exemptions on a case-by-case basis with respect to spinal muscular atrophy. Activists have been calling for a blanket exemption so that every time a family need not approach the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-waives-import-tax-gst-for-tn-girl-s-medicine-worth-rs-16-cr-101626371173943.html
15-07-2021||India||West Bengal Speaker to hear petition seeking disqualification of Mukul Roy on July 16||Hearing on a complaint seeking disqualification of Mukul Roy, a member of the legislative assembly who recently switched to Trinamool Congress (TMC) from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), will take place on Friday, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. The hearing will take place before West Bengal assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee, acting on a petition filed by BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in West Bengal. He also expected to be present at the hearing.Roy joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president. He switched over to the TMC on June 11 along with son Subhranshu, a former MLA, in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.This came a month after the TMC secured a landslide victory in the West Bengal assembly elections. The TMC had bagged 213 of the 294 assembly seats to retain power, and the BJP managed to gain only 77 seats.Adhikari, who is also a former TMC leader, is seeking Roy's disqualification under Rule 6 of the Members of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules, 1986, read with Article 191 (2) and paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution of India.In a letter sent to the house speaker, Adhikari has claimed that Roy joined the TMC without formally resigning from the BJP, although he was elected to the assembly as a leader of the party.Meanwhile, the ruling TMC has criticised the move. "Adhikari should first impart lessons on defection to his father Sisir Adhikari, who joined the BJP despite being a Lok Sabha member of the TMC," TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh, had said earlier.On Monday, Sudip Bandopadhyay, leader of the TMC in the Lok Sabha, called up Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and urged him to take action on the three petitions he filed between January 4 and May 17 seeking the disqualifications of Sunil Mondal and Sisir Adhikari, who joined the BJP prior to the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-speaker-to-hear-petition-seeking-disqualification-of-mukul-roy-on-july-16-101626370584679.html
15-07-2021||India||UP drew ₹4-lakh-crore investments in MSMEs since 2017, says minister||Uttar Pradesh minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Sidharth Nath Singh said on Thursday that the identity of the state has transformed due to the flexible attitude of the government towards industries, and turned it into an emerging backbone of India’s industrial hub.“It is because of the various proactive measures taken by the state government towards transforming the state into a favourable place for industries to grow such as ODOP because of which the exports of UP have skyrocketed by 35%,” Singh said during a virtual interaction with the media.He added that loans worth ₹2.5-lakh-crore were disbursed to the MSMEs in four years, due to which a thumping investment of about ₹4-lakh-crore has come into the state. "Around 2.6 crore people have got direct and indirect employment opportunities," Singh said.He went on to say that the MSME sector of UP generates employment opportunities and has emerged as the backbone of industrialisation. "In 2017, when the BJP government took over the reins of the state, a roadmap was prepared to fix the rural economy. An innovative initiative called ‘ODOP’ was rolled out in 2018 while Common Facility Centers (CFCs) have been set up in 40 out of all 75 districts of the state," the minister outlined.The minister said that during the first wave of Covid-19, industries related to essential commodities and export units continued to operate in the state. "Whereas during the second wave a partial corona curfew was imposed, in which industries and businesses operated as usual," he further said, addding, "The New MSME Act 2020 got implemented amid the ongoing pandemic itself, under which no-objection certificates are being given in 72 hours and exemption from various types of licenses has been given for around 1,000 days."Singh said that work is being done on cluster development by connecting CFCs. In this, eminent fashion designers of the country have been associated with the cluster. Along with this, the Quality Control of India has also been added.Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME said, “ODOP is a big reason for the increase in the exports of UP. For this, efforts were made at every level and an export policy was formulated. Export Development Center has been set up at the district level. The export of the state was ₹88,967 crore in 2017-18, which has increased by 35 percent i.e. ₹1,21,139 crore in 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-drew-rs-4-lakh-crore-investments-in-msmes-since-2017-says-minister-101626369135800.html
15-07-2021||India||In Uzbekistan, Jaishankar discusses Afghanistan situation with key leaders||A regional conference on connectivity hosted by Uzbekistan that began on Thursday afforded external affairs minister S Jaishankar an opportunity to discuss the situation in Afghanistan with key leaders such as Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad.Jaishankar arrived in Tashkent after attending meetings of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe during July 13-14. The situation in Afghanistan figured in Jaishankar’s meetings in Tashkent with Afghan President Ghani, his Kazakhstan counterpart Mukhtar Tileuberdi, and US deputy national security adviser Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall and Khalilzad, the special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation.The meeting between Jaishankar and Ghani marked the first high-level contact between the Indian and Afghan sides amid a sustained campaign by the Taliban to capture territory following the rapid drawdown of US forces in Afghanistan.“Discussed the current situation in and around Afghanistan. Reiterated our support for peace, stability and development of Afghanistan,” Jaishankar tweeted after his talks with the Afghan president.Tweets from the official handle of the Afghan president’s office said Jaishankar had assured Ghani of India’s support to Afghanistan. Jaishankar also said India will continue its humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan by providing 150,000 tonnes of wheat. Jaishankar said India “would continue to work together to strengthen the regional consensus to support the regime in Afghanistan,” according to the tweets.Jaishankar tweeted that he had exchanged “views on the evolving situation in Afghanistan” with Sherwood-Randall and Khalilzad. He also tweeted that he discussed the situation in Afghanistan and Covid-19-related cooperation during his meeting with his Kazakh counterpart Tileuberdi. There was no official word from the external affairs ministry on these meetings.The Indian foreign minister is expected to hold several bilateral meetings on the margins of the international conference being hosted with Uzbekistan with the theme “Central and South Asia: Regional connectivity, challenges and opportunities”. The meeting is being attended by key leaders such as Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi are also in Tashkent for the conference but people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there were no plans for the Indian side to meet them.Meanwhile, the meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan said in a joint statement that the “activity of international terrorist organisations remains a key factor of instability” in Afghanistan. “We are deeply concerned by the growing tension in Afghanistan’s Northern Provinces caused by the increased concentration of various terrorist, separatist and extremist groups. We consider it important to step up joint efforts by SCO Member States to counter terrorism, separatism and extremism,” the joint statement said.The statement said the SCO member states had reaffirmed their commitment to Afghanistan’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and that they intended to “assist Afghanistan in becoming a country free of terrorism, war and drugs”.It added, “The SCO Member States confirm their readiness to further develop cooperation with Afghanistan in combating security challenges and threats in the region, above all terrorism and drug-related crime in all their forms and manifestations, and to jointly confront ‘double standards’ in addressing these tasks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uzbekistan-jaishankar-discusses-afghanistan-situation-with-key-leaders-101626369070496.html
15-07-2021||India||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri vows to work with Saudi Arabia, UAE to calm oil markets||India's new oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri vowed to work with oil producers Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates to reduce volatility in oil markets and make crude prices affordable.Veteran diplomat Puri, who took charge of India's oil ministry last week, on Thursday spoke to Saudi oil minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, a day after his conversation with Ahmed Al Jaber, UAE's minister of Industry and chief executive of Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (ADNOC)."I conveyed my desire to work with His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz to bring greater predictability and calm in the global oil markets, and also to see hydrocarbons become more affordable", Puri tweeted after a telephonic conversation with his Saudi counterpart.Relations between Riyadh and New Delhi came under strain this year after Puri's predecessor, Dharmendra Pradhan, blamed production cuts by Saudi Arabia and others for driving up oil prices.India, the world's third biggest oil consumer and oil importer, is facing record high retail prices of gasoline and gasoil.Puri said New Delhi would like to expand its relations with Riyadh to "beyond buyer-seller to see greater two way investment".Saudi Arabia is the second biggest oil supplier to India after Iraq.Saudi Aramco is in talks to acquire a 20% stake in oil-to-chemical business of Relinace Industries, operator of the world's biggest refining complex.Aramco and ADNOC are partners with Indian state run refiners in a joint venture that plans to build a giant refining and petrochemical complex on India's west coast.ADNOC has also leased a part of India's strategic petroleum reserves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-vows-to-work-with-saudi-arabia-uae-to-calm-oil-markets-101626368670017.html
15-07-2021||India||States told to adopt calibrated approach while easing Covid-19 restrictions||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the states and Union territories on Thursday stressing the need for 'test, treat, track and vaccination' and adherance to Covid-19 appropriate in their effort to check the spread of the virus.Bhushan's letter comes at a time when states and Union territories have begun easing the restrictions necessiated owing to the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during the second wave of the pandemic.The health secretary raised concerns over violations of Covid-19 protocol across the country, esepcially in public transport, hill stations and markets, and warned that these instances can trigger a surge in infections.He also reiterated the Centre's warning on increase in 'R factor' in some states. "You may be aware that any increase in R factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid-19. Therefore, it is important that the authorities concerned shall be made responsible for ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour in all crowded places....as well as all areas identified as hotspots for transmission of Covid-19 virus," he wrote in his letter. ALSO READ | 'Strong likelihood' of more dangerous Covid variants, warn WHO expertsCalling for focussed public health measures by the states and the Union territories, Bhushan wrote, "It is imperative to adhere to the guiding principles of Covid-19 containment and management with special focus on the 5-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and adherance to Covid-appropriate behaviour.""Focussed and sustained high levels of testing, relentless contact tracing, comprehensive vaccination and ensuring strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour in all crowded places and potential super-spreader events are of essence," he added.ALSO READ | Rising Delta variant cases make Covid-19 third wave real risk for India: ReportBhushan told the states and the Union territories to adopt a carefully calibrated approach for relaxing the restrictions. "The second wave of Covid-19 is not yet over. We ought to remember that while the reach of vaccination is increasing considerably, there is no room for complacency," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-told-to-adopt-calibrated-approach-while-easing-covid-19-restrictions-101626363918561.html
15-07-2021||India||PM Modi calls on President Kovind, briefs him about 'important issues'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi on Thursday to apprise him of "important issues," The President's House informed on Twitter. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on President Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan and briefed him on important issues," it wrote on the micro-blogging site.PM Modi and President Kovind’s meeting took place ahead of the monsoon session which is set to commence on July 19. The session will conclude on August 13.Notably, the monsoon session of Parliament will last for a total of 26 days, but excluding holidays, it will work for only 19 days. In these 19 days, the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is preparing to present 30 bills in the Parliament. Of these, 17 are new while the rest are amendment bills.Meanwhile, the opposition Congress party is planning to corner the ruling government over a number of issues including the alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis, border disputes with China, farmers' agitation and the Rafale deal. The Congress leaders are also set to raise the issue over rising fuel prices in the Parliament.The meeting between the PM and the President came close on the heels of Modi’s Varanasi trip, where he inaugurated developmental projects worth over ₹1,500 crore.The key projects that were inaugurated by PM Modi include multi-level parking at Godaulia, Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway.He also announced a ₹1 lakh crore special fund to modernise agriculture infrastructure in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-on-president-kovind-briefs-him-about-important-issues-101626367244850.html
15-07-2021||India||Air India privatisation: Boeing pilots’ union reach out to new minister over pending arrears||Air India’s Indian Pilots’ Guild, a recognised trade union representing the pilots of erstwhile Air India ltd., wrote to the new civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday seeking an assurance that their long-pending arrears will be paid as privatisation of Air India Ltd. is in the final stages, HT has learnt. “We wish to bring to your attention an issue which gravely concerns the pilots of Air India as well other employees, and the privatisation process itself,” the pilots said. In January 2013, Air India management cut staff salaries by 25% on an ad-hoc basis amid poor financial conditions.“Despite being in a miserable condition, the pilots continued to bear the ad-hoc pay cut,” said a senior Air India pilot. Former Air India chairman, Ashwani Lohani, in his 2015 letter to employees, stated that the management was absolutely clear that the pending amount belonged to the employees and would therefore be released.Moreover, earlier this year the then minister of civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri had told the media that the employees’ dues with arrears will be paid by Air India assets holding company before the closing of the proposed transaction.“As the privatisation of Air India Ltd. seems to be at the final stage, we turn to you to make good these assurances of payment of our long pending arrears. We sincerely hope that under your tenure, the interests of the employees will be addressed and that you could initiate the payment of these arrears at the earliest,” the letter read. The pilots have requested Scindia for a meeting to discuss various issues and seek help to get back their money.From the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Air India crew has flown crucial cargo and evacuation flights as well as the flights under the Vande Bharat Mission. Moreover, the airline lost five of its pilots to Covid-19 during the second wave. All these pilots operated flights during the first and second waves of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-privatisation-boeing-pilots-union-reach-out-to-new-minister-over-pending-arrears-101626364029954.html
15-07-2021||India||Blocked 2 million accounts in India in 1 month, says WhatsApp in new report||New Delhi: WhatsApp blocked at least 2 million accounts in India from May 15 to June 15, a compliance report released by the Facebook-owned messaging platform said.The accounts were blocked using automated technology. The platform blocks around 8 million accounts a month around the world. In this one-month period, the company received 345 complaints from India, where it has 530 million users. These included 70 cases of account support, wherein users reported problems regarding their accounts, but took action against none, 204 cases appealing the fact that their accounts were blocked (it acted against 63), and 20 issues of other support. There were also 43 cases of product support, referring to product services such as payments offered by the company, involving eight safety issues that were flagged. Overall, of the 345 complaints WhatsApp received, it acted against 63 accounts from May 15 to June 15. The company has challenged the traceability clause of the social media and intermediary guidelines, which also mandate it to publish a monthly grievance compliance report. This is the first such report WhatsApp has published for India. WhatsApp is now the fourth company after Google, Facebook and Twitter to publish the report and appoint officers in keeping with the new guidelines. A person familiar with WhatsApp’s compliance efforts said on condition of anonymity that automated take down of accounts happen using a range of behavioural signals, such as mass broadcasts and without breaking end-to-end encryption. “Even though WhatsApp is an encrypted platform, it takes action against accounts based on automated tools as it is committed to ensuring the safety of its users,” the person said.Kazim Rizvi, founder, policy think tank, The Dialogue, said, “It is possible to take down accounts without breaking end-to-end encryption. WhatsApp utilises AI technology to detect spammy behaviour of users. For instance, if 100 messages are sent to unknown contacts within 15 seconds of registration, in such cases the platform may block the user. The technology keeps learning from such instances of blocking and then prevents abuse by blocking users if it can predict the same through signals and patterns. For instance, behavioural cues like bulk registration along with data points like IP Address help in detecting instances at registration itself. It is important to note that platforms cannot take down content due to end-to-end encryption and can only ban accounts.”Facebook, which published a compliance report last week, said in a more detailed report published Thursday that it received 646 grievances from India between May 15 and June 15 through the newly created grievance channel, with the highest number of complaints being about accounts being hacked. A person familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that while number of complaints were far lower on the grievance redressal channel as opposed to reports filed on the platform, the route provides an opportunity for people who do not have a Facebook account to flag content. Instagram, also owned by Facebook, said it received 36 complaints, of which 25 were regarding nudity. “Of these incoming reports, we provided tools for users to resolve the issues in 10 cases. These include pre-established channels to report content for specific violations, self-remediation flows where they can download their data, avenues to address account hacked issues etc,” the report stated. Instagram took action against two million links across nine categories in the period between May 15 and June 15. In Facebook’s first report released last week, it said it removed a little over 30 million pieces of content (posts, profiles, pages) between May 15 and June 15 in India. The links taken down related to content that was violent and graphic, contained adult nudity and sexual activity, and were about suicide and self-injury. The report released on Friday is an interim disclosure and the company said it will publish details on July 15. “Platforms like WhatsApp also use technology to scan all the unencrypted data sets like Profile Pictures, Group Photos and Statuses to find out if anyone has uploaded any illegal or harmful content. Photo DNA technology is used to find if a user has uploaded child sexual abuse material as their Group or Profile photo. Moreover, any incident of child safety is reported to the Police for further investigation. Such accounts may also be blocked for violation of terms of service or violation of the law of the and. In all the above scenarios accounts are blocked both reactively, and with the help of machine learning technology, proactively, without weakening end-to-end encryption. The transparency report indicates that there are existing technology mechanisms that support safety and security efforts of the State to a reasonable extent, without having to break end-to-end encryption. Investment in such technologies across all similar platforms will create help create a safe user experience while protecting their privacy.” Rizvi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blocked-2-million-accounts-in-india-in-1-month-says-whatsapp-in-new-report-101626363249023.html
15-07-2021||India||Another Pak drone intrudes Indian space on LoC, fired upon by soldiers||Barely a day after the Border Security Force (BSF) opened fire at a suspected Pakistani drone along the Indo-Pak international border in Arnia sector, another drone was spotted inside Indian territory along the Line of Control (LoC) in Pallanwala sector in Akhnoor late Wednesday, officials said. Both the strategic sectors fall in Jammu district.“Alert soldiers observed a Pakistani quad-copter, which had intruded around 150 metres inside the Indian territory along the LoC in Pallanwala late Wednesday,” said official privy to the development. “The jawans immediately opened small arms fire but couldn’t bring it down. The UAV flew back into Pakistani territory. Such machines are being used by the adversary for surveillance on the borders,” they added. An officer said that the incident occurred around 9.10 pm on Wednesday. He informed that during searches of the area nothing was found. Pakistan used such drones to drop arms, ammunition, weapons, drugs and money to fund and fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. On Tuesday BSF troops fired on a suspected Pakistani drone along the India-Pakistan border at Arnia in Jammu. On June 27, two explosive-laden drones dropped payloads on the Indian Air Force station in Jammu that left two personnel injured. Since then, drones are being spotted hovering over military stations in Kaluchak, Ratnuchak, Kunjwani and Sunjuwan in Jammu at regular intervals. The IAF has beefed up air defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks. There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in the region. Meanwhile, a section of media reported that another drone was spotted by the forces hovering over the IAF station in Jammu late Wednesday. They also reported that alert forces were able to thwart the alleged terror bid with the help of the anti-drone equipment which detected the UAV and eliminated it. However, there’s no confirmation of the drone by the defence authorities in Jammu. An official, who insisted on anonymity, said, “a white light was seen by the guards near the IAF station late Wednesday. It was likely to be a satellite and unlikely to be a drone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-pak-drone-intrudes-indian-space-on-loc-fired-upon-by-soldiers-101626363128547.html
15-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Long Covid has more than 200 symptoms across 10 organ systems, says study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Long Covid has more than 200 symptoms across 10 organ systems: StudyCoronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients who experience prolonged symptoms have reported more than 200 symptoms across 10 organ systems, according to a global study published on Thursday. Read moreMamata Banerjee to visit Delhi; likely to meet Sonia Gandhi, other opposition party leadersWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is set to visit the national capital this month during the monsoon session of the Parliament, she announced on Thursday. Read more‘Not their property’: SC on Kerala appeal to close case against MLAs for clashesThe Supreme Court on Thursday said the Kerala government’s decision to drop criminal proceedings against a group of Kerala lawmakers who broke chairs, threw microphones and climbed atop tables in the assembly in March 2015 was “incomprehensible” as any decision in this regard should essentially be based on “public interest”. Read moreBCCI releases official statement after Rishabh Pant and throwdown specialist Dayanand Garani test positive for Covid-19The BCCI on Thursday confirmed that two members of the Indian contingent – Rishabh Pant and throwdown specialist Dayanand Garani – have tested positive for Covid-19 and will not be travelling with the rest of the team to Durham. Read moreShilpa Shetty: 'In one of my movies, Paresh Rawal played my father, now he's married to me in Hungama 2'Actor Shilpa Shetty has talked about playing Paresh Rawal's wife in their upcoming movie, Hungama 2. The movie is directed by Priyadarshan, who is famous for his comedy movies such as Hera Pheri, Malamaal Weekly and also the original Hungama. Read moreHearts on our sleeves? Indians used the classic red heart emoji the most on their Bumble biosWe don’t know about you, but Indians on Bumble seem to be wearing their hearts on their… profile bios. According to a report shared by Bumble, just before World Emoji Day, the platform witnessed an 89% rise in emoji usage in 2021 as compared to 2020, particularly on Bumble users’ profile bios. Read moreHai ye adaa: Tanuja is the epitome of beauty, grace in ₹12,800 Moresha saree Long before her daughters Kajol Devgn and Tanishaa Mukerji made a mark in Bollywood, Tanuja Samarth, popularly known as Tanuja was ruling the hearts and screens all over India as one of the biggest stars from the Golden Era of Bollywood. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-long-covid-has-more-than-200-symptoms-across-10-organ-systems-says-study-and-all-the-latest-news-101626360382858.html
15-07-2021||India||China claims situation on LAC de-escalated, says border standoff should be set aside||China has said the overall situation in the border areas with India has de-escalated and both countries should set aside the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to expand bilateral cooperation, reflecting the differences between the two sides on the issue.The Chinese position was articulated on Thursday in a statement on the meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe. Jaishankar has said after the meeting on Wednesday that both sides should speedily resolve the remaining issues on the LAC since the standoff was negatively impacting bilateral ties.According to the Chinese foreign ministry’s statement, Wang said that after his meeting with Jaishankar in Moscow last September, frontier troops of both countries disengaged in Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake areas, and the “overall situation in the border area was de-escalated”.Wang reiterated Beijing’s contention that the Chinese side wasn’t responsible for the standoff and said, “The two sides must place the border issue in an appropriate position in bilateral relations, expand the positive momentum of bilateral cooperation and create favourable conditions for resolving differences through negotiation.”The Chinese stance is completely contrary to the position taken by the Indian side, as Jaishankar had bluntly told Wang on Wednesday that normalisation of bilateral relations depends on restoring peace and tranquillity in the border areas. Jaishankar had also told Wang that the remaining issues in other friction points on the LAC were “still unresolved” despite the successful disengagement in the Pangong Lake area.According to the Chinese statement, Wang said China-India relations were at a “low level, which is not in the interest of either side”. China’s strategic assessment of bilateral relations has not changed, and the two countries “pose no threat but offer development opportunities to each other”, he said. The two countries are partners rather than rivals or enemies, and they should pursue healthy competition and avoid confrontation, with cooperation as the main theme, Wang said. Wang also “pointed out that the rights and wrongs of what happened in the China-India border area last year are very clear and the responsibility does not lie with the Chinese side”. He added, “China is ready to find a solution acceptable to both sides on the issue that needs emergency response through negotiation and consultation.”The principles of China-India relations, Wang said, “should still be mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, and mutual respect for each other’s core interests”. Referring to the situation on the LAC, Wang said the two sides “must consolidate the results of disengagement that have been achieved” and “refrain from taking unilateral actions in sensitive and controversial areas, in order to avoid any recurrence of tensions due to misunderstanding and miscalculation”. Wang further said the two sides “must take a long-term perspective and gradually move from emergency response toward regular management and control” to ensure bilateral relations aren’t prone to interruptions because of border-related issues.The Chinese statement quoted Jaishankar as saying that “India is willing to work with China to push bilateral relations out of a slump”. The Indian side has maintained that there has been a lack of progress in disengagement and de-escalation of frontline troops following a limited drawdown on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. Last month, India again blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to alter the status quo on the LAC for the standoff.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash, who closely tracks regional developments, believes the Chinese side is pushing a narrative that is clearly at variance with the Indian position. “It is almost like two boats moving in parallel with slightly different trajectories. At no stage has the Chinese side agreed to restore status quo ante and they’ve always talked about the boundary issue not being allowed to stand in the way of overall relations,” he said. “A solution, as and when it happens, will require interventions at the top political level after the broad contours have been hammered out by officials,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-claims-situation-on-lac-de-escalated-says-border-standoff-should-be-set-aside-101626361749335.html
15-07-2021||India||‘Not their property’: SC on Kerala appeal to close case against MLAs for clashes||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday said the Kerala government’s decision to drop criminal proceedings against a group of Kerala lawmakers who broke chairs, threw microphones and climbed atop tables in the assembly in March 2015 was “incomprehensible” as any decision in this regard should essentially be based on “public interest”.“This is not their personal property. It is public property, and they are custodians of it in public trust. It is incomprehensible what is the public interest being pleaded in the case,” the bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said while hearing the case separate appeals by the Kerala government and the accused MLAs against the Kerala high court’s March 12 order refusing to drop charges against the accused MLAs.The bench on Thursday reserved its order after hearing all sides.Kerala education minister V Sivankutty and Left Front lawmaker KT Jaleel are among the lawmakers who face charges in this case. The other four, CK Sadasivan, EP Jayarajan, K Ajith and Kunjammadu Master, are former members of the legislative assembly (MLAs).From the archives: 14 pictures from 2015 that captured the pandemonium in Kerala assemblyBack in 2015, the CPM-led Left Democratic Front lawmakers had refused to let then finance minister KM Mani present the budget and demanded that he step down on corruption charges. They were charged under sections 447 (criminal trespass) and 427 (causing mischief) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 which is punishable with a maximum sentence of five years. The Kerala Police registered a first information report and submitted a report to the chief judicial magistrate, Thiruvananthapuram. After the trial court took cognizance of the charges, in 2019, the Left Front government sought withdrawal of cases through the public prosecutor. When the judge didn’t accept the prosecution request, the case went to the high court which also declined to close the case.Treating the effort to close the case as a serious issue where a state government was seen defending the actions by lawmakers accused of criminal trespass, mischief, and destruction of public property, a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “We have to consider if the withdrawal of prosecution request (filed by the public prosecutor) was in the public interest where MLAs have thrown furniture and desecrated the sanctum sanctorum of the House.”On July 5, when the Supreme Court admitted the appeals and decided to hear the case, the bench had said that such acts of indiscipline cannot be condoned as legislative bodies are sentinels of democracy where members elected as people’s representatives have to ensure some modicum of decorum.Appearing for the state, senior lawyer Ranjit Kumar on Thursday told the court that the action fell squarely within the domain of the House over which the court cannot adjudicate. Kumar stated that the government of the day felt that the registration of the case raised a political issue as even the ruling party members were involved in the ruckus. He added that the right to protest was recognised to be a right within the freedom of speech and expression that the legislators are entitled to.The bench presented Kumar with a hypothetical situation.“We do not doubt your freedom of speech in the House. But suppose an MLA empties a revolver in the assembly. Will you still say that the House is supreme,” the judges said. Even in the courtroom, there are heated arguments but that will not justify the destruction of public property, the bench added. At one point, the court even reminded Kumar that he was representing the state government and not defending the accused.Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, who appeared for the accused MLAs, cited the public prosecutor’s letter seeking closure of the case due to lack of evidence. The bench, however, pointed out that this was not a case where there is no evidence as the video recording of the proceedings was available. The court said the magistrate’s court while dealing with a request for dropping prosecution, does not act as a post office and must apply its mind.Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani who appeared for a lawyer who opposed the withdrawal of prosecution told the court that property worth ₹2.2 lakh was destroyed by the accused MLAs and privileges of the legislature could not extend to acts involving destruction of public property.The Kerala government earlier argued before the high court that the FIR against the MLAs was filed without prior sanction of the Speaker of the House. Jethmalani, along with advocate MR Ramesh Babu, said that the question of sanction will not arise at the time of registration of FIR but at the time of filing the charge sheet. Moreover, Babu pointed out that there was nothing on record to show that the public prosecutor had applied to the Speaker for sanction in this case before seeking withdrawal of prosecution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-their-property-sc-on-kerala-appeal-to-close-case-against-mlas-for-clashes-101626359770774.html
15-07-2021||India||RBI Bulletin: ‘Tapering second wave, aggressive vaccination push brightened near term prospects for Indian economy’||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in its bulletin for the month of July released on Thursday, said that the near-term prospects for the Indian economy has been brightened by the reducing number of Covid-19 infections in the second wave along with the vaccination drive. “The tapering of the second wave, coupled with an aggressive vaccination push, has brightened near-term prospects for the Indian economy,” the RBI’s bulletin on state of the economy pointed out.The RBI listed factors such as a rise in mobility and the increasing attendance in work places along with the increase in advance tax payments in June and in e-way bills, power consumption, increase in the volumes of payment modes and other such factors, which it called as “forerunner to the revival of business and consumer confidence.”“All payment modes - cash withdrawals at teller machines; cards; unified payments interface; net banking; physical points of sale; and electronic funds transfer - have registered an uptick in volumes in June, forerunner to a revival of business and consumer confidence,” the RBI said in the bulletin.Also read | RBI restricts Mastercard from acquiring new customers from July 22However, a solid increase in aggregate demand is yet to take place despite the recovery of several high frequency indicators of activity, the RBI highlighted. “On the supply side, agricultural conditions are turning buoyant with the revival in the monsoon but the recovery of manufacturing and service sectors has been interrupted by the second wave,” the bank further said.It also said that the increase in inflation is largely due to the adverse supply shocks due to the Covid-19 pandemic which would ease over the year as supply side measures take effect. Retail inflation in India rose above the RBI’s target of 2% to 6% for the second consecutive month in June. “There are also specific demand-supply mismatches as in the case of protein-rich food items, edible oils and pulses, which are being addressed by specific supply-side measures,” it said.The central bank also noted that the economy is “struggling” to regain the momentum of recovery that started in the second half of 2020 -2021 but was interrupted by the second wave. “But more needs to be done. Elevated international commodity prices, especially of crude, are also imparting cost-push pressures. These factors should ease over the year as supply side measures take effect,” it said. “Even with a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in 2021-22, there will be substantial slack in the economy and demand pressures may take some more time to become evident,” it further said.Meanwhile, earlier in the day, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that there were no reasons for the bank to revise the GDP growth rate for FY22 downwards from the previous projection of 10.5 per cent, news agency ANI reported.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-bulletin-tapering-second-wave-aggressive-vaccination-push-brightened-near-term-prospects-for-indian-economy-101626358427266.html
15-07-2021||India||At least 450 Intern doctors in Gujarat go on strike over non payment of Covid-19 allowance||At least 450 intern doctors of three civil hospitals attached to medical colleges run by a Gujarat government-controlled entity went on an indefinite strike on Thursday, claiming that they had not been paid the "Covid allowance" promised by the government. The agitating intern doctors belong to medical colleges run by the Gujarat Medical Education and Research Society (GMERS) in Sola area of Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Valsad. After completing their MBBS course, medical students are required to undertake internships at hospitals before they are granted permission to start their own practice. According to the agitating students, the state government had in April announced that intern doctors of government and GMERS-run medical colleges will get ₹5,000 as monthly Covid allowance over and above their stipend for the months of March till June for Covid-19 duty. "While interns of the government-run colleges have received the allowance promised by the government, intern doctors of GMERS-run colleges were not given the sum. Although we made a representation to the authorities several times in the past, there was no positive response. Hence, 450 intern doctors of these three colleges have decided to go on an indefinite strike," one of the interns said. Meanwhile, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who handles the health portfolio, assured that the issue will be resolved soon. In a warning tone, Patel asked the striking doctors to join duty and show some "concern" for patients. "Internship is a must for any medical student. These students must be thankful to the government for arranging their internship at respective government hospitals and also giving them allowances. It's the government which showed a big heart, not the intern doctors," Patel claimed. "They have to complete their internship even if we do not give any allowance, because it's a must to become a doctor. In private medical colleges, students have to pay from their pockets to do an internship. These intern doctors should show some concern for patients," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-450-intern-doctors-in-gujarat-go-on-strike-over-non-payment-of-covid-19-allowance-101626357639101.html
15-07-2021||India||India has highest number of unvaccinated, under-vaccinated kids worldwide at 3.5 million: UNICEF||India has the highest number of under-vaccinated or unvaccinated children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million from 2019, amid the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, the UNICEF said.It also noted that over 3 million of “zero-dose children” in 2020 lived in India.At nearly 4.4 million, South Asia recorded the highest number of children having failed to receive any routine vaccination in the past ten years, in 2020."More than 3 million of these 'zero-dose children' in 2020 lived in India," the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund,(UNICEF) said in a statement.Globally, the UNICEF said the data shows that just 10 countries account for 62 per cent of all under- or unvaccinated children globally.“India - particularly hard hit by the Covid-19 pandemic - had the highest number of unprotected children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million compared with 2019, when the number of unprotected children was 2.1 million,” the children's body said.Unprotected children are those who are unvaccinated (no vaccine) or under-vaccinated (incomplete vaccination), that is, any child who has not received any or few doses of their due vaccination.Pakistan had 1.3 million unprotected children in 2020, an increase of 0.4 million, the statement said."…. Most of these children did not receive a single vaccine during the year, an indication that the most vulnerable, hard-to-reach children are paying the steepest price for pandemic-related disruptions to vaccine access," the statement said.Noting that the majority of countries in South Asia experienced drops in childhood vaccination rates, the UNICEF said the rates for diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP3) vaccine reduced by 9 per cent points in Nepal; 7 per cent points in Pakistan; 6 per cent points in India; 3 per cent points in Sri Lanka; and 2 per cent points in Bhutan and Afghanistan."However, robust recovery efforts mounted in many countries towards the end of the year helped to blunt the impacts of overall declines. In India, for example, vaccination drives in remote areas are helping to reach missed children," the statement said.Yasumasa Kimura, Officer-in-Charge and Deputy Representative programmes, UNICEF India said, “While the health systems are strained by the Covid-19 response, we must be cautious in our fight against the pandemic so as not to interfere with decades of gains against other preventable diseases. We cannot afford to lose out on routine immunisation and letting vaccine-preventable diseases endanger children's health.”“UNICEF is partnering with the Government of India to support continuity of essential health and immunisation services through planning, implementation, and monitoring of various strategies to identify and vaccinate missed children. We also support generating awareness and confidence among communities to vaccinate their children and strengthening the cold chain for routine immunisation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-highest-number-of-unvaccinated-under-vaccinated-kids-worldwide-at-3-5-million-unicef-101626356854546.html
15-07-2021||India||Zika virus has ‘more grave concerns’ than Covid-19, says medical expert||After Kerala has reported dozens of Zika virus cases, an expert has warned that the mosquito-borne disease has more grave concerns than the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to news agency ANI. Dr Naresh Gupta, director and professor at Maulana Azad Medical College, told ANI that detailed lab analysis is extremely important as Zika is something that is occurring in local outbreaks."Zika is a virus of grave concern. Zika virus is something that is occurring in local outbreaks. So, I think if it's occurring in a given state or place, sentinel surveillance must have picked up these cases," he said.On Thursday, the health ministry of Kerala said that five more people have tested positive for the Zika virus, taking the overall number to 28. The fresh cases from Thiruvananthapuram were confirmed after the samples were tested at the National Institute of Virology’s regional centre in Alapuzha. The rising cases of the Zika virus prompted the state health minister to call an emergency meeting of officials on Thursday afternoon to discuss the health issue.Zika virus spreads mostly by the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquito, the same that transmit dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever. While Dr Gupta, citing the local nature of the outbreak, said that the vector-borne disease has greater concern than Covid-19, many other medical experts have downplayed the concern saying it can be checked with effective vector control measures.The first case of Zika was reported in Kerala after a 24-year-old pregnant woman sought treatment late last month with symptoms like fever, headache, and red marks on the skin, leading to the detection of the virus. Meanwhile, Kerala authorities have started a vector control programme and fogging to control the outbreak.According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), severe disease requiring hospitalisation is uncommon, and deaths are rare. The incubation period of Zika virus disease is estimated to be 3–14 days and the symptoms typically last for 2–7 days. There is no specific treatment or vaccine for the Zika virus and the development of the Zika vaccine remains an active area of research.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-has-more-grave-concerns-than-covid-19-says-medical-expert-101626355139784.html
15-07-2021||India||Pensioners may now get pension slip from banks through WhatsApp also||The Centre has told banks they can use social media apps such as WhatsApp alongside SMS and email to send pension slips to pensioners after their account is credited, according to an official order.It said the decision was taken in order to ensure ease of living of the pensioners.“Banks may also use social media apps WhatsApp etc in addition to sms and email,” said the order issued by the Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare.A meeting was held with the Central Pension Processing Centres (CPPCs) of pension-disbursing banks last month wherein the issue of providing the breakup of the monthly pension to the pensioners was discussed, it said.The banks were impressed upon to undertake this welfare measure as this information is required by pensioners in connection with Income Tax, Dearness Relief payments and DR arrears among others, the order said.The banks welcomed the idea and expressed their willingness to provide the information, it said.“Accordingly, all pension disbursing banks should issue pension slip to pensioners after credit of pension on their registered mobile numbers through sms and email (wherever available) also,” said the recent order.The pension slip should provide the complete detail of the monthly pension paid along with break-up of the amount credited and tax deductions etc. if any, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pensioners-may-now-get-pension-slip-from-banks-through-whatsapp-also-101626356422193.html
15-07-2021||India||Antigua police to continue probe into Mehul Choksi extradition case||The Antigua and Barbuda’s cabinet, led by Prime Minister Gaston Browne, on Thursday decided that while fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi has returned from Dominica, the Royal Police Force of the island will continue to investigate his claims of kidnapping.It added that the extradition case brought against him and the case of revocation of his Antiguan citizenship will also continue.Choksi, who the Indian government says had masterminded the Punjab National Bank scam worth $952 million ( ₹7,080 crore), is facing two cases - extradition and revocation of citizenship (which he acquired in November 2017) - in the Antigua high court.Earlier in the day, Choksi reached Antigua and Barbuda, three days after the Dominica high court of justice granted him bail on medical grounds.His lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said Choksi faced no issues while coming back to Antigua, adding that the legal team is gearing up for a long-drawn battle in Carribean island. “My client Mehul Choksi has returned to his home in Antigua safely. He faced no issues while entering back in Antigua. He is receiving medical treatment and his family is feeling relieved however torture during kidnapping has him caused lot of psychological and physical harm. All well that ends well. After tasting success in Dominica. Now, the legal team is gearing up for a long-drawn fight in Antigua”.Also read | Mehul Choksi's arrival a speculation, says AntiguaChoksi had gone missing from Antigua, whose citizenship he holds, on May 23, and was detained by authorities in Dominica, 200km away, the next day, following which his family members had claimed he was abducted. India sought his deportation from Dominica directly as he was a prohibited immigrant there, for which he is facing charges there.Indian government has said that Choksi continues to be an Indian citizen as his declaration for renunciation of citizenship was never accepted by the ministry of home affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antigua-police-to-continue-probe-into-mehul-choksi-extradition-case-101626354773907.html
15-07-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to visit Delhi; likely to meet Sonia Gandhi, other opposition party leaders||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is set to visit the national capital this month during the monsoon session of the Parliament, she announced on Thursday. Banerjee also said that she is planning to meet President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi "if given an appointment," multiple news agencies reported her as saying.According to reports, she is also expected to meet various leaders of opposition parties in Delhi, including Congress' Sonia Gandhi. "Now that the Covid situation has improved, I will go to Delhi during the Parliament session and meet some leaders there," she said."I didn't go to Delhi after the elections. The Parliament session will start. Covid-19 cases have come down. Will go to Delhi and meet some friends," the West Bengal chief minister also said.The meeting comes as Delhi is abuzz over the formation of a coalition of opposition parties to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party () in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.According to the PTI report, Banerjee is likely to arrive in the city on July 25. The monsoon session of Parliament will commence on July 19 and will continue till August 13.The talk of an anti-BJP front got revived after leaders of various parties and prominent individuals congregated at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's New Delhi residence last month.However, there was no tangible movement forward in that direction at the meeting hosted by Pawar and called by former union minister Yashwant Sinha, who is now in the TMC. Sinha, a former BJP stalwart, is a strident critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The speculation was further duelled after election strategist Prashant Kishore held a series of meetings with Pawar and the Gandhis.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-to-visit-delhi-likely-to-meet-sonia-gandhi-other-opposition-party-leaders-101626354262606.html
15-07-2021||India||Job applications of many Indian Gen Z cancelled during second Covid wave||The pandemic has adversely affected careers and education plans of India's youth and job applications of a significant number of Gen Z aspirants, those below 24 years, were rejected or cancelled during the second Covid wave, says a LinkedIn survey.On World Youth Skills Day 2021 on Thursday, LinkedIn launched the 'Career Aspirations Gen Z India' survey that captures the sentiment and outlook of Gen Z professionals in India towards jobs, internships, skilling, and networking opportunities.LinkedIn commissioned research firm GfK to conduct the survey, which was done in June. It focuses on insights of 1,000 Gen Z students and professionals in the age group of 18 to 24 years.As per the survey, 72 per cent students and 65 per cent Gen Z Indians were professionally impacted during the second wave of Covid.The study shows that nearly 70 per cent of Gen Z job applicants did not get a positive response after waiting for long periods while a similar proportion said their applications were either cancelled or delayed indefinitely.Gen Z Indians cited 'fewer opportunities', followed by 'slower recruitment' and 'higher competition' as the top three reasons affecting their job search today. Other barriers in pursuing job opportunities include lack of guidance for skilling and increased familial responsibilities due to Covid.Around 72 per cent of the students stated that internship opportunities had also greatly reduced during the pandemic's second wave. Among those who are currently employed, 32 per cent of Gen Z Indians experienced a pay cut while 25 per cent lost a job opening because the company cancelled the job role due to the pandemic.The second wave of Covid has disrupted the education plans of nearly 75 per cent students and Gen Z Indians. In fact, 40 per cent of those with higher academic aspirations have postponed or cancelled their plans due to safety concerns, financial constraints, and travel restrictions."Such is the disruption that every fifth (20 per cent) Gen Z Indian is now pivoting to a different learning program than originally planned," the report said."As one of the youngest nations in the world, India's future of work will be driven by Gen Z professionals, whose new-age skills can revitalise our economic recovery. But 70 per cent of Gen Z Indians had their job applications rejected due to hiring challenges during the pandemic," said Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn.Employers must treat this as a distress call to urgently re-imagine how they hire and develop talent to prevent young professionals from being left behind, Gupta added.As upskilling and collaboration have become workforce essentials in today's challenging professional landscape, every second Gen Z professional (51 per cent) wants employers and leaders to make skill-based hires today."Skills are the currency for workforce transformation and the only viable solution to tackle the evolving workforce dilemma," Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/job-applications-of-many-indian-gen-z-cancelled-during-second-covid-wave-101626350784768.html
15-07-2021||India||Railway ministry shares pictures of Gandhinagar railway station before and after revamp: All you need to know||The Union ministry of Railways on Thursday shared images of the Gandhinagar Capital railway station in Gujarat before and after its redevelopment. The visuals shared by the ministry showed ticket booking counters of the station before and after their transformation. The counters have been upgraded with digital display boards and the older grilled windows replaced with glass windows.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the station, along with several key railway projects in the state, on July 16 via video conferencing. The station is the country’s first redeveloped station to provide an “airport-like experience” to passengers, news agency PTI reported on Wednesday citing Railways officials.Exclusive!First Look of Gandhinagar Capital Railway Station's concourse area.#NayeBharatKaNayaStation pic.twitter.com/zCQoO5elYxIn a series of tweets, the ministry promoted the new features in the railway station following its redevelopment and called it a ‘new station for the new India’.From a luxury hotel to an interfaith prayer hall and an external facade with changing theme-based lighting, here is all you need to know about the facilities at the station:Also read | Railways’ 1st redeveloped station to be inaugurated by PM ModiPM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah would attend the ceremony to inaugurate the facility virtually while Union railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani are expected to join the event in Gandhinagar, news agency PTI reported.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-ministry-shares-pictures-of-gandhinagar-railway-station-before-and-after-revamp-all-you-need-to-know-101626352990776.html
15-07-2021||India||Karnataka to have gaushalas in every district||Karnataka on Thursday approved the setting up of gaushalas or cow shelters across the state as per the state’s anti-cattle slaughter law.“The Cabinet has approved to have gaushalas in every district,” said state minister Basvaraj Bommai. He added ₹15 crore will be earmarked for the shelters and the amount will be increased later.In February, when the law was passed, Bommai said the government will increase the capacity of its existing 184 cattle shelters from around 50,000 to 200,000. He added more such schemes will be announced in the Budget to ease the burden of taking care of the cattle.The Karnataka high court is hearing multiple petitions, challenging the law enacted to entirely stop cattle slaughter in a state, where farmers have faced a decline in incomes due to falling prices of produce, floods, and droughts.The law provides for jail terms of three to five years and fines ranging from ₹50,000- ₹10 lakh.Between 2015-16 till 2019-20, the government has said that nearly 1.3 million bulls and bullocks were killed for various reasons including meat. The government has argued the cattle population has dropped drastically in the last eight years. Karnataka exported around $2.5 million worth of beef in 2019-20 to UAE, Qatar, and other countries, according to government data. Leather exports from Karnataka accounted for around $8.25 million, HT reported in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-have-gaushalas-in-every-district-101626351787864.html
15-07-2021||India||Delhi schools won't reopen now amid third Covid wave fears: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said schools will not reopen in the national capital at the moment given the current trends of Covid-19 that point towards an imminent third wave of the pandemic. He said his government would not want to take any risk until the vaccination process against the coronavirus disease is complete.“Not now. Internationally, trends show that the third wave of COVID is imminent. So we don't want to take any risk until the vaccination process is complete,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Delhi reported 72 new coronavirus cases, which was minor dip from Wednesday's figures when it stood at 77. The Union territory also saw 88 recoveries, and one death in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of active cases touched 671, while recoveries reached a figure of 14,09,660. So far, 25,022 people have lost their lives to the virus in the national capital.So far, Delhi has vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries in the age group of 18-45 years with the first dose.With the fall in cases and positivity rate, Delhi has also relaxed the restrictions imposed to contain the second wave of the pandemic that wreaked havoc across the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-to-remain-shut-amid-covid-19-third-wave-fears-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101626349719183.html
15-07-2021||India||‘India, Japan share same fundamental values’: PM Yoshihide Suga||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Thursday said India and Japan shared the same fundamental values and both countries maintained cordial relations through the long history of exchanges. Suga’s comments came in a video message, which was played on the occasion of the inauguration ceremony of the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICCC).“The Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICCC), Rudraksh, will be used as a stage to showcase Japan-India cooperation by hosting international conferences, cultural and art events. The centre will become a new symbol of friendship between Japan and India,” he said.“I would like to convey my heartfelt congratulations on the inauguration of Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre,” said Suga.“Varanasi is the centre of India’s long history and rich culture. The city has a close relationship with Japan and has continued cultural and academic exchanges with Kyoto. The exchange between Banaras Hindu University and Kyoto University is one such example,” he added.“I am very pleased to see that the VICCC was built in such a special city as a symbol of friendship between Japan and India. The centre was designed and constructed by Japanese companies and shows what Japanese technology can achieve,” said Suga.कोरोनाकाल में जब दुनिया ठहर सी गई, तब काशी संयमित तो हुई, अनुशासित भी हुई, लेकिन सृजन और विकास की धारा अविरल बहती रही।काशी के विकास के ये आयाम, ये ‘इंटरनेशनल को-ऑपरेशन एंड कन्वेंशन सेंटर- रुद्राक्ष’ आज इसी रचनात्मकता का, इसी गतिशीलता का परिणाम है: PM @narendramodiHe said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi named this centre Rudraksh with a hope to make it a symbol of wisdom. I hope this centre will be used as a stage to showcase close Japan-India cooperation through hosting international conferences, cultural and art events and it becomes a new symbol of friendship between Japan and India.”“It is true that the Covid pandemic has made our mutual visits difficult at this moment. However, Japan and India will work to overcome this challenge, and make utmost efforts to further develop bilateral ties under special strategic and global partnerships through cooperation in areas such areas as green society, digital, cyber, healthcare and enhancing connectivity,” said the Japanese PM.“I am looking forward to the day when I can visit India at an appropriate time so as to further strengthen Japan-India ties together with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Yoshihide.“India and Japan are of the view that our development should be linked with our gaiety. This development should be all-round, it should be for all, and it should be all-encompassing,” the Prime Minister’s Office quoted PM Modi in a tweet.Calling Japan one of India’s most trusted friends, the prime minister said India-Japan ties are lauded as a natural partnership in the region.“There is one more person in today’s event, whom I cannot forget to name. Another friend of mine from Japan - Shinzo Abe. I remember, when Shinzo Abe came to Kashi as Prime Minister, I had discussed with him the idea of Rudraksh,” the PMO tweeted quoting PM Modi.“Prime Minister Suga Yoshihide was the chief cabinet secretary at that time. Since then till the role of PM, he has been personally involved in this project continuously,” the PM said, adding that with Rudraksh, Kashi’s development will shine brighter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-share-same-fundamental-values-pm-yoshihide-suga-101626350228388.html
15-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh's leadership and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh: Harish RawatDays after promising to deliver good news for Punjab, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said the party will fight the 2022 assembly election in the state under the leadership of chief minister Amarinder Singh. Read moreRising Delta variant cases make Covid-19 third wave real risk for India: ReportAmid fears of looming third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) remains, rising cases of the Delta variant and the subsequent mutations of the virus have now made the probability look a real risk for India, a foreign brokerage firm has cautioned. Read MoreTop US generals informally planned ways to stop Trump from attempting coup, new book revealsTop US military officer Gen Mark Milley and other senior officials had informally planned different ways to stop then-President Donald Trump from attempting a coup after the November elections, according to excerpts of an upcoming book reported by CNN. Read More'Rahul Dravid came up to me and asked me 'can you play for my team?'': India youngster recalls biggest 'moment of lifeIndia batsman Sanju Samson is geared up not only to get an opportunity to perform in the three ODIs and three T20Is against Sri Lanka starting Sunday but also work with the one and only Rahul Dravid, the coach of the team. Read moreKareena Kapoor with ‘two prince sons’ Taimur Ali Khan and Jeh, claim fan clubs as they share unseen photosKareena Kapoor’s fan clubs have got their hands on what they claim are unseen photos of her and her sons, Taimur Ali Khan and Jeh, from her soon-to-be-released book Kareena Kapoor Khan’s Pregnancy Bible. However, she has not shared the pictures on her own Instagram page and they could not be independently verified. Read morePaytm founder tweets he wants to ‘copy’ this idea from ZomatoA tweet about Zomato office has created a buzz online and gathered tons of reactions from people, including one from Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma. He wrote how he wants to ‘copy’ the wonderful idea. Read moreWatch | 'God won't be pleased if lives are lost because of our laxity': Uttarakhand CM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-to-fight-punjab-assembly-polls-under-amarinder-singh-s-leadership-and-all-the-latest-news-101626346194894.html
15-07-2021||India||Human trafficking bill does not address online commercial sexual activity: NGO tells Centre||The newly drafted Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, which is set to be tabled in Parliament during the coming monsoon session, does not adequately address the issue of online commercial sexual activity and exploitation, Goa’s nodal non-government organisation (NGO) dealing with human trafficking has said. The Centre published a draft of the bill last week, inviting suggestions from all stakeholders by July 14, this Wednesday. NGO Anyay Rahit Zindagi (ARZ) sent its feedback to Santanu Brajabasi, under secretary to the Government of India, ministry of women & child development, the department sponsoring the bill in Parliament. ARZ is the nodal NGO appointed by the Goa Police to assist their integrated anti-human trafficking unit said the state remained a hot spot for online means of human trafficking and commercial sexual activity. “There is a need to include online commercial sexual exploitation in the definition of “offences with cross border implications”, especially in the cases where the domain is registered outside India and the website is involved in soliciting girls in India for commercial sexual activities,” ARZ founder Arun Pandey said. “Online commercial sexual activity is an emerging trend in India but the bill is silent on that,” he added. “There is no mention for blocking websites and other electronic forms or digital technology used for sharing information for commercial sexual activity and soliciting, and seducing for the online commercial sexual activities,” he added. ARZ has also called for a special investigating agency similar to the Narcotics Control Bureau to be established under the ministry of home affairs solely to combat human trafficking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-trafficking-bill-does-not-address-online-commercial-sexual-activity-ngo-tells-centre-101626346087517.html
15-07-2021||India||All-party delegation from Tamil Nadu to meet Union minister over Mekedatu Dam||An all-party delegation from Tamil Nadu will meet Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi on Friday to hand over a resolution against Karnataka’s Mekedatu dam project.Tamil Nadu’s water resources minister Duraimurugan will lead the delegation days after chief minister M K Stalin held an all-party meeting on the issue on Monday. It was decided at the meeting to send the delegation to New Delhi to oppose the construction of the dam on the Cauvery river. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have been involved in a Cauvery water sharing dispute for decades.“Representatives from 13 political parties in the state have been invited to jointly hand over the resolutions passed at the meeting to the Union government,” said a ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader, who did not wish to be named.Three resolutions were passed at the all-party meeting on Monday, urging the Union government against clearing the project. They cited the Supreme Court order (WHEN) barring any such projects without the approval of lower riparian states.All regional parties and governments in Tamil Nadu have been opposed to the Mekedatu project. But ruling and opposition parties taking up such a matter together is rare in the state that has been known for adversarial politics involving DMK and opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK).AIADMK leader D Jayakumar, who will be a part of the delegation, called Cauvery a lifeline for Tamil Nadu’s farmers. “We cannot give up the state’s rights over the issue and for that, we need to speak in one voice, so we are also going to Delhi.”Shekhawat, who on Tuesday met Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, assured that justice will be done to the state in all irrigation projects including the construction of the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project. Duraimurugan, who also met Shekhawat this month, said that the Union minister assured him that Mekedatu Dam will not be built without Tamil Nadu’s approval.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power at the Centre and in Karnataka. The party’s Tamil Nadu unit has opposed the project.Puducherry chief minister N Rangasamy said he would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urge him that the dam should not be built.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allparty-delegation-from-tamil-nadu-to-meet-union-minister-over-mekedatu-dam-101626345907509.html
15-07-2021||India||Foreign minister Jaishankar’s comments suggest unilateral change of status quo along China border, says Shashi Tharoor||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Thursday said that the comments made by India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar, during his discussion with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, suggested that the status quo on the Line of Actual Control with China has been disturbed. Tharoor made the remarks on Twitter, quoting the original tweets by Jaishankar earlier on Wednesday.Jaishankar met with China’s foreign minister Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers’ meeting in Dushanbe on Wednesday.The bilateral discussion between the two sides went on for an hour and focussed on the border issues between the two countries along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in India’s western sector, Jaishankar had said.Also read | Peace at borders crucial to reviving ties: India to ChinaFollowing the discussion, Jaishankar outlined that the two sides had agreed to convene an early meeting of the senior military commanders.“Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties. Agreed on convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders,” he tweeted.Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas is essential for development of our ties. Agreed on convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders.In his reply to this tweet, Tharoor said that the minister’s remarks showed that there are outstanding issues with China along the LAC which required the minister to meet with military commanders.“This suggests that there HAS been a unilateral change of status quo on the Sino-Indian border, that peace & tranquillity have been disturbed, & that there ARE outstanding issues along the LAC that require our EAM to meet w/Military Commanders. Diplomatic code2confirm our concerns!” Tharoor tweeted earlier in the day.This suggests that there HAS been a unilateral change of status quo on the Sino-Indian border, that peace &tranquillity have been disturbed, &that there ARE outstanding issues along the LAC that require our EAM to meet w/Military Commanders. Diplomatic code2confirm our concerns! https://t.co/6O9a6Z8v1STharoor’s comments came as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said that his agenda about national security for a defence committee meeting on Wednesday was not accepted by the members of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Gandhi walked out of the meeting before it ended along with the other Congress ministers in the meeting. Pakistan, the border issue with China and the Taliban retaking territories with Afghanistan were listed in Gandhi’s agenda.While the committee had met to “review the working of cantonment boards,” Gandhi said that the discussion should rather be about more pressing security issues like the border stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-jaishankar-s-comments-suggest-unilateral-change-of-status-quo-along-china-border-says-shashi-tharoor-101626345391730.html
15-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Partial curbs extended in 10 Odisha districts, shops open from 6am-5pm||The Odisha government on Thursday extended the partial lockdown in 10 districts till August 1 in view of the Coronavirus (Covid-10) pandemic. The state government also announced some relaxations in restrictions as it allowed shops and commercial establishments to remain open from 6am to 5pm in districts that fall in Category B. Shops and business establishments in districts classified as Category A can remain open from 6am to 8pm.  The districts have been divided in the two categories based on the caseload and other parameters. The weekend shutdown will be in effect in 10 districts that have been classified under Category-B. These are Khordha , Puri , Nayagarh , Cuttack , Kendrapara , Jagatsinghpur , Jajpur , Balasore , Bhadrak and Mayurbhanj. Parks , malls , cinemas , schools will continue to remain closed.  This comes as the Covid-19 caseload in Odisha touched 9 ,47 ,859 after 2 ,110 more people tested positive for the infection , while 66 fresh fatalities pushed the toll to 4 ,861 , as per the state health department figures.  Of the latest cases , Khorda reported the maximum number of new infections at 458 , followed by Cuttack (323) , Balasore (168) , Kendrapara (132) and Puri (113).  The district with lowest number of cases was Naupada which logged only two cases over the span of 24 hours.  In terms of fatalities from the viral infection too , Khorda was at top with 21 deaths , followed by Bargarh and Sundargarh at 10 each , Balasore at eight , Sambalpur at seven , and Bhadrak and Mayurbhanj at two each.  One person each succumbed to the disease in Bolangir , Cuttack , Ganjam , Jagatsinghpur , Kalahandi and Puri.  Odisha has been registering over 60 fatalities in a day since July 11. The coastal state currently has 22 ,299 active cases , while 9 ,20 ,646 patients , including 2 ,605 on Wednesday , have recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-partial-lockdown-extended-in-10-districts-of-odisha-101626345278966.html
15-07-2021||India||IMD forecasts heavy rainfall in some states till July 19. Check details||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted fresh spell of heavy rainfall over parts of northern India from July 17 and said that ongoing enhanced rainfall activity along the west coast will continue till July 19.In its latest forecast, the MeT department said that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is likely to continue over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy rainfall till July 16.Isolated to scattered rainfall is predicted over plains of northwest India till July 16. There is likelihood of enhanced rainfall activity over from July 17 with widespread rainfall and isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Haryana, Punjab, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during July 17-19, the weather department said.The IMD also predicted increase in rainfall over northeast India during July 17-19. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are likely till July 16 and isolated very heavy rainfall over the region during July 17-19, it said in the forecast.Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain activity is very likely over Konkan and Goa and Karnataka during the next three days, according to IMD. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also very likely over the region during next three days. Decrease in rainfall activity is likely over the west coast and peninsular India from July 16 onwards till July 18, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-heavy-rainfall-in-some-states-till-july-19-check-details-101626342613990.html
15-07-2021||India||'Following predecessor's path': Chidambaram slams new health minister Mandaviya over Covid vaccine shortage||A week after advising newly appointed Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to ensure adequate and uninterrupted supply of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to states, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday said the former was following path of his predecessor (Dr Harsh Vardhan) and state after state were complaining of a shortage of doses.As the second wave of the pandemic continued to batter India and the third wave seems to be inching closer, several states and Union Territories (UTs), including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, have flagged a shortage of vaccines. In Maharashtra, health minister Rajesh Tope has said the state needs a minimum of three crore doses per month to vaccinate eligible beneficiaries at the earliest. In the national capital of Delhi, nearly 50 per cent of the vaccination centres were shut on Wednesday as the government ran out of supplies again, Hindustan Times reported.Also Read| Health minister rebuts reports of shortage of Covid-19 vaccine dosesTaking to Twitter, Chidambaram said on Thursday, “New health minister @mansukhmandviya is following the same path as his predecessor. It is a pity. State after state is complaining of a vaccine shortage. Vaccination centers have “no vaccine” boards. People standing in line have to return home after the vaccination centres run out of vaccines.”The new Health Minister @mansukhmandviya is treading on the same path as his predecessor.That’s sad.State after State is complaining of vaccine shortage. Vaccination centres have boards saying “NO VACCINES”. People standing in queues return home after vaccine doses are exhaustedEarlier, amid complaints raised by states regarding the shortage of doses, Mandaiviya said useless statements were being made to create panic among the public and 13.50 crore vaccines were available for use. The central government, meanwhile, on many occasions has asserted that the entire population will be vaccinated by year-end.Chidambaram asked Mandaivya whether complaints raised by the state health ministers were lies. “Are people being turned away in newspapers and TV news because there is no vaccine dose, the news is fake? The conclusion is that the public is being fooled between the Center and the states,” the senior Congress leader said in a subsequent tweet.Also Read| 1.92 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses lying unused with states, private hospitals: GovtChidambaram, along with other prominent leaders of the Congress, including Rahul Gandhi, has been criticising the Centre over its handling of the pandemic. On April 28 this year, the former Union minister said he was “appalled” by the statement of the then health minister Harsh Vardhan that there was no shortage of vaccines, oxygen supplies or Remdesivir in the country and urged people to revolt “against a government that is assuming all the people of India are fools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/p-chidambaram-slams-new-health-minister-mandaviya-over-covid-vaccine-shortage-101626340086573.html
15-07-2021||India||Rising Delta variant cases make Covid-19 third wave real risk for India: Report||Amid fears of a looming third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), rising cases of the Delta variant and the subsequent mutations of the virus have now made the probability look a real risk for India, a foreign brokerage firm has cautioned.According to a PTI report, Tanvee Gupta-Jain, chief economist of UBS Securities India, said the third wave risks are real even more now as economic activity has improved sequentially for the seventh successive week to July 12, with several states gradually easing curbs on movement. The UBS report further said the pace of vaccination has also slowed down to under 3.4 million doses per day as against four million jabs earlier along with 45 per cent of the daily Covid-19 case count being reported from the rural regions of India.In a note on Wednesday, Gupta-Jain said that although the number of daily Covid-19 cases seems to have plateaued, the same still remains much above the 2021 trough and the drop in active caseload has also started to narrow down.The report added that in more than 20 per cent of the top districts accounting for most of the daily cases and where the second wave of Covid-19 has not yet dialled down, the third wave has already set firmly in. The figure was only 5 per cent even a month before, it said.Gupta-Jain added that while economic pointers are coming back to normalcy, they are still mixed. They stated that railway and domestic airline passenger traffic has improved further in the country, but toll collections have plateaued for the latest reporting week, as per the UBS-India activity indicator. Additionally, while power demand rose by 11 per cent partly due to summer, railway freight has dropped by 1.9 per cent week-on-week.The report came at a time when India witnessed a consistent upward swing in the daily Covid-19 cases with the caseload climbing up to 41,806 infections in the last 24 hours as opposed to Wednesday’s 38,792. The daily case count on Tuesday was down to 31,443, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data showed.As far as vaccination is concerned, 39,13,40,491 doses against Covid-19 have so far been administered in the country, with 34,97,058 people receiving the jabs in the previous 24 hours.Meanwhile, World Health Organization (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday said the Covid-19 pandemic is now in the “early stages” of the third wave. “The Delta variant is now in more than 111 countries and we expect it to soon be the dominant Covid-19 strain circulating worldwide, if it isn’t already,” an UN report quoted Ghebreyesus as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-delta-variant-cases-make-covid-19-third-wave-real-risk-for-india-report-101626341217779.html
15-07-2021||India||1.92cr Covid-19 vaccine doses lying unused with states, private hospitals: Govt||The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Thursday said more than 1.92 crore unutilised doses of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are still available with various state governments, Union territories and private hospitals.The ministry further said around 40.31 crore Covid-19 vaccine does have been provided to the states and Union territories so far while another 83,85,790 doses are in the pipeline.Till Wednesday evening, India administered at least 390 million Covid-19 vaccine doses. However, the pace of the vaccination reportedly started slowing, dropping to levels seen before June 21, when the country covered all adults under the inoculation drive.The Centre on Wednesday directed the health secretaries of at least 15 states and Union territories to review the status of Covid-19 vaccine procurement by private centres, while expressing concerns over the "slow pace" of inoculation, which it called a "cause of serious worry."At least six states sounded the alarm bells over vaccine shortage even as the newly inducted Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya alleged that “misinformed” statements were being put out to “create panic” among people regarding the supply of Covid-19 jabs.The Delhi government said it was forced to shut almost half the vaccination centres in the national capital on Wednesday after the Union territory ran short of supplies again. Delhi administered a little over 64,000 doses of vaccines on Wednesday as compared to nearly 129,000 a day earlier. Delhi's health minister Satyender Jain blamed it on the shortage of vaccine supply by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-doses-lies-unutilised-in-states-union-territories-101626341180167.html
15-07-2021||India||Congress to fight Punjab assembly polls under Amarinder Singh: Harish Rawat||Days after promising to deliver good news for Punjab, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said the party will fight the 2022 assembly election in the state under the leadership of chief minister Amarinder Singh. The Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab further said Singh and party leader Navjot Singh Sindhu with work together for the party and a formula has worked out on the matter.“Captain Amarinder Singh is our chief minister for the last four-and-a-half years and we will go to the elections under his leadership,” Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“He and Sidhu will work together. A formula has been made around this. We have also worked out a formula for working presidents,” the former Uttarakhand chief minister said when asked if Sidhu would be made the Punjab Congress chief.Also read | 'Good news' in Punjab soon, says Harish Rawat after meeting Rahul GandhiRawat's comments also came a day after election strategist Prashant Kishor held talks with the Congress president Sonia Gandhi and senior leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. Kishor has been appointed by SIngh as his advisor ahead of the election.Rawat had earlier held a meeting with Rahul on Tuesday as the central leadership’s bid to resolve the months-long tussle between the chief minister and cricketer-turned-politician.A three-member committee, headed by Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge, that has been set up to settle the infighting in the Punjab unit, met all the party's legislators to resolve the crisis ahead of the upcoming state elections.While Singh has also met Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu has spoken to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.HT had reported earlier that Singh's leadership was not challenged and Sonia told him "to take Sidhu into confidence." Singh was also told that the party has to be united ahead of the Punjab assembly elections and to be accessible to his party colleagues.HT reported earlier that Singh's leadership was not challenged and Sonia Gandhi told him "to take Sidhu into confidence." Singh was also told that the party has to be united ahead of the Punjab assembly elections and to be accessible to his party colleagues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-fight-punjab-assembly-election-under-amarinder-singh-harish-rawat-101626340942900.html
15-07-2021||India||PM Modi thanks Japan's Suga for taking personal interest in Varanasi's 'Rudraksh' centre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday thanked his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga for the financial assistance in building the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre 'Rudraksh'. During his address at the VICC, PM Modi said that Suga, who was the chief cabinet secretary in the Japanese government when the project began, has been personally involved in the project continuously.“All Indians are grateful to Japan's Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga for taking a personal interest in the project,” the prime minister said.PM Modi also thanked former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe who had visited Kashi in 2015 when the idea of ‘Rudraksh’ was discussed between the two leaders. Speaking at the inauguration event, the prime minister recounted numerous projects Japan has been involved with, including Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor project and Zen garden recently inaugurated in Ahmedabad.“I am happy that a new sweet chapter of friendship is being written today,” he added.Praising the culture of Varanasi, PM Modi said that various art forms developed on the ghats of the Ganges and serious deliberations related to humanity have taken place. He highlighted that many developments projects have been initiated in Kashi in the past years, which would have been incomplete without 'Rudraksh' centre.“Now that Kashi has worn this Rudraksh (a prayer bead), the development of Kashi will shine more, and the beauty of Kashi will increase more,” he said.Prime Minister Modi is in Varanasi to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects. The various public projects and works include a 100-bed model maternal and child health (MCH) wing at the Institute of Medical Sciences of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), multi-level parking at Godauliya, Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development on River Ganga and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi Ghazipur Highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-thanks-japan-s-suga-for-personal-involvement-in-rudrakash-centre-101626341193765.html
15-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 390 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 390 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, July 14, though the pace reportedly started slowing, dropping to levels seen before June 21, when the country opened up the for all adults.At least six states said they were facing vaccine shortage even as Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya alleged that “misinformed” statements were being put out to “create panic” among people regarding vaccine supply.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 391,053,156 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,210,451 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,382,467 were given the first dose while 157,660 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 117,870,724 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 4,192,141 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 5 million first doses of the vaccine in the age group 18-45 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the same age group for the first dose.India recorded 41,806 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 30,987,880, while the active cases increased to 432,041, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.The death toll climbed to 411,989 with 581 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-390-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101626339307176.html
15-07-2021||India||Why Ayush medicine? IMA opposes mixing of Ayush with MBBS in internship||A draft for a new internship practice for MBBS doctors, proposed by the National Medical Commission, has mandated that MBBS graduates will have to undergo a mandatory one-week elective posting in any Ayush medicine branch -- Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Homeopathy, Sidhha and Sowa-Rigpa. The Indian Medical Association has taken objection to the draft and said mixing modern medicine with traditional one will result in mixopathy, an issue that the association of the doctors has been fighting tooth and nail.There are many other branches of modern medicine that can be included in the internship like family medicine, bioethics etc., instead of incorporating a completely another system for a week. The IMA has written to the National Medical Commission and expressed its full opposition to the proposal.After four years of medical education, an MBBS graduate has to undergo one year of internship. "Internship is a period of what you have learned will be practiced since medical graduates have no options of learning Ayush in the undergraduate period it is not appropriate for him to come and practice in Ayush. IMA wants the purity of the system to be maintained and not mixing up," IMA president Dr Jayalal said.In February, the association launched an agitation against the proposal of mixopathy where a single doctor will practise all medicine branches. It said that mixopathy is not good for the healthcare system as the doctor practising all branches of medical science will lack in-depth knowledge of any particular system of medicine.During IMA's clash with Patanjali Ayurved, it reiterated the point and opposed the Uttarakhand government's decision to include Coronil in the Covid-19 kit saying that it will again be 'mixopathy'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-ayush-medicine-ima-opposes-mixing-of-ayush-with-mbbs-in-internship-101626338418961.html
15-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine drive in Karnataka hits a roadblock over insufficient supply: Report||Karnataka’s Covid-19 inoculation drive has hit a new roadblock, following the further dwindling in numbers of vaccine doses. According to a report in Prajavani today, the state has reached a stage where people who have already received the first dose are nearing the date for their second dose with no solution in sight.The paper quotes an interaction that officials of the Union health and family welfare ministry had with their Karnataka counterparts in a video conference. This interaction states that Karnataka health department officials had already sent indent for vaccines to the central government but the supply did not match their demand.“Karnataka has an overall capacity to vaccinate 11 lakh people per day in both government and private facilities. Only on the first day of the ‘Vaccination Maha Abhiyan’ on June 21 did the state reach the 11 lakh vaccinations per day mark. At present only 2 lakh vaccine doses are available,” says Dr. Arundathi Chandrashekar, mission director at the National Health Mission, according to the paper that quoted her.“On Monday, July 12, the state got 3.40 lakh doses of vaccine followed by 4.80 lakh doses on July 15 (today). They will be distributed depending on the demand from each district based on the number of people who are yet to be vaccinated,” the paper quoted Dr. Chandrashekar as saying.Northern Karnataka has more demand for vaccines. “In an ideal condition, the state must get 5-6 lakh vaccine doses per day to the government sector and 3-4 lakh doses to the private sector. In June, we got 73 lakh doses out of which 59.98 lakh doses have been utilised. We keep sending indents on a day-to-day basis” said Dr. Chandrashekar.According to Karnataka health department officials who participated in the video conference with the central health department officials, it was planned that 7 lakh people will be vaccinated every day after 21 June. But not even 50% of the target could be reached due to the non-availability of vaccine doses. On July 14, a total of 1,24,923 people were vaccinated at government centres and 29,696 people at private centres, officials mentioned during the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-drive-in-karnataka-hits-a-roadblock-over-insufficient-supply-report-101626337431620.html
15-07-2021||India||TMC plans to take its Martyr’s Day event beyond Bengal||West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) plans to involve its supporters outside the state in its annual July 21 programme to commemorate 13 people, who were killed in police firing in 1993 during a rally organised for demanding that voter identity cards be made the sole required document for voting for fair polling.TMC observes July 21 as Martyr’s Day every year in remembrance of the 13 people who were killed at a Youth Congress rally. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was then the leader of the West Bengal Youth Congress. “Our supporters in other states would participate in the programme. They can watch it live as the address of TMC (chief)... Mamata Banerjee would be aired virtually. The format in which the party would observe the programme in other states would be declared later. Preparations are going on.”Also Read | Let Mamata Banerjee’s election plea be heard outside Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari to SCThe announcement comes a month after Abhishek Banerjee, TMC’s national general secretary, who is seen as the in-charge of the party’s expansion plans, announced in June that they plan to expand their base in other states ahead of the 2024 national polls to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).A TMC leader said plans were afoot to set up giant screens outside the TMC offices in some states including Uttar Pradesh and Tripura to beam Mamata Banerjee’s address. “A screen is also likely to be set up outside the TMC office in Delhi,” said the leader, requesting anonymity.Mamata Banerjee will address the annual event virtually for the second year due to the pandemic.Assembly elections are due in Uttar Pradesh in 2022 and in Tripura a year later. TMC leaders, who did not want to be named, said the party hopes to make inroads into Tripura, which has a sizeable Bengali-speaking population. The party has a unit in the state as well.The BJP mocked the TMC’s plans to observe the programme in Uttar Pradesh and Tripura. “The pandemic has necessitated such virtual meetings... Even small groups can hold a virtual meeting which can be seen by one or two persons in the US and even in Antarctica...,” said BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcplans-to-take-its-martyr-s-day-event-beyond-bengal-101626337987032.html
15-07-2021||India||Bengaluru-Chennai Shatabdi Express to get back on track from July 21||Shatabdi xpress trains running between Chennai and Bengaluru will resume operations from July 21 , Tamil daily Dina Thanthi reported on Thursday. It was one of the premium trains that were halted since April 28 due to poor occupancy following the Covid-19 second wave.  South Western Railway , in a statement , announced the resumption of operations for this train. Train Number 02028/02027 Krantivira Sangoli Rayanna (KSR) Bengaluru – Chennai MGR Central – KSR Bengaluru Shatabdi trains will resume operations on both sides from July 21 , the statement noted.  Considered one of the fastest trains to commute between South India’s major cities , Train Number 02028 departs from the KSR Bengaluru city junction at 6am and reaches Chennai MGR Central station at 11am. For the return journey , Train Number 02027 departs from Chennai MGR Central station at 5.30pm to reach the KSR Bengaluru City junction at 10.25pm. Operated six days a week , these trains , with two halts between , take roughly five hours to cross the 359 kilometers between these cities.  Bengaluru - Chennai – Bengaluru Shatabdi trains were stopped after the passenger patronage went southwards. Indian Railways stopped operating several trains during the second wave of the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. As the Covid-19 situation eased with passengers returning for their travels , the trains which were halted are being resumed , according to the railway statement.  The Hubballi-based South Western Railway also announced operating a weekly special train between Hubballi and Chennai on July 21 and 22. The statement from SWR stated that Train Number 07333 Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi – Chennai MGR Central will be operated on July 21 while Train Number 07334 Chennai MGR Central - Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi will be operated on July 22.  This special train connecting Karnataka’s major city in North Western Karnataka with Tamil Nadu’s capital traverses through Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh before reaching Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-update-bengaluru-chennai-shatabdi-express-to-get-back-on-track-from-july-21-101626336202766.html
15-07-2021||India||After cancelling Kanwar Yatra, Uttarakhand to send Gangajal via post to devotees||The Uttarakhand government has decided to send the water of holy river Ganga (Gangajal) via post to devotees, day after cancelling the Kanwar Yatra. News agency ANI quoted Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar as saying that the government is also planning to supply Gangajal in tankers to neighbouring states."We've started process of sending Gangajal via post to devotees. We're also planning to supply Gangajal in tankers and are in talks with administration of neighbouring states to avoid large number of gathering here," Ravishankar said on Wednesday.Uttarakhand had on Tuesday announced that it is suspending the annual Kanwar Yatra this year, scheduled to begin on July 25, in view of the Covid-19 situation. As part of the pilgrimage, lakhs of devotees travel through several states on foot to pilgrimage sites of Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand and Sultanganj in Bihar to fetch holy waters of River Ganga. Later, the holy water is dispensed as offerings to Lord Shiva in temples."We discussed with higher officials and with officials from neighbouring states and decided that we will not hold Kanwar Yatra at this time. A variant has been found in Gadarpur so we don't want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid," chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said.Also Read: On allowing Kanwar Yatra, Supreme Court issues notice to Centre, UP govtUnion tourism minister G Kishan Reddy called it a "responsible" decision and appealed to the people to understand the seriousness of the Covid-19."In view of the situation of Covid-19, first Amarnath Yatra and now the Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled. The people must understand the seriousness of the situation. It is our responsibility to save people's lives and look at the economy as well," he said after the Uttarakhand government announced its decision to call off the pilgrimage.The police in Haridwar has asked people to not come to the holy city since the Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled. In a notice, the police said that all entry and exit points of Haridwar district have been sealed.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) too had highlighted the risk of holding the Kanwar Yatra in the wake of a possible third wave of Covid-19.In the letter, IMA Uttarakhand State Secretary Dr Ajay Khanna expressed concerns about the crowds that may gather for the annual pilgrimage and urged the Uttarakhand chief minister to not allow devotees from outside to enter the state for the yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cancelling-kanwar-yatra-uttarakhand-to-send-gangajal-via-post-to-devotees-101626336160126.html
15-07-2021||India||Bandh partially disrupts normal life in Odisha||Bus services were suspended, petrol pumps and businesses remained shuttered in parts of Odisha while blockades were also reported during a six-hour bandh called by the Left parties in the state until afternoon on Thursday. The Congress is also supporting the bandh against the increasing fuel prices.Members of the Left parties resorted to road and rail blockades in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. They blocked a railway track at Bhubaneswar station and disrupted train services. Led by lawmaker Suresh Routray, Congress workers also staged a rail blockade at the Bhubaneswar Railway Station.Congress in Odisha has also called for state-wide protests from July 7 to 17 against the rising fuel prices and other issues. The party has requested people in the state not to purchase fuel.In view of the bandh call, special secretary (home) Santosh Bala on Wednesday asked all collectors to take preventive measures to maintain law and order and ensure essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bandh-partially-disrupts-normal-life-in-odisha-101626336426903.html
15-07-2021||India||Delta in 111 countries, Delta Plus unlikely to be more transmissible | 10 points||The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 , first reported in India in October , has now spread to over 111 countries across the world , according to the latest update of the World Health Organization. The viral strain , which is behind the resurgent rise of global cases , has mutated into Delta Plus. Sporadic cases of Delta Plus in India spread fresh concerns of a fresh wave riding on this new variant. But Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium of Genomics (INSACOG) has recently revealed that Delta Plus is not likely to be as transmissible as Delta.  Here are 10 latest updates on Covid-19 and its variants:  1. WHO chief Tedros Adhanon Ghebreyesus has recently said that the world has entered the early stages of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.  2. The third wave is mainly driven by the Delta variant , the WHO has said. The variant has now spread in more than 11 countries. "We expect it to soon be the dominant Covid-19 strain if it isn't already ," the WHO chief has said.  3. As far as other variants are concerned , Alpha variant has been reported in 178 countries , territories or areas , while Beta was limited to 123 countries and Gamma in 75 countries.  4. WHO said that the emergence of more transmissible variants in the days to come can not be dismissed. And those variants will get coupled with the lifting of the restrictions , which will contribute to rapid surges in cases.  5. In the week ending on July 11 , according to WHO data , India recorded 2 ,91 ,789 cases , recording a 7 per cent decrease.  6. Indonesia has now surpassed India's daily Covid-19 cases of India and has become the epicentre of Covid-19 in Asia.  7. In India , Delta is predominant. Alpha , first documented in the UK , and Beta , first found in South Africa , are rarely found. Delta Plus , on the other hand , was reported in a few states. But experts have said that there is no evidence to suggest that Delta Plus is more transmissible than Delta.  8. Gamma and Lambda variants have not been found in India , INSACOG said. Lambda , which is assumed to be deadlier than Delta , is found in 29 countries.  9. In India , several cases of the Kappa variant have been found in the recent few days. Kappa is a variant of interest and is not new. It was found in India at the same time when Delta was found.  10. As Delta Plus may not be more transmissible than Delta , it will not be the reason for a new surge in India. But the ministry has said that Covid-19 situation has become sluggish in some states , as the number of daily new infections is not going down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-in-111-countries-delta-plus-unlikely-to-be-more-transmissible-10-points-101626335558290.html
15-07-2021||India||Mild Zika virus cases likely present since April in Kerala, claim doctors||Doctors at a hospital in Kerala have claimed that it is likely that there have been mild cases of the Zika virus in the state since April this year, as the patients were not getting tested due to rising Covid-19 cases and lockdown restrictions at that time.Many people reported common Zika symptoms like fever, rashes and red eyes, Dr Rajalakshmi, Senior consultant at the KIMSHEALTH hospital told news agency ANI. "We had been getting patients complaining of rashes and fever since April. I would say that it peaked around May, right after the monsoon season. But since the coronavirus was also peaking at the time, we were conducting teleconsultations and they did not come to the OPD," she added.She said that a few samples were sent to test for dengue, chikungunya and measles but all tested negative. "I presume many people had mild cases and did not come to the hospital. The government has made the test available for the last two days. We are sending them samples. We will only know which pockets in the state have greater prevalence when a serosurvey is done," she said.The first case of the mosquito-borne viral infection in Kerala was confirmed on July 8 in a 24-year-old pregnant woman.According to Dr Niyas, who diagnosed the first patient, Zika virus management and treatment is simple and easy. In pregnant women, however, it can cause malformation in the foetus. "Samples of any person showing Zika Virus symptoms are being sent for testing, not just pregnant women," Niyas said.The state's case tally currently stands at 28, health minister Veena George informed on Thursday, including five new cases.As part of efforts to reduce the spread of Zika virus, the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation and district administrations have intensified preventive activities, including fogging for the next seven days and the setting up of a control room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mild-zika-virus-cases-likely-present-since-april-in-kerala-claim-doctors-101626333809853.html
15-07-2021||India||Bengaluru-Chennai Shatabdi trains to resume services from July 21||Shatabdi express trains running between Chennai and Bengaluru will resume operations from July 21, Tamil daily Dina Thanthi reported on Thursday. It was one of the premium trains halted since April 28 due to poor occupancy after the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit the country.In a statement, the South Western Railway said the Krantivira Sangoli Rayanna (KSR) Bengaluru – Chennai MGR Central – KSR Bengaluru Shatabdi trains (numbers 02028/02027) will resume operations from July 21.Considered one of the fastest to commute between the major cities of south, the train runs six days a week with two halt stations between the destinations covering about 359km. It leaves KSR Bengaluru City Junction at 6am and reaches Chennai MGR Central station at 11am. On return, it departs from Chennai at 5.30 pm and finishes its journey in Bengaluru at 10.25pm.The train services were stopped after passenger patronage went southwards following the pandemic. As the Covid-19 situation improves slightly across the country and the number of passengers slowly returns to normal, the halted trains are being resumed, according to the railway statement.The Hubballi-based South Western Railway also announced operating a weekly special train between Hubballi and Chennai on July 21 and 22. Train number 07333 Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi – Chennai MGR Central will be operated on July 21, while train number 07334 Chennai MGR Central - Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi will be operated on July 22.This special train connecting Karnataka’s major city in the northwestern region with Chennai traverses through Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh before reaching Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluruchennai-shatabdi-trains-to-resume-services-from-july-21-101626333602021.html
15-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi attacks govt over vaccine shortage, unemployment and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Built in centuries, destroyed in seconds: Rahul Gandhi’s attack on govtCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the current government did not take even a few “seconds to destroy” what had been built over “centuries” in India. Read moreWorld Youth Skills Day: PM Modi reiterates significance of skilling, re-skilling, upskillingOn the occasion of World Youth Skills Day and the sixth anniversary of Skill India Mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated the significance of skilling, re-skilling and upskilling among the country’s youth. Read moreIndia vs England: Rishabh Pant tests positive for Covid-19, says reportIndian wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant has tested positive for Covid-19 during the 20-day break, PTI reported on Thursday. He will not be travelling to Durham where the Indian team members are scheduled to assemble before the upcoming 5-match Test series against England. Read moreShaheer Sheikh's first thought on playing Sushant Singh Rajput's character in Pavitra Rishta 2: 'People won't accept me'Television actor Shaheer Sheikh has said that his first thought on stepping into the shoes of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to essay the role of Manav in Pavitra Rishta 2, was that people will 'not accept' him. He said he wasn't very sure if he should be a part of the show and was nervous. Read moreAudi India announces charging options for upcoming e-tron, e-tron Sportback EVsAudi India on Thursday announced a range of charging options and benefits for its potential EV customers ahead of the launch of e-tron 50, e-tron 55 and e-tron Sportback EVs on July 22. Read more‘Some light reading with lil X’: Elon Musk posts pic of son X AE A-XIIf you follow SpaceX CEO Elon Musk on Twitter, you may be aware of the various posts he often shares. From talking about cryptocurrency to informing about new technologies to sharing snippets of his personal life, Musk’s tweets are of different taste. Read moreWhy Abhinav Bindra is excited about the Tokyo OlympicsOlympic gold medallist Abhinav Bindra speaks to Sharda Ugra, Senior sports journalist and Rudraneil Sengupta, Sports editor, Hindustan Times on India's chances in Tokyo. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-rahul-gandhi-attacks-govt-over-vaccine-shortage-unemployment-and-all-the-latest-news-101626330601846.html
15-07-2021||India||Manduadih railway station renamed as Banaras: Check its facilities||The Manduadih railway station has been finally renamed as Banaras by the North eastern railways (NER). The NER replaced the old signboard with the new one which read 'Banaras' after the Railway Board gave its nod for the new name.The newly painted signboards were put up with Banaras written in Hindi, Sanskrit, English, and Urdu.पूर्वोत्तर रेलवे के वाराणसी मंडल के मंडुवाडीह रेलवे स्टेशन का नाम परिवर्तित कर बनारस कर दिया गया है।अब इस स्टेशन का नाम हिन्दी में बनारस,अंग्रेजी में BANARAS तथा स्टेशन का कोड BSBS होगा। इसके साथ ही इस स्टेशन की नाम पट्टिका पर संस्कृत और उर्दू में भी इसका नाम अंकित किया गया है। pic.twitter.com/QRlqCNyYFeThe process to change the station’s name started in 2019 when former railway minister and the present governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Singh, put forth the request. In the same year, the Uttar Pradesh government accepted the proposal and forwarded it to the ministry of home affairs.The formal renaming of Manduadih railway station as Banaras Railway Station was done on September 16, 2020 in view of the NOC given by the ministry of home affairs on March 31, 2020.The NER authorities have decided to start the replacement of old titles of railway stations from now on, only after all clearances have been acquired from all necessary departments.The code for the station with the new identity will now be ‘BSBS,’ starting from 12am today and will be reflected on all the tickets booked.The Banaras Railway Station, formerly known as Manduadih Railway Station, is one of the most advanced and facility-loaded railway stations. Some of the facilities of the station include food plazas, VIP lounges, escalators, gardens, and an advanced booking station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manduadih-railway-station-renamed-as-banaras-check-its-facilities-101626331289259.html
15-07-2021||India||Weeks after Jammu air base attack, India releases draft drone policy||The ministry of civil aviation on Thursday released the draft drone rules, 2021 for public consultation. The deadline for public comments on the draft is August 5."Built on a premise of trust, self-certification, and non-intrusive monitoring, the Drone Rules, 2021 will replace the UAS Rules 2021 (released on 12 March 2021)," the ministry said in a release.The key approvals cleared by the Centre in the new drone rules include abolition of approvals for certain criteria, reduction of forms to six from 25 and relaxation in granting permission.Opinion: The killer drones are here. Get readyThe ministry said that it has reduced the fees to nominal levels, and it now has no linkage with the size of the drone. "Safety features like 'No permission - no take-off (NPNT), real-time tracking beacon, geo-fencing etc to be notified in future. A six-month lead time will be provided for compliance," it further said."Digital sky platform shall be developed as a business-friendly single-window online system. There will be minimal human interface on the digital sky platform and most permissions will be self-generated," the aviation ministry said in the release.The government has removed the requirement for pilot licence for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drone and for R&D organisations, and relaxed restrictions on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India.Some of the other key takeaways include no security clearance before any registration or licence issuance, increased coverage of drones from 300 kg to 500 kg to cover drone taxis and easier process for transfer and deregistration of drones."The maximum penalty under has been reduced to ₹1 lakh," the ministry said, adding that drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries.The contours of a comprehensive drone policy was discussed at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month (June 29) in the wake of drone attack at Jammu air force station and sightings of more unmanned aircraft system (UAS) in the region.Discussions were also held on emerging security threats and futuristic challenges facing the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-released-drone-rules-2021-relaxes-approval-norms-101626332422677.html
15-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka gets raw deal as shortage hits vaccination drive||Karnataka’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has hit a roadblock following a further fall in availability of doses. According to a report in Prajavani on Thursday, there is no vaccine for a large number of people in the state who are scheduled to receive their second dose in the next .The paper quotes an interaction that officials of the Union health and family welfare ministry held with their Karnataka counterparts in a video conference. It was reportedly discussed at the meeting that the state health department had informed the Centre about its vaccine requirements, but adequate vaccines are yet to be sent.“Karnataka has an overall capacity to vaccinate 11 lakh people per day in both government and private facilities. Only on the first day of the ‘Vaccination Maha Abhiyan’ on June 21 did the state reach the 11-lakh mark. At present, only two lakh vaccine doses are available,” National Health Mission director Dr Arundathi Chandrashekar was quoted as saying in the report.“On Monday, July 12, the state received 3.40 lakh doses of vaccine, followed by 4.80 lakh doses on July 15. The same will be distributed depending on the demand from each district based on the number of people who are yet to be vaccinated,” she further said.The report said northern Karnataka has more demand for vaccines. “In an ideal situation, the state must get five-six lakh vaccines every day for the government sector and three-four lakh doses for private facilities. In June, we received 73 lakh doses of which 59.98 lakh doses have been utilised. We keep sending indents on a day-to-day basis” Dr Chandrashekar said.According to state health department officials, who participated in the meeting with the central health team, the initial plan was to vaccinate seven lakh people every day after 21 June. However, even 50 per cent of the target could not be reached due to non-availability of vaccines. On July 14, a total of 1,24,923 people were inoculated at government centres and 29,696 people at private facilities, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-karnataka-gets-raw-deal-as-shortage-hits-vaccination-drive-101626332209957.html
15-07-2021||India||World Youth Skills Day: PM Modi reiterates significance of skilling, re-skilling, upskilling||On the occasion of World Youth Skills Day and the sixth anniversary of Skill India Mission, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated the significance of skilling, re-skilling and upskilling among the country’s youth. Modi said that the challenges brought on by the pandemic have increased the significance of World Youth Skills Day.On Thursday, while addressing the youth of the country, he said, “The mission of skilling, re-skilling and upskilling the youth should continue relentlessly. Making India Aatmanirbhar through upskilling and re-skilling should the core focus.” He added that this mission needs to be expedited as there is going to be a huge demand for re-skilling due to fast-changing technology. The Prime Minister also spoke of how a skilled workforce helped fight an effective battle against the pandemic.Also Read | PM Modi chairs council of ministers meetThe Prime Minister said that more than 12.5 million young persons have been trained under Pradhanmantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna.He said, “Skill development of the youth of the new generation is a national requirement and a major foundation for Aatmanirbhar Bharat.”Stressing the need for skills in everyday life, the Prime Minister said that learning should not stop with earning. He said only a skilled person will grow in today’s world--this applies to both people and countries. He said that the idea of India providing smart and skilled manpower solutions to the world should be at the core of the strategy of skilling the youth.The Prime Minister also referred to the vision of Babasaheb Ambedkar who placed great emphasis on skilling the weaker section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-youth-skills-day-pm-modi-reiterates-significance-of-skilling-re-skilling-upskilling-101626331866377.html
15-07-2021||India||13 tourists caught with fake RT-PCR reports in Dehradun: Uttarakhand Police||The Uttarakhand Police on Thursday said that they have caught 13 tourists who came to Dehradun with a fake RT-PCR negative report, news agency ANI reported. The tourists were arrested in Clement Town area, ANI reported quoting police officials.It also said that four people accused of making fake documents and registered a case. The said that 100 fake RT-PCR negative reports have been detected till now.Hill stations like Mussoorie and Nainital have seen a huge influx of tourists in the past few weeks, since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs were relaxed by the Uttarakhand government. Though the overall curfew is continuing till July 20, the state government has given many relaxations to resume economic activities.The Union health ministry, as well as Uttarakhand government, have expressed concerns over tourists thronging the popular holiday destinations wither to escape heat in the northern plains or to just move out of their homes.The Uttarakhand government has made carrying RT-PCR reports, not older than 72 hours, before coming to the state. The police have increased surveillance and set up checkposts at border points to catch the violators.Last weekend, the Uttarakhand Police sent back 8,000 people headed to Mussoorie and Nainital. The state government has also cancelled the Kanwar Yatra to check the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-tourists-caught-with-fake-rt-pcr-certificates-in-dehradun-uttarakhand-police-101626330921182.html
15-07-2021||India||Built in centuries, destroyed in seconds: Rahul Gandhi’s attack on govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the current government did not take even a few “seconds to destroy” what had been built over “centuries” in India.Hitting out at the government over a variety of issues, such as, vaccine shortage, border issues with China, price hike, unemployment, and disinvestment of public sector undertakings, Gandhi took to Twitter and wrote in Hindi, “Took Centuries to built, destroyed in seconds, the country knows who brought these difficult times. #VaccineShortage #LAC #Unemployment #PriceHike #PSU #Farmers #OnlyPR.”Amid fresh reports of clashes between Indian and Chinese forces at Ladakh, Gandhi had tweeted on Wednesday, “Modi government has weakened our country by making foreign and defence policy, a national political gimmick. India has never been so insecure.”Sharing a report from an English daily which reported of fresh clashes between Indian and Chinese forces in Ladakh, Gandhi added that the Centre’s “use of foreign and defence policy as a domestic political tool” has made India vulnerable.BJP had reacted to the tweet, saying the news report shared by Gandhi was “fake.” “His #FakeStory, rebutted by the Indian Army, was done by Ajai Shukla, a retired Lt Col, with dubious antecedents, brother-in-law of Suman Dubey, a long time Gandhi family crony, accused in the National Herald scam and on the board of RGF! Bogus story written for Rahul to plug?” said Amit Malviya who heads BJP’s Information technology cell.Gandhi’s allegation over vaccine shortage was also slammed by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. “The leaders who make statements that create confusion and concern in the media need to introspect whether they have made such a distance from the governance process and related information that they are not aware of the information already being given in the context of vaccine supply,” Mandaviya tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/built-in-centuries-destroyed-in-seconds-rahul-gandhi-s-attack-on-govt-101626331386473.html
15-07-2021||India||Varanasi gets ₹1,583-cr worth projects, PM Modi says city becoming medical hub||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday gifted developmental projects worth ₹1,583 crore to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi. He had said ahead of the visit that these projects will further improve ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Kashi and the entire Poorvanchal region."After a long gap, I have got a chance to meet all of you directly. I bow my head to the feet of Baba Kashi Vishwanath and Ma Annapurna," PM Modi said in his address at IIT-BHU ground."Whatever is happening for the development of Banaras, all that is happening by the blessings of Mahadev (Lord Shiva). Kashi showed that it never tires, it never stops even in time of crisis. With resilience, Kashi faced the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis with courage," he added.He said that Varanasi is becoming medical hub in entire eastern UP. "Work is underway for setting up 550 new oxygen plants in Uttar Pradesh," he added.The Prime Minister arrived at the LBS airport in Varanasi on Thursday morning, He was received by Governor Anandiben Patel, and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Adityanath welcomed PM Modi ahead of the address, and in his inaugural address, said that his regular guidance for effective covid-19 management was praised by various countries in the world."Projects worth about ₹10,300 crore were completed in the last seven years and schemes worth about ₹10,200 crore are in progress," said the chief minister.One of the highlights of the projects inaugurated by the Prime Minister is a state-of-the-art convention centre Rudraksh. Constructed with Japanese assistance, Rudraksh will make Varanasi an attractive destination for conferences thus drawing more tourists and businesspersons to the city, said the Prime Minister.Watch: PM Modi to inaugurate 'Rudraksh' in VaranasiAs many as 108 Rudraksha have been installed at this convention centre and its roof is shaped like a Shiva Linga, officials said, adding that the entire building will glow with LED lights at night.Other key projects which will be inaugurated today include a multi-level parking at Godaulia, Ro-Ro vessels for tourism development and three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway. These projects are worth a total of around ₹744 crore, according to Prime Minister's Office (PMO).PM Modi will also lay the foundation stones for a bunch of other public projects and works, including the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission, and a mango and vegetable integrated packhouse in Karkhiyanv.This is PM Modi's third visit to his constituency Varanasi since beginning his second term in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-gets-rs-1-583-cr-worth-projects-pm-modi-says-city-becoming-medical-hub-101626330069960.html
15-07-2021||India||Day after Kishor-Gandhi meet, NCP refutes 'Pawar as presidential face' talks||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday dismissed reports of its chief Sharad Pawar being in contention for the next presidential polls to be held next year. This came a day after election strategist Prashant Kishor held hours-long talks with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and her children Rahul and Priyanka.Pawar, who too has held a few meetings with Kishor in the past few weeks, said he is aware of the numbers involved in the election and he will not be a presidential candidate. "I know what will be the result, given one party (BJP) has more than 300 MPs. I will not be a candidate for the presidential election," said Pawar, a former chief minister of Maharashtra and Union minister.He said Kishor met him twice and there was no discussion regarding leadership for the 2024 Lok Sabha election or the presidential election. "We only talked about a company of his. No discussion was held regarding the leadership for the 2024 elections or the presidential election. He told me that he has left the field of formulating poll strategies," Pawar said, adding he will not assume any leadership in the next Lok Sabha polls."Nothing has been decided so far, be it the 2024 general elections or state elections. The election is far away, the political situation keeps changing. I am not going to assume any leadership in the 2024 elections," he said.NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said the reports are baseless and no such talks have been held either within the party or with other parties. "There are no presidential polls soon. This condition after polls in five states will be reviewed. There has been no such talk in the party or with other parties. The news is fabricated,” Malik was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.President Ram Nath Kovind's tenure will come to an end next year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-dismisses-sharad-pawar-as-presidential-candidate-reports-101626329927798.html
15-07-2021||NA||Highlights: PM Modi thanks Japan's Yoshihide Suga for Rudrakash centre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday arrived in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi where he inaugurated several public projects worth ₹1,583 crore. The inaugurals include a 100-bed maternal and child health wing at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU).Modi arrived at the city's LBS airport and was received by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adtityanath and governor Anandiben Patel.Also Read| Varanasi gets ₹1,583-cr worth projects, PM Modi says city becoming medical hubAddressing a gathering at the BHU ground, Modi lauded Varanasi, popularly known as Kashi, as well the entire state for its fight against the coronavirus disease. He said Kashi and UP fought the pandemic with all their might.He further said Varanasi is now becoming a medical hub of Purvanchal, adding facilities are available to treat diseases for which people had to earlier travel to Delhi and Mumbai.As the day progresses, PM Modi will open a multi-level parking at Godauliya, Ro-Ro vessels for tourism development on the River Ganga and three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway.Also Read| PM Modi to inaugurate Rudraksh, the symbol of Indo-Japan friendship in VaranasiHe will also lay foundation stones of several projects, including the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology, 143 rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission and a mango and vegetable integrated packhouse in Karkhiyanv.At 2pm, the Prime Minister will inspect the Maternal and Child Health Wing at BHU and interact with officials and medical professionals to review Covid-19 preparedness. He will fly back to Delhi at 3.30pm.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi in his constituency Varanasi - See picturesPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated projects worth ₹1,500 crores including the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre 'Rudraksh' in Varanasi.Click here to see pictures'Proud of Japan's support for this prestigious project': Japanese ambassador Satoshi SuzukiHonoured to have participated with @narendramodi in the Inauguration Ceremony of Varanasi Convention Centre,another symbol of #JapanIndia friendship.We are proud of Japan’s support for this prestigious project through Grant Aid.Hope our friendship will further flourish from here. pic.twitter.com/z1YXGh3xEUJapanese ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki tweeted "Honoured to have participated with @narendramodi in the Inauguration Ceremony of Varanasi Convention Centre,another symbol of #JapanIndia friendship.We are proud of Japan’s support for this prestigious project through Grant Aid.Hope our friendship will further flourish from here."'Kashi will shine more now': ModiNarendra Modi finished his speech saying with the inclusion of the Rudraksh Centre, Kashi (Varanasi) will shine more now. He further said that the city was being beautified for the last few years and the process could not be completed without the 'Rudraksh.'Projects built with cooperation of Japan to be strength of New India: ModiProjects such as the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor and the High speed train which are being built by the cooperation of Japan, have to become strength of New India, Narendra Modi said.'New chapter of friendship': Modi hails relation between India, JapanPM Narendra Modi thanked his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga for his personal interest in the project. He also praised the people to people relation between the two countries. "I am happy that a new sweet chapter of friendship is being written today," Modi said. He further mentioned the Zen Garden recently inaugurated in Ahmedabad. PM Modi thanks Japan's ambassador to India Satoshi SuzukiDuring his address at the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Modi thanked the people of Japan, the Japanese government and the country's ambassador to India Satoshi Suzuki.PM Modi reaches Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention CentrePrime Minister Narendra Modi has reached the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICC), which has been constructed with Japan's assistance. The VICC was gifted by the then Japanse Prime Minister Shinzo Abe during his visit to Kashi in 2015Ro-Ro vessels to boost tourism in Kashi: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi also said on Thursday that the Ro-Ro vessels facility, which will begin today, will boost tourism in Kashi. "Our boatmen are also being given better facilties. Diesel boats are being converted into CNG. This will bring down their expenses, benefit the environment & attract the tourists," Modi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Cleanliness of Kashi, Ganga a priority for all of us, says PM Modi"Cleanliness of Kashi, Ganga is not only an aspiration but also a priority for all of us," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, adding work is being done on every front be it it roads, sewage treatment, beautification of parks and ghats.Kashi becoming a big medical hub of Purvanchal: PMPM Modi also said on Thursday that Kashi is becoming a big medical hub of Purvanchal, adding facilities are available in the city to treat diseases for which people had to earlier visit Delhi and Mumbai.Kashi faced Covid-19 crisis with courage, says PM Modiबीते कुछ महीने हम सभी के लिए बहुत मुश्किल भरे रहे हैं।कोरोना वायरस के बदले हुए और खतरनाक रूप ने पूरी ताकत के साथ हमला किया था।लेकिन काशी सहित, यूपी ने पूरे सामर्थ्य के साथ इतने बड़े संकट का मुकाबला किया: PM @narendramodiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded Varanasi and the Uttar Pradesh's fight against the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. "The past few months have been very tough for us. The ever-changing and fatal Covid-19 attacked us with full force. However, Kashi and the entire state of Uttar Pradesh fought the virus with all its strength," Modi said.'Smart Kashi' a model for the entire world, says UP CMUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that the city of Varanasi, which has protected its spiritual and cultural heritage, has emerged as a smart city and has become a model for Uttar Pradesh, India and the entire world.PM arrives at BHU ground in Varanasi, set to inaugurate public projectsPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) ground in Varanasi.He will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects. pic.twitter.com/yyvNpExkvfPrime Minister Narendra Modi has arrived at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) ground in Varanasi and will soon inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple development projects.PM Modi in Varanasi, to inaugurate public projectsPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on Thursday, where he will inaugurate several public projects, including a 100-bed maternal and child health wing at Benaras Hindu University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-pm-modi-in-varanasi-to-inaugurate-public-projects-101626327349384.html
15-07-2021||India||Twitter withdraws Fleets feature, says will try ‘bigger and bolder things’||Twitter on Wednesday said it would be withdrawing its Fleets feature starting August 3 as there has been no “increase in the number of new people joining the conversation with Fleets.”“We built Fleets as a lower-pressure, ephemeral way for people to share their fleeting thoughts. We hoped Fleets would help more people feel comfortable … but… we haven’t seen an increase in the number of new people joining the conversation with Fleets like we hoped,” Twitter said in a statement.It added that Twitter was still evolving and trying “bigger and bolder things” to serve the public conversation.“A number of these updates, like Fleets, are speculative and won’t work out. We’ll be rigorous, evaluate what works, and know when to move on and focus elsewhere,” it said adding that “continuous evolving of approaches and winding down features every once in while” are some big steps that Twitter won’t hesitate to take.Also Read | India sent most number of requests seeking account info: Twitter reportFleets feature was introduced in November last year with which users could post full-screen photos, videos, or plain text as “fleeting thoughts” that would last for 24 hours.Meanwhile, following the decision, netizens reacted to the decision with most welcoming the move.“This makes a lot of sense and I’m glad Twitter dares to remove a feature. Too many software products end up with a ton of garbage of old features,” a Twitter user wrote.Another user taking a jibe at Twitter, quote tweeted Twitter’s announcement saying, ” Sometimes, life doesn’t go the way, we want it to go. But there is nothing we can do about it, so we have to follow along in its sick twisted game.”While Twitter said they were also working on “some new stuff”, Twitter users were seen pushing for the introduction of an edit button and suggesting withdrawal of the topic option.While a user said, “don’t give us an edit button (reverse)”, another user tweeted, “Thank you for getting out the fleets. It’s better to just stop feeding us the topics we don’t want to see in our timeline... I (should) only see what I want to see. I am too tired of closing each topic that appears on my timeline even when I have muted it.”Another user said that it was high time to introduce an edit button, but with an option to track changes, “so we can see what the actual first tweet was, to hold people accountable.”Some people also requested Twitter to reconsider its Fleet withdrawal decision as it would affect people who “advertised” their products through fleets.A user wrote, “Twitter is ending Fleets?!?! NOOO, I built my entire start-up business around Fleets, and now it’s ending?!?! I’M RUINED.”Another user said, “They (fleets) were helping my business tweets reach more people. Had quite a few inquiries due to my fleets. They will be missed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-withdraws-fleets-feature-says-will-try-bigger-and-bolder-things-101626325745350.html
15-07-2021||India||'A flight to remember': Dayanidhi Maran honoured to be flown by Rajiv Rudy||DMK's Member of Parliament Dayanidhi Maran boarded a flight from Delhi to Chennai on Tuesday, which turned a memorable one, as described by the politician on Twitter. The reason? His pilot was none other than his parliamentary colleague and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Rajiv Pratap Rudy.Maran described the chance meetign with the fellow MP on Twitter in a thread titled "A Flight to Remember."Maran said he boarded the IndiGo flight 6E864 after attending a meeting of the parliamentary Estimates Committee. "'So you are traveling in this flight as well!' said a person dressed in the Captain’s uniform. I could not recognize him with his mask on, although his voice sounded familiar. I nodded my head, still wondering who it could be," the DMK MP said in his initial tweet."He looked at me and his eyes gave away the smile behind the mask. “So you don’t recognize me!” he exclaimed. I realized then that it was none other than my colleague, senior member of parliament and former Union Minister- my very good friend Thiru @RajivPratapRudy!" Maran said in another tweet.He looked at me and his eyes gave away the smile behind the mask.  “So you don’t recognize me!” he exclaimed.I realized then that it was none other than my colleague, senior member of parliament and former Union Minister- my very good friend Thiru @RajivPratapRudy ! 3/7The politician said he was amazed to see Rudy's transformation "from a politician to a pilot" who he met just two hours ago at the committee's meeting."I could only say that I was honoured to be flown by my good friend and colleague," added Maran.Rudy, a Lok Sabha MP from Bihar who had defeated RJD president Lalu Prasad’s wife Rabri Devi in 2014 general elections, was given independent charge of skill development ministry by Prime Minister Narendra Modi but was later dropped in a cabinet reshuffle.He was appointed BJP national spokesperson in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-flight-to-remember-dayanidhi-maran-honoured-to-be-flown-by-rajiv-rudy-101626324649974.html
15-07-2021||India||PM Modi chairs council of ministers meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday told the newly inducted ministers in the union council to acquaint themselves with Parliamentary process and procedure and come prepared for the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament according to people aware of the details.During a meeting with the council of ministers, the PM also raised the issue of attendance and said ministers should be present in the House during the session. In the past, the issue of poor attendance in both Houses was raised by the PM. This is the second meeting of the ministers chaired by the PM after the expansion and rejig of the council took place last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-council-of-ministers-meet-101626321304770.html
15-07-2021||India||India reports 41,806 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload currently at 432,041||India reported 41,806 fresh cases and 581 more fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,987,880 and 411,989 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update on Thursday. As many as 39,130 patients recovered from the viral disease in the said period, taking the cumulative count of recoveries to 30,143,850, the bulletin released at 8am showed. The active cases stand at 432,041 and constitute 1.39 per cent of the caseload.Thursday’s case count is 3,014 more than that of Wednesday’s when 38,792 people were detected Covid-19 positive. On other hand, Thursday’s toll is 43 less/more than that of Wednesday’s when 624 deaths were reported.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday that a total of 438,011,958 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease so far of which 1,943,488 were tested in the last 24 hours.Also Read| Guard against laxity: Centre to states on Covid norms’ breachOver 390 million doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 have been administered to eligible beneficiaries till now, the Union health ministry said, adding more than 3.21 million doses were administered on Wednesday.As people are continuing to flock hill stations and other tourist spots in the country, stoking fears of a more severe third wave of the pandemic, the Union home ministry said on Wednesday that there is no room for complacency and everyone should adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. For the past several days, videos surfaced on social media platforms have shown massive gatherings of people in prominent tourist destinations without adherence to the basic norms such as wearing of masks and ensuring social distancing.Pointing out at the "blatant violations" of Covid norms at hill stations, tourist spots and market places, the MHA instructed states and Union Territories (UTs) to act against officials who fail to ensure compliance to the guidelines. In a letter to states and UTs, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said, “Blatant violations of Covid norms have been observed in several parts of the country, especially in public transport and at hill stations. Massive crowds are also thronging the market places, violating norms of social distancing.”Also Read| Covid-19: Modi flags crowding in hills as 3rd wave triggerThe Union home ministry’s remarks come just a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it was a matter of concern that huge crowds were thronging hill stations and markets without wearing masks or social distancing, adding everyone has to work together to stop the third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-41-806-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-currently-at-432041-101626319162558.html
15-07-2021||India||Boat capsizes in Bengal; 9 fishermen dead, 1 missing||Nine persons were killed when a trawler carrying 10 fishermen capsized in the Bay of Bengal off the West Bengal coast early on Wednesday morning. Police recovered nine bodies from the trawler, and one person is still missing. “We have recovered nine bodies. One person is still missing. Search operation is going on with the help of Coast Guard,” said Anil Kumar Roy, SDPO of Kakdwip in South 24 Parganas. Also Read | Let Mamata Banerjee’s election plea be heard outside Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari to SCThe trawler capsized early on Wednesday around 25-30 km off the Bakkhali-Frazerganj coast. Police said that the capsized trawler was spotted and towed to the coast by at least five to six other trawlers during search and rescue operation. All he nine bodies were recovered from inside the trawler. “It is yet to be ascertained how the trawler capsized. Investigation is going on,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boat-capsizes-in-bengal-9-fishermen-dead-1-missing-101626320104768.html
15-07-2021||India||Canada says no to Covid-19 test report from India, wants flyers to take 'third country' route||India-Canada direct flights remain suspended till July 21, according to the global travel advisory, in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Those intending to travel to Canada from India in the meanwhile need to book a flight via an 'indirect route'. Moreover, the passengers would also need to get themselves tested for the virus at a 'third country' since Canada does not accept the Covid-19 molecular test report from India, the country's official travel advisory noted."The Government of Canada has suspended flights from India until July 21, 2021," the advisory read. "During that period, passengers who travel to Canada from India via an indirect route will need to obtain a pre-departure negative Covid-19 molecular test result from a third country before continuing their journey to Canada."The updated global travel advisory for India issued by the Government of Canada can be read here.Passengers who previously tested positive for Covid-19 and are intending to travel from India to Canada now must provide proof of a coronavirus positive test conducted between 14 to 90 days prior to departure, the advisory read. "This proof must be obtained in a third country before the continuation of the journey to Canada. You might need to seek entry and stay in a third country for at least 14 days."Also Read | India asks Canada to lift ban on direct flightsLufthansa airlines, while replying to a passenger inquiry about air travel from India to Canada, also said that passengers on the direct route between the countries cannot travel on its flights right now as the Canadian transport ministry does not accept any Covid-19 molecular test performed in India.The Covid-19 related regulations imposed by Canadian authorities come as added hurdles for passengers looking to travel from India to Canada for educational, professional reasons, or otherwise since it requires adhering to specific coronavirus-related protocols in countries that are not the destination for these travellers. Certain countries may put the passenger from India in quarantine for at least 14 days after arrival, thus hampering their timeframe.Moreover, many countries do not allow entry or transit from passengers arriving from India or from passengers who have previously tested positive to Covid-19. If the passenger does test positive for the coronavirus, there is a chance that they might even be sent back to their point of departure.Not all international airports in these 'third countries' have Covid-19 testing readily available, so the passengers might need to seek out testing facilities elsewhere after arriving there.Also Read | Why Indians are choosing Canada over US, experts testify before US lawmakersCanada has also asked citizens to "avoid non-essential travel" to the northeastern part of India, specifically in the states of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Nagaland. It also asked to "avoid all travel" to the areas in these states sharing a border with Bangladesh and Afghanistan "due to significant conflict".India, in the meanwhile, has officially asked the Canadian government to lift its ban on direct flights from New Delhi. That prohibition has been in place since April 22 and was extended twice. The current ban will expire on July 21 unless extended for a fourth time by the department of transportation. The original April decision came as India faced a devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and due to fears in Canada over the transmission of the Delta variant by air passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-says-no-to-covid-19-test-report-from-india-wants-flyers-to-take-third-country-route-101626315922476.html
15-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Widespread rain over NW India likely till July 19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Widespread rain over NW India likely till July 19Widespread rains will continue over northwest India with an increase in rainfall activity between July 17 and 19, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read more.Elon Musk congratulates ISRO on 3rd test on Vikas Engine for GaganyaanSpaceX CEO Elon Musk has congratulated the Indian Space Research Organisation for successfully conducting the third long-duration hot test of the Vikas Engine, as part of the Gaganyaan programme. His one-word tweet also has an Indian flag. Read more.PM Modi to visit Varanasi today, inaugurate public projects worth ₹1,500 crorePrime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Thursday to inaugurate development works worth over ₹1,500 crore there, his office announced a day ago. The projects include, according to news agency ANI -- a 100-bed model maternal and child health (MCH) wing at the Institute of Medical Sciences of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), multi-level parking facilities, highway development projects, and tourism projects as well. Read more.The past and present of two-child policies in IndiaA draft bill on population control prepared by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) State Law Commission to promote the two-child policy has invoked strong reactions from several quarters. Read more.One soldier dead, 7 injured in Army vehicle accident in ArunachalAn army jawan died and seven others were injured in an accident in Arunachal Pradesh. The mishap took place near Pango village in the upper Siang district. Read more.India slams Pak anarchism at SCO meet on Afghanistan, proposes 3-point planIn a veiled jibe at Pakistan, India's external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar said that countries in the region must work 'seriously' and 'sincerely' towards peace in Afghanistan, since there are 'forces at work with a different agenda'. Read more.Centre warns states against rising 'R' factor of Covid-19. What is this factor?The Centre, in its recent communications to states, has been pointing out to an increase in R factor of Covid-19, urging the states to practice caution. R factor refers to the reproduction rate which denotes the number of people getting infected by one infected person. Read more.‘We’re having Pluto party, we didn’t even planet’: Nasa’s post intrigues peopleIf you’re someone who follows the various social media handles managed by Nasa, there is a possibility that you may be aware of the various intriguing posts they share about the various celestial bodies. Case in point, their recent post about Pluto. Besides sharing interesting facts, they also shared two incredible pictures. The post may leave you stunned. Read more.'Ponting and Gilchrist actually came up and asked me to bowl wrong ones to him': Hogg reveals battle against TendulkarBrad Hogg only dismissed Sachin Tendulkar once in international cricket but there was no lack of excitement every time the two came face to face. Hogg had Tendulkar out during an ODI between India and Australia in Hyderabad in 2007. After the match, Hogg revealed how he went up to Tendulkar asking him to sing the ball and the former batsman wrote 'Never again, mate' on the ball. Read more.Shahid Kapoor turns ‘DJ+videographer’ as Ishaan Khatter aces kettlebell pull-upsIf you are looking for some workout motivation this Thursday, let Ishaan Khatter inspire you to get up and hit the gym with his latest viral video. At 25 years of age, the Bollywood hunk is giving all the fitness enthusiasts a run for their money and his latest workout video shot by “big brother” Shahid Kapoor is proof. Read more.Malik movie review: Fahadh Faasil is fabulous in Amazon's overambitious but outstanding crime sagaMalik opens with a flashy oner that perfectly captures the adventurous spirit of contemporary Malayalam cinema. But technically speaking, it opens with a paranoid disclaimer that captures the mood of the nation. Directed by Mahesh Narayanan and starring his muse, Fahadh Faasil, Malik walks a thin line, thematically. Props to Amazon Prime Video for picking it up. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-widespread-rain-over-nw-india-likely-till-july-19-101626317569381.html
15-07-2021||India||'Kanwar Yatra suspended, don't come to Haridwar': Police says in notice||The Haridwar Police has asked people to not arrive in the Uttarakhand district for Kanwar Yatra, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. The state government has already suspended the religious pilgrimage, slated to begin from July 25, due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In a notice, the police has said that all entry and exit points of Haridwar districts have been sealed and there is no permission to participate in the Kanwar Yatra.It also said that people coming to Haridwar from other states have to mandatorily undergo 14-day institutional quarantine. "Vehicle of anyone attempting to enter the district will be seized and action taken under Disaster Management Act," the police notice further said.Uttarakhand government took the decision to suspend the Kanwar Yatra on Tuesday. It sees lakhs of devotees undertake an arduous religious trek to Haridwar in month of Shravan to take back the water of river Ganga and offer it to Lord Shiva."We discussed with higher officials and with officials from neighbouring states and decided that we will not hold Kanwar Yatra at this time. A variant has been found in Gadarpur so we don't want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid," chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said.Uttarakhand minister Subodh Uniyal said on Wednesday that faith in religion doesn't mean we can play with lives. "The IMA (INdian Medical Association) has warned of a third wave. Even the prime minister had expressed concern over it. The decision to cancel Kanwar Yatra has been taken in larger public interest," said Uniyal, who is also the state government's official spokesman.The neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, meanwhile, has said that it will allow the pilgrimage to go on, earning a frown from the Supreme Court which took suo motu cognisance of the issue and issued notice to UP government and the Centre. The top court has sought their responses and posted the matter for hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanwar-yatra-suspended-don-t-come-to-haridwar-police-says-in-notice-101626318160230.html
15-07-2021||India||Maharashtra records 8,602 new Covid cases; 10 dists show high positivity rate||As Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 8,602 new Covid-19 cases, the weekly positivity rate in 10 districts remains higher than the state average of 4.36%. The positivity rate is the number of tests reporting positive out of the total tests for a particular infection.These districts are: Nandurbar (11.72%), Kolhapur (9.85%), Sangli (9.20%), Satara (8.23%), Ratnagiri (7.91%), Pune (7.74%), Raigad (6.98%), Sindhudurg (5.94%), Aurangabad (5.10%) and Beed (4.64%).Also Read | Covid-19 cases, deaths rise again globallyHowever, the state health department clarified that the situation at Nandurbar is not bad, as on July 11 there were 212 cases which increased the positivity rate.There are currently 106,764 active cases across the state, of which Pune tops with 17,389, followed by Thane with 16,096 active cases. The Covid case tally of the state now stands at 6,181,247, while the death toll has now reached 126,390, with Pune leading with 17,551 followed by Mumbai with 15,654 fatalities.There were 226,163 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 6,067.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-8-602-new-covid-cases-10-dists-show-high-positivity-rate-101626318424330.html
15-07-2021||India||Widespread rain over NW India likely till July 19||Widespread rains will continue over northwest India with an increase in rainfall activity between July 17 and 19, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Widespread rainfall is likely to continue over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy falls till July 16, increasing to isolated heavy to very heavy falls over these regions during July 17 and 18. Also Read | Monsoon malady: Delhi roads flood with just 2 days’ rainScattered rainfall over plains of northwest India till July 16 with heavy rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan on July 14. There is a likelihood of enhanced rainfall activity over these areas from July 17 with widespread rainfall and isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Haryana, Punjab, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Konkan, Goa and Karnataka during the next three days. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Konkan and Goa during the next three days. Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning is very likely over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, northwest Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan and Kutch region during the next 24 hours. This may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-over-nw-india-likely-till-july-19-101626317164348.html
15-07-2021||India||Elon Musk congratulates ISRO on 3rd test of Vikas Engine for Gaganyaan||SpaceX CEO Elon Musk has congratulated the Indian Space Research Organisation for successfully conducting the third long-duration hot test of the Vikas Engine, as part of the Gaganyaan programme. His one-word tweet also has an Indian flag. The engine was fired for a duration of 240 seconds at the ISRO facility in Tamil Nadu's Mahendragiri. "The performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test," ISRO said.Congratulations! 🇮🇳This was the final testing of one of the three stages of the launch vehicle which will be used in the mission to carry humans to Space.Gaganyaan is ISRO's major project of sending humans to space, to a low earth orbit, onboard an Indian vehicle. The first unmanned mission is planned for December 2021 and the second one is scheduled in 2022-23.Four Indian Air Force, including a Group Captain and three Wing Commanders, selected for this mission, have already completed their one-year training court in Russia's Zvyozdny Gorodok city that ended in March this year. Two flight surgeons are also undergoing training in Russia and France, reports said.The much-anticipated space programme of ISRO was formally announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2018. The initial target was to launch human spaceflight before the 75th anniversary of India's independence on August 15, 2022. ISRO's heavy-lift launcher GSLV Mk III has been identified for the mission. On Sunday, Richard Branson became the first billionaire to travel to the edge of space onboard his Virgin Galactic's first fully crewed test flight, leaving Jeff Bezos (Blue Origin) and Elon Musk (SpaceX) behind. Reports said Elon Musk had bought a ticket for Galactic in 2006 when the advertised price of a ticket was $250,000.Elon Musk's SpaceX, according to reports, is planning to partner with local companies to manufacture satellite communications equipment in India. Space X is also planning to launch its high-speed Starlink satellite broadband services in India this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elon-musk-congratulates-isro-on-3rd-test-on-vikas-engine-for-gaganyaan-101626316043311.html
15-07-2021||India||Centre warns states against rising 'R' factor of Covid-19. What is this factor?||The Centre, in its recent communications to states, has been pointing out to an increase in R factor of Covid-19, urging the states to practice caution. R factor refers to the reproduction rate which denotes the number of people getting infected by one infected person. If the value of the R factor is above 1, it means that one infected person can spread the infection to more than one person which, as the health ministry explained, establishes that the infection is spreading.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Wednesday wrote to all states and Union territories saying that an increase in the R factor in some states is a matter of concern."You may be aware that any increase in R factor above 1.0 is an indicator of spread of Covid-19. Therefore, it is important that the authorities concerned shall be made responsible for ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour in all crowded places...," the letter said.What is the present R factor?According to reports, Kerala and northeast states have an increased R factor, which is why the decline in cases has become sluggish.According to a PTI report, the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai has come up with a study on this R factor and found that Kerala, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura are an increase in this factor.In June end, the R factor was 0.88 and in the middle of May, it was 0.78.What was the R factor during the peak of the second wave?According to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences finding, the R-value was 1.37 between March 9 and April 21. Between April 24 and May 1, it was 1.18, and then from April 29 to May 7, it was 1.10. Since then the value was decreasing.R-value and the spread of the virusLockdown and lockdown-like restrictions keep this value under check. If people do not go out, an infected person can't spread the infection. Hence, the R-value was low in May though 2nd wave was raging at that time. Many of the states were under strict lockdown at that time.What are the R-values in these states?According to this institute, Kerala has an R-value of 1.10. The R-value in Manipur is 1.07, Meghalaya 0.92, Tripura 1.15, Mizoram 0.86m Arunachal Pradesh 1.14, Sikkim 0.88, and Assam 0.86.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-states-against-rising-r-factor-of-covid-19-what-is-this-factor-101626312642548.html
15-07-2021||India||Gujarat: Schools for class 12, colleges to reopen today with 50% attendance||Schools for class 12, colleges and technical institutions in Gujarat will be reopening from Thursday with 50 per cent attendance in line with all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related protocols such as wearing of masks, social distancing, regular sanitisation etc. However, physical attendance is not mandatory and authorities at schools, colleges and technical institutions will have to obtain permission of parents if students are asked to attend in person, an official release said last week.The decision to reopen the aforementioned institutions in Gujarat was taken by chief minister Vijay Rupani on July 9, after he reviewed the overall Covid-19 situation in the state during a meeting of the government’s core committee.“Gujarat to reopen schools for class 12 students and colleges for undergraduate and postgraduate students from July 15. Fifty per cent of students will be allowed to attend campuses. Students can attend physical classes on a voluntary basis. Attendance will not be mandatory,” Rupani was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. On July 8, the government lifted the night curfew in 10 out of 18 urban areas in Gujarat and allowed the resumption of coaching classes for students of class 9 to post graduate courses along with competitive exams with 50 per cent attendance.There are more than 682,000 students enrolled in class 12th across 8,333 higher secondary schools in the state, the official release said, adding more than 1.1 million under-graduate and diploma students in over 2,000 colleges and technical institutions.Gujarat has so far reported 824,346 cases and 10,074 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Wednesday, the state reported a slight increase in its daily tally with 41 new cases while no fresh deaths were seen due to the viral disease for a second consecutive day. As many as 71 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the cumulative count of recoveries to 813,583 and the recovery rate has climbed to 98.69 per cent. While the active cases have further declined to 689, of which eight patients are in a critical condition, a state health department official told PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-schools-for-class-12-colleges-to-reopen-today-with-50-attendance-101626311900201.html
15-07-2021||India||PM Modi to visit Varanasi today, inaugurate public projects worth ₹1,500 crore||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Thursday to inaugurate development works worth over ₹1,500 crore there, his office announced a day ago. The projects include, according to news agency ANI -- a 100-bed model maternal and child health (MCH) wing at the Institute of Medical Sciences of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), multi-level parking facilities, highway development projects, and tourism projects as well.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate Rudraksh, the symbol of Indo-Japan friendship in VaranasiPrime Minister Modi, announcing his upcoming visit to Varanasi, had tweeted out a day ago with well-wishes for the people who voted for him in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. "Tomorrow, 15th July, I will be in Kashi to inaugurate a wide range of development works worth over Rs. 1500 crore," he wrote. "These works will further 'Ease of Living' for the people of Kashi and Poorvanchal."Tomorrow, 15th July, I will be in Kashi to inaugurate a wide range of development works worth over Rs. 1500 crore. These works will further ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Kashi and Poorvanchal. https://t.co/jssVnz5bVaPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting Varanasi at around 11am on Thursday, ANI reported, citing a notification from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). He will first inaugurate multiple public projects and works -- including the MCH wing at the BHU hospital, a multi-level parking facility at Godauliya, Ro-Ro vessels for tourism development on the Ganga river, and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur highway. These projects are worth a total of around ₹744 crore, the PMO said.In the past few years, the Centre and UP Government have done extensive work in the health sector. As a part of these efforts, the 100 bed MCH wing in BHU will be inaugurated. The project will make quality healthcare easily accessible to the people of Kashi and surrounding areas. pic.twitter.com/CnUEpRAVMxKey projects that would be inaugurated in Kashi include:Multi-level parking at Godaulia.Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development. Three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway. pic.twitter.com/GbNlZuKXASOur vision for Kashi is to build quality infrastructure for the coming generations. In that spirit, will be laying the foundation stone for CIPET, rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission and mango as well as vegetable integrated pack house in Karkhiyaon.I am delighted to be inaugurating a convention centre Rudraksh in Varanasi. Constructed with Japanese assistance, this state-of-the-art centre will make Varanasi an attractive destination for conferences thus drawing more tourists and businesspersons to the city. pic.twitter.com/ExoBLO6sp3PM Modi will then proceed on to laying the foundation stones for a bunch of other public projects and works, including the Centre for Skill and Technical Support of Central Institute of Petrochemical Engineering and Technology (CIPET), 143 rural projects under Jal Jeevan Mission, and a mango and vegetable integrated packhouse in Karkhiyanv. These projects are worth around ₹839 crore in total, the PMO said.PM Modi's Varanasi itinerary also includes inaugurating at 12:15pm the International Cooperation and Convention Centre - Rudrakash, which has been constructed with Japanese assistance. Thereafter, the Prime Minister will inspect the MCH wing in BHU at around 2pm. He will also meet with officials and medical professionals to review the Covid-19 situation in the region, the PMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-visit-varanasi-today-inaugurate-public-projects-worth-rs-1-500-crore-101626309000690.html
15-07-2021||India||DA hike: How much will your salary increase? 10 points||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved a 28 per cent Dearness Allowance to the central government employees and Dearness Relief for pensioners. The decision will benefit around 1.14 crore employees and pensioners, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said.DA Hike calculationAt present, the government employees are getting a 17% dearness allowance. For example, if a government employee's basic salary is ₹18,000, the DA is ₹3,060. With 28%, the dearness allowance will be 5,040 in a month. This calculation will be applicable from July 1.Here are 10 things to know about the DA hike:1. The DA and DR rates have been increased by 11 per cent point because three instalments of DA and DR were kept frozen because of the pandemic situation.2. Dearness Allowance is a component of the salary that cushions against inflation and is revised twice a year -- once in January and once in July.3. The increase in the DA and DR will impose an annual burden of ₹34,401 crore on the exchequer, Anurag Thakur said.4. For this financial year, the hike will cost the exchequer ₹22,934.56 crore from July to February.5. The hiked DA will be restored in July, which means government employees are likely to receive a 28% DA of their basic pay in this month's salary.6. The minister also mentioned that the rate of DA and DR will remain 17% for the period of January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021.7. This means that the central government employees will not get any dues as they have been receiving the DA at a 17% rate.8. In March 2020, a decision was taken to increase the DA rate by 4%. It was said that the increased 21% DA will be applicable retrospectively from January 2020. But owing to the pandemic, the implementation of the 21% DA was stalled and central government employees continued to get their 17% DA.9. The Dearness Allowance was not revised in July 2020 and January 2021. The 28% hike takes into account all these revisions that could not be done.10. But the government has made it clear that the 28% hike will take effect on July salary and there will be no arrear for the period of January 2020- June 2021, which means the 4% hike that was announced last year has become nullified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/da-hike-how-much-will-your-salary-increase-10-points-101626308951371.html
15-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: WHO panel advises against Covid-19 vaccination proof for travel||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world.Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Centre extends cut-off date for enrolment of farmers under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima YojanaCentral government extends the cut-off date for enrolment of farmers from July 15 to July 23 for Kharif season 2021 under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, as requested by the Maharashtra government.WHO panel advises against Covid-19 vaccination proof for travelThe World Health Organization's Emergency Committee on Thursday maintained its stance that proof of Covid-19 vaccination should not be required for international travel, amid a growing debate on blocking the entry of travelers if they are unvaccinated.India administered over 35.15 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses todayIndia administered more than 35.15 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses today, taking total vaccine coverage to 39.49 crores: Union Ministry of Health.Maharashtra records 8010 new Covid-19 cases, tally at 61,89,257Total Cases: 61,89,257New Cases: 8010Deaths: 1,26,560 (170 deaths today)People recovered: 59,52,192 (7391 today)Total tested: 4,48,24,211 (2,14,935 today)City: MumbaiTotal Cases: 7,29,791New Cases: 528Deaths: 15,667 (13 deaths today)Magnitude 3.6 earthquake hit ShimlaMagnitude 3.6 earthquake hit Shimla, Himachal Pradesh at 7:47 pm today.WhatsApp banned 2 million Indian accounts during May15-Jun 15 periodWhatsApp banned two million Indian accounts while it received 345 grievance reports between May 15 and June 15, the company said in its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules.Puducherry government extends Covid restrictions till July 31Puducherry government extends Covid restrictions till July 31; allows reopening of tourist spots like boathouse with 50% capacity while adhering to Covid norms.S Jaishankar meets his Kazakh counterpartForeign minister S Jaishankar meets his Kazakh counterpart and deputy PM Mukhtar Tleuberdi in UzbekistanPM Modi to inaugurate projects worth ₹1,100 crore in Gujarat on FridayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate and dedicate to the nation a host of projects worth over ₹1,100 crore, including a newly-built five-star hotel atop the redeveloped Gandhinagar railway station, on Friday, said Gujarat government officials on Thursday.WHO experts warn of 'strong likelihood' of more dangerous Covid variantsThe World Health Organization's emergency committee warned Thursday that new concerning variants of Covid-19 were expected to spread around the world, making it even harder to halt the pandemic.WHO's Tedros to set out follow-up study into Covid-19 originsWHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreysus will share proposals for a phase 2 study into the origins of the coronavirus with member states on Friday, its emergency director Mike Ryan said.PM Modi calls on President Kovind, briefs him on important issuesPrime Minister Narendra Modi called on President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan and briefed him on important issues: Rashtrapati BhavanSikkim reports 137 new Covid-19 cases, one more fatalitySikkim reported 137 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours pushing the caseload to 22,929, a health department bulletin said on Thursday.China must co-operate better with Covid origin probe: WHOChina must co-operate better with Covid-19 origin probe: World Health Organization.Exports rise by 48.34 per cent to USD 32.5 billion in JuneExports rise by 48.34 per cent to USD 32.5 billion in June; trade deficit at USD 9.37 billion: Government data.Pakistan says traces of explosives detected in bus blast probePakistan said on Thursday traces of explosives had been detected during an initial investigation into a bus blast that killed 13 people, including nine Chinese workers, and said a terrorist attack could not be ruled out as the cause of the incident.Facebook says it removed millions of hate speech pieces in first 3 months 2021Social media giant Facebook Inc said on Thursday it removed more than 25 million pieces of hate speech content from its platform in the first three months of the year, reports Reuters.2 youth drown in Ganga, bodies recovered 100 km away from RishikeshThe bodies of two youth who drowned while bathing in Ganga river in Rishikesh, were recovered on Thursday, officials said.Schools in Delhi to remain closed: Arvind KejriwalIn view of third wave concerns, schools in Delhi to remain closed, says CM Arvind Kejriwal.5 dead, 3 missing in floods, landslides in northeast TurkeyAt least five people have been killed and three people are missing after heavy rains hit Turkey's northeastern Black Sea coast, triggering floods and landslides, officials and reports said Thursday.Rajnath Singh launches AI-based grievance analysis appWith the launch of an artificial intelligence (AI) based grievance analysis application called CPGRAMS, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the country is moving towards citizen-centric reforms with scientific knowledge and technology.Rupee gains 5 paise to close at 74.54 against US dollarThe rupee pared some of its initial gains to settle 5 paise higher at 74.54 (provisional) against the US dollar on Thursday amid a firm trend in domestic equities.Sensex surges by 254 points to end at lifetime-high of 53,158.85; Nifty trades at record of 15,924Sensex on Thursday surged by 254 points to end at lifetime-high of 53,158.85; Nifty trades at record of 15,924.Delhi reports 72 new Covid-19 casesDelhi reports 72 new Covid-19 cases, 88 recoveries, and one death in the past 24 hours19 dead, dozens missing in Germany floods; 2 die in BelgiumAt least 19 people have died and dozens of people are missing in Germany after heavy flooding turned streams and streets into raging torrents, sweeping away cars and causing some buildings to collapse.Partial lockdown to continue in 10 districts of Odisha till August 1Partial lockdown to continue in 10 districts of Odisha till August 1. Parks, malls, cinemas, schools continue to remain closed. Shops & commercial establishments will remain open from 6 am to 5 pm. Weekend shutdown to continue in these 10 districts.Zomato IPO oversubscribed 1.3 timesZomato's initial public offering was oversubscribed 1.3 times on the second day of the offering with retail investors continuing to bid for shares of the food delivery platform.PM Modi inaugurates International Cooperation and Convention CentrePM Narendra Modi inaugurates International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Rudrakash that was constructed with Japanese assistance.Over 40.31 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses so far provided to states/UTs: CentreOver 40.31 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have so far been provided to states/UTs in the country and more than 1.92 crore balance and unutilised jabs are still available with them and private hospitals, the health ministry said on Thursday.Puducherry records 103 new Covid-19 casesPuducherry logged 103 new cases of coronavirus during the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Thursday, pushing the overall tally to 1,19,405. The death toll rose to 1,773 with a 73-year-old woman succumbing to the infection.Storms leave at least nine dead, dozens missing in GermanyHeavy rains and floods lashing western Germany have killed at least nine people and left around 50 missing, as rising waters led several houses to collapse, police said Thursday.Taliban proposes 3-month ceasefire in exchange for release of prisonersTaliban proposes 3-month ceasefire in exchange for release of prisoners, reports AFP citing Afghan govt sources.Melbourne locked down again as Australia’s Delta outbreak growsMelbourne will enter a snap five-day lockdown from midnight, joining Sydney in imposing stay-at-home restrictions as the delta strain of the coronavirus spreads around Southeast Australia, the nation’s most populated region.Google Cloud adds second cloud region in India in Delhi-NCRGoogle Cloud India on Thursday announced the launch of its new cloud region in Delhi-NCR - its second such setup in India - that will help the company to serve customers across sectors, especially public sector in India and across the Asia-Pacific.Centre proposes Draft Drone Rules 2021, invites public comments till August 5The Ministry of Civil Aviation has released Draft Drone Rules, 2021 for public consultation. The deadline for public comments on the draft is 5th August.Supreme Court questions Centre over alleged misuse of 'British era' sedition lawSupreme Court asked the central government if it is time to do away with Section 124A, saying it is a threat to institutions and individuals.UP conducted maximum tests, vaccinations against Covid-19: PM Modi at VaranasiToday UP is a state that does the maximum number of testings across the country. It is a state that does the maximum number of vaccinations: Prime Minister Narendra Modi in VaranasiKashi faced coronavirus crisis with courage: PMKashi has shown that it doesn't stop or get tired even in difficult times. The past few months have been very difficult for the entire mankind. But entire UP, including Kashi, faced the mutating and dangerous form of Coronavirus with all its might: PM Modi at VaranasiPM gifts development projects worth ₹1,583 crore to VaranasiPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated various development projects on Thursday worth over ₹1,500 crores in Varanasi. Key projects include multi-level parking at Godaulia, Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development, and a three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway.PM Modi in Varanasi, set to inaugurate public projectsPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on Thursday, where he will inaugurate several public projects, including a 100-bed maternal and child health wing at Benaras Hindu University.Follow live updates here.IMD predicts light to moderate rains over Delhi in next 2 hoursIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate intensity rainfall over parts of Delhi, Kurukshetra, Karna Hastinapur, Kashganj, Atrauli, Aligarh, and other nearby areas in the region during the next two hours.39.13 crore Covid-19 vaccines administered so far: Centre#IndiaFightsCorona:✅39.13 crore vaccine doses administered so far✅Testing capacity substantially ramped up- 43.80 crore tests conducted so far#We4Vaccine#LargestVaccinationDrive#Unite2FightCorona Details: https://t.co/XLxeD9UxGJ pic.twitter.com/HjTuRqSMJ9Staff at Japan hotel hosting Brazilian Olympians test Covid-19 positiveAt least eight staff of a hotel in Japan hosting Brazil's Olympic judo team have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), local officials told news agency AFP on Thursday. Read moreIndia reports 41,806 new Covid-19 cases, 581 more deathsIndia reported 41,806 fresh cases and 581 more fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 30,987,880 and 411,989 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update on Thursday. Read moreMaharashtra's Thane district records 489 new Covid-19 cases; 9 more deathsThane district's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 538,960 on Thursday after 489 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. As many as nine people succumbed to the viral disease in the said period, taking the death toll to 10,873.As Moscow bakes in record heat, Putin changes tune on climate changeRussian president Vladimir Putin, notorious for his scepticism about global warming, has now said that climate change is a priority and vowed to work along with the United States to battle increasing global temperatures, news agency AFP reported on Thursday. Read moreMehul Choksi, out on bail by Dominican court, returns to AntiguaFugitive businessman Mehul Choksi, who was out on bail by Dominican court, has returned to Antigua. "My client Mehul Choksi has returned to his home in Antigua safely. He faced no issues while entering back in Antigua. He is receiving medical treatment and his family is feeling relieved," Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said. Read moreBrazilian Prez Jair Bolsonaro hospitalised, may require surgeryBrazil's President Jair Bolsonaro, who has been suffering from hiccups for 10 straight days, was hospitalised on Wednesday with doctors saying that it is an intestinal obstruction which may require surgery. According to news agency AFP, Bolsonaro was first taken to a military hospital in the capital city of Brasilia but was later flown to Sao Paulo where he was admitted to the Vila Nova Star private hospital.PM Modi to visit Varanasi today, inaugurate public projects worth ₹1,500 crorePrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi today where he will inaugurate development projects worth over ₹1,500. "Tomorrow, 15th July, I will be in Kashi to inaugurate a wide range of development works worth over Rs. 1500 crore. These works will further ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Kashi and Poorvanchal," PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday. Read moreGujarat: Schools for class 12, colleges to reopen today with 50% attendanceSchools for class 12, colleges and technical institutions in Gujarat will be reopening from Thursday with 50 per cent attendance in line with all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related protocols such as wearing of masks, social distancing, regular sanitisation etc. Read moreTelangana cabinet approves state's logistics policyThe Telangana cabinet has approved the state's logistics policy prepared by the industries and commerce department with a view to encourage the logistics sector. A statement by the chief minister's office (CMO) said that as people have not been able to venture out due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the logistics sector played a crucial role in extending commodity service to them. Hong Kong to ease Covid-19 travel curbs from next monthFrom next month, Hong Kong will allow vaccinated residents and workers to return from the United Kingdom, India and Brazil and other countries it labeled as extremely high risk areas, South China Morning Post reported. Those returning will have to provide a vaccination record and a negative Covid-19 test result before boarding a flight to Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-15-2021-101626307850432.html
15-07-2021||India||Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan observes day-long fast against dowry||Days after a series of dowry deaths rocked Kerala and kicked up a heated debate on the menace, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Wednesday observed a fast to create social awareness against the social evil and end atrocities against women.It may be for the first time in the history of the southern state that any Governor was fasting for such a social cause.Scripting a new chapter, Khan began the fast at Raj Bhavan, his official residence here, by 8 am, urging people to say a big no to the decades-old evil practice.The Governor also attended a prayer meeting organised at the Gandhi Bhavan here later in the evening.Also Read| Dowry: The persistence of a social evilKhan ended his fast by garlanding the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Gandhi Bhavan.Addressing a gathering at the Gandhi Bhavan, Khan, who is also the Chancellor of Universities in Kerala, said he would write to all Vice Chancellors urging them to ensure that every student, before receiving their final degree or certificate of diploma, is made to sign an undertaking that taking or giving dowry is a crime and they shall not indulge in such practice.The Governor also urged all public representatives that when they receive any invitation to attend a marriage, they should make sure that no transaction or demand of dowry is taking place.If they come to know that such things are happening, then they should have the courage to say that they would not attend the marriage, Khan said.He said the girls should also be empowered to fight against the menace of dowry.Also Read| Kerala dowry death: 24-year-old found dead, husband taken into police custody"If they come to know that the boy's side is demanding, seeking dowry, whatever the parents say, she should be bold enough to say no to such a proposal," the Governor said.Later, talking to reporters, Khan said all sections of people including politicians and non-politicians are concerned with the menace of dowry.Responding to a query on recent dowry-related crimes reported in the state, Khan said this was not a partisan issue.Urging not to create any confusion, he said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and opposition party leaders have supported his decision to create social awareness against dowry."One thing is certain that law alone, police alone cannot control and end this menace. So, we need some action on the part of the people. And on the part of the people, we have to create a public awareness.Creating public awareness will only strengthen the government and the police," the Governor said.Khan observed the fast in response to a call by various Gandhian organisations to spread awareness against the practice of giving and taking dowry as part of marriages.Last month, Khan had made an emotional appeal to women to say no to dowry when it was demanded during the time of marriages and expressed willingness to be part of any "organised" voluntary movement to create awareness against the menace.He reacted after visiting the house of Vismaya, an Ayurveda medical student, who was recently found dead in her husband's house under mysterious circumstances after she had complained of dowry harassment in Kollam district.Terming dowry as an "evil", he had said social awareness should be created about its unholy aspects and urged NGOs or volunteers, who selflessly work for public causes, to start a special movement against it.In a video message issued on Monday evening, Khan said dowry is a "grave injustice and ignominy to the dignity of women" whose contributions to Kerala's growth are widely acknowledged.The opposition Congress and BJP extended support to the Governor for adopting the "Gandhian path" to raise awareness against the menace.Also Watch| Why Kerala Guv is on day-long fast after deaths of 2 women: 'End dowry' appeal﻿Lapping up the opportunity to criticise the Left government over the issue, they alleged that the failure of the Pinarayi Vijayan government to ensure safety of women in the state had forced the Governor to observe a fast to open the eyes of authorities."Greetings to the Governor who is observing a fast seeking to ensure the safety of women and girls of Kerala," senior BJP leader and Union Minister V Muraleedharan said in a Facebook post.Hailing Khan for taking up such a cause, he said it may be a "rare episode" in the administrative history of the country.He also said it is for the state government to find out why the Governor, the head of the state, has to fast seeking the safety of women.Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee President K Sudhakaran claimed that the failure of the state government to ensure safety and security of people was one of the reasons why the Governor was sitting on a fast.Terming the Governor's fast a "rare incident", he said Khan has raised a "justified issue" and his agitation is "meaningful"."The circumstance in Kerala now is that even the Governor is staging a Gandhian way of protest.The state government can not backtrack from its responsibility," the Kannur MP added.Meanwhile, several Gandhians took part in a dawn- to-dusk fast at Gandhi Bhavan.The Gandhian organisations said the programme aims at ending atrocities against women and to address the need to make Kerala a safer place for them.Besides Vismaya, a number of other women also had been found dead under mysterious circumstances in the state in recent days and their family had alleged dowry harassment as reason for their premature death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-governor-arif-mohammed-khan-observes-day-long-fast-against-dowry-101626306669087.html
15-07-2021||India||The past and present of two-child policies in India||A draft bill on population control prepared by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) State Law Commission to promote the two-child policy has invoked strong reactions from several quarters.Some have questioned its timing, since the state goes to polls in eight months; others have supported the proposition by highlighting several other states that already have a two-child norm in place. The policy has also been criticised for being unnecessary, violating women’s rights and for allegedly discriminating against Muslims.Also read: Bihar health minister for mass campaign to control populationFrom politics to law, the UP law commission’s proposal is likely to be judged on various parameters. However, the draft bill has triggered a debate on the necessity and feasibility of a population control law in India.What does the UP law commission’s draft bill on population control say?It contemplates making people with more than two children ineligible for local body and for government jobs. The proposal seeks to disentitle those already in service to promotions and exclude them from the benefits of 77 schemes.The draft bill, for which suggestions have been invited from the public by July 19, also proposes to prohibit people who have more than two children from receiving any kind of subsidy, and suggests incentives such as tax rebates for those with two children or less.Proposed incentives for government employees with one child include increments, promotions and concessions in housing schemes. For non-government employees, the incentives are rebates in taxes on water, housing and home loans. If a single child’s parent opts for a vasectomy, the child will be entitled to free medical facilities until the age of 20. Such children are also proposed to get free education, insurance and preference in government jobs.After the commission receives suggestions from the public, it will finalise the draft bill and submit it to the Yogi Adityanath government with its recommendations. The state government can take action on the recommendations.Do other states in India follow a two-child norm?Yes. Various states framed laws that set the two-child limit as a criterion for certain government jobs and elected posts.In Rajasthan, those having more than two children are not eligible for appointments in government jobs. The Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, also states that if a person has more than two children, he or she will be disqualified from contesting the election as a panch or a member. However, the two-child norm is relaxed in case a child is differently abled.Madhya Pradesh follows the two-child norm since 2001. Under Madhya Pradesh civil services rules, if the third child was born on or after January 26, 2001, a person becomes ineligible for government services. The norm also applies to higher judicial services.In Maharashtra, too, candidates are disqualified from contesting local body elections (from gram panchayats to municipal corporations) for having more than two children. The Maharashtra civil services rules also bar a person with more than two children from holding a post in the state government. Women with more than two children are not allowed to benefit from the public distribution system.Gujarat also amended the local law in 2005 to disqualify anyone with more than two children from contesting elections for bodies of local self-governance — panchayats, municipalities and municipal corporations. Under the panchayati raj laws in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, if a person had more than two children before May 30, 1994, they will be disentitled from contesting elections. In Uttarakhand too, the condition of the two-child norm applies to elections of zila panchayat and blocks development committee membership.Enacted in 1992, the Odisha Zilla Parishad Act also prohibits people with more than two children from holding any post in panchayats and urban local bodies.A population policy is already in place in Assam. In 2019, the previous BJP government decided that those with more than two children would not be eligible for government jobs from January 1, 2021. In 2011, the law reforms commission headed by former Supreme Court judge VR Krishna Iyer recommended the two-child norm in respect of certain provisions in Kerala women’s code bill. The commission suggested providing a norm for restricting the number of children in a family to two, and that any movement, campaign or project which would stand against the said norm would attract a penalty. These recommendations, however, were not incorporated as laws.How has the Supreme Court viewed the two-child norm and a policy on population control?Entry 20-A in the Concurrent List of the Seventh Schedule, inserted through the 42nd constitutional amendment in 1976, permits both Union and state legislatures to enact laws on population control and family planning. The demands for a population control law are based on this entry in the Seventh Schedule.The country does not have a national policy restricting the number of children a couple can have. Therefore, the Supreme Court has not had the occasion to examine such a policy. However, there have been petitions seeking a directive to the Union government for framing a policy on population control by enforcing the two-child norm.In 1981, the Supreme Court upheld a provision that made third pregnancy a ground for termination of services of a flight attendant in Air India. It noted: “When the entire world is faced with the problem of population explosion, it will not only be desirable but absolutely essential for every country to see that the family planning programme is not only whipped up but maintained at sufficient levels so as to meet the danger of overpopulation which, if not controlled, may lead to serious social and economic problems throughout the world.”With regard to the two-child policy in states, it was first tested before the Supreme Court in the 2003 case of Javed v State of Haryana which involved a challenge to Section 175(1) of the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, 1994. The provision disqualified a person with more than two living children from holding specified offices in panchayats. The petitioners argued the prohibition violated the right to equality under Article 14 because it did not disqualify persons with two or less than two children, besides trampling on the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 since it prevented persons from freely choosing the number of children that they want.The Supreme Court, however, upheld the law holding that the classification created by it was “founded on intelligible differentia” and based on the objective of controlling population growth. With respect to the argument on reproductive autonomy under Article 21, the top court said “the lofty ideals of social and economic justice, the advancement of the nation as a whole and the philosophy of distributive justice cannot be given a go-by in the name of undue stress on fundamental rights and individual liberty”. The two-child norm, however, was later revoked in Haryana.In 2018, the Supreme Court held that the birth of a third child would automatically disqualify a person from contesting panchayat polls and from being a member or sarpanch.But, in March 2018, the Supreme Court declined to entertain a plea for directions to the Centre to ensure strict population control measures by making the two-child policy mandatory across the country. The court had asked the petitioners to approach the government.A year later, in March 2019, the Supreme Court dismissed a petition by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, seeking a direction to the Election Commission to insert an additional condition that “political parties shall not set up candidates who have more than two children”. But Upadhyay’s endeavour for a nationwide two-child policy persuaded the top court to examine the issue. In January 2020, the Supreme Court sought a response from the Centre on Upadhyay’s petition for a population control law in India.In its reply, the Centre said it is “unequivocally” against forcing people to have only a certain number of children in a bid to control the population. The Union government, in its affidavit filed in December 2020, maintained that family welfare programme in India gives couples the right to decide the size of their family without compulsion as it rejected the need for a two-child norm or a specific law limiting the size of families in India. It added that India was a signatory to the Programme Of Action (POA) of the International Conference on Population and Development, 1994, which was unequivocally against coercion in family planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-past-and-present-of-two-child-policies-in-india-101626304115798.html
15-07-2021||India||SC strikes down provisions of tribunal law that fixed tenure of members at 4 yrs||New Delhi: Holding that security of tenure, adequate remuneration and conditions of service are necessary to ensure independence of functioning by members of tribunals, the Supreme Court by a 2:1 majority on Wednesday reversed amendments to the law governing tribunals to provide a minimum tenure of five years to tribunal chairpersons and members with a retirement age of 70 and 67 years, respectively.The conditions were prescribed under the Tribunal Reforms (Rationalization and Conditions of Service) Ordinance 2021 promulgated in April this year. By this ordinance, certain provisions of the Finance Act of 2017 were modified. The amendments to the Finance Act and select provisions of the Ordinance were challenged in the top court by Madras Bar Association.It was in this case that Attorney General KK Venugopal argued in February this year that Parliament can override any judgment by a court. He further argued that the tenure of four years was fixed after discussing with experts and courts cannot direct the legislature how to make laws.The majority bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, however, struck down the relevant provisions that reduced tenure of chairperson/members to four years, introduced a minimum entry age of 50 years for tribunal membership, required a panel led by chief justice of India to propose two names for appointment of chairperson or members, and three months’ time for the government to process appointments as it were found to be contrary to the past directions of the top court.The bench also held the legislative exercise to be an “impermissible legislative override” that violated the doctrine of separation of powers, having gone contrary to past judicial decisions.The majority, however, upheld the retrospective effect with regard to the four-year tenure that was made applicable from May 26, 2017. But the majority view clarified that this rule shall not in any manner affect the tenure of any chairperson or member appointed as a consequence of various orders passed by the court between May 26, 2017 and April 4, 2021.The majority view was partly supported by the third judge, justice Hemant Gupta on two counts; prescribing a four-year tenure and recommending a panel of two names for appointment. Justice Gupta said the legislature could fix any tenure of the chairperson and the members other than four years. He also ruled that the provision that requires the selection committee to recommend a panel of two names is contrary to the directions of this court in the Madras Bar Association case decided last year. However, Justice Gupta disagreed with the other two judges on the bench on introducing a minimum entry age of 50 years and fixation of house rent allowance since the legislature hadn’t nullified the judgment of this court on the above aspects.The court also expressed concern over the burgeoning pendency of cases and large number of vacancies that had rendered the tribunals “ineffective”.“It is high time that a serious effort is made by all concerned to ensure that all the vacancies in the tribunals are filled up without delay. Access to justice and confidence of the litigant public in impartial justice being administered by tribunals need to be restored,” said justice Rao in his judgment.He was supported by justice Bhat in his concurring but separate opinion which said, “It is necessary that the Union expedite the process of appointments to tribunals, towards ensuring swifter and efficacious justice delivery.”The Madras Bar Association challenged the newly-inserted provision, Section 184(11), into f the Finance Act 2017 that provides for retrospective fixing of tenure as four years with effect from May 2017 with retirement age fixed at 70 years for Chairperson and 67 years for Members. Under this provision, those appointed between May 2017 and April 2021 will get a maximum tenure of five years. The association also challenged Section 184(1) that prescribed a minimum age of 50 for appointment as chairperson or member. The other provision held to be unconstitutional was Section 184(7) that provided that the selection committee (headed by Chief Justice of India or his nominee) should recommend a panel of two names for appointment to the post of Chairperson or Member.Justice Bhat listed out the current pendency and vacancy position in tribunals and said, “Constitution does not and cannot be read so as to provide two kinds of justice: one through courts, and one through other bodies. The quality and efficacy of these justice delivery mechanisms have to be the same.” A minimum age limit will have a “devastating effect” on bright young advocates with subject expertise to join tribunals. By an earlier decision, the court had allowed lawyers with 10 years’ experience to be eligible to join tribunals.Justice Rao held a similar view as he said that inordinate delay in filling vacancies in tribunals has led to “emasculation” of tribunals that were introduced to provide speedy justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-strikes-down-provisions-of-tribunal-law-that-fixed-tenure-of-members-at-4-yrs-101626297422594.html
15-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand steps up security along border to stop entry of pilgrims||A day after it scrapped the kanwar yatra in view of a possible third wave of Covid-19, the Uttarakhand government on Wednesday stepped up vigilance along the border to ensure that no devotees enter Haridwar for the pilgrimage, slated to begin from July 25.According to officials familiar with the security arrangement, police and intelligence teams will be deployed in at least a dozen border check posts to prevent kanwariyas, if any, from entering the city.Additional deployment of forces and barricading will also be carried out at sub-stretch routes that lead to Haridwar from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, which has decided to allow the yatra — where Shiva devotees travel to fetch water from the Ganga to their village shrines. According to senior superintendent of police, Haridwar, D Senthil Aboodai Krishan, all steps are being taken to convey the message to neighbouring states that the kanwar pilgrimage will not be held in Uttarakhand this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-steps-up-security-along-border-to-stop-entry-of-pilgrims-101626296503004.html
15-07-2021||India||PM to inaugurate 1st station redeveloped through PPP mode||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Gandhinagar capital railway station, the country’s first redeveloped railway station in line with the government’s plan to modernise railway stations through Public Private Partnerships, on July 16, the Prime Minister’s Officer said in a statement on Wednesday.“The Station has been provided with world class amenities, at par with modern airports. Special Care has been taken to make it a Divyang friendly station by providing it with a special ticket booking counter, ramps, lifts, dedicated parking space etc. The complete building is designed and provided with Green Building rating features. The state-of-the-art external façade will have daily theme based lighting with 32 themes. The station will also house a five star hotel,” the PMO said in a statement on Wednesday.Station redevelopment is planned by leveraging real estate potential of separable land and air space in and around the stations, through private participation. These redeveloped hubs will be called “Railopolis.”For the Gandhinagar Capital station, a Joint Venture SPV namely Gandhinagar Railway and Urban Development company was formed with equity contribution of government of Gujarat and IRSDC in the ratio of 74:26 respectively.The station facilities include segregated entry and exit through landscaped area, Divyang friendly special ticket booking counter, ramps, lifts, dedicated parking space, inter-faith prayer hall – a first on Indian Railways, dedicated exclusive art gallery with live LED wall display lounge. It also has state of the art external façade with daily theme-based lighting, vertical green wall -separate baby feeding room centralized AC waiting lounge with variable control.HT in March reported Centre may first lease out 90 railway stations on Public Private Partnership basis through Indian Railways’ nodal agency for station redevelopment Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-inaugurate-1st-station-redeveloped-through-ppp-mode-101626293807934.html
15-07-2021||India||Kerala continues to grapple with heavy Covid case load||Kerala continues to report a high volume of Covid-19 cases and the last week’s tally suggested state’s virus curve is showing no signs of ebbing. On Wednesday, the state reported 15,637 cases, with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.03 per cent, statistics released by the state health ministry stated. The state’s active caseload also went up to 117,708, while it reported 128 more deaths. Kerala’s virus graph is shooting up when the country reported just 38,792 cases with a TPR below three per cent in the last 24 hours. The state continues to contribute to around 35 per cent of the country’s total cases. State health minister Veena George said slow progression was expected, and there is no need to panic. However, she asked people not to lower their guard and follow pandemic protocols strictly. Last one week’s average cases in the state were between 9000 and 10,000, and TPR between 9 to 10 per cent. Experts have warned the government that unless it takes strict mitigation measures at the grassroots level, not just mere lockdown, and doubled the present test rate, the situation will slip out of its hands. What worries experts is that the Covid-19 wave shows no downward trend and the curve appears to ride a long plateau. “The behaviour of the virus in Kerala is turning out to be a nightmare for experts. Its progression rate is slow. We need an in-depth study, and we have to compare its case pattern with other states,” said public health expert Dr N M Arun. Arun further said the state needs to be careful as experts are expecting a possible third wave of the Covid pandemic. He also asked the government to ease restrictions slowly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-continues-to-grapple-with-heavy-covid-case-load-101626291662147.html
15-07-2021||India||Mandya MP raises concern over safety of KRS dam due to illegal mining||Bengaluru: Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh on Wednesday said that her concerns for the safety of Krishnaraja Sagara (KRS) dam, one of the biggest in the country, remains as officials are yet to clarify on the damage done to the structure due to illegal mining activities.Speaking to reporters after a meeting with officials and locals in the district, she said that the threat of the cracks getting bigger looms large over an entire region that are directly in harm’s way. “My concerns remain because I have got no clear answers,” Sumaltha, the lone independent MP from Karnataka said.She said that the “struggle” to protect KRS will become a movement as she appealed for the support of all those with the concern, moral conscience and social responsibility to join her in the fight against the harm being done to the dam.The dam is built on the river Cauvery, one of the most important sources of life in southern Karnataka and its capital, Bengaluru. It is also the main source of irrigation for several districts in the state.Sumalatha said that there were several cracks, voids or cavities in the dam which have been fixed using a method called grouting.She, however, said that the cracks may become dangerous in a few years and there was nothing wrong in getting competent authorities to ascertain the damage on the heritage structure and crackdown on alleged illegal mining in the vicinity.The MP had raised the issue of blasting around the KRS dam and Baby Betta (or Baby mountain) in the Parliament in 2019.Her allegations of illegal mining led to an ugly spat between her and the Janata Dal (Secular) of JD(S) leaders including former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy in which the latter got extremely personal.The issue of KRS and the alleged illegal mining in a district where all the legislators are from the JD(S) had revived their spat.“The first thing is all mining activity becomes illegal since most of those who have licences do not follow the provisions and often violate them,” Yashwant, a farmer and member of the Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha said.He added that even though all senior ministers, mining department and other agencies have stated that there is no harm to the dam due to mining activities there is always going to be a danger to the structure.The 3km-long dam is also the first irrigation dam in India and was built during the rule of the Krishna Raja Wodeyar in 1932 under the leadership of Sir M Vishweshwaraiah. The dam is about 130 feet in height, has 152 sluice gates and is a total length of 2621 meters. The reservoir is about 130 square kms, which when built, was the largest in entire Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandya-mp-raises-concern-over-safety-of-krs-dam-due-to-illegal-mining-101626291180905.html
15-07-2021||India||K’taka govt unveils policy allowing electric bike taxis to operate||Bengaluru: In a bid to generate employment, bring down pollution and reduce dependence on private vehicles, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday unveiled the Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi scheme-2021 in Bengaluru.The unveiling of the policy comes after several attempts were made to resist the granting of licences to initiate two-wheeler taxi in the city.Yediyurappa said that the new policy will lead to self-employment, eco-friendly environment, fuel conservation and strengthening public transport.The chief minister added that the main objective is to reduce travel time for the public.“This scheme will give opportunities for individuals, partnership firms and companies to participate. The vehicles registered under this scheme will be in the transport category for which the government has given several exemptions like permit , tax and is also giving financial benefits for the electric vehicles manufacturers,” a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said, attributing it to Yediyurappa.Despite being the technology and startup capital in the country, archaic laws that govern the transport department rules among other legislations has pit app-based cab aggregators against the Karnataka government several times in the past.Soon after the launch of bike-taxis by cab-aggregators like Ola and Uber in 2016, the transport department cracked down on them, seizing vehicles since there were no provisions in existing laws.However, the change in its position, bike-taxi providers said, would help nurture the ecosystem in a city that had been adjudged to have the worst traffic globally in 2019.“We appreciate the Karnataka government’s decision to let e2W (electric two-wheeler vehicles) register as a commercial bike taxi. This is a long-awaited step in the right direction and will help people utilize their well-earned assets to earn a livelihood,” Aravind Sanka, co-founder, Rapido, a bike-taxi provider, told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.“We are in talks with the state government to consider bikes as a taxi service and hope to see a similar development on this front as well. Rapido already has the infrastructure and demand from users that could be leveraged towards the cause. We are optimistic regarding bike taxi legality becoming a reality soon,” he added.The Covid-19 pandemic has forced more private vehicles on the roads due to the fear of contracting the virus in public transport. Bengaluru’s metro, one of its biggest and most expensive projects, is long-delayed with just 44kms of connectivity since 2007 in a city of nearly 800 sq kms.“We love the new policy. This encourages and pushes EV (electric vehicle??). This also helps people without (a) scooter to rent a Bounce EV and run it as (an) E bike taxi. At Bounce we are in (the) best position to use our existing EV fleet for e bike taxis as well. This will also encourage employment/ part time jobs. People without scooters can use Bounce EV and start earning. We have in fact started training women from lower income groups to ride two wheelers and helping them become e-bike taxi riders using bounce EV,” Vivekananda Hallekere, the co-founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of Bounce said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-govt-unveils-policy-allowing-electric-bike-taxis-to-operate-101626291060901.html
15-07-2021||India||Monthly avg rate of vaccination will be maintained: Deputy CM||Bengaluru: Deputy chief minister and head of Covid task force Dr CN Ashwath Narayana on Wednesday said that the state will ensure the continuous supply of vaccines, at the same rate at which is it being provided by the central government at present. He said this while responding to media regarding the supply of vaccines in Bengaluru. “The state was supplied 6 million doses of vaccines during the month of June, and in the month of July also the minimum supply of 60 (lakh??) doses will be maintained. If the situation permits the central government may also supply more than this. In any case, the monthly average rate of vaccination will be maintained,” he said. He added that there may be variations and a decrease in the rate of vaccination when it is seen on a day-to-day basis. “But, over a period of a month, the average rate will be maintained,” Narayana told reporters. “There are a few challenges while we prepare for the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is taking all measures to strengthen the infrastructure by setting up oxygen storage and oxygen generation facilities, deployment of human resources, increasing ICU capacity, scaling up vaccines manufacturing among other things,” he said. The central government is also working towards lessening the burden of Covid-19 management by reducing and removing import duties, fixing price cap, relaxation in GST among many other things, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monthly-avg-rate-of-vaccination-will-be-maintained-deputy-cm-101626291005859.html
15-07-2021||India||‘Cops with criminal links given marching orders’: Bengaluru police commissioner||Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant, in an interview with Arun Dev, denies media reports on rise in gang-related incidents in the city and speaks about the massive transfer process which is underway in the department after allegation of police-criminal nexus. Excerpts:There are concerns about a rise in gang-related incidents, especially after easing of lockdown. This allegation is far from reality. The media has been reporting that there were three gang-related murders. The murder of (former corporator Rekha) Kadresh was not the result of ​any gang rivalry, but a struggle within the family for power. The rowdy, (Kareem Ali) was killed because he was having an affair and not because of his criminal past. It was only in the case of Madan (a financier for a gang in south Bengaluru), that a gang-related murder has taken place. There has been only one gang-related incident, but the media projected as if there were many.If there was no such problem, Why did the police conduct massive raids across the city against rowdies? Wasn’t that a knee-jerk reaction to the allegations? The media has only projected the raid that happened recently. But our crackdown has been going on for a while. Our DCPs (Deputy commissioner of police) have used the magisterial powers given to them to send 19 rowdies to judicial custody in the last six months. These arrests are the first instance where DCPs used the magisterial powers given to them three years ago. In the south division, there is a massive crackdown on criminals, but it was not reported in the media. We have also been targeting their support systems such as those providing finance or vehicle support etc.There are serious concerns about police-criminal nexus since notorious criminals like Silent Sunil were conveniently out of the city when police decided to conduct a raid. It was only a coincidence that he was not in the city. Yesterday (Tuesday) the CCB (Central Crime Branch) summoned him. They have interrogated him and taken a statement from him as well.There have been reports about several criminals joining politics. No commentsWhat do you have to say about the allegations of corruption within the department, especially policemen staying posted in the same police station for over five years and in some cases aiding criminals.For the first time, we have ordered a general transfer of all ranks from sub-inspectors and below. You will not find any policemen who has served for five years or more in any police station anymore. A massive exercise is underway with more than 3,000 officers getting transferred.In the case of policemen having links with criminals, we have given them marching orders. In Vivek Nagar police station we have already removed four police officers following reports of their links with criminals. Similarly, in Cottonpet police station, four have been giving marching orders and five others will be removed during this general transfer.Talking about the Covid-19 pandemic, did the two lockdowns change the role of the police? During the initial lockdown, like everyone else, even we didn’t know what to expect. So, we had sent policemen above the age of 50 years and above, on leave. But it was during that time violence in DJ Halli took place and around 20% of our police force, including the reserve police, were sent on leave.Even though a lockdown was in effect, crime didn’t stop. We had chain snatchings, house thefts and even cases of transportation of banned drugs. So, a decision was taken that core policing can’t be compromised, so we reassembled force and regrouped.Because there were no major processions and other events that required police protection (during the lockdowns), we were able to focus on core policing duties. It was during the lockdown we had one of the biggest drugs bust (550kg of marijuana). We set our house in order during this time, such as clearing pending cases, disposal of seized vehicles etc.Has the pandemic and lockdowns changed the traffic on the roads and are we seeing any different traffic patterns compared to earlier years?Even though there were opinions that there will be a change in the way Bengaluru operates, especially with the work from home culture, what we have seen is that after the lockdown has been lifted, there are more vehicles on the streets.We see that more people are using private vehicles. Even after public transport has been restarted in full scale, we expect to see more private vehicles on the streets because of the fear of the pandemic.Besides, all pending development works in the city is causing a problem. Most of the roads have some construction work going on and it is further slowing down the traffic in the city.Bengaluru is far ahead of every other city in terms of online fraud. Phishing and other online crimes were big issues, especially during the lockdown. What has the Bengaluru police done in this regard? We have made some important breakthroughs here. We have tied up with RBI (Reserve Bank of India) and all major banks to have a system where we can freeze any transaction involving online fraud. We have simplified this process also. Now, any person who has lost money in some online fraud, like an OTP phishing scam, can call on 112 within two hours and we can freeze that transaction by contacting the bank. We have helped more than 2,500 people in the last six months who have lost their money in online scams.What about the safe city project, the tender for the project was stalled after allegations of discrepancies. Safe city project is very important for us. It has two aspects, first since it comes under the Nirbhaya fund, the primary aim of which is to ensure women’s safety. As part of this, we will create 50 safety islands, where a woman can get help with a press of a button, in case they are in distress.With more than 7,000 cameras that come as part of the project, we will have eyes and ears across the city, which will make sure that we can locate crimes quickly and we are aiming to ensure that a police team responds to the location within 3 minutes.The second aspect is that these new camera networks provide us with facial recognition technology and registration plate recognition capability and much more, which will be a bonus for the department while conducting an investigation.(Regarding the allegations) Meetings have been held at different levels from the chief secretary onwards, clarifying all concerns. All queries raised by the companies participating in tenders have been answered as well. The project will be starting soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-with-criminal-links-given-marching-orders-101626290940852.html
15-07-2021||India||Peace at borders crucial to reviving ties: India to China||India and China agreed on Wednesday to hold an early meeting of military commanders to resolve outstanding issues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) even as external affairs minister S Jaishankar bluntly told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that normalisation of bilateral ties depended on restoring peace in border areas.While conveying India’s position to Wang during their first in-person meeting since last September, Jaishankar made it clear that any unilateral change of status quo on the LAC was unacceptable. The two ministers met for an hour on the margins of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe.The discussions “focused on the outstanding issues along the LAC in the Western Sector”, Jaishankar tweeted.“Highlighted that unilateral change of status quo is not acceptable. Full restoration and maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our ties,” he said in another tweet.In an indication of some forward movement on the military standoff that began in May last year, Jaishankar tweeted he and Wang had agreed on “convening an early meeting of the Senior Military Commanders”.The external affairs ministry said in a statement that the ministers referred to the agreement reached at the last meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on June 25 to hold another round of talks between military commanders, and “agreed that this should be convened at the earliest”.The statement added, “They also agreed that in this meeting, the two sides should discuss all the remaining issues and seek a mutually acceptable solution.” There was an understanding the two sides would “continue to ensure stability on the ground and neither side will take any unilateral action that could increase tension”.Jaishankar recalled both countries had agreed that prolonging the existing situation on the LAC was not in the interest of either side, and said it was “visibly impacting the relationship in a negative manner”.The meeting was held against the backdrop of reports of fresh tensions on the LAC, including a protest by Chinese troops and civilians against celebrations at Demchok on the Indian side to mark the birthday of the Dalai Lama on July 6.Last month, India again blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to change the status quo on the LAC for the military standoff, and dismissed Beijing’s contention that New Delhi’s policies were to blame for the tensions. China has also called for the border issue to be delinked from other aspects of the bilateral relationship, such as trade and investment.There has been lack of progress in disengagement and de-escalation of frontline troops following a limited drawdown on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the fact that the two foreign ministers met not because of a bilateral initiative but on sidelines of a regional gathering would indicate this was “more like a symbolic meeting than anything substantial that would contribute to the lessening of tensions”.He added, “The goodwill generated through this meeting can only be sustained when the military commanders meet, which would reveal the true intentions of the Chinese side.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-at-borders-crucial-to-reviving-ties-india-to-china-101626290160777.html
15-07-2021||India||ISRO successfully tests engine for its manned Gaganyaan mission||In a major milestone, the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) completed the final testing of one of the three stages of the launch vehicle that will carry humans to space under the Gaganyaan mission.The space agency test-fired the Vikas engine used in the second stage of the rocket for 240 seconds, the full duration it will operate during an actual mission, at the engine test facility Isro Propulsion Complex (IPRC)-Mahendragiri in Tamil Nadu.“The performance of the engine met the test objectives and the engine parameters were closely matching with the predictions during the entire duration of the test,” the space agency said in a release.Isro’s GSLV Mk III, which successfully carried the Chandrayaan-2 mission to space in its first operational flight, has three stages – the two solid S200 boosters fired at the launch, the core L110 liquid stage, and the upper C-25 cryogenic stage.“The liquid stage of the launch vehicle uses two Vikas engines, which is what was tested by Isro today. The engine was fired for the full duration it will operate during the actual mission. It is a pretty big milestone, signalling that this particular engine is ready for launch,” said an expert on propulsion systems, on condition of anonymity.The expert added, “The first stage of the launch vehicle that uses solid propellant is already qualified. Now, Isro just needs to test the performance of the cryogenic stage before the launch vehicle is ready for the mission.”The launch of Chandrayaan-2 was delayed in 2019 after there was a helium leak in the cryogenic stage of the engine. The S-200 solid booster stage of the launch vehicle also underwent design changes for human rating, with Larsen & Toubro delivering the first sturdier casing last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-successfully-tests-engine-for-its-manned-gaganyaan-mission-101626287580546.html
15-07-2021||India||Priyanka heads to Lucknow for four-day visit with eye on 2022 polls||Congress general secretary and in-charge of the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, faces a host of organisational challenges as she arrives in Lucknow on Friday to interact with workers and prepare for the 2022 assembly elections. “Priyanka ji will arrive here on Friday,” a party leader familiar with developments said, preferring anonymity.The Congress general secretary is likely to hold interactions with different groups of the faction-ridden party at the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters but her first challenge will be to strengthen the party’s poor ground infrastructure in India’s most-populous state.The Congress put up a poor show in the block panchayat polls, winning four block seats. Barring three block panchayats in Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra’s assembly constituency and a block panchayat in Amethi MLC Deepak Singh’s area, no other leader was able to ensure victory of any party-supported candidate.“Priyanka ji’s first major task will be to make an assessment about the party organisation’s infrastructure and gear it up for the 2022 polls,” another party functionary said, preferring anonymity.The visit comes months before the state heads to the polls early next year. This is her first visit to Lucknow in 18 months.Her scheduled trips were deferred on several occasions due to Covid-induced restrictions. Priyanka last visited Lucknow in 2020.She will also require to work on bringing old leaders into the party’s mainstream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-heads-to-lucknow-for-four-day-visit-with-eye-on-2022-polls-101626287460483.html
15-07-2021||India||Dominica court relief may delay Choksi extradition, say officials||Indian government officials fear that fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi’s success in persuading a Dominican court to allow him to return to Antigua and Barbuda, whose citizenship he holds, for medical treatment could delay his extradition by years, people familiar with the matter said.“This was a golden opportunity for us. Once he is in Antigua, he may never return to Dominica,” said a senior officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the federal agency that is investigating the ₹13,578 crore bank fraud that Choksi, and his nephew Nirav Modi, are accused of having pulled off before fleeing the country in 2018.Dominica’s high court of justice on Monday accepted Choksi’s request to let him travel to Antigua for medical treatment on the condition that he returns to Dominica once he is fit to travel.Indian officials had hoped to convince the Dominican judge to deport Choksi to India, insisting that he is still an Indian citizen since his request to renounce his citizenship was rejected. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) didn’t comment on the matter.But Indian officials fear the diamantaire could try to “make sure he is never declared fit”. That Choksi was able to spend one-and-a-half months in a hospital in Roseau rather than prison seems to reflect the influence that he was able to wield in Dominica, the officer cited above said.Choksi faces charges of illegal entry in Dominica, the Caribbean nation where he mysteriously turned up on May 24/25 after going missing 200km away in Antigua a day earlier. India rushed a team to Dominica to seek Choksi’s deportation where he is an illegal immigrant in contrast to Antigua, where he enjoys constitutional and legal protection by virtue of being a citizen, although the country’s government is engaged in a legal battle to revoke his citizenship.The high court order, a government official added, serves Dominica’s interests too, particularly given that his arrival sparked a political firestorm with the country’s lead opposition party accusing the governments of Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda and India, of colluding to abduct the businessman to bring him to New Delhi.To be sure, the three governments have repeatedly trashed the allegation.“By agreeing to his bail and signing the consent order for his travel to Antigua on Monday, Dominica has sent a message that – ‘let him (Choksi) be Antigua’s problem, not ours,” this person added.In Antigua, Choksi is fighting two cases relating to extradition and revocation of citizenship. If he is eventually ordered to be extradited, he can still appeal in Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) , the court of final appeal for the UK overseas territories and Crown dependencies.Lionel Hurst, chief of staff for Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne, said in March this year that legal proceedings may go on till 2027. Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said bringing his client (to India) will take years.That’s because the courts will first have to rule on petitions challenging the country’s extradition and the citizenship law before they can start hearing Choksi’s case, he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dominica-court-relief-may-delay-choksi-extradition-say-officials-101626287401217.html
15-07-2021||India||Cabinet decision: OBC sub-categorisation panel’s term extended||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an extension by six months of the term of the Commission constituted to examine the issue of sub-categorisation within Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the central list.The Cabinet, which held its first in-person meeting this year, also approved the continuation of National Ayush Mission (NAM) as a centrally sponsored scheme for another five years till 2026.The proposed extension of tenure of the Commission examining sub-categorisation with the OBCs beyond July 31 this year up to January 31 next year and addition in its terms of reference will help the panel submit a comprehensive report on the issue, after consultation with various stakeholders, said a government statement issued after the Cabinet committee meeting that was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.This is the eleventh extension of the term of the Commission constituted under Article 340 of the Constitution. The panel was set up to examine the possibility of creating categories within OBCs for reservation to ensure “equitable distribution” of representation among all OBC communities.Besides this, the Cabinet announced that NAM would continue from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2026, with a financial implication of ₹4,607.30 crore to be spent during the period.“The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of National AYUSH Mission as a Centrally-Sponsored Scheme from 01-04-2021 to 31-03-2026 with financial implication of ₹4,607.30 crore ( ₹ 3,000 crore as Central Share and ₹1,607.30 crore as State Share),” a statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-sub-categorisation-panel-s-term-extended-101626287342067.html
15-07-2021||India||India sent most number of requests seeking account info: Twitter report||India has surpassed the United States as the country that sent the most number of legal requests seeking information about accounts from Twitter, the social media company’s latest transparency report covering the period from July to December 2020 said on Wednesday.The number of legal information requests sent from India accounted for 25% of the global volume and 15% of the global accounts specified, up from 21% and 25% respectively in the January-June, 2020 period.Twitter’s global legal policy head Vijaya Gadde, in a Spaces conversation on the platform, said that it does not always cede to a government’s information requests. “Sometimes the requests are incomplete, broad in scope or the accounts have been deleted, in such a situation Twitter can challenge the requests,” she said.The report stated that Twitter produced some or all of the requested information in response to 30% of the information requests globally, which came to 4,367 in all.India also emerged as the country that sent the second highest numbers of takedown requests after Japan. Hindustan Times in June first reported that the number of blocking orders issued under section 69(A) of the IT Act had risen from 3,600 in 2019, to over 9,800 in 2020. In the first five months of 2021 (until May), the number increased to 6,000.Twitter’s latest Transparency Report also added that accounts of 199 verified journalists and news outlets from around the world were subject to 361 legal demands, a 26% increase in such requests since the previous reporting period. “And, 94% of the total global volume of legal demands originated from only five countries (in decreasing order): Japan, India, Russia, Turkey, and South Korea,” it added, without giving per country data.The company has recently been locked in a conflict with the Indian government over compliance with the new social media and intermediary guidelines, for which the deadline ended on May 25. It recently appointed a resident grievance redressal officer and released an India-specific grievance redressal report, prompting one its foremost critics, former union minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad to say it was “assuring to see that Twitter was making an effort to comply”.The confrontation between the Union government and Twitter began in January, when protests by farmers escalated in Delhi and its surrounding regions. Twitter refused to take down content relating to the protests. These included accounts of journalists and activists. In second round of blocks order, Twitter restricted access to posts instead of accounts. The actions prompted the government to serve the platform with two non-compliance notices, threatening penal action if it did not accede to them.Speaking about takedown requests in general, Gadde said Twitter challenge such requests if they fall under certain categories identified in its policies, including political speech. “They can be challenged if they are consistent with local values, or even local laws. Understanding the context of these requests and taking a call is challenging task,” she said.Twitter also added a new category called “impressions”, under which it captures how many times a tweet was viewed before it was removed. “In total, impressions on violative Tweets accounted for less than 0.1% of all impressions for all Tweets globally, from July 1 through December 31. During this time period, Twitter removed 3.8 million Tweets that violated the Twitter Rules; 77% of which received fewer than 100 impressions prior to removal, with an additional 17% receiving between 100 and 1,000 impressions. Only 6% of removed Tweets had more than 1,000 impressions,” the report stated.Raman Chima, Asia-Pacific policy director at Access now said India’s rise to number one when it comes to information requests is an alarming trend. “US has always been number 1 on the index, being the country that others have pointed to when it comes to justifying requests,” he said.“Moreover, a vast number of requests sent by US are court orders. India being number one represents an alarming increase in requests being sent, even worse there is no judicial oversight when it comes to such orders. This is also happening at a time when significant concerns are being raised around those who dissent in India by the government. The Indian government must justify and explain how the orders are being sent. It also becomes even more critical for an independent oversight, under the new data protection law to be installed in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sent-most-number-of-requests-seeking-account-info-twitter-report-101626287283039.html
15-07-2021||India||Farmers plan march to House on July 22 without police nod||The farm unions agitating against the three agricultural laws enacted by the Union government last year said on Wednesday that they have decided to carry out a peaceful march to Parliament on July 22, where they will stay put for the entire duration of the monsoon session.This has sparked fears of a showdown between the protesters and law enforcement agencies, as protests in the high-security zone are banned.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 30 farm unions spearheading the protests, has drawn up a detailed plan under which 200 farmers will march to Parliament from the Singhu border, one of the spots on the Delhi border where farmers have been camping since last November.“We have neither sought nor do we intend to seek police permission. Our plan is to peacefully march to Parliament, and we are ready,” said Darshan Pal, a top SKM leader.On January 26, a tractor rally by the farmers to celebrate Republic Day turned violent when protesters fatally clashed with policemen and breached the Red Fort.“On July 26, the protests will be led entirely by women farmers,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, another farm leader who sits on the decision-making committee of Samyukta Kisan Morcha.Pal said the SKM has issued a symbolic “whip” to all political parties to oppose the farm laws in Parliament in the forthcoming monsoon session. A whip is an instruction issued by political parties to lawmakers on what stance to take and how to vote in Parliament.The farm unions have spurned the government’s offer to hold the laws for 18 months to look into specific problems that the farmers might have with any of the provisions. They have said that nothing short of repeal of the laws would be acceptable to them and “mere tinkering here and there will not work”. But the government has refused to entertain any talks of repeal.Despite 11 rounds of talks, there has been no breakthrough in the impasse.“We are ready to talk to the farm unions on any issue they may have except on the question of repealing the farm laws,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said recently while on a tour in Madhya Pradesh. The farmers have said they want unconditional talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-plan-march-to-house-on-july-22-without-police-nod-101626287220619.html
15-07-2021||India||Kharge to lead Congress coordination efforts with other opposition parties||Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge will coordinate with other Opposition leaders to improve floor management during Parliament’s monsoon session starting next week, the Congress party’s parliamentary strategy group decided on Wednesday.Kharge’s assignment as the Congress point person for opposition parties comes at a time the party plans to aggressively raise issues such as petrol price hike, the government’s vaccination strategy, the three farm laws, and job losses, in the session between July 19 and August 13. It also indicates that the Congress is keen to work closely with the Trinamool Congress in Parliament, and could help find a workaround given the icy relations between the Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and the Trinamool leadership.Wednesday’s meeting, chaired by Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi, was attended by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Kharge, Anand Sharma, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore, and other leaders of the party. According to two party leaders, Rahul Gandhi also participated in the discussions for the first time after resigning from the party’s top seat in 2019 following the Congress’s debacle in the Lok Sabha elections.In his intervention, Rahul proposed that the party raise at least six key issues during the session, such as the rise in prices of essential goods, and petrol and diesel, the government’s management of the Covid-19 pandemic, and farmers’ issues, among others. Singh spoke on the economic situation.Rahul also suggested that the party take up the Rafale issue as well in the wake of developments in the case.The BJP, which expects the Congress-led Opposition to mount an offensive against the government, held a high-level meeting at the residence of Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday. This meeting was attended by BJP chief JP Nadda, and Union ministers Amit Shah, Prahlad Joshi, Bhupender Yadav and Dharmendra Pradhan, among others.The Congress’s parliamentary party executive is expected to meet on Sunday.A senior BJP functionary said the government is set to clear all “misconceptions”. “The Opposition politicised the issue of vaccines. First, several opposition leaders called it the BJP vaccine. Later, they accused the Centre of trying to micromanage the distribution; when the Centre allowed the states to make their own procurement they again had complaints and wanted the Centre to provide it free of costs,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kharge-to-lead-congress-coordination-efforts-with-other-opposition-parties-101626287100482.html
15-07-2021||India||Goyal picked as Leader of House in RS, Adhir stays as Congress LS leader||Union minister for commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal, will be the new Leader of House in the Rajya Sabha, a recognition, not just for his organisational abilities but also his relationships across the aisle, people familiar with the developments said.Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi announced the appointment on social media; “Congratulations to @PiyushGoyal ji on being appointed the Leader of House in Rajya Sabha. He has been entrusted by PM @NarendraModi ji with key responsibility. Wishing him continued vigour in the service to the nation.”A Rajya Sabha MP from Maharashtra, Goyal will take over the position following the elevation of Thawar Chand Gehlot as the Governor of Karnataka. There is no word yet on who Goyal’s deputy in the Upper House will be.The Congress, too, decided that Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will continue to be leader of the party in the Lok Sabha, after Rahul Gandhi seemed to have little interest in taking up the leadership position in the Lower House. There was intense speculation that Chowdhury might be removed from the post.The 57-year old, who was earlier the deputy leader in the house, was the front-runner for the post, although the names of his Cabinet colleagues finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and education minister Dharmendra Pradhan were mentioned as possible contenders.In his capacity as the deputy leader of the house, Goyal played a key role in reaching out to assuage the concerns of the opposition during and after the passage of the contentious farm bills that led to disruption of Parliament proceedings earlier.“He (Goyal) is friendly and reaches out, often meeting opposition members for coffee in the central hall,” said an opposition MP in the Upper House.While Chowdhury will continue to be the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha Leader of Party of the Congress Mallikarjun Kharge has been entrusted the task of coordinating with leaders of other parties.Manish Tewari’s name was mentioned as a possible replacement for Chowdhury but people in the party said he is likely to get a major responsibility in poll-bound Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goyal-picked-as-leader-of-house-in-rs-adhir-stays-as-cong-lsleader-101626287040560.html
15-07-2021||India||Guard against laxity: Centre to states on covid norms’ breach||Taking note of the “blatant violation” of Covid-19 norms across the country, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Wednesday directed all states and Union territories to ensure strict enforcement of measures and protocols to “guard ourselves against complacency and laxity, which has crept in as positivity has declined”.In an advisory to chief secretaries of all states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla made it clear that all officers concerned should be personally held responsible for any laxity in implementation of Covid-appropriate behavior.“If the norms of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour are not maintained at any establishment/premises/markets etc, such places shall be liable for the reimposition of restrictions, for containing the spread of Covid-19 and the defaulters shall also be liable for action under the relevant laws,” the advisory read.Bhalla said that people were found violating Covid-19 norms in several parts of the country, especially in public transport and at hill stations. The ministry said: “It is emphasized that the second wave of Covid is not yet over...there is no room for complacency ...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guard-against-laxity-centre-to-states-on-covid-norms-breach-101626286861004.html
15-07-2021||India||Congress revival plans focus of Kishor’s meet with Gandhis||Election strategist Prashant Kishor’s meeting with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday was to discuss his revival plan for the Congress, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.They added that the meeting was a continuation of the previous meetings Kishor has had with the Gandhis, starting with one with president Sonia Gandhi last May, and subsequently with some other top leaders of the Congress, on the same theme, and that it may even involve the election strategist joining the party. The Congress has officially refused to comment on the matter. However, at least two senior leaders who have been part of discussions told HT that it is actively being considered.Kishor said the possibility of him joining the party was “all speculation”.According to the Congress leaders cited above, Rahul Gandhi has told Kishor that if he was interested in helping Congress win elections, he should join the party and do so from within the organisation. They added that Kishor’s plan involves a complete overhaul of the 135-year-old party’s organisation including new party posts and a parliamentary board.“Kishor has discussed multiple scenarios and since he has left the space of political consultancy, according to him, he may want to assume a more proactive role in politics,” a third person familiar with the matter said.On Tuesday, Kishor met with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for nearly an hour, setting off wild speculation about everything from a reconciliation in Punjab between warring factions of the party, through a common opposition candidate for the 2022 Presidential election, to a united front in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls but what was actually discussed, the people cited in the first instance said, was his possible role in shaping the national party. HT reported on Wednesday that over the past few months, Kishor has met senior leaders across parties and wants to, according to a fourth person familiar with the matter, “play a larger role” in getting a grouping going.One of the proposals made by Kishor’s team is that Rahul Gandhi should head the new Congress parliamentary board. The creation of such a board, which will consider the party’s stand on key issues, was also one of the key demands of the so-called Group of 23, named after the number of senior leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi last year demanding change.Kishor’s political consultancy group Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) is also likely to play an active role in the party if Kishor joins it, the people said. He also has access to a vast pool of professionals who have worked with across several political campaigns since 2014. After helping the TMC retain Bengal and the DMK win Tamil Nadu, Kishor announced that he was stepping down from day to day operations I-PAC.“On one hand it’s good that they may bring in someone from outside because within the Congress party the politics is too personalised...a trend that began during the Indira Gandhi regime and they are paying for it. I assume that they (Gandhis) will back him...It’s a positive step in one way to get someone from outside who is used to managerial roles... But at the same time, I also think it’s not entirely right to bring about corporate-like managerial style within the party...,” said political scientist Neera Chandhoke.In addition to suggestions on changes in the party, Kishor’s plans are also believed to include details on building a possible united front against the opposition, starting with accepting a common opposition candidate in the 2022 Presidential elections (NCP leader Sharad Pawar’s name was mentioned in this context and it is a fact that Kishor has met him thrice in the past month).The people cited in the first instance also said that Kishor was particularly critical of the Congress’ inability to leverage the legacy of its past leaders such as Jawaharlal Nehru, the institutions they built, and the economic growth of the country under Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh governments.Much of this, they added, first came up during Kishor’s detailed presentation to Sonia Gandhi on structural changes in the party. They claimed the meeting was kept secret from even the top leadership of the party and that since then, Kishor has been in touch with the three Gandhis and also met key leaders including Kamal Nath, Mallikarjun Kharge, and Sidarammaiah.Kishor and the Congress (especially Rahul Gandhi) have had a strained relationship following the debacle in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections in 2017, when a combination of the Congress and the Samajwadi Party flopped, though HT learns that he has remained in constant touch with the top leadership of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-revival-plans-focus-of-kishor-s-meet-with-gandhis-101626286801166.html
15-07-2021||India||Rahul walks out over agenda for House defence panel meeting||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi stormed out of a meeting of Parliament’s defence standing committee on Wednesday after his proposal to discuss the issue of national security, vis-a-vis Pakistan, the standoff with China, and the Taliban capturing fresh territories in Afghanistan, was rejected by members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), people aware of the matter said.He left the meeting minutes before it concluded as the panel chairman, BJP leader Jual Oram, denied a discussion on these issues as they were not part of the pre-decided agenda, the people added.The defence committee had met to ”review the working of cantonment boards”. Other Congress MPs on the committee also walked out with Gandhi.Gandhi stressed that rather than discussing the working of the boards, the panel should deliberate on more relevant and important security issues like the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and the terror threats from Pakistan, the people said. Oram also reminded that MPs need to give prior notice to discuss subjects not listed in the agenda, they added.Last December, the Congress leader left a meeting of the defence standing committee, alleging that the panel’s time was being wasted in discussing armed forces’ uniform instead of national security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-walks-out-over-agenda-for-house-defence-panel-meeting-101626286800553.html
15-07-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine if limits can be placed on HC orders in times of crisis||The Supreme Court is all set to consider what limits can be placed on decision-making powers of high courts to ensure that in times of crisis, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, the personal views of judges do not form part of judicial orders which are hard to be implemented by the executive.The top court was faced with a situation arising out of an Allahabad high court judgment that remarked on May 17 that the Uttar Pradesh’s medical system was “ram bharose” (left to the mercy of God), and directed the state to provide two ambulances with ICU facility in all 97,000 villages, nursing homes in the state to be equipped with ventilator support and BiPAP machines, import vaccines, and upgrading medical colleges, among other directions.Although this order was stayed by the Supreme Court on May 21, the bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari on Wednesday said, “All of us have good personal suggestions during a crisis. But we have to ask ourselves if those suggestions can result in an order passed by a constitutional court. Will not the courts be entering into the executive arena?”The bench said it will consider this aspect on August 12 and asked the court-appointed amicus curiae (friend of court) senior advocate Nidhesh Gupta to present suggestions on that date. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, was also asked to assist.The court did not doubt the good intentions of the high courts in passing orders to serve public welfare. “Howsoever laudable be our intentions, it doesn’t give anybody a right to enter into the executive arena. There are norms within which every constitutional body has to work. The executive has benefit of expert knowledge. If there is anything wrong, the judiciary is there… In a crisis, everybody has to be cautious of what needs to be done and by whom.”Mehta was of the view that the matter could be sent back to the high court, where the issue pertaining to management of Covid-19 in the state is being heard by a bench headed by the acting chief justice. The state filed an affidavit in the top court indicating the steps being taken in the state to increase number of ambulances fitted with basic life support and advanced life support facilities.Gupta submitted that for the present, the state can be asked to provide what it has agreed to provide in its affidavit.In its May 21 order, the top court advised high courts not to pass orders that were incapable of being implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-examine-if-limits-can-be-placed-on-hc-orders-in-time-of-crisis-101626286623267.html
15-07-2021||India||Covid vaccination drive slows down; Centre, states clash on supply||The pace of daily vaccinations across India has again started slowing, and has now dropped to levels last seen before June 21, when the country started the latest phase of its inoculation drive in which the Centre provides shots free of cost to all states.The slowdown comes at a time when the states and the Centre are locked in a war of words over supply of doses.At least six states, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Odisha, have said in recent days that they are facing severe scarcity of doses, and some have said they’ve been forced to close down vaccination centres.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday hit back at the states, and alleged that “misinformed” statements were being put out to “create panic” among people regarding vaccine supply. He added in a series of tweets that states knew “well in advance” the time and volume of doses they were scheduled to get, so any supply shortage was the result of “mismanagement” at the state level.As the new vaccine policy kicked off on June 21, India’s vaccination rate soared to its highest ever. On the first day of the new drive, more than 8.6 million doses were administered – the highest daily vaccinations to date. This remained high the first week or so of the new phase with the average inoculation pace touching a peak of 6.4 million jabs a day for the week ending June 26, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Since then, however, this has been consistently dropping. In the last seven days of June, an average of 4.8 million doses were administered every day across the country, while this dropped to 4.2 million jabs a day in the first week of July.On average, 3.4 million doses were administered every day across India in the past seven days – marking a drop of 46% from the peak vaccination rate. The last time India’s vaccination drive was at this pace was before the June 21 shake-up.To be sure, this trend where there’s a rapid rise in numbers that isn’t sustained over a longer period is not new. At the start of April, when the vaccine eligibility was extended to all residents over the age of 45, a similar jump was witnessed where the daily rate jumped from 1.7 million doses a day in the last week of March to 4.2 million for the week ending April 12 (a rise of 140%). However, by May, this rate had again dropped to under 2 million doses a day.The issue, experts say, is of production and supply. India’s vaccine drive has been hobbled by the inability of Bharat Biotech, whose vaccine was approved in January (along with Serum Institute’s Covishield) to increase production to expected levels. Supplies are anticipated to increase starting August, although it will take some doing for the country to fully vaccinate all adults by the end of December as the government has repeatedly said it wants to.“It is clear that we are still struggling to produce adequate number of doses to meet our target of vaccinating all adults by December this year. As we hear, Bharat Biotech is still producing around 20-25 million doses a month, and Sputnik has not opened up for everyone yet. Zydus’s vaccine candidate is in the pipeline but the company has not begun producing it yet, and there are still regulatory clearances to be granted. All this will obviously have an impact,” said a public health expert, requesting anonymity.Mandaviya said on Wednesday that the estimated supply of vaccines for the states and UTs for July has been increased from earlier figure of 120 million doses to 135 million. Even this translates into 4.35 million doses a day.Till date, 311 million people have received vaccine shots across the country, out of which 235 million have been partially vaccinated and another 76 million are completely vaccinated. This means that 25% of India’s estimated 940 million adults have been partially vaccinated, while another 8% are fully vaccinated. To completely vaccinate all adults, 705 million people still need to be administered their first shots, while another 863 million second doses will be needed. This translates to a requirement of administering 9 million doses every day for the rest of the year to meet the year-end target.“The states know very well when and in what quantity they will get the vaccine doses... If the Centre is already giving this information in advance and yet we see mismanagement and long queues of vaccine takers, then it is very clear what the problem is and who is the reason behind it,” Mandaviya tweeted in Hindi.The Centre told the states on June 19 about how many doses of the vaccine would be made available to them in the month of July for them to plan their vaccination drive accordingly, according to another senior central government official.But several states have voiced concerns in the past few days about shortage of vaccines and patchy supply.On Wednesday, Odisha said it has suspended vaccination in 11 of the 30 districts as it did not have enough Covishield vaccines. On Wednesday morning, Odisha said there were not enough doses to vaccinate people in all 30 districts.Rajasthan also said that inoculation sessions were not conducted in 25 of its 33 districts on Monday due to shortage; while a senior West Bengal health department official said that the state was finding it difficult to distribute doses among its 23 districts.On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the state was not getting supplies proportionate to its population.Similar shortages appeared to beset the drive in Maharashtra, where many centres were shut this week due lack of doses, the state said. In Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday, “We have the capability to administer 3 to 4 lakh doses a day. But there is a shortage of vaccines. We have received a small stock... which will not last beyond Tuesday or one half of Wednesday. We have to shut down vaccination centres...”The supply cycle is set to experience further pressure as the people who became eligible for doses on May 1 (when the drive was thrown open to all adults), become due for their second dose of Covishield (which is currently being administered at a gap of 12-16 weeks) in the final week of July.“Vaccination is the most potent weapon to fight Covid pandemic as has been done in US, UK, Israel and other countries that are returning to normalcy to some extent. Also, there is enough evidence to show that vaccines provide 100% protection against severe Covid-19 disease even though effectiveness of the vaccines is yet to be ascertained,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology department, AIIMS, Delhi.(With inputs from HT state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-drive-slows-down-centre-states-clash-on-supply-101626286440521.html
15-07-2021||India||Kanwar controversy: In UP, apprehension over yatra go-ahead||Uttar Pradesh said on Wednesday that it was not inclined to cancel the kanwar yatra because it was a matter of faith, but officials and stakeholders across the state said they faced uphill challenges to stop overcrowding at riverbanks and enforce Covid protocols during the fortnight-long pilgrimage.The yatra -- where Shiva devotees fetch water from the Ganga to their village shrines – will begin from July 25 despite Uttarakhand, which hosts the yatra’s destination, Haridwar, scrapping the event over fears of a surge in Covid infections.“We are in touch with the Uttarakhand government and will coordinate for the yatra. We are also getting in touch with kanwar sanghs (associations) to minimise the number of kanwariyas and ensure Covid-19 protocol is followed,” said UP chief secretary RK Tiwari. “This is an issue of faith.”But district and law enforcement officials said getting hundreds of thousands of devotees to follow social distancing, masking and undergo Covid tests – the government has hinted it might make negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for pilgrims – might be difficult. Experts also pointed out that any violations might trigger a fresh surge in infections, holding up the example of the Mahakumbh in April that seeded clusters of cases across north India.A senior police official in east UP said it would be almost impossible to carry out and check RT-PCR reports of each pilgrim as kanwariyas come from different villages. He said restricting any devotee might also trigger confrontation. “It is not possible to keep watch on them on all through the journey when several thousands of them will be walking night and day. We can put up barricading, police pickets and patrolling parties on certain points and identified routes,” he said on condition of anonymity.A senior official in west UP said crowds are likely to gather at places where the Ganga flows through in the state as Uttarakhand has banned the pilgrimage.“There is a fear that pilgrims may get involved in confrontation when they are not allowed to enter Uttarakhand…there are also chances that kanwariyas from other states could turn towards UP after Uttarakhand’s complete ban,” added the official on condition of anonymity. Roughly 36 million devotees had visited Haridwar for the yatra in 2019, the last year it was held.Experts underlined the risks of holding the yatra during a pandemic. “Lakhs of devotees from rural and urban areas participate in the yatra and they mingle with one another. Under such circumstances, it could lead to a third wave,” said Dr Tanuraj Sirohi, former president of Indian Medical Association’s Meerut unit.Even some devotees appeared worried. “Lakhs of devotees participate in the yatra...even 20% of them would form a big crowd and act as super spreaders,” said Jagmohan Shakal, a part of Om Seva Samiti that organises kanwar camps for over two decades.Jaipal Rajput, an office-bearer of the Hindu Seva Manch in Shahjahanpur district, said he had no plans of joining the yatra this year. “We are worried about the third wave of Covid-19. What will I say to people if I take them on the yatra and they fall sick due to Covid-19?” asked Rajput who lost three relatives during this year due to Covid.The state government, however, said it was going to take all precautions to prevent infections during the yatra.The development came a day after Uttarakhand cancelled the yatra, heeding warnings that millions of devotees thronging the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar could spark a devastating third wave of Covid cases. It also turned down a request by Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls in 2022.Meerut district magistrate K Balaji said, “We would act as per the directions of the state government.” Meerut divisional commissioner Surendra Singh held a meeting with officials on Tuesday and instructed them to establish kanwar Covid helpdesks equipped with sanitisers, thermal screening and Covid-19 test facility near temples and on the yatra route. He also asked for the availability of life-saving drugs, ambulances and beds in hospitals. “We would follow the directions received from the state government,” said Singh.In Varanasi, a senior official of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development board said that the preparations for the yatra were already made and all Covid-19 protocols will be followed. Thermal scanning of devotees will be done at the entrance of the temple premises, he said, adding that sanitizing and masks will be made mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanwar-controversy-in-up-apprehension-over-yatra-goahead-101626286441059.html
15-07-2021||India||India heads to the Olympics, with a new ‘cheer song’||India has never had an official OIympic song, and not much reason to have one either. Now there are two, and with good reason. India’s largest contingent of athletes for an Olympics head to Tokyo with an unprecedented six athletes ranked No 1 in the world in their fields. They will go to the tune of Hindustani Way, launched on Wednesday as the “official cheer song” for the contingent.Composed by AR Rahman and sung by Ananya Birla, the song features both Hindi and English lyrics. In typical Rahman fashion, it’s heavy on rousing beats. “Ananya came to me and said let’s do a song together. She was very excited. Her voice is great, her spirit is great. That’s how Hindustani Way happened,” Rahman said during the release of the song. The launch was an online event, where Anurag Thakur, the Union minister for youth affairs & sports, released the song.Rahman is no stranger to making stirring music of course, nor is sports-themed music new for the man who wrote the music for the 2002 film Lagaan, whose central plot revolved around a pre-Independence cricket match. “Coming from Lagaan and so many songs I have done before, it takes a lot to cheer something. The way we make it is simple and at the same time resonating,” Rahman said.“I love watching tennis, love cricket, football. Just love all sorts of sports,” Ananya said. “Fact that I was able to write this song with AR sir, it’s a huge milestone for my career.”The video for Hindustani Way begins with an Indian family watching Leander Paes in action at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, where Paes won a bronze to end India’s drought of going 16 years without an Olympic medal. The video follows the same family as it maps some of India’s Olympic medal winners since — Rajyavardhan Rathore in 2004, Abhinav Bindra in 2008, PV Sindhu in 2016 — interspersed with shots of Rahman dancing and Ananya singing.India’s other Olympic song comes from pop star Mohit Chauhan, and is equally beat heavy, with bagpipes-sounding keyboards in the mix. The video shows Chauhan and his band performing in an empty stadium, which is what athletes at the Tokyo Olympics will also face. The video for Chauhan’s song—Tu Thaan Ley—features footage of India’s Tokyo-bound athletes in training. It was released on June 23.Though songs about national contingents are rare, the Olympics usually feature some fine performances. In Tokyo, Covid-19 regulations means that there will be no crowds in attendance for any show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-heads-to-the-olympics-with-a-new-cheer-song-101626285480300.html
15-07-2021||India||SC ‘disturbed’ by Uttar Pradesh’s decision to hold kanwar yatra||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it is a “little disturbed” by the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to allow the kanwar yatra despite widespread fears of a third wave of Covid-19, taking suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the issue, and sought explanations from the Union and the relevant state governments on the proposed religious pilgrimage and “disparate political voices” on avoiding large gatherings.The bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai observed that “the citizens of India are completely perplexed and don’t know what is going on” when different states are adopting different stance on the kanwar yatra.It pointed out that Uttar Pradesh is pressing ahead with the kanwar yatra that attracts millions of people while the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand, “with its hindsight of experience,” has suspended it over apprehensions of a possible third wave of the coronavirus disease. The kanwar yatra sees around 30 million pilgrims walking to Haridwar in Uttarakhand, picking up water of the Ganga, and walking back home, usually to states in north and north-west India. Uttarakhand, which went ahead with the Kumbh Mela despite warnings fro public health experts, saw a sharp increase in Covid-19 infections soon after and its management of the event has also come under question with the unearthing of a fake Covid tests racket.The irony of Uttarakhand saying no to the event, Uttar Pradesh saying yes, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi telling chief ministers of north-eastern states that it is up to the people to stop the third wave of the pandemic by adhering to safety protocols (“We cannot compromise even a bit,” he said) , all on the same day, was not lost on the court.“Given the disparate political voices, all speaking at the same time, it is important that the relevant secretary, Union of India, respond,” said the bench in its order, asking the Centre and governments of UP and Uttarakhand to file their replies by the morning of July 16, when the matter will be heard again.Uttar Pradesh cancelled the yatra last year but is keen on holding it this year, especially with assembly polls in the state scheduled for early 2022.“We are in touch with the Uttarakhand government and will coordinate with it for the Kanwar yatra. We are also getting in touch with the kanwar sanghs (associations) to minimise the number of kanwariyas (pilgrims) and ensure that the Covid-19 protocol is followed,” said UP chief secretary RK Tiwari on Wednesday.The court noted that the yatra, in which Shiva devotees travel hundreds of kilometres to fetch water from the Ganga and carry it back to their villages, will begin from July 25, and hence, it is necessary to hear it urgently.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta was in the court on behalf of the Union government while Uttarakhand was represented by advocate Abhishek Atrey. A response from Uttarakhand has been necessitated since Haridwar is home to the yatra’s destination.The bench also took note of a newspaper report that, in 2019, the last time the yatra was organised, nearly 35 million devotees visited Haridwar while over 20 million people visited pilgrimage spots in Western UP.According to a transcript of his speech shared by the government after the PM’s interaction with the CMs of north-eastern states on Tuesday, Modi expressed concern over the crowds at hill stations and markets where people are not wearing masks or following Covid-19 protocols. Modi was meeting the CMs to take stock of the situation in the N-E states where cases have increased in recent weeks while most other parts of the country have shown a drop in new infections. The seven-day average of new cases was 40,205 on July 13, down from its peak of 391,819 on May 9, when the second wave of the viral pandemic was ravaging India.Later on Tuesday, at a press briefing in New Delhi, Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry, also said that people are violating Covid protocols across the country and “the third wave may be caused because of this behaviour”.Months after the Mahakumbh drew 9.1 million devotees and seeded clusters of infections during the second wave, concerns have grown over the kanwar yatra.Uttarakhand on Tuesday announced scrapping the annual pilgrimage this year, heeding warnings from health experts who cautioned that millions of devotees thronging the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar could spark a devastating third wave of Covid-19 infections and trigger clusters of cases across north India.The hill state also turned down a request from Uttar Pradesh, which allowed the pilgrimage — where devotees travel on foot or cycle to fetch water from the Ganga to their village shrines — to begin from July 25.“We don’t want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid. People’s lives are our first priority,” said chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami following a meeting with state officials and experts on Tuesday. On July 6, Uttarakhand decided to stop all kanwar devotees from entering the state, but decided to review its decision two days later after UP CM Yogi Adityanath called Dhami. Uttarakhand also goes to polls in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-disturbed-by-up-s-decision-to-hold-yatra-101626285420912.html
15-07-2021||India||Drop cases filed under scrapped IT law: MHA||The Union home ministry on Wednesday asked state governments and police chiefs to immediately withdraw cases registered under the defunct Section 66A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, days after the Supreme Court described as “shocking” the existence of cases filed after the law was struck down.In 2015, the top court quashed the portion of the IT Act after holding it unconstitutional, stressing on the right to freedom of speech and expression of Indian citizens. The law was wielded in several instances to arrest people for posts on social media solely at the discretion of police.The NGO People’s Union for Civil Liberties filed a petition informing the court that 1,307 new cases were registered under the Act in the six years since what is known as the Shreya Singhal judgment that struck down 66A. The judges, during a hearing on July 5, said: “What is going on? It is terrible...shocking. It is distressing.”On Wednesday, the Union home ministry sent an advisory to chief secretaries and director generals of police: “It has been brought to our notice through an application in the Supreme Court that FIRs are still being lodged by some police authorities under the struck down provision of Section 66A of the IT Act, 2000. Hon’ble Supreme Court has taken a very serious view of the matter.”The ministry said that all states are “therefore requested to direct all the police stations not to register cases under the repealed Section 66A of the IT Act and sensitise the law enforcement agencies for the compliance of the Supreme Court order”.It directed chief secretaries and police chiefs to withdraw such cases. “If any case has been booked in your state under Section 66A of the IT Act, it should immediately be withdrawn.”Attorney general KK Venugopal, appearing on behalf of the Centre during the July 5 hearing, told the court that Section 66A was present in the IT Act, and the bare acts also contained this provision even after the 2015 judgment of the Supreme Court.“The section is still there in the statute. When a police officer looks at the law book, it is still there. The section has two stars with a footnote that says the section has been struck down by a division bench of the Supreme Court. But the section is full there,” said the AG. “A police officer won’t read the footnote, we are sure,” justice Nariman responded.The court then said it would take action to ensure its rulings are complied with.When it struck the law down, the Supreme Court called Section 66A “open-ended and unconstitutionally vague”. It said nothing short of quashing the law in its entirety could suffice since this provision “arbitrarily, excessively and disproportionately” invaded the right to free speech, right to dissent, right to know, and had a “chilling effect” on constitutional mandates.Section 66A criminalised “grossly offensive” or “menacing character” messages sent in form of text, audio, video, images, or any other electronic record. It provided for the punishment of up to three years in prison.Even though the Section was struck down in March 2015, 332 cases were filed under it the same year. In 2016, 216 cases were registered and 290 in 2017, 318 in 2018, 253 in 2019, and 34 until February 2020, HT reported last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-directs-immediate-withdrawal-of-all-cases-under-section-66a-of-it-act-101626264841922.html
15-07-2021||India||India suggests 3-point Afghanistan road map at SCO Group meeting||India on Wednesday presented a three-point road map for an end state in Afghanistan, including cessation of violence and attacks, and a political dialogue for a settlement which ensures that countries in the region aren’t threatened by terrorism and extremism.External affairs minister S Jaishankar presented the Indian view at a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Contact Group on Afghanistan in the Tajikistan capital. Against the backdrop of a sustained campaign by the Taliban to capture territory and border crossings, he said the world community is against the “seizure of power by violence and force” and wouldn’t “legitimise such actions”.Earlier, Jaishankar took part in a meeting of SCO foreign ministers in Dushanbe, which was dominated by the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan, and called on members of the grouping to act against terrorism and terror financing.“The world, region and the Afghan people all want the same end state: 1. An independent, neutral, unified, peaceful, democratic and prosperous nation,” Jaishankar said in a string of tweets after the SCO Contact Group meeting as he outlined the three-point road map.“2, ceasing violence and terrorist attacks against civilians and state representatives, settle conflict through political dialogue, and respect interests of all ethnic groups; and 3, ensure that neighbours are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism,” he said.Jaishankar noted the challenge would be to “act seriously and sincerely on these beliefs” because “there are forces at work with a very different agenda”. He added: “The world is against seizure of power by violence and force. It will not legitimise such actions.”He also offered suggestions for the future course of negotiations to find a settlement in Afghanistan, saying there would have to be a compromise between approaches involving countries such as Qatar, Russia and Turkey.“Peace negotiations in earnest is the only answer. An acceptable compromise that reflects Doha process, Moscow format and Istanbul process is essential,” he said.In line with New Delhi’s consistent demand for preserving the gains made by Kabul in the past two decades, Jaishankar said: “The future of Afghanistan cannot be its past. A whole new generation has different expectations. We should not let them down.”Jaishankar participated in the two meetings with his counterparts from the SCO states – China, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. The meetings were also attended by representatives from countries with observer status with SCO, including Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-presents-3-point-roadmap-for-afghanistan-opposes-seizure-of-power-by-force-101626263219515.html
15-07-2021||India||India cases of stroke, headache and epilepsy more than doubled in 30 yrs: Lancet||The rate of non-communicable neurological disorders and neurological injuries (of the total disease burden) has more than doubled -- from 4% to 8.2% -- between 1990 and 2019 in the country, finds the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative in a new scientific paper published in The Lancet Global Health.Stroke (37.9%), headache disorders (17.5%), and epilepsy (11.3%) are the leading contributors to neurological disorders burden in India, with stroke having caused 699,000 deaths in India in 2019, which was 7.4% of the total deaths in the country. Stroke also caused 68% of deaths due to neurological disorders, followed by Alzheimer’s and other dementias (12%), and encephalitis (5%).According to the paper, the total neurological disorders burden due to non-communicable disorders is 82.8%; 11.2% is due to communicable and 6% is injury-related disorders. The paper provides the first comprehensive estimates of disease burden from neurological disorders and their trends in every state of India from 1990 to 2019.These neurological disorders include non- communicable neurological disorders (stroke, headache disorders, epilepsy, cerebral palsy, Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias, brain and central nervous system cancer, Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, motor neuron diseases, and other neurological disorders), communicable neurological disorders (encephalitis, meningitis, and tetanus), and injury-related neurological disorders (traumatic brain injuries and spinal cord injuries).Also Read | Lancet sets out ‘flexible’ vaccination strategy for India, says outreach is key“While communicable diseases contributed to the majority of total neurological disorders burden in children younger than 5 years, non-communicable neurological disorders were the highest contributor in all other age groups,” said the paper.It mentioned that among the known risk factors for neurological disorders burden, high blood pressure, air pollution, dietary risks, high fasting plasma glucose, and high body-mass index are the leading contributors.“The analysis in this paper highlights key issues related to trends of neurological disorders in the states of India. Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder in India. While the prevalence of epilepsy has increased over the past three decades, it is gratifying to note that India has made some gains in reducing premature deaths and morbidity of people with epilepsy over this period by reducing treatment gaps,” said Gagandeep Singh, professor, Dayanand Medical College, and the first author of the paper.“There is, however, a need to scale up treatment coverage of epilepsy in governmental schemes such as the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram and Ayushman Bharat. Policies and practices focusing on safe births, preventing head injury and stroke would help in averting a substantial proportion of epilepsies,” he added.“As the burden of an increase in neurological disorders faces our population it is high time that prevention and early management which are key in reduction in neurological burden are galvanised. On the prevention slide simple lifestyle modifications like a healthy diet, healthy oils, no smoking, blood pressure control, diabetes prevention, and management weight control by walking; avoiding refined foods like maida, sugar etc.; staying physically active; managing obstructive sleep apnea; and reducing stress etc. ,” said Dr Manjari Tripathi, professor, department of neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. She is also a co-author of the study paper.“Early treatment can save irreversible damage be it from stroke, epilepsy, status epilepticus etc as time is crucial, with neurons (nerve cells) once lost do not replenish and regain function again,” added Dr Tripathi.The paper is a collaborative effort between the Indian Council of Medical Research, Public Health Foundation of India, Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, and a number of other key stakeholders in India, including academic experts and institutions, government agencies and other organisations, under the aegis of the ministry of health and family welfare. At least 300 leading scientists and experts representing about 100 institutions across India are engaged with this collaborative work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-stroke-headache-epilepsy-more-than-doubled-in-last-30-years-in-india-lancet-study-101626243838382.html
15-07-2021||India||LeT commander among 3 killed in J&K encounter||Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander was among three terrorists killed in a gunfight with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Wednesday, police said. The exchange of fire was the latest in a series of gunbattles this month as security forces have intensified counter-insurgency operations and killed at least eight terrorists.Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar identified the LeT commander as Aijaz alias Abu Huraira and added that the two others, Javed Rather and Shahnawaz Gani, were local terrorists. “Congratulations to police and security forces,” said Kumar.The Army said the gunbattle started after midnight when a joint party of police, Rashtriya Rifles, and the Central Reserve Police Force started searches following inputs about the presence of terrorists in Pulwama’s New Colony.“As the troops were laying cordon at 1.20am, terrorists opened fire on the troops and tried to escape. Alert troops immediately returned fire and trapped the fleeing terrorists in a house,” said Army’s public relations officer Lt Col Emron Musavi. He said a call for surrender was given but the terrorists fired indiscriminately.He added that two AK-47s, a pistol, and other “war-like stores” were recovered after eight-hour long operation.Police said clashes between locals and security forces were also reported from the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-militants-including-pak-let-commander-killed-in-gunfight-in-pulwama-101626237418353.html
15-07-2021||India||Why Prashant Kishor met Priyanka, Rahul Gandhi||Election strategist Prashant Kishor met with the Congress’s Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday for nearly an hour, setting off wild speculation about everything from reconciliation in Punjab between warring factions of the party, through a common opposition candidate for the 2022 Presidential election, to a united front in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.The Congress, whose general secretary KC Venugopal was also present during the meeting, declined to comment. In response to a query on whether he was helping put together an opposition alliance, Kishor would only say: “all speculation”. Still, each of the theories -- some put forth by Congress leaders themselves -- was plausible.Prashant Kishor, after all, is Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s adviser (if only informal), and Tuesday’s meetings came five days after he met with the CM. The Congress’s central leadership has been trying to resolve a crisis in the Punjab unit, largely driven by party leader Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ambitions for himself and antipathy towards the chief minister. A dissident group has coalesced around Sidhu, driven by what is seen as the chief minister’s non-delivery of poll promises (in 2017), friendliness towards the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal, and overreliance on bureaucrats at the cost of exclusion of lawmakers. A decision on a resolution is believed to be imminent (Singh met with Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last week), as is a rejig of the party’s Punjab unit.Yet, people familiar with the matter said Tuesday’s meeting was not about that.Some top functionaries of the Congress said on condition of anonymity that the meeting was focused on strategies for the 2024 national polls and how to forge unity between opposition parties. HT learns that in the past few months, Kishor has met senior leaders across parties and wants to, according to one of the people cited above, “play a larger role” in getting a grouping going. Prashant Kishor’s stature as a poll strategist skyrocketed after the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress swept the West Bengal election this May; he also consulted with Tamil Nadu’s MK Stalin, whose DMK won the state elections in May; and he has met with NCP’s Sharad Pawar more than once in recent weeks. The person cited above added that Kishor is of the view that the Congress has to be part of such a grouping -- but there’s no telling whether a united front is even on his mind. After all, speaking to HT last month after meeting Pawar, he said: ”I don’t believe that any third or fourth front can defeat Narendra Modi so I would not be part of any such coalition.”A second Congress leader said Prashant Kishor discussed the Presidential election of 2022, pointing out that the BJP may well end up short of the number of lawmakers needed to elect the country’s first citizen, and that a united opposition could embarrass the government by having its candidate elected.Tuesday’s meeting is the first major one between Rahul Gandhi and Prashant Kishor after the debacle in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, when a Congress-Samajwadi Party alliance advised by Kishor flopped. The strategist has maintained that it’s the one blot in his copybook. He has also maintained that the Bengal and Tamil Nadu campaigns were his last as he is going to step back and leave the poll strategy business to others in his company. Still, it is a fact that he has been up and about since the results were announced, meeting most parties and leaders of consequence. The second leader referred to Kishor as a “sutradhar” , literally, thread-holder, meaning a narrator who holds the plot together.Only, the plot, if there is one at all, isn’t clear yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speculations-rife-as-prashant-kishor-meets-gandhis-101626200757683.html
