16-07-2021||India||Cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage in India at nearly 400 million doses||Nearly 400 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to beneficiaries in the country, the Union government said on Friday.Of these, more than 3.8 million doses were administered on Friday alone, according to the government’s 7pm provisional report on vaccines.“India’s cumulative Covid Vaccination Coverage reached nearly 40 crore (39,93,62,514), as per the 7pm provisional report today,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement on Friday.#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ More than 12.62 Cr Vaccine doses administered in the age group 18-44, so far.➡️ More than 16 Lakh vaccine doses administered to 18-44 age group for first dose today. pic.twitter.com/8rooMfvcBW“More than 38.79 lakh (38,79,917) Vaccine Doses have been administered today,” it added.18 to 44 age groupBeneficiaries between the age of 18 and 44 years were the last group to be added to India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive from the third phase that began on May 1. So far 21,646,175 first doses and 4,598,664 second doses have been administered to people in this age bracket, across the 37 states and Union territories, the health ministry said.Uttar Pradesh has given the maximum number of first doses to people in this age group, followed by Madhya Pradesh. The two states have delivered 14,148,447 doses and 10,892,805 doses respectively.“Eight States namely Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 50 lakh first dose of COVID-19 Vaccine in the age group 18-44 years,” the ministry noted in its statement.“Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of COVID vaccine,” it further said.Also read | 2 vaccine doses gave 95% protection from death against Delta: CentreConcerns about shortageEarlier in the day, the ministry said that more than 25 million vaccine doses are remaining unutilised with the states and Union territories (UT), amid the concerns about shortage in stocks raised by some states.It also said that the government has so far provided over 411 million vaccine doses to states and another 5.2 million doses are in the supply pipeline.Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with the chief ministers of six states that are reporting a high number of Covid-19 infections on Friday.During the meeting, Tamil Nadu’s MK Stalin and Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray expressed the need for more vaccine allocations to their respective states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cumulative-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-in-india-at-nearly-400-million-doses-101626457078687.html
16-07-2021||India||Karnataka steps up vigilance on borders with Kerala over the surge in Zika virus||The Dakshina Kannada district administration sounded an alert over the surge in cases of deadly Zika virus in neighbouring Kerala. Dr. Rajendra K V, deputy commissioner of Dakshina Kannada, called an emergency meeting with health department officials of the district earlier in the day. He instructed the officials to screen as many people as possible entering Karnataka from Kerala for fever and other symptoms that the Zika virus manifests.More precautionary measures have been directed by Dr. Rajendra to curb the spread of the Zika virus. Those having symptoms similar to that of chikungunya and dengue would be asked to go to the nearest hospital and report the symptoms. The health department would check the travel history of the people with symptoms of Zika and record it in the medical records office.Zika virus is a vector-borne disease and is carried usually by the day-biting mosquito called Aedes Aegypti. They breed in freshly collected water, said the socio medical health workers.The administration asked the health department to inform and instruct the people to control breeding of mosquitoes in and around their houses.Dr. Rajendra informed that many hundreds of people travel everyday to Mangaluru, Puttur and Sullia cities across the border of both the states. He raised concerns over the chances of them carrying the virus into the state.Mangaluru gets around 1,200 to 1,600 people everyday from Kasargod, Kannur and other places for various businesses, health, work and education related works. Similarly, there is a heavy inflow of visitors from Kerala to districts like Chamarajanagar and Mysuru on a daily basis.Deputy commissioners of these districts are also likely to announce a vigil on the border area for controlling the spread of Zika virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-steps-up-vigilance-on-borders-with-kerala-over-the-surge-in-zika-virus-101626456704638.html
16-07-2021||India||Heavy rains likely in Tamil Nadu's western districts||The western districts of Tamil Nadu such as the Nilgiris and Coimbatore are likely to receive heavy rainfall on Friday and Saturday, Tamil daily Dina Thanthi reported quoting Regional Meteorological Center at Chennai. With the southeest monsoon turning vigorous in neighboring Karnataka and Kerala, Tamil Nadu has been receiving widespread rainfall this month.Regional Meteorological Center, Chennai, warned that heavy rain is likely in isolated places over the Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts on Friday while Tiruvallur, Vellore, Dharmapuri, Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi, Ranipet, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Cuddalore districts may receive rainfall on Saturday. Moderate to light rains are likely to occur in other districts of Tamil Nadu, the weather bulletin noted.Meanwhile, the incessant rains resulted in landslides in some areas of the Nilgiris district on Thursday. Landslides were reported in Valavayal and Billukadai villages near Oveli town panchayat in the district. Town panchayat and highway officials have cleared the landslide and repaired the damaged roads. The fire and rescue department in the district said that they are fully prepared for the disaster mitigation works.The Nilgiris district has been receiving torrential rainfall ever since the southwest monsoon started. Ooty, Manjoor, and Gudalur areas in the district reported very heavy rains for the last week. The local weather turned very chilly in the hill stations following heavy rains in the district. Heavy winds damaged electric lines and tree falls were reported in the rural areas.The fire and rescue department officials at the district said that man and machinery are kept ready for any rain-related eventualities. Three speed boats are at their disposal in case the flood situation turns worse in the district. If required, the district fire department will call a trained scuba diving team from Chennai for rescue works, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-likely-in-tamil-nadu-s-western-districts-101626456415102.html
16-07-2021||India||‘Connectivity projects must be transparent and not create debt burdens’: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday said connectivity efforts must be consultative, transparent and promote economic activity instead of creating debt burdens, an indirect reference to concerns about China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).Jaishankar made the remarks while addressing a regional conference hosted by Uzbekistan on fostering connectivity between Central and South Asia. While he didn’t name any country, his speech left little doubt that the concerns he was referring to largely related to the BRI, which India has steadfastly refused to join.He also highlighted connectivity efforts undertaken by India, such as “practical steps to operationalise the Chabahar port in Iran” since 2016, and plans to include the port on the Gulf of Oman in the framework of the International North–South Transport Corridor (INSTC).“Connectivity efforts must be based on economic viability and financial responsibility. They should promote economic activity and not create debt burdens,” Jaishankar said. “Ecological and environmental standards, as also skill and technology transfers, are musts. Connectivity must be consultative, transparent and participatory,” he said, adding that “building connectivity is an act of trust and must, at the minimum, conform to international law”. Jaishankar further said, “Respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity are the most basic principles of international relations.”India has for long opposed the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, a flagship project of the BRI, because a crucial part of it runs through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Indian officials also say that projects under BRI around the world are skewed to benefit Chinese firms and do not provide a level playing field for Indian companies. Concerns related to BRI projects leading to debt traps have increased since Sri Lanka handed over the strategic Hambantota port and 15,000 acres around it to the Chinese side in 2017 after failing to repay huge loans advanced for the development of the facility.Referring to India’s development of facilities at Chabahar, which has emerged as a key transport hub for shipping goods to Afghanistan, Jaishankar said the Iranian port provides a secure, viable and unhindered access to the sea for Central Asian countries. “Its efficacy is now clearly proven. We have proposed to include the Chabahar port in the framework of INSTC. The formation of the India-Uzbekistan-Iran-Afghanistan quadrilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port is a welcome development,” he said.Noting that development is closely linked to peace and security, he said, “reliable connectivity within and through Afghanistan” requires confidence in that country’s governance. Economic growth is driven by connectivity, commerce and contacts and the contemporary challenge is that politics, vested interests and instability can be impediments to regional cooperation, he said. “The real issues are of mindsets, not of disputes. Blocking connectivity in practice while professing support in principle benefits no one,” he said. “A one-sided view of trade rights and obligations can never work. No serious connectivity can ever be a one-way street,” he added.Connectivity is also important for post-Covid economic recovery, but there is a widespread realisation of the need for more resilient and reliable supply chains, Jaishankar said. “All of us need more and multiple options. And this applies to the domain of connectivity most of all,” he said.Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan, who addressed the conference after Jaishankar, contended that unsettled disputes between Pakistan and India are a major challenge to connectivity initiatives. “The whole area opens up if Pakistan and India [settle their disputes]. Our main issue is Kashmir, if we can resolve that issue, just imagine the impact. The huge market of India on one side, China on the other side, connectivity between Central Asia [and] Pakistan, the whole area changes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/connectivity-projects-must-be-transparent-and-not-create-debt-burdens-jaishankar-101626457275561.html
16-07-2021||India||Landslide near Mangaluru hits train movement on the Konkan railway network||Two trains were regulated, two more partially cancelled and terminated and two more fully cancelled due to a landslide on the Mangaluru-Mumbai line (Konkan Railway network) between Mangaluru Junction railway station and Kulashekar under Palakkad division of Southern Railway around 10.40am on July 16.A huge volume of mud slid from a nearby hillock and settled on the track, in the afternoon on July 16, according to a report in Kannada Prabha.Train number 02617 Ernakulam Jn.–H.Nizamuddin daily special train on July 16 is diverted via Shoranur Junction, Palakkad junction, Erode Junction, Salem Junction, Jolarpettai Junction, Renigunta Junction, Balharshah, Jujharpur Cabin and Itarsi Junction.Train number 06586 Karwar-KSR Bengaluru daily special on July 16 is fully cancelled. Train number 06071 Dadar-Tirunelveli weekly special has been regulated between Udupi and Thokur near Mangalore on the Konkan Railway route for four hours.Train number 06333 Thiruvananthapuram-Veraval central weekly special has been regulated between Kumta and Thokur for four hours.Train number 01133 CSMT-Mangaluru Junction has been short terminated at Surathkal and partially cancelled between Surathkal and Mangaluru Junction. Other trains that were affected in the landslide are Bengaluru-Karwar Panchaganga Express.Two trains have been fully cancelled. Train number 02620 Mangaluru Central-Mumbai Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, and passengers on train number 02620 Mangalore central Lokmanya Tilak terminus have been road bridged from Surathkal to board train number 01134 Mangaluru Junction-Mumbai CST at Surathkal.The landslide triggered by heavy rains brought down a portion of the retaining wall too thereby blocking the track. Though the Palakkad division of Southern Railway immediately commenced track restoration works, it may take a long time for resumption of services, Palakkad division officials said.Konkan Railway incidentally has taken many measures to prevent landslides during the monsoons all along the 750 kilometres stretch that starts from Thokur and ends at Roha. Despite this, trouble spots persist on tracks under the jurisdiction of Palakkad division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-near-mangaluru-hits-train-movement-on-the-konkan-railway-network-101626456269090.html
16-07-2021||India||I&B condoles Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui's death in Afghanistan||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur on Friday condoled the death of Indian photojournalist and Pulitzer Prize winner Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan, saying he leaves behind an extraordinary body of work.Siddiqui was killed in Afghanistan while covering fighting between Afghan troops and the Taliban."Danish Siddiqui leaves behind an extraordinary body of work. He won the Pulitzer Prize for photography and was embedded with the Afghan Forces in Kandahar. Sharing one of his pictures below. Sincere condolences. RIP," Thakur said in a tweet.Several media groups like the Foreign Correspondents Club (FCC) of South Asia and the Press Club of India (PCI) expressed shock at Siddiqui's death and remembered him as a courageous and "fiercely talented" photojournalist. Siddiqui was a member of the FCC."The Press Club of India is shocked at the passing of @Reuters' @PulitzerPrizes winning photojournalist @dansiddiqui at Kandahar where he fell to the bullets of the Taliban. True journalism needs courage and Danish's body of work is a testament to that. We are at a loss of words," it said in a tweet.The FCC, a group of over 500 journalists and photojournalists covering India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Nepal, the Maldives, Afghanistan and Tibet, said it was a devastating loss for Siddiqui's family and the Delhi journalist community."Danish Siddiqui was a fiercely talented photojournalist whose pictures eloquently and forcefully told the story of South Asia. It is a devastating loss for his family, friends, colleagues and the Delhi journalist community, among whom he was universally admired."More often than not, the singular image that defined the biggest news of the day, resonant for its humanity and artistry, was taken by Danish. He will be remembered for his intelligence, compassion and bravery, and his body of work will live on forever. The governing committee of the FCC takes this sad opportunity to draw attention to the enormous risks journalists take to deliver essential information to the world," it said in a statement.Siddiqui, in his early 40s, was killed during clashes in Spin Boldak district in Kandahar, Tolo News quoted sources as saying. It said fierce fighting is going on in Kandahar, especially in Spin Boldak, for the last few days.The Indian journalist was covering the situation in Kandahar.Siddiqui's alma mater, Jamia Millia Islamia's AJK Mass Communication Research Centre (MCRC), mourned his death and remembered him as one of the "brightest stars" of the institute."It is absolutely devastating news and we are still processing it. Danish was one of the brightest stars in MCRC's hall of fame. His passing will be deeply mourned. Danish was special not just because of all his professional achievements, but because of the wonderful man he was."He has been one of those alumni who kept in regular touch with the photography department and came back to the campus often. He took a class last month as well," said Professor Shohini Ghosh, director of AJK MCRC, who taught Siddiqui during his postgraduate course in the institute between 2005 and 2007.Siddiqui was based in Mumbai. He had received the Pulitzer Prize as part of the photography staff of the Reuters news agency.He graduated with a degree in Economics from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. He had a degree in Mass Communication from the AJK MCRC in Jamia in 2007.He started his career as a television news correspondent, switched to photojournalism and joined Reuters as an intern in 2010.Afghan Ambassador Farid Mamundzay said on Friday that Siddiqui has been killed in Kandahar."Deeply disturbed by the sad news of the killing of a friend, Danish Siddiqi in Kandahar last night. The Indian Journalist & winner of Pulitzer Prize was embedded with Afghan security forces. I met him 2 weeks ago before his departure to Kabul. Condolences to his family & Reuters," Mamundzay said in a tweet.Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the United States withdrew the majority of its troops from the country and aimed to complete the process by August 31, ending nearly two decades of its military presence there.The Taliban was evicted from power by the US-led forces in 2001. Now, as the US is pulling back its troops, the Taliban fighters are attempting to gain control of various parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-condoles-indian-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-s-death-in-afghanistan-101626452167979.html
16-07-2021||India||Condemn killing of Indian journalist in Kandahar: Harsh Shringla at UNSC||India's foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla condemned at UN Security Council (UNSC) meeting on Friday the killing of Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui at Kandahar province in Afghanistan.A Pulitzer Prize winner photojournalist, Danish Siddiqui, who worked for Reuters, was killed in Kandahar province while on a reporting assignment embedded with Afghan security forces.Siddiqui was killed in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar along with Sediq Karzai, an Afghan special forces commander, while covering a clash between the security forces and Taliban fighters near a border crossing with Pakistan.Condeming the death of the photojournalist while on reporting assignment, foreign secretary Shringla, who addressed a UNSC meeting on protection of civilians in armed conflict, later in the day, said, there needs to be zero tolerance for terrorism."Access to new and emerging technologies has enhanced the capacities of terrorist groups to obstruct humanitarian action, including safe and unhindered access for medical and humanitarian agencies," news agency quoted Shringla as saying in a tweet.The foreign secretary further told the UNSC that terrorism further compounds the twin problems of violence against humanitarian personnel and the lack of accountability."The complex nature of humanitarian situations around the world today demands the urgent attention of the (UN Security) Council," Shringla was quoted by ANI in his address at the UNSC meet.Meanwhile, an official familiar with the development told news agency ANI that the Indian embassy in Kabul is in touch with Afghan authorities to repatriate the mortal remains of Danish Siddiqui."We have been informed that the body has been handed over by the Taliban to the International Committee of the Red Cross," ANI tweeted quoting a government official.Foreign ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Indian ambassador in Kabul was in touch with Afghan authorities regarding the development. “We are keeping his (Siddiqui’s) family informed of the developments,” he said.ALSO READ | Afghan vice president accuses Pak Air Force of trying to help TalibanEarlier in the day, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani criticised Pakistan for its "support to the Taliban" and urged Islamabad to use its influence and leverage for peace and cessation of hostilities, Tolo news reported.The Afghan President also condoled the death of Danish Siddiqui in a Facebook post. “I am deeply saddened with the shocking reports that Reuters photo-journalist Danish Siddiqui was killed while covering the Taliban atrocities in Kandahar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/condemn-killing-of-indian-journalist-in-kandahar-harsh-shringla-at-unsc-101626449809910.html
16-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa meets PM, fuels speculation amid looming political uncertainty||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi which he said was mostly regarding the development works in Karnataka.Yediyurappa is on a two-day visit to the capital where he is expected to meet senior ministers of the Union government and the national leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).After landing in Delhi, Yediyurappa said that he would meet the prime minister and other newly sworn-in central ministers from Karnataka and discuss with them the development works of the state including the construction of the contentious Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project.At around 7.30 pm, the chief minister spoke to reporters again. On a specific question on any discussion on leadership change, Yediyurappa said, “I don’t know, you tell me,” ducking to give a straight answer.The chief minister’s visit comes at a time amid swirling rumours of the BJP looking at the possibility of a leadership change. Yediyurappa’s camp has rejected this speculation.Before meeting with the Prime Minister, Yediyurappa told reporters that he would meet Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and other prominent leaders of the party. There is also speculation that Yediyurappa would seek the BJP leadership’s approval for a cabinet reshuffle to accommodate the rebels to quell any dissent.It remains to be seen how the BJP high command intends to handle the rebels and Yediyurappa, who is credited with having built the party in Karnataka over the last four decades. His unceremonious exit in 2012 had removed the BJP from power in the only state in the south of the country where the saffron outfit has been able to gain a firm foothold in recent decades.People aware of the developments said that the chief minister’s line that he was meeting the Prime Minister to tiappraise him of the Mekedatu project and developmental works cannot be taken at face value.“In my experience, a chief minister would meet the minister in charge, the party leadership and others but not the prime minister directly,” said the BJP legislator from Karnataka, requesting anonymity. He added that there may be no telling as to when the BJP will replace Yediyurappa but this meeting in Delhi is definitely the “step” towards it.“They will start tightening everything from now,” he added.Interestingly Yediyurappa was accompanied by his two sons, BY Vijayendra, BY Raghavendra; grandson Shashidhar Maradi; BJP MLC Leher Singh and two others. People aware of the developments asked why the chief minister chose not to take any officials with him if the agenda was indeed to seek support for developmental works.Though it remains to be seen if and when Yediyurappa will be asked to step down, his critics insist that his continuation threatens to dent the party’s chances in the 2023 assembly elections.Another person aware of the developments said that the visit to Delhi is most likely to set the terms of a replacement if the two sides do reach a deal amicably.“There is no leadership change in Karnataka and Yediyurappa will continue. Yediyurappa is visiting Delhi to meet the Prime Minister and home minister, party president and other central ministers, especially the irrigation minister. Cauvery river issue is a major issue,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue and a person regarded as a member of Yediyurappa’s inner circle said on Friday.Just two days ago, Union Jal Shakti minister, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat visited Karnataka and met with Yediyurappa and all senior ministers of Karnataka where he said that justice will be done to the southern state in the Mekedatu issue.Yediyurappa has made it clear that he would like to remain in power till 2023 and, people aware of the developments said that the 78-year-old is hoping to place his two sons in prominent roles in the government and the party.Vijayendra is the state BJP vice president and Raghavendra is the member of parliament from Shivamogga, the chief minister’s home district.Yediyurappa has at least once before said that Vijayendra will contest the 2023 assembly elections to show that he would be the “heir apparent” of the Lingayat community and the BJP in Karnataka.Raghavendra was considered among the BJP leaders who could be inducted into PM Modi’s council of ministers but PM Modi picked Shobha Karandlaje, another close associate of Yediyurappa, which was a strategy to keep the damage to a minimum if the chief minister does choose to do a repeat of his 2012 exit.Adding to the similarities from a decade ago, Yediyurappa and his family continue to see rising charges of corruption. There have been at least three major cases against the chief minister and his family in the last month and several more against ministers and legislators of his party.Yediyurappa has sought to take refuge behind the Lingayat community, believed to be the single largest group in the state who have backed the former since the turn of the century.However, leaders such as the party’s Basanagouda Yatnal, among others, have had some success to bracket Yediyurappa as a person from one of the sub-sects of the Lingayats and not of the entire community.“There is no reason to complain because they have made all concessions for Yediyurappa. He left the party and came back as chief minister which is a first. He is over 75 years and there is non-performance,” said one senior BJP leader, requesting not to be named.Yediyurappa’s confidence, if any, comes from the fact that the BJP in Karnataka does not have a credible replacement, which people aware of the developments said, is not true since the party lawmakers will abide by the person nominated by the central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-meets-pm-fuels-speculation-amid-looming-political-uncertainty-in-karnataka-101626451155310.html
16-07-2021||India||Zomato IPO receives 38 times oversubscription on Friday||Zomato's mega initial public offering (IPO) ended with a bumper 38 times oversubscription on Friday as institutional investors poured money to get a pie of the hottest online food delivery platform.Zomato got bids for 2,751.25 crore shares against 71.92 crore shares on offer, stock exchange data showed.The IPO is India's biggest since March 2020.Institutional investors, who shied away in the first two days of the IPO, bid several times over the number of shares reserved for them.While qualified institutional buyers or QIBs bid almost 52 times the quota reserved for them, non-institutional investors sought 640 crore shares against their quota of 19.43 crore.Retail investors bid 7.45 times against the 12.96 crore shares reserved for them.The only category that wasn't fully subscribed by the shares reserved for company employees, who sought just 62 per cent of the 65 lakh shares reserved for them.The IPO opened for subscription on July 14 in a price band of ₹72-76 per share. It closed on Friday.Zomato has already mobilised ₹4,196.51 crore from 186 anchor investors on July 13, a day before the issue opened. The IPO size has been reduced to ₹5,178.49 crore from ₹9,375 crore earlier.The company, backed by Jack Ma's Ant Group Co, is the first from a long list of Indian unicorn startups to launch an IPO. It is also the first among Indian online food aggregators.The IPO, which will give Zomato a valuation of ₹64,365 crore, is being touted as the second-biggest since SBI Cards and Payment Services' ₹10,341 crore issue in March 2020. It will surpass Indian Railway Finance Corp offering in January.Post-IPO, the valuation of Zomato will be more than the combined market capitalisation of five listed fast food and restaurant companies - Jubilant FoodWorks (the master franchisee for Domino's Pizza in India), Burger King India, fast food restaurant holding company Westlife Development Ltd, Barbeque-Nation Hospitality and Speciality Restaurants.At Friday's closing price, the combined market capitalisation of the five companies was ₹59,841.3 crore.The Zomato IPO comprises a fresh issue of equity shares worth ₹9,000 crore and an offer-for-sale (OFS) worth ₹375 crore by existing investor Info Edge (India), which is the parent company of Naukri.com, according to the information provided in the draft red herring prospectus.Zomato has said it will utilise the net proceeds from the fresh issue for funding organic and inorganic growth initiatives ( ₹6,750 crore) and general corporate purposes.Incorporated in 2008, Zomato is present in 525 cities in India, with 3,89,932 active restaurant listings along with a presence in 23 countries outside India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zomato-ipo-receives-38-times-oversubscription-on-friday-101626443286066.html
16-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: 1 killed, another injured after chopper crashes in Maharashtra's Jalgaon and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.1 dead, 1 injured in Jalgaon chopper crash; police, authorities on spotOne person died and another sustained injury after a helicopter crashed near Jalgaon in Maharashtra on Friday, news agency ANI reported. Police personnel and other local authorities reached the site of the crash, the news agency further mentioned. Read moreDistribution reform scheme: Centre tells UP to submit DPR by OctThe central government has asked Uttar Pradesh and other states to submit detailed project reports (DPRs) for the works to be undertaken under the new and ambitious reform-based result-oriented power distribution scheme worth Rs3.03 lakh crore. Read moreBengaluru institute where Stan Swamy spent 16 years remembers activist’s legacyAt the Indian Social Institute in Bengaluru where Father Stan Swamy spent 16 years of his life working, a large gathering congregated on Thursday to share stories of the soft-spoken man, who raised his voice for the voiceless. Read more'I am ready for all formats': Bhuvneshwar Kumar clears the air, India quick says he is prepared for red-ball cricketHaving last played Test cricket and a First-Class game more than three years ago, Bhuvneshwar Kumar says he is ready for top-flight red-ball cricket and if given a chance, the India fast bowler would contribute and put his best foot forward. Read moreBharti Singh on being touched inappropriately by show coordinators: 'I had no courage back then'Bharti Singh has opened up on the times when she faced unwanted advances from men around her while working in the entertainment industry. She also revealed that as a child, she had witnessed her mom go through very tough times. Read moreTop 5 headphones with noise cancellation under Rs10,000 in India 2021 on AmazonOne of the best devices you can invest in is a pair of good headphones. From listening to music or podcasts or tuning into work calls, a good pair of cans can help things go a long way. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jalgaon-chopper-crash-and-all-the-latest-news-101626448058941.html
16-07-2021||India||‘Covid-19 pandemic exposed gaping loopholes in boasts’: Chidambaram||Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram on Friday sought an answer whether the Indian democracy has risen to the challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic and protected the lives and livelihood of its people. Chidambaram’s comments came during his visit to Jaipur where he took part in a seminar on ‘Global Pandemic and Challenges before the Democracy’ organised by the Rajasthan chapter of Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA) in Rajasthan Assembly. He said that the pandemic may be contained by universal vaccination or the disease may be cured by the discovery of medicines but an answer to a question needed to be continuously searched. “Did Indian democracy rise to the challenge of the pandemic and protect the lives and livelihood and the wellbeing of its people, especially the poor and the children,” Chidambaram said. He said that every political system boasts that it is best suited to address the needs of the people. “What the pandemic has done is expose the gaping loopholes in the boasts. From monarchies to dynastic rulers to military dictatorships to one-party governments to so-called ‘elected’ autocrats to presidents in a presidential system to the prime minister in a parliamentary democracy, every kind of government is riddled with weaknesses. A democratic government faces the added challenge of its shortcomings laid bare every day and being criticised every hour,” he said. “In a true Parliamentary democracy system, the prime minister is responsible every day to the Parliament and to the people. However, in a corroded diminished democracy, the rulers will find diverse ways to evade accountability,” he said. Chidambaram said that faced with any adversity, the weaknesses would have been exposed in due course but the pandemic has exposed the weaknesses brutally with no scope of excuses or a cover-up. The former finance minister highlighted seven challenges, including perils of centralisation in not placing orders for supply of vaccines, design, and execution of vaccination programme, resources and allocation thereof, widening of disparity among people. He said that the elimination of poverty and reducing inequalities are accepted goals among democratic countries. According to a study, 23 crore people were pushed into poverty in the last two years. He said that deprivation of school education has been the most devastating impact of the pandemic. Indian democratic governments at the Centre and the states have found no answer to this catastrophe and stand by as helpless spectators, he added. He said that rule of law requires multiple institutional support and when government institutions fail and bend before the executive or collaborate with rulers, they aid the executive to subvert the rule of law. When this happens, the energies of the rulers will be focused on self-preservation and not fighting the pandemic. The Rajya Sabha MP said that it is a challenge to make the Legislative branch work to mitigate the suffering of the people. He said that challenges to democracy are not at the national level alone. The pandemic has thrown an unusual phenomenon of vaccine nationalism. “What I make is mine, what I can afford to buy is mine,” is vaccine nationalism, he said. Chidambaram said that countries are not allowing the use of other vaccines in order to promote their vaccine. Vaccine nationalism has thrown a spanner in the wheel of global cooperation in the fight against the pandemic. Chief guest of the concluding session of the seminar and Rajya Sabha MP, Dr Vinay Prabhakar Sahasrabuddhe, said democracy is not just a matter of voting or discussion, but innovation that emerges from discussions. He said that India did not restrict freedom of ideological expression even during the pandemic, rather social media and the internet were used for the ‘test, track and treat’ policy. The media was given complete freedom even during the pandemic in the country. Assembly speaker CP Joshi said, at present, in this era of the Covid epidemic, policy decisions should be taken to reduce social inequality, strengthen economic policy and increase per capita income. He said that along with us, other countries of the world also adopted curative measures to fight this disease. No one took preventive measures. He called for the need to strengthen the preventive measures and for this, every person should discharge the duties. Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria said that this pandemic has affected the whole world and this period is most difficult for democratic countries. He said that the epidemic does not see pros and cons, religious beliefs, rich and poor. “In this difficult time, it is most important to strengthen the democratic structure with education, economic activities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pandemic-exposed-gaping-loopholes-in-boasts-chidambaram-101626444675000.html
16-07-2021||India||When would Zydus Cadila's anti-Covid vaccine be available for children? 'Need more data,' says Dr VK Paul||Amid concerns over the impact of a potential third wave of the coronavirus pandemic on children, Dr VK Paul, member (health) of the NITI Aayog said on Thursday “more data” is needed before Zydus Cadila’s three-dose vaccine against Covid-19 is made available for children.Also Read: Zydus Cadila's 3-dose Covid-19 vaccine for kids may take more time for approval“DCGI is examining it. More data is needed. The scientific process has to be completed. We have to be lucky that it is effective and safe,” Dr Paul told news agency ANI when questioned on the time span within which the ZyCoV-D, India’s second indigenous anti-Covid shot after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, would be available for children.DCGI is examining it. More data is needed. The scientific process has to be completed. We have to be lucky that it should be effective and safe: Dr VK Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog on being asked 'when Zydus Cadila's COVID vaccine for children will be available' pic.twitter.com/y0PL96nZ5AAhmedabad-based Zydus Cadila submitted an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation (EUA) on July 1, seeking approval for its DNA-based vaccine to be administered to everyone above the age of 12; currently, all citizens aged 18 or above are eligible to be vaccinated against Covid-19.Also Read | ‘Efficacy 67%’: Zydus seeks nod for vaccineZyCoV-D is one of two vaccines, which, experts believe, would, in near future, be granted approval to be administered to children, the other being Covaxin. Aiims director Dr Randeep Guleria has frequently said that Covaxin is likely to be approved for children by September and also described Zydus’ vaccine as “another option” should it be approved. However, he has also said that making vaccines available for children would be a “milestone achievement.”Also Read | Zydus vaccine trial to be over soon. Here’s when 12-18-yr-olds can get jabbedEarlier in the day on Friday, the Union government submitted in the Delhi high court that clinical trials for vaccines for children below the age of 18 are going on, and are on the verge of completion. Appearing on behalf of the Centre, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma that the Zydus Cadila vaccine may be available for the 12-18 age group “in the near future.” The high court, however, observed that it would be a “disaster” if vaccines are administered without clinical trials, especially to children.The court was hearing a PIL filed on behalf of a minor seeking inoculation of the 12-17 age group on the grounds that a possible third Covid-19 wave would affect children more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-would-zydus-cadila-s-anti-covid-vaccine-be-available-for-children-need-more-data-says-dr-vk-paul-101626442285644.html
16-07-2021||India||No ban on animal sacrifice in J&K, clarifies admin ahead of Eid||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday clarified that there is no ban on animal sacrifices ahead of the Eid al-Adha festival next week and that a letter citing animal welfare laws a day earlier with reference to the festival was misinterpreted.“It was not an order. It was a letter from the Animal Welfare Board that has been referred to concerned departments (on preventing cruelty towards animals). The letter has been interpreted in a wrong way by people... there is no ban on any sacrifice on the occasion of Eid....” said GL Sharma, director (planning), animal, sheep husbandry, and fisheries department. Muslims sacrifice livestock to commemorate Prophet Abraham’s test of faith on Eid al-Adha. A portion of the meat of the sacrificed animals is distributed among the poor over the three-day-long festival.Slaughtering cows and beef-eating is illegal or restricted across many states in India.In a communique on Thursday night, Sharma said a large number of sacrificial animals were likely to be slaughtered in Jammu & Kashmir during the festival scheduled from July 21-23. It added the Animal Welfare Board of India has requested for implementation of all precautionary measures. “...strictly implement the Animal Welfare Laws viz Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960; Transport of Animal Welfare Rules, 1978; Transport of Animals (Amendment) Rules, 2001; Slaughter House Rules, 2001; Municipal Laws & Food Safety & Standards Authority of India directions for slaughtering of animals (under which camels cannot be slaughtered) during the festival,” he said.Also Read | 78 militants neutralised by security forces this year in Kashmir: Top copSharma directed officials to take all preventive measures as per the provisions of laws cited to “stop the illegal killing of animals”. It said stringent action should be taken against the offenders violating animal welfare laws.Sharma’s clarification came as the letter provoked outrage and religious groups called it interference in religious affairs.The Muttahida Majlis-e-Ulema (MMU), an amalgam of religious bodies, issued a statement denouncing the purported ban “under the garb of prevention of cruelty”. “...why are Muslims being restricted by the government in performing their religious obligation,” the statement said.MMU said the government should desist from issuing such arbitrary orders that are unacceptable to the Muslims as “they directly infringe upon their religious freedom and personal law” and cause “great anguish”. MMU urged the government to immediately revoke the order keeping in view religious obligations and the spirit of the festival. The statement said the amalgam will convene a meeting of its key constituents and leading religious leaders to discuss the issue on Sunday.Farooq Ahmad, a businessman, said the letter is part of the efforts to dissuade people from sacrificing animals on Eid. “These efforts were also made in the past which failed. The order should be revoked as this can create misunderstanding among the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ban-on-animal-sacrifice-in-j-k-clarifies-admin-ahead-of-eid-101626442213689.html
16-07-2021||India||SC directs states to reveal criteria for release of prisoners, no surrender for now||The Supreme Court on Friday directed that prisoners granted bail or parole as a measure to decongest jails need not surrender till further orders as the threat of the Covid-19 third wave looms large.The order was passed by a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana while dealing with a suo motu petition on containing the spread of Covid-19 in prisons. The bench also directed states to inform within a week on the criteria adopted by the various state high powered committees (HPC) to release prisoners. On May 7, when the country was in the grip of the second wave of the pandemic, the Supreme Court had said that prisoners granted bail or parole last year on the recommendation of the HPC should be released forthwith on bail on the same terms and conditions. Those on parole got a 90-day extension under the same order.The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and AS Bopanna, found an absence of any information on whether its order was complied with. The court was in the dark over whether the HPCs, constituted by a court order of March 23, 2020, had considered age and co-morbidities of prisoners to recommend release.The bench said, “There is no uniformity in the criteria to be applied. Tripura and Haryana are considering the age factors while other states have not taken into account age or co-morbidity. There is no information on how our orders are being implemented.”Since the HPC in every state/UT comprises the chairperson of state legal service authority, the chief secretary and the Director-General of Police, the court directed the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) and all the states to file a report or affidavit with regard to “criteria or norms followed for release of prisoners” and “whether age or co-morbidity condition of the prisoner is being considered” in recommending release.This report has to be filed by next Friday as the Court will hear the matter next on August 3.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, assisting the court as amicus curiae, told the court that several lawyers informed him about prisoners released on the recommendation of HPC being asked to surrender. The bench observed, “For the time being, prisoners already released shouldn’t be asked to surrender till further orders.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre supported this view. Mehta said, “The government has no objection if the release of prisoners is extended till this court finally decides.” He even supported the direction calling for criteria adopted by HPCs to release prisoners.The HPCs formed by the states and Union territories had recommended the release of those prisoners charged with crimes punishable with seven years or less sentence. The top court had left it open to the committees to consider the sentence undergone, severity of the offence, and stage of trial as relevant criteria to aid their decision.The court allowed HPCs to even consider fresh cases for release based on standard operation protocol prepared by the NALSA. On June 1 this year, as a further step to decongest prisons, the bench allowed Probation Boards to process applications for early release of prisoners based on good conduct.After the court took up suo motu the cause of prisoners in jail last year, nearly 50,000 prisoners came to be released on bail or parole. By January-February this year, when the Covid-19 wave dipped, the released prisoners were asked to surrender.Nearly 90 per cent surrendered when the court on May 7 felt that the situation had again become grim. The court said, “India has more than four lakh prison inmates. Some of the prisons in India are overburdened and are housing inmates beyond optimal capacity…decongestion is a matter concerning the health and right to life of both the prison inmates and the police personnel working there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-states-to-reveal-criteria-for-release-of-prisoners-no-surrender-for-now-101626442034740.html
16-07-2021||India||Highest vaccine coverage for kids: Govt slams reports of disruption due to Covid||India has achieved 99 per cent coverage of DTP3 (three doses of diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccines) in the first quarter of the year (January to March) as measured by the Health Management Information System, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The government said this is the highest DTP3 coverage so far, adding this was a result of the commitment of the Centre and public health workforce.The ministry also slammed media reports alleging lakhs of children missing their routine vaccinations due to disruptions caused by the outbreak of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease leading to increased risk of future outbreaks and deaths. It said such claims are not based on facts and do not reflect the true picture.The Centre’s statement came a day after the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) said India has the highest number of under-vaccinated or unvaccinated children worldwide at 3.5 million, an increase of 1.4 million from 2019, amid the pandemic. It also noted that over 3 million of “zero-dose children” in 2020 lived in India.The government said it is clarified that since the outbreak of the pandemic, the health ministry has been focused on maintaining essential services, including immunisation under UIP.“The ministry along with all states and Union territories and development partners have worked towards mitigating the negative impacts of Covid-19 and taken urgent actions to ensure that children receive life-saving vaccines under Universal Immunization Programme (UIP),” the ministry said.When asked about the availability of Zydus Cadila’s vaccine against the viral disease for children, the ministry said the Drugs Controller General of India is examining the matter. “More data is needed. The scientific process has to be completed. We have to be lucky that it should be effective and safe,” said Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-vaccine-coverage-for-kids-govt-slams-reports-of-disruption-due-to-covid-101626441193578.html
16-07-2021||India||1 dead, 1 injured in Jalgaon chopper crash; police, authorities on spot||One person died and another sustained injury after a helicopter crashed near Jalgaon in Maharashtra on Friday, news agency ANI reported. Police personnel and other local authorities reached the site of the crash, the news agency further mentioned. However, details on the cause of the crash were yet to be ascertained.In a visual of the crash that was shared widely on social media, a few people could be seen near what appears to be the wreckage of the chopper.The crash occurred near Wardi village in Jalgaon's Chopda area, part of the Satpura mountain ranges, and information was received by authorities around 5:15pm, new agency PTI reported quoting a police official.While police said one of the occupants was reportedly a woman it was not yet clear as to who piloted the helicopter."One occupant was declared dead on arrival by hospital authorities while the second person sustained injuries," the police official was quoted as saying by PTI.The crashed aircraft belonged to NMIMS Academy of Aviation, news agency ANI reported, adding that the flight instructor died while the trainee was severely injured||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-1-injured-in-jalgaon-chopper-crash-police-authorities-on-spot-101626440503149.html
16-07-2021||India||‘Banks can’t deny educational loans to student citing parents’ liabilities’: Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court on Thursday ruled that banks can’t deny educational loans to students citing liabilities of their parents and directed a national bank (Indian Bank) to disburse the loan applied by a meritorious student.While giving direction to the bank, the court observed that the very purpose of an educational loan is to ensure that a meritorious student can’t be deprived of an opportunity to higher education on the ground that he/she doesn’t have enough resources for the same. The petitioner, a second-year student of Bachelor of Ayurveda Medicine and Surgery, approached the court after her loan request was turned down by the bank. In her petition, she contended that she secured admission through the centralised seat allotment process of the state in 2019 on the basis of her rank in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test.She said since her family could not raise the full amount of the course she and her father approached the banks for an educational loan of ₹7,50,000 for which no collateral security is needed as per the educational loan scheme. But the bank denied her loan saying that it was not satisfied with the economic background of her parents and the amount can’t be disbursed. Doing a small-time business, her father’s shop was closed due to the pandemic restrictions and he was not earning enough income due to this, the bank reportedly told her, she mentioned it in her plea. The court said such an attitude will defeat the very purpose of the educational loan scheme. “The object of all educational loans formulated by banks in accordance with RBI guidelines is to ensure that a meritorious student shall not be deprived of the opportunity to pursue higher education merely on the ground that he/she doesn’t have sources for the same,” it observed. If the contentions of the bank are accepted it would defeat the object and purpose of the scheme, the single bench of Justice PB Suresh Kumar observed. Later, the court held that its contentions were not acceptable and directed the bank to disburse the loan to the meritorious student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-can-t-deny-educational-loans-to-student-citing-parents-liabilities-kerala-hc-101626440353336.html
16-07-2021||India||From reality to abstract: Remembering KV Subbanna||Died on 16th July 2005.He was born on 20th February 1932 in the Shimoga district of Karnataka. His family was a big supporter of art and artists that too of any and all forms. Subbanna had shown a strong sense of interest in drama since his childhood days. His father, fond of the same decided to set up a dramatic society namely Neelanakantheshwara Natya Sangha in 1949. It was set up in the Heggodu village that was near Sagar Taluk. This turned out to be one of the biggest establishments by Subbanna later.He completed his graduation from the Maharaja College of Mysore. Post his graduation he came under the influence of Shantaveri Gopala Gowda, who was a leader of the socialist movement. This inspired him to dive deep into socialist philosophy which he later practiced throughout his life. He was also made the first secretary of Lal Bahadur College that is situated in Sagar. However, the desire to expand his career in theatre and drama came after he joined the Rare Taste Club. Being a part of this club made him appreciate the many artistic works of creative personalities. He also got familiar with the works of Satyajit Ray.After this, Subbanna started working hard on the society his father established and turned it into the world-renowned theatrical group called Neenasam.Neenasam was a by-product of community effort alone and Subbanna's broad taste led him to work more and create something unique out of it. All the activities under Neenasam were an attempt to revive folklore, forgotten plays, and skits, putting up performances, and enacting many old-time classics. It slowly turned into a cultural movement by K.V Subbanna. The members together would also arrange many workshops and seminars related to theatre from time to time, all over Karnataka.It was Subbanna's strong belief in the democracy and community spirit of India that made him work tirelessly to achieve and showcase the true essence of histrionics. All thanks to Neenasam, Heggodu was always filled with activities and shows. People would eagerly wait for the new productions and not once were they disappointed. Subbanna was hence successful in rebuilding the forgotten folk-lore and Sanskrit plays.His consistent efforts in making Neenasam a prominent learning centre for theatre helped him bag many awards one being the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Journalism, Literature, and Creative Communication Arts. (1991)Apart from that, he was also awarded the Sangeet Natak Academy Award in 1994. Although he was known for his contribution towards Neenasam, K.V Subbanna was also famous for his writing, translations, and publishing. He had a publishing house named Akshara Prakasna which used to publish theatrical works of literature famous in Kannada. One of its finest works up until now was the translation of the book Natyashastra by Bharata.His various works on dramas and plays won him the Sahitya Academy Award in 2003, and the Padma Shri in 2004. Despite all the success, Subbanna always remained humble and curious when it came to working. Many writers, playwrights, poets, and dramatists acclaimed him to be a person who not only revived cultural methods of literature but also a very talented man. He sadly passed away on 17th July 2005 but Neenasam still moves forward as a legacy he left behind.This was story was first published on This Day.app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-reality-to-abstract-remembering-kv-subbanna-101626439238187.html
16-07-2021||India||2 vaccine doses gave 95% protection from death against Covid-19's Delta variant: Centre||The Union health ministry of Friday cited a large-scale, real-life study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research and said that two doses of Covid-19 vaccines, irrespective of Covishield and Covaxin, were successful to extend 95 per cent protection from death. The study was conducted during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, which was driven by the Delta variant, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said.The study was done on 1,17,525 police personnel in Tamil Nadu. Among them, 17,059 received no vaccine and 20 succumbed to the infection. A total of 32,792 police personnel received only one dose and this group recorded seven deaths. Only four deaths were recorded in the third group of 67,673 people, who were vaccinated with both doses.Next 100 days crucial, says Union health ministry amid Covid 3rd wave fears"If we examine the findings, we see that one dose gave 82 per cent protection from death while two doses gave 95 per cent protection from Covid-19 death. This study was done on a high-risk population at a time when the pandemic was at its peak. And we all know that Delta was driving the peak of the second wave," Dr Paul said reiterating that vaccines are proving to be effective against Delta variant too.Delta has emerged as the latest threat in front of the world as it is believed to be driving the third wave of the pandemic, the effect of which is already being felt in many countries, including the United Kingdom, Spain, the Netherlands, Bangladesh, Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand etc.First reported in India in October 2020, Delta has now spread in over 111 countries. Scientists have found further mutations of this variant in India, which has been named Delta Plus, another variant of concern. But government's experts have recently asserted that Delta Plus is unlikely to be as transmissible and severe as Delta is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-vaccine-doses-gave-95-protection-from-death-against-covid-19-s-delta-variant-centre-101626438914786.html
16-07-2021||India||Chief ministers of southern states ask for more Covid-19 vaccines to beat third wave||Chief ministers of the southern states, during their interaction with prime minister Narendra Modi, asked to increase vaccine supply to ensure maximum protection to people before the third wave of Covid-19 strikes.Interacting with the PM through video-conferencing on Friday, the chief ministers briefed him about the steps being taken to check control of the coronavirus disease even though the cases were on the rise.In a video interaction with chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala, where many districts have been reporting a high number of cases, Modi said the country stands at a point in its battle with the pandemic where apprehensions about a third wave are being continuously expressed.These states accounted for 80 per cent of new Covid-19 cases last week and 84 per cent of deaths, he noted in his closing remarks, specifically mentioning the rise in infections in Kerala and Maharashtra as a matter of grave concern for the country. A similar trend was witnessed in January and February before the second wave started, he said. “It’s very important that states with a rising number of cases take proactive measures to rule out any possibility of a third wave,” Modi said.The PM emphasised effective trace, tract and vaccination methodology and asked states to strengthen micro-containment zone strategy, which has helped some states, such as Assam, to control Covid, without lockdown. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control. He said in Kerala, the second wave started very late and at one point its test positivity rate went up to 30 per cent but now it is around 10 per cent. The CM said the state’s mortality rate remained the lowest in the country at 0. 48 per cent.On vaccination, he said the state has given the first dose to 11.7 million people and 4.41 million people have got both doses of the total population of 3.46crore. The wastage of vaccines is almost nil, he said. He sought six million more doses to cover a major portion of the population. Kerala has been accounting for the highest number of Covid-19 cases among all states since June 15. On Thursday, it reported 13,773 new cases, almost one-fourth of the national total of 41,806. Its test positivity rate was 10.95 per cent whereas the national average was below 3 per cent. The virus has shown no sign of abating in Kerala with new daily cases hovering around 10,000 since March.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said the state managed reasonably well in fighting against the pandemic despite the lack of modern medical facilities similar to Hyderabad, Bangalore and Chennai. He said the newly setup village/ward secretariats system has played a key role in the effective containment of Covid-19 and said 12 fever surveys have helped in containing the spread of the virus.The CM said of 17,71,580 doses that were given to private hospitals, only 4,20,209 doses have been used in the month of June. He requested the PM to allot remaining stock in private hospitals to the government so that it would help increase the vaccination process.Karnataka chief minister BS Yeddyurappa urged the PM to provide at least 1.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine to the state every month and said the Covid-19 cases in Karnataka have declined to 1,900 a day and in Bengaluru to about 400 cases a day.Stating that Karnataka has so far received 2.62 crore vaccines, the chief minister requested the PM to provide 1.5 crore doses with a targeted 5 lakh doses every day, a government statement said. Yediyurappa also told Modi that the district authorities have been authorised to impose sanctions depending on the positivity rate of Covid-19, the number of cases and the opinion of the Technical Advisory Committee. He also informed the PM about steps being taken to deal with the anticipated third wave.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin sought one crore vaccine doses as a special case and urged the PM to exempt all goods needed for Covid management from Goods and Services Tax. He also said the Centre should reconsider its decision to conduct national level exams like the NEET as it may lead to virus spread.The demand for vaccines has tremendously increased in Tamil Nadu, Stalin said.“However, when compared with other states, the allocation for our state is very less. To handle this tough situation, I had requested a special allocation of one crore vaccine doses. I look forward to your support in this important issue,” he told Modi.On July 13, Stalin said that till July 8, 2021, Tamil Nadu received only 29,18,110 vaccine doses from the Centre for people in the 18-44 years age bracket and 1,30,08,440 for the above 45 years category. The allocation was very inadequate and the state did not receive vaccines proportionate to its population.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chief-ministers-of-southern-states-ask-for-more-covid-19-vaccines-to-beat-third-wave-101626439035345.html
16-07-2021||India||Espionage case: Court reserves order on bail plea of journalist Rajeev Sharma||A Delhi court on Friday reserved an order on bail plea of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on charges of supplying sensitive and confidential information to Chinese intelligence officials for money. The order will be delivered on Saturday.The court had on Wednesday sent Sharma to judicial custody for 14 days at the request of the ED, which arrested him earlier this month under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.Earlier, while sending him in remand, Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana had said, “Considering the totality of circumstances, I am of the considered opinion that the prosecution has set out a case for further custodial interrogation of the accused.”While seeking his custody, the ED has said that unearthing the end-use of funds involved in the instant case would assist in ascertaining the exact quantum of the proceeds of crime and determining the role of various other persons and aides who facilitated the offence of money laundering in the instant case.The ED initiated an investigation on the basis of an FIR and chargesheet filed by the Delhi Police against Sharma under provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, and the Official Secrets Act, 1923.During investigation, the ED had said it was found that Sharma has comprmosed the security and national interests of India by providing sensitive information to Chinese officers in exchange for a remuneration.It further said cash for remuneration of Sharma and other unidentified persons was being generated through hawala means by Mahipalpur-based shell companies that were run by Chinese nationals namely Zhang Cheng alias Suraj, Zhang Lixia alias Usha, and Quing Shi along with a Nepali national Sher Singh alias Raj Bohara.Sharma has also received money through benami bank accounts in order to conceal his involvement in criminal activities, said the ED.The Delhi Police had arrested the journalist under various sections of the IPC and Official Secrets Acts. He was later granted bail by the Delhi High Court.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/espionage-case-court-reserves-order-on-bail-plea-of-journalist-rajeev-sharma-101626437893379.html
16-07-2021||India||Tripura extends curfew till July 24 as Covid cases continue to rise||Tripura has extended curfew in the state till July 24. According to the revised curfew notification, the curfew would be continued in 12 places, including Agartala municipal corporation(AMC). Ranirbazar municipal council , Jirania nagar panchayat and AMC in West district , Khowai and Teliamura municipal councils in Khowai district, Kailasahar and Kumarghat municipal councils in Unakoti district, Dharmanagar municipal council and Panisagar nagar panchayat in north district, Kamalpur nagar panchayat in Dhalai district, Belonia municipal council in south district and Amarpur Nagar Panchayat in Gomati district are the places identified for the curfew. Also Read | Borders: From zones of security to commerce via ICPsThe West district has the highest number of Covid cases in the state so far. “Imposition of weekend curfew from 6am on July 17 to 6am on July July throughout the state. . .. . Corona night curfew is imposed throughout the state w. e.f 6pm to 5am from July 19 to July 24.Day curfew will be imposed from July 19 to July 23 from 2pm to 6pm....,” the notification reads. A total of 2,808,661 Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the state. In the past 24 hours alone, 25,922 doses were administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-extends-curfew-till-july-24-as-covid-cases-continue-to-rise-101626438253340.html
16-07-2021||India||Delhi's single-day Covid-19 tally drops to 66; lone death takes toll to 25,023||Delhi recorded 66 new cases of coronavirus infection (Covid-19) in a single day, data released by the Union territory's government on Friday showed. The national capital reported only a single fatality from the virus in the previous 24 hours, taking the cumulative death toll to 25,023. Friday's case count is the result of 76,459 samples that were tested, and takes Delhi's cumulative Covid-19 tally to 14,35,419 while the cumulative positivity rate stands at 6.34%. It is also a slight improvement from Thursday's when 72 cases of infection were recorded. The active case in the national capital is now at 657.As many as 79 people were declared cured of the viral infection during the 24-hour span, taking the total recoveries from Covid-19 to 14,09,739. The Delhi government data also showed 33,186 people were vaccinated against the coronavirus in the previous 24 hours, out of which 11,997 beneficiaries got their second jab during this time. Delhi has so far vaccinated 91,71,272 people since the Centre launched the inoculation drive in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-tally-drops-to-66-lone-death-takes-toll-to-25023-101626436478235.html
16-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 394 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 394 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, July 14, even as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal ruled out reopening of schools in the national Capital as of now. He said his government will “not take any risks” till the vaccination process is complete for everyone.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 394,978,565 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,515,093 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,659,977 were given the first dose while 161,950 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 119,736,449 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 4,372,202 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Coronavirus: These symptoms in first week of infection linked to long Covid-19Eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 5 million first doses of the vaccine in the age group 18-45 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the same age group for the first dose.India’s caseload climbed to 31,026,829 on Friday after 38,949 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 542 people died and 40,026 recovered from the viral disease during the said period, taking the cumulative death toll and recoveries to 412,531 and 30,183,876 respectively. The active cases of Covid-19 stand at 430,422 and constitute 1.39% of the caseload, the health ministry’s update further showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-394-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101626436754793.html
16-07-2021||India||VHP to discuss Ram temple construction, population policy at upcoming meeting||Vishva Hindu Parishad on Friday said the Hindus uphold India’s democratic values and therefore efforts should be made to ensure that their status as the majority community remains unchanged. “When it comes to population control policy, there should be a dominance of Hindus. The principles of politics, secularism, and tolerance are being followed because of the dominance of the Hindu population. And whatever needs to be done to ensure their majority should be done,” VHP general secretary Milind Parande told journalists ahead of a meeting of the organisation’s governing council and board of trustees from Saturday.The comments came in the backdrop of plans in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Assam for introducing population control laws. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday last unveiled a population policy aimed at stabilising the state’s population. This came after a draft of the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill was made public.Also Watch | Asaduddin Owaisi reacts to Yogi’s population policy for UP, cites ConstitutionParande said Hindu families should think about having at least two kids. He added even China has reversed its single-child norm though it still continues to remain the most populous country.Parande said “love jihad”, political violence in West Bengal, and freeing of temples, and monasteries from government control will be taken up at the meeting of the VHP, which is an affiliate of the ruling BJP’s ideological fountainhead, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. He referred to the controversy over the alleged irregularities in land purchases related to the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and said it was created by those against its construction. “And they are doing so in view of the (assembly) elections coming up.” He said the trust overseeing the construction has responded with proof to the controversy. “...people have faith in the Trust. But these people are trying to create an impediment in the construction of the temple.”He said the Catholic Bishops Association in Kerala has also raised concerns about men deceiving women by concealing their religious identity and has written to the Union home minister about it. “In the last few years, many Christian women have been forced to convert. In Britain, too, there are about 1,500 cases of women who have become victims of love jihad and the groups that were busted were of Pakistani Muslims.”Hindu groups use the “love jihad” term to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.In response to a question whether the VHP perceives a threat to Hinduism from Islam or any other faith, he said, “There is no threat, but they are indulging in some wrongdoings. Nobody can destroy the Hindu faith. But some unconstitutional activities are taking place.” He said conversions amounted to an attack on Hinduism. “This (conversion) is being carried out by the missionaries as well as Islamic sects who divide the world into believers and non-believers.”The VHP reiterated its support for the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and said it has been pursuing the issue of fast-tracking citizenship under the legislation for Hindu refugees from neighbouring countries. “We have helped over 6,000 Pakistani Hindus...get citizenship... In Gujarat and Rajasthan, we took up the problem the refugees were facing in getting vaccinations...”Parande said the VHP has asked the government and human rights organisations to take note of alleged forced conversions of Hindus in Pakistan. He maintained the organisation will do whatever it takes to create awareness about the need to have a dispensation in power that believes in protecting Hindu rights. Parande said anyone who does not protect the rights of the Hindus should not be in power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-to-discuss-ram-temple-construction-population-policy-at-upcoming-meeting-101626436753361.html
16-07-2021||India||Mukul Roy disqualification: Speaker holds 1st hearing; BJP may move court||West Bengal assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Friday held the first hearing on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) demand for disqualification of Mukul Roy as legislator under anti-defection law. BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the assembly, deposed for the hearing which lasted for around five minutes. The next hearing is set for July 30.Meanwhile, after talking to the Speaker and submitting a 68-page document to back his demand, Adhikari told the media that the BJP is planning to move court. “No law of the land is followed in Bengal. There the audio and video evidence, Twitter posts as well as statements made by people which prove that anti-defection law is applicable against Roy. Despite that, he was made chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC). The Speaker is not following established laws. We are planning to move court,” said Adhikari. Also Read | Durga Puja organisers in Kolkata prepare guidelines for festivities amid pandemicRoy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president, returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) along with his son Subhranshu on June 11 this year but did not officially resign from the BJP. Roy is still a BJP legislator. He was made chairman of the PAC of the Bengal assembly on July 9 before the budget session came to an end. In protest, six BJP MLAs who were made chairpersons of other standing committees resigned. On Friday, the Speaker selected TMC MLAs for these posts. On June 18, Adhikari submitted a petition to the Speaker, saying Roy, the legislator from Kishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under anti-defection law. Only the Speaker can take the decision on disqualifying a member. The Constitution does not specify any time frame for the process which involves inquiry, hearings and setting up of a committee. The Speaker did not speak to the media on this issue. Parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee also refused to comment on the hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-disqualification-speaker-holds-1st-hearing-bjp-may-move-court-101626436393622.html
16-07-2021||India||'New Gandhinagar station...': PM Modi inaugurates key projects in Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually inaugurated several key projects in his home state of Gujarat. Projects inaugurated by PM Modi include the newly-redeveloped Gandhinagar Capital railway station, the newly-electrified Surendranagar-Piparav section, the gauge converted-cum-electrified Mahesana-Varetha line, as well as three new zones in the Ahmedabad-based Gujarat Science City.Also Read: PM Modi to inaugurate major railway projects in Gujarat todayRecalling his connection with the railway station in his hometown of Vadnagar, PM Modi said that the Gandhinagar Capital station "reflects a change in terms of infrastructure" and is a "proof of optimum utilisation of modern technology."Two new trains were also flagged off by the prime minister. While one will connect Gandhinagar Capital with PM's Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, the other is a Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) service which will link Gandhinagar Capital with Varetha. PM Modi described the Gandhinagar Capital-Varanasi weekly superfast express as a service which will connect the land of Lord Somnath (Gujarat) with the land of Lord Vishwanath (Uttar Pradesh). "Major railway stations across the country are being modernised, stations in tier-2 and 3 cities are being equipped with wifi services and unmanned railway crossings have been completely removed from broad gauge lunes," he further remarked, stressing that Indian Railways needed new reforms for the 21st century, instead of continuing with the ones from the 20th century.PM Modi described the Gujarat Science City as a project which combines recreation and creativity for children. "My little friends will especially enjoy the Aquatics Gallery, which is among top aquariums in Asia. Robotics Gallery will encourage youngsters to work in the field of robotics and create curiousity among children," adding that new reforms were required in Railways in the 21st century," the prime minister said.He also revealed that when he shared pictures of Science City on his Twitter handle on Thursday, people were shocked that these pictures were from Gujarat, and not from a foreign nation.Union home minister Amit Shah, who, like PM Modi, hails from Gujarat and is the Lok Sabha MP from Gandhinagar; newly-appointed railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani also addressed the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-key-projects-in-gujarat-101626433494178.html
16-07-2021||India||Want to update your picture in Aadhaar card ? Check how to change biometric information||The Aadhaar card is a 12-digit unique identification number (UID) given to all hindustIndians by the government of India. It is one of the essential identification documents that is issued by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI).Aadhaar uses biometric information such as iris scans, fingerprints and facial photographs. It also uses demographic information such as name, address, date of birth, mobile number and e-mail address.Facial photographs in Aadhaar card are clicked at the time of enrolment and users might want to change them as the ID is becoming more ubiquitous. It can only be done by visiting an Aadhaar enrolment centre and can not be done online. Here is the process to change the photograph in Aadhaar card -1. Visit uidai.gov.in and download the Aadhaar Enrolment/Update form from the website’s downloads sections.2. Fill the form and visit the nearby Aadhaar permanent enrolment centre. The website has a facility to locate these centres by using either the pincode of the location or could also be searched state wise. Users can also avail the form at these centres, if they can not access it online.3. The filled form needs to be submitted at the centre. The official present would ask for the biometric details again to be submitted. The photograph of the user would be clicked again on the location, for which a fee of ₹50 (inclusive of taxes) should be paid.4. Upon payment of the fee, an acknowledgement slip is provided, which will contain the update request number (URN) for the change. The URN could then be used to check the status of the change in the UIDAI website. Also, after the update, users can download the Aadhaar card again with the new photograph from the website.5. The UIDAI website also showed that it could take up to 90 days for the update to reflect in the Aadhaar card after submitting the request.6. To download the Aadhaar card following the update, click on the ‘Download Aadhaar’ option under the ‘My Aadhaar’ tab in the website.7. Enter the 12 digit Aadhaar number and click on the send OTP option. A one-time password would be sent to the registered mobile number and on entering it, the users can download a copy of their e-aadhaar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-update-your-picture-in-aadhaar-card-check-how-to-change-biometric-information-101626434576929.html
16-07-2021||India||Next 100 days crucial, says Union health ministry amid Covid 3rd wave fears||Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul on Friday said the warning about the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which the World Health Organization has recently issued is for the global situation, which indeed is reflecting the impact of the third wave. "Leaving North and South American regions of WHO, all other WHO regions are moving from good to bad and bad to worse. The world is moving towards a third wave and this is a fact. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too has asked us to take this as a red flag... the PM has given us the target to stall the third wave and it is possible," Dr Paul said during the press briefing of the Union health ministry.Mask usage will go down in August-September, Centre warns citing projectionSpain has seen a 64% hike in weekly Covid-19 cases while the Netherlands has recorded a 300% spike in Covid-19 cases. The situation was stable in Thailand for a long time but now it is also reporting a spike. Africa too has clocked a 50% increase in Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. Myanmar, Malaysia, Indonesia, Bangladesh too are now seeing an unprecedented spike, the ministry said.'We are far away from herd immunity': Dr Paul"Our population is still vulnerable. We have not reached herd immunity-- not even through infection; Not that we want to achieve herd immunity through natural infection. We are making continuous progress in vaccination. At least 50 per cent of our vulnerable population is vaccinated. So we are still vulnerable. But the situation as of now is under control and we will have to maintain this situation," Dr Paul said adding that the next 100 days will be crucial to understand whether the 3rd wave has arrived in India or not. "Waves are a post-facto evaluation of how we are managing the situation. The intensity of the waves is more important than the number of the wave. So it does not matter whether it is the 3rd wave or the 4th wave, as this is the natural interaction between virus and human being," Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-has-given-us-a-target-to-stall-3rd-wave-and-it-s-possible-govt-expert-101626433587373.html
16-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Manish Tewari fuels speculation on power tussle within Punjab Congress and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Manish Tewari’s tweet fuels speculation over power tussle within Congress’ Punjab unitCongress leader Manish Tewari’s tweet on Punjab’s demographic composition has fuelled speculation about the power tussle within the party’s unit in the state even as a change in its leadership seems imminent. Read moreMask usage will go down in August-September, Centre warns citing projectionThe Union health ministry on Friday cautioned against the declining usage of masks among people and said that the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, though limited in a few pockets, is not yet over. Read moreIndia vs Pakistan in T20 World Cup 2021 as arch rivals placed in same group, to face each other in Super 12sIndia and Pakistan have been placed in Group 2 of the T20 World Cup 2021 scheduled to take place from October 17 to November 14 this year, the ICC announced on Friday. Read moreHarshvardhan Rane on Haseen Dillruba's intimate scenes: 'For those 10-15 seconds I am very romantic'Actor Harshvardhan Rane has said that he feels at his most romantic when he's performing intimate scenes on camera. Harsh was recently seen with Taapsee Pannu and Vikrant Massey in Haseen Dillruba. Read moreYou can delete the last 15 mins of your search history on Google through a shortcut nowEarlier this year, during Google I/O 2021, the company had announced that they were soon going to support a feature that will let users quickly delete the last 15 minutes of their search history on Android and iOS apps. Read moreKTM 250 Adventure available with massive discount for limited timeBajaj Auto has announced a special discount price of ₹2,30,000 on the KTM 250 Adventure motorcycle. Under the latest discount, the price of the motorcycle has been slashed by ₹25,000. Read moreElon Musk’s reaction to tweet about Richard Branson’s cabinets goes viralSpaceX CEO Elon Musk’s reply to a tweet about the cabinets in billionaire Richard Branson’s house has created quite a buzz online. There is a possibility that the post and Musk’s reply to it will leave you chuckling. Read morePulitzer-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in AfghanistanIndian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was killed in Afghanistan's Kandahar while on a reporting assignment to the war-torn country. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-manish-tewari-fuels-speculation-on-power-tussle-within-punjab-congress-and-all-the-latest-news-101626433632988.html
16-07-2021||India||People brave rains in Tamil Nadu for Covid vaccines, but shortage hits drive||Incessant rains failed to deter people from coming out in large numbers for a vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease in Chennai. The special drive was conducted by the government at all government arts and science colleges on Thursday, according to a report in Tamil daily Dinakaran.However, the drive was hit by shortage with over 600 people being forced to return without receiving the vaccines. Some people have started travelling to neighbouring districts to get the doses. With the monsoon at its peak, locals have also urged the authorities to provide adequate facilities at these vaccination centres. Tokens could be provided to people who reach the vaccination centers as early as 7am, they said. The shortage of vaccines for those scheduled to receive their second dose is more prevalent in some districts like Tirunelveli.Meanwhile, another Tamil daily, Dinamalar, reported the state has received another consignment of 6,93,210 doses of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines from the central government. The allotment came days after chief minister MK Stalin wrote to the Centre appealing for one crore vaccine doses as compensatory allocation to the state. State health minister Ma Subramanian also met his Union counterpart Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday and made the demand in person.Later during the day, 91,580 doses of Covaxin arrived from Hyderabad in a flight. The Covishield consignment numbering 6,01,630 doses was sent from Serum Institute in a flight from Pune to Chennai. The vaccine doses were collected by the state health officials and were taken to the state government godown at Teynampet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-brave-rains-in-tamil-nadu-for-covid-vaccines-but-shortage-hits-drive-101626433507656.html
16-07-2021||India||Mask usage will go down in August-September, Centre warns citing projection||The Union health ministry on Friday cautioned against the declining usage of masks among people and said that the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, though limited in a few pockets, is not yet over. With the resumption of activities, mask usage is declining, joint secretary of the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal said during the weekly press meet of the ministry.In a graph, which projected the decline in mask usage, it was revealed that mask usage spiked during March-April and reached its peak in May, which witnessed the peak of the second wave, but now the trend has been on a steady decline in June and July. As projected, the usage of masks will decline further, against which the government warned."We have to guard against this decline projected in this analysis," Lav Agarwal said.Earlier, the ministry cited four reasons why people avoid masks and said that people are refusing to wear masks complaining of breathing problems, discomfort, while many believe that masks do not help in the prevention of Covid-19 and also mask is not required if social distancing is maintained.Amid the growing apprehension of a third wave in India, which has already set its footprints in other countries, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday interacted with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala, the states which are still reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases. "It's very important that states with a rising number of cases take proactive measures to rule out any possibility of a third wave," PM Modi said adding that a similar trend was witnessed in January and February before the second wave started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mask-usage-will-go-down-in-august-september-centre-warns-citing-projection-101626432526159.html
16-07-2021||India||Six districts under rain fury in Karnataka; One person dies in worst-hit Kodagu||One person died after he was washed away in floodwaters in Karnataka’s Kodagu district on Friday as rain fury led to massive damage in the southern state. At present, Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Shivamogga are the worst affected districts, according to a report in Kannada daily Prajavani.The death took place at Avandoor village in Madikeri taluk earlier in the day hours after the Harangi dam in Kodagu district reached its brim, following which over 6,000 cusecs of water was released into the river inundating the lower riparian areas and villages. According to the Harangi dam engineering department, the dam will be full to its capacity in the next two days if the rain fury in the catchment area continued.In Madikeri, the district headquarters of Kodagu, work on a retaining wall to the district headquarters building has been affected due to the massive rainfall. Two houses have been damaged by the rainwater in Kodlipet.In Hassan district, floodwater has washed away a hillock, Adanagudde, in Aanemahal. Many arecanut and coffee plantations in Sakleshpur taluk of Hassan district have also been inundated due to heavy to very heavy rains that the district has been receiving for the last two days.The stretch of National Highway 75 between Donigal and Marnahalli in Sakleshpur taluk has been flooded with debris from flood water for a distance of 6km. The highway was blocked on this stretch for sometime on the night of July 15.The Yagachi dam near Hassan is also filled up to its maximum level. As a result of the excess water being allowed to flow on the river, two houses in Arehalli Koplu have been damaged severely.Shivamogga district also reported severe damage to property due to rain-related issues. Houses, public offices and roads in Soraba and Thirthahalli taluks have been affected due to the continuous downpour. State highways were flooded at Chandragutti and Hanagere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-districts-under-rain-fury-in-karnataka-one-person-dies-in-worst-hit-kodagu-101626427596335.html
16-07-2021||India||Two Indian organisations win UNDP Equator Prize 2021||Aadhimalai Pazhangudiyinar Producer Company Limited and Snehakunja Trust are among the 10 awardees of the prestigious Equator Prize for their work in the field of conservation and biodiversity, said United Nations Development Fund (UNDP).The UNDP gives a biennial award to recognize community efforts to reduce poverty through the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.“Two communities from India bag this year’s prestigious UNDP Equator Prize, for their exceptional achievement in showcasing local, innovative, nature-based solutions for tackling biodiversity loss and climate change and achieving their local development goals,” the UNDP said in a statement.Aadhimalai Pazhangudiyinar Producer Company Limited is a 1,700-member cooperative, managed and run entirely by indigenous people from the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve in Tamil Nadu and its work in the past eight years has improved livelihood across 147 villages by processing and marketing a diverse range of forest produce and crops.Through local value addition, members earn premium prices on a wide range of products including those collected sustainably from the reserve such as honey, soap nuts and berries and phoenix leaves, and as well as those cultivated organically such as coffee, pepper, silk cotton, cereals, spices and fruits. Shareholders regularly monitor harvesting and agricultural practices to ensure product quality and prevent overuse of resources, said the UNDP statement.Snehakunja Trust has protected sensitive wetland and coastal ecosystems in the Western Ghats and the Karnataka coast for 45 years with a focus on community-based restoration and conservation, the UNDP statement read.It added that this organization has supported hundreds of self-help groups and village forest committees to sustainably manage resources based on traditional knowledge, implement natural farming techniques, use clean energy, promote entrepreneurship, and provide community health services, said the UNDP statement. The trust is currently piloting the country’s first blue carbon project.“We need a profound transformation in our economic and development models that will drive forward the protection and restoration of our natural world,” said UNDP Administrator, Achim Steiner, adding that this year’s winners demonstrate that this transformation was already happening.The winners received a prize of US$10,000 and the opportunity to join a series of special virtual events associated with the UN General Assembly, the Nature for Life Hub, and the UN Food Systems Summit later this year. The virtual award ceremony is scheduled for 4 October 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-indian-organisations-win-undp-equator-prize-2021-101626432318425.html
16-07-2021||India||Flying to Canada from India? Know about vaccine, flight restrictions||Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Thursday said that the country will be reopening to fully vaccinated foreigners in several phases. It is likely to welcome fully vaccinated Americans from the middle of August, while for other countries, it will open its doors from early September. This is for non-essential travel.As of now, Canada is continuing its ban on all direct flights from India until July 21. But Indians who are not yet vaccinated are not prohibited to enter the country, provided they fall in the exempt categories, as Canada has suggested alternative measures.Here is all you need to know1. Canada is not accepting Covid-19 negative test reports from India.2. As direct flights between India and Canada are stalled as of now, Indians travelling to Canada will have to first go to a third country, where they can get themselves tested.3. Indians will have to stay in that third country for at least 14 days.4. If an Indian tests positive during the transit, he or she will be quarantined or sent back to the point of departure.5. Albania, Belgrade, Cairo are some of the countries where Indians can travel to and stay before flying to Canada.6. The pre-departure Covid-19 molecular test is not optional for fully vaccinated individuals. Everyone will have to get tested.7. Pfizer, Moderna, Covishield and Johnson and Johnson vaccines are recognised in Canada.8. Covaxin is not yet recognised in Canada but Ocugen Inc., Bharat Biotech's partner, has applied to Health Canada for approval, now that Bharat Biotech has phase 3 clinical trial results as well.Canada has imposed restrictions on its border since March last year. It has banned flights from India in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic in India. The ban on direct flights from India has been extended several times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/planning-to-travel-to-canada-from-india-know-about-vaccine-flight-restrictions-101626429498598.html
16-07-2021||India||In boost to Centre's Udan scheme, SpiceJet starts 8 new flights connecting Madhya Pradesh||Budget airliner SpiceJet will start operating eight new flights connecting Madhya Pradesh with Maharashtra and Gujarat from Friday. The services are being seen as a major boost to the central government’s UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme which aims to enhance air connectivity to remote areas and make such travel more affordable.In a tweet, the civil aviation ministry wrote, “@flyspicejet will commence operations on these eight new routes: Gwalior-Mumbai-Gwalior, Gwalior-Pune-Gwalior, Jabalpur-Surat-Jabalpur, & Ahmedabad-Gwalior-Ahmedabad.”The ministry said the new flight routes will boost aerial connectivity of Gwalior and Jabalpur with Maharashtra and Gujarat and further improve economic activity.Enhanced Connectivity for Madhya Pradesh! In a bid to boost the regional connectivity of MP, Sh @JM_Scindia Ji, HMCA along with Sh @ChouhanShivraj, CM, MP virtually flagged off 8 new routes from Madhya Pradesh to Maharashtra & Gujarat today. #SabUdenSabJuden #IncredibleIndia pic.twitter.com/fxVE5Dm2giThe routes were virtually flagged off at an event on Friday which was attended by the newly appointed aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. “Rakesh Singh, MP, Jabalpur, Sh Pradeep Singh Kharola, Secretary, MoCA, and other senior officials were also present during the flag off,” the aviation ministry tweeted.Addressing the event, Chouhan said it is important to join all cities of India by means of airways to ensure that the country continues to prosper, adding through the UDAN scheme, several small cities have been provided with air connectivity.“It is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream that a person wearing slippers also gets to travel by air. Today, air travel is not only important for the rich, it has become a necessity for development. Hence, the middle classes and the lower middle classes want to travel by air and save time,” Chouhan said.Thanking the stakeholders responsible for this landmark step, the Madhya Pradesh chief minister further said he hoped that SpiceJet keeps on increasing flights in the state and assured of all possible cooperation from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-starts-8-new-flights-connecting-madhya-pradesh-from-today-101626426976187.html
16-07-2021||India||MEMU train services resume between Hosur and Bengaluru as Covid curbs ease||Hosur: The Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) train services between Karnataka’s capital Bengaluru and Tamil Nadu’s industrial city Hosur commenced from Thursday. The train services were suspended after the second wave of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic started raging in both the states. Tamil Nadu announced a statewide lockdown from May 10, while Karnataka also announced similar curbs as cases started peaking during that time.With the situation improving, both the states are in the process of easing restrictions and resuming MEMU services are part of the unlocking measures. Post-lockdown, the MEMU train departed from Krantivira Sangoli Rayanna (KSR) Bengaluru city junction at 9.25 am on Thursday and reached Hosur at 11 am. The 16-coach MEMU can transport as many as 1,500 passengers at a time and charges ₹20 to commute between Bengaluru and Hosur. The South Western Railway also announced resumption of Bangarpet-Marikuppam MEMU trains from Thursday, Tamil daily Dinamani reported.Hosur Railway Manager Kumaran said the MEMU services were suspended for the last two months due to the COVID19 pandemic. The services resumed since the pandemic situation improved in both states.Situated 40km away from Bengaluru on National Highway 48, Hosur is a key industrial city in Tamil Nadu and is fast turning into a satellite city of Bengaluru as the city expands. Hosur is also the home to major industries like TVS, Ashok Leyland, Titan, Caterpillar, and many other industries. Hundreds of people commute between these two cities on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/memu-train-services-resume-between-hosur-and-bengaluru-as-covid-curbs-ease-101626426398474.html
16-07-2021||India||Manish Tewari’s tweet fuels speculation over power tussle within Congress’ Punjab unit||Congress leader Manish Tewari’s tweet on Punjab’s demographic composition has fuelled speculation about the power tussle within the party’s unit in the state even as a change in its leadership seems imminent.In the tweet, Tewari underlined Sikhs comprise 57.75% of the state’s population while Hindus 38.49%, and Dalits (both Sikh and Hindu) account for 31:94%. “Punjab is both progressive & SECULAR. balancing SOCIAL INTEREST GROUPs is key. EQUALITY,” he added.Party insiders say the tweet is part of Tewari’s effort to underline to the Congress leadership that the balance is essential for the party’s prospects in Punjab, where polls are due in early 2022.Tewari is a former Union minister and a member of Parliament from Punjab’s Anandpur Sahib. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh is seen to be in favour of having Tewari as the state Congress chief.Also Read | Based on a ground survey in Punjab, Congress devises a compromise formulaThe tweet came as former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu is expected to meet Congress chief Sonia Gandhi amid infighting in the party’s Punjab unit and speculation over the former’s appointment as its head.The party is believed to be working on a formula to have Singh and Sidhu work together ahead of the elections.Sidhu on Thursday met some Cabinet ministers and lawmakers at the residence of minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. He sought their support. Singh also held a meeting of his supporters and lawmakers and reportedly spoke to Gandhi and expressed his displeasure over Sidhu’s possible elevation.Congress’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat on Thursday said Singh will continue as the chief minister. “The party will fight the elections under him.” When asked about Sidhu’s likely appointment as the new state unit chief, Rawat said the final approval of the party president is awaited. Rawat’s comments intensified speculation about Sidhu, who has emerged as a vocal critic of Singh, replacing Sunil Jakhar as the state chief.Rawat is also one of three members of a committee set up to resolve the crisis in the party in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tewaris-tweet-fuels-speculation-over-power-tussle-within-congress-s-punjab-unit-101626426073011.html
16-07-2021||India||Delta major reason for Covid breakthrough infection: 10 findings of ICMR study||The Indian Council of Medical Research conducted a nationwide study on breakthrough Covid infection when an individual gets infected even after vaccination -- either one dose or both doses. Reinfections and breakthrough infections are not uncommon; as several such cases have been reported during the second wave of the pandemic. While natural immunity which develops after getting the infection once is likely to protect for 10 to 11 months, studies are on to find out how long vaccine-induced immunity stays.For this study, ICMR collected 677 clinical samples of individuals who have been partially or fully vaccinated but have again contracted the infection.Here are the top 10 findings:1. Majority (Over 86 per cent)of the breakthrough infections have been caused by the Delta variant.2. Only 9.8 per cent of such cases (breakthrough) required hospitalisation.3. Fataity was observed in only 0.4 per cent of cases.4. The study found that Alpha was predominant behind reinfection in the northern region.5. Delta and Kappa mainly caused breakthrough infections in the southern, western, eastern and north-western regions.6. Around 71% of these breakthrough infections were symptomatic and 29% was asymptomatic. The symptoms included fever, nausea, cough, sore throat etc. A smaller proportion reported a loss of smell and taste. Only 6 per cent reported breathlessness.7. Vaccine has effectively reduced Covid-19 severity and the number of hospitalisation, the study confirmed.8. Vaccine alone, however, may not be a protection against contracting the infection as out of the 677 patients whose samples were studied, 85 got infected after taking the first dose. The rest 592 received both the doses and then got infected.9. Though this is not a study on the effect of the vaccines, it has been noted that among these 677, 604 received Covishield, 71 Covaxin and two received China's Sinopharm vaccine.10. The study also noted that between March and June, there was "high community transmission" of the Delta variant of the infection, followed by Alpha and Kappa variants.The samples were collected from 17 states and Union territories, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Manipur, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Puducherry, New Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-major-reason-for-covid-breakthrough-infection-10-findings-of-icmr-study-101626423383435.html
16-07-2021||India||By choice? Monkey drinks liquor like a pro at shop in Madhya Pradesh||A video of a monkey drinking alcohol perched atop the counter of a foreign liquor shop in Mandla district of Madhya Pradesh has surfaced on internet. In the 1.14-minute clip, the monkey can be seen unscrewing the cap like an expert using its teeth and hands, at which point the shop owner makes a failed attempt to distract it with a biscuit.An onlooker asks if the monkey came to the shop by mistake or by choice as a gaggle of laughter can be heard in the background. The mischief maker unscrews the cap by holding the bottle against its toes and licks its arms before guzzling down the liquid.Monkeys have been making news lately with videos of their appearances at unusual places doing the rounds on social media. On June 21, a monkey had sneaked into a metro compartment in Delhi and took a seat. A video clip went viral on social media showing the monkey travelling inside the Metro train on the Blue Line. The monkey sneaked into the train at Akshardham Metro station and remained in the train for three-four minutes. Staff of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) acted swiftly after being informed about the incident and the train was evacuated at the next station.Also Read: DMRC to work out SOPs after monkey enters Delhi Metro coachIn a statement, the DMRC advised passengers not to feed the simians as that would encourage them to enter metro rail premises and trains. "In this connection, the DMRC would like to appeal and advise passengers to refrain from encouraging, feeding or indulging in any activity which may endanger them in such a situation," the DMRC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/by-choice-monkey-drinks-liquor-like-a-pro-at-shop-in-madhya-pradesh-101626423503699.html
16-07-2021||India||Like Kamdhenu: Assam to use sex-sorted semen to breed only cows, no bulls||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has the state will be will start artificially inseminating its cattle using sex-sorted semen so that after 10-20 years, only superior breeds of cows, and no bulls, will be born."The veterinary department has told me that we can go for artificial insemination in cattle using sex-sorted semen. This would mean that 10 to 20 years later, the cattle breed will be only cows, and no bulls," Sarma said.The use of sex-sorted semen allows the sex of the offspring to be pre-determined.According to a report in PTI, Sarma invoked figures of Hindu mythology to suggest that historically cows have been more in number than bulls because of the benefits one can derive from them. "If we look at Hindu parampara or ancient history, there is reference only to female cattle, like Kamdhenu, and how we were benefited with milk. That means there must have been something which ensured that cows were more in number than bulls," the chief minister said.Also Read: Assam’s cow protection law move raises concerns in MeghalayaSarma also announced plans to construct cow shelters in tea garden areas to house seized cattle safely. He said the cow dung collected from the seized cattle can be used as fertilisers in the tea gardens.The chief minister made these comments during a discussion on a special mention brought by All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) legislator Aminul Islam.Sarma had tabled the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, in the state assembly on the first day of the Budget session. The legislation seeks to ban the transport of cattle from any place within Assam to places outside the state “where slaughter of cattle is not regulated by law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-kamdhenu-assam-to-use-sex-sorted-semen-to-breed-only-cows-no-bulls-101626420168204.html
16-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi urges states with high Covid cases to take more proactive measures and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Take more proactive measures: PM Modi urges states with high Covid-19 casesPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday states reporting a large number of new Covid-19 cases must take proactive measures to stop a potential third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Read MoreDMK MP Kanimozhi recommends lowering penalties on fishermenDravida Munnetra Kazhgam MP K Kanimozhi recommended lowering the penalties imposed on fishermen, during a virtual meeting with union fisheries minister Parshottam Rupala. Read MoreUK’s largest warship enters Indian Ocean, to conduct exercises with Indian NavyThe UK’s largest warship, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike task group has sailed into the Indian Ocean region, where it will conduct joint exercises with the Indian Navy as part of Britain’s efforts to enhance its profile in the Indo-Pacific. Read MoreGanguly defends Pant after India keeper tests Covid-positive, says 'impossible to wear mask all time': ReportFormer India captain and current BCCI president Sourav Ganguly threw his weight behind Rishabh Pant as concerns rose after the India wicketkeeper-batsman tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of India’s Test series against England, starting on August 4. Read MorePriyanka Chopra pairs ₹2.5 lakh Fendi bag with turtleneck crop top, mini skirtSetting the fashion police on alert with her ravishing look, Priyanka Chopra Jonas walked down the London streets at her sizzling best recently and we are hooked to her cutting-edge and chic look not in any loud tones but a casual style that embraced neutrals. Read MoreFarah Khan celebrates dog’s birthday with special ‘cake’. Seen viral video yet?If you are a pet parent or someone who loves exploring the different videos of cats and dogs online, you may be aware of how much the humans love celebrating special days of their furry babies. Read MoreWhen Surekha Sikri revealed her husband Hemant Rege would tease her about Balika VadhuSurekha Sikri died on Friday, July 16, after a cardiac arrest. The veteran actor, who appeared in numerous movies and television shows, married Hemant Rege in 1994. Read More'Inhuman kidnapping by Indian agencies': Choksi's tape after return to AntiguaFugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi alleged kidnapping attempt by Indian agencies. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-urges-states-with-high-covid-cases-to-take-more-proactive-measures-and-all-the-latest-news-101626419275848.html
16-07-2021||India||At least 4 drones spotted hovering over military stations in Jammu||At least four drones were spotted hovering over military installations in Jammu, Samba, and Kathua districts of Jammu & Kashmir between 7.10pm and 8.45pm on Thursday, people aware of the matter said.Drones have been repeatedly spotted in the region since June 27 when a drone was used to target the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu with explosives last month. The explosives left two personnel injured.An official said the first unidentified flying object on Thursday was spotted by guards of a military station. The object was seen moving from Nagrota to Jammu. “Another suspicious flying object with constant white light was observed over Kharian garrison at 8.10pm. After flying overhead, it turned southwards towards Indreshwar Nagar in Miran Sahib area of RS Pura sector,” said the official, requesting anonymity.He added the device was flying at a height of 700-800 metres above the ground and no sound was heard. Another suspected drone with blinking white light was spotted at 8.15 pm over a military station at Nandpur in Arnia in the Jammu district. “Troops of 17 Garhwal at Nandpur Tibba fired eight rounds toward the flying object which was flying at a height of around 250 metres above the ground level. It was spotted for about a minute,” said the official.The flying object reportedly came from Arnia and moved towards Jammu. Nandpur is around eight to nine km from the India-Pakistan border.A similar blinking light was seen over Satwari garrison around 8.45 pm. The object moved from west to east towards Satwari Chowk in Jammu city.Also Read | India eases drone norms in boost for future techVivek Singh, a resident of Hiranagar in the Kathua district, spotted a drone around 8.45 pm. He shot a video of the object on his mobile and handed the clip to the police for investigation.At least two drones were also spotted flying near Samba garrison on Thursday night, prompting soldiers to fire on them.The June 27 attack on the air force station was the first such instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital installations in India. The National Investigation Agency is investigating the case.Jammu & Kashmir Police believe the drones come from across the border.Drones were spotted hovering over military stations in Jammu for four consecutive days after June 27 attack.Border Security Force troops also fired on a suspected Pakistani drone along the India-Pakistan border in Arnia on Tuesday. Another drone was spotted in Pallanwala in Akhnoor late on Wednesday.There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu & Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs, and money to fuel terrorism in the region.At least 300 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-drones-spotted-hovering-over-military-stations-in-jammu-101626420312758.html
16-07-2021||India||Dakshina Kannada steps up vigilance on borders with Kerala over Zika virus cases||Dakshina Kannada in Karnataka has sounded an alert over the surge in the cases of the deadly Zika virus in the neighbouring state of Kerala, Udayavani reported on Friday. Dr Rajendra KV, the deputy commissioner of Dakshina Kannada, alerted the medical corps of the district during an emergency meeting held in his office. He instructed the officials to screen as many people as possible entering Karnataka from Kerala for fever and other symptoms that the Zika virus manifests, according to the newspaper.More precautionary measures have been directed by Rajendra to curb the spreading of Zika virus. Those having symptoms similar to that of Chikungunya and Dengue should also be asked to go to the nearest hospital and report the symptoms, he said. The senior official said that the health department will also have to record the travel history of those with symptoms of Zika. Simple diagnosis like blood tests must be conducted on people with symptoms of the disease, he also said.The health department has been directed to inform and instruct people to control breeding of mosquitoes in and around their houses. Things like old tyres, empty discarded vessels or anything that is capable of gathering rain water or wastewater should be cleared. Zika is a vector borne disease and is carried usually by the day biting mosquito called Aedes Aegypti. They breed in freshly collected water, said the socio medical health workers.Dr. Rajendra said hundreds of people travel every day to Mangaluru, Puttur and Sullia cacross the border of both the states and that there are chances of them carrying the virus into Karnataka.Mangaluru gets around 1200 to 1600 visitors every day from Kasargod, Kannur and other places for business, health, work and education related works. Similarly, there is a heavy inflow of visitors from Kerala to districts like Chamarajanagar and Mysuru in Karnataka on a daily basis.Deputy commissioners of these districts are also likely to announce a vigil on the border area for controlling the spread of Zika virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dakshina-kannada-steps-up-vigilance-on-borders-with-kerala-over-zika-virus-cases-101626418521021.html
16-07-2021||India||Take more proactive measures: PM Modi urges states with high Covid-19 cases||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday states reporting a large number of new Covid-19 cases must take proactive measures to stop a potential third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. PM Modi made the comments during a virtual meeting with chief ministers of six states with high Covid-19 positivity rates and reviewed measures to tackle the evolving threat.These states -- Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, and Maharashtra -- have seen a marked rise in Covid-19 cases across several districts in the recent past.Also Read | Covid-19 negative test report must for tourists to enter Nilgiris"We are at a point where there are talks of a possible third wave of the pandemic," PM Modi said, pointing out that in the last few days around 80% of new Covid-19 cases have come from these six states.Prime Minister Modi said that officials need to ramp up the 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate' approach to tackle the rising Covid-19 cases. States must use the ₹23,000-crore emergency response package announced by the central government, he said, to fill the gaps in health infrastructure.PM Modi said that the rising Covid-19 cases across the world are a warning sign for India to not take the threat lightly. Reiterating his concern over unmasked tourists flocking to towns and cities, the Prime Minister said the administration must remind citizens that Covid-19 is not yet over.Also Read | Don't take Covid third wave predictions as 'weather update', says govtPM Modi also asked each of these six states to complete the PSA plants projects that had been allocated. "I have been informed that of the 332 PSA plants allocated to your states to combat the Covid-19 threat, only 53 have been commissioned," PM Modi highlighted. "I request every state to complete all the PSA plants that have been assigned on an emergency basis."The Prime Minister's interaction with the chief ministers of these six states comes after he chaired a similar virtual meet with the heads of the northeastern regions on Tuesday. Prime Minister Modi stressed the importance of 'micromanagement' to tackle Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-more-proactive-measures-pm-modi-urges-states-with-high-covid-19-cases-101626418360303.html
16-07-2021||India||UK’s largest warship enters Indian Ocean, to conduct exercises with Indian Navy||The UK’s largest warship, the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike task group has sailed into the Indian Ocean region, where it will conduct joint exercises with the Indian Navy as part of Britain’s efforts to enhance its profile in the Indo-Pacific. Britain has described the maiden voyage of HMS Queen Elizabeth and its task group as the country’s most ambitious naval deployment for two decades, and the warships will also sail to the South China Sea for military drills with the US Navy and Japan’s Maritime Self-Defense Force. UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab said on Friday the carrier group’s deployment “marks the start of a new era of defence cooperation with allies in India and the Indo-Pacific”. He added, “By visiting 40 countries and working alongside our partners, the UK is standing up for democratic values, seizing new trading opportunities and tackling the shared threats we face together.” “This deployment will provide tangible reassurance and security to the UK’s friends and a credible deterrence to those who seek to undermine global security,” the British high commission said in a statement. The carrier group entered the Indian Ocean region after a series of engagements and operations in the Mediterranean. The 65,000-tonne carrier will participate in the Konkan exercise with warships of the Indian Navy in the Bay of Bengal. The drills are expected to be conducted around the Andaman and Nicobar Islands with the involvement of Indian destroyers, submarines and P8I anti-submarine warfare aircraft. On its way back to the UK later in the year, the carrier group is expected to join another tri-services exercise with the Indian military in the Arabian Sea in October. All three services are expected to participate in this three-day war game. Britain said HMS Queen Elizabeth’s deployment represents the country’s commitment to deeper diplomatic, economic and security ties with India and in the Indo-Pacific region, and also demonstrates the UK’s support for freedom of passage through vital trading routes and for a free, open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific. Defence secretary Ben Wallace said: “The UK carrier strike group deployment is a major moment for UK defence as we develop this cutting edge capability across the globe. The group is sailing the Indian Ocean and will shortly conduct exercises with the Indian Navy, building on our already strong partnership with an important ally and friend.” The deployment reflects the UK’s commitment to strengthening existing alliances and forging new partnerships with like-minded countries to face the challenges of the 21st century, he added. The carrier group sailed into the Indian Ocean shortly after the UK’s posted its first international liaison officer at the Indian Navy’s Information Fusion Centre-Indian Ocean Region (IFC-IOR) in Gurugram. The US, Australia, France and Japan also have a presence at the centre, which tracks shipping and monitors threats such as maritime terrorism and piracy in regional waters. Lieutenant Commander Stephen Smith, who was posted at the centre last month, works with India’s armed forces and liaison officers from the other nations to enhance maritime domain awareness in the region. As part of its maiden operational deployment, the UK carrier group will sail more than 26,000 nautical miles and engage with 40 countries from the Mediterranean to the Indo-Pacific and back again. The carrier group’s presence in Indian waters will give the Indian military an opportunity to assess first-hand the capabilities of its fifth generation F-35B Lightning multi-role aircraft, which are jointly manned by the Royal Air Force, Royal Navy and US Marine Corps. The carrier group also serves as the spearhead of the UK’s joint expeditionary capability and a cornerstone of the country’s conventional military deterrent. The group includes six Royal Navy ships and a submarine, a US Navy destroyer, a frigate from the Netherlands and 32 aircraft, and is manned by 3,700 sailors, aviators and marines from the combined forces of the UK, US and the Netherlands. HMS Queen Elizabeth is the largest surface vessel constructed in the UK. Taller than the Niagara Falls, her propellers generate the power of 50 high-speed trains. Among the countries with which the UK carrier group will have engagements in the region are Singapore, South Korea and Japan, and these interactions will build on other efforts by Britain to enhance its profile in the Indo-Pacific. These efforts include seeking Asean dialogue partner status, negotiations to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and trade talks with Australia, New Zealand and India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uks-largest-warship-enters-indian-ocean-to-conduct-exercises-with-indian-navy-101626419172785.html
16-07-2021||India||DMK MP Kanimozhi recommends lowering penalties on fishermen||Dravida Munnetra Kazhgam MP K Kanimozhi recommended lowering the penalties imposed on fishermen, during a virtual meeting with union fisheries minister Parshottam Rupala. The union minister held a meeting with the Members of Parliament from coastal areas to get their views on the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill, 2021.“The penalties proposed under Schedule II of the bill for Indian fishing vessels are too high for fishermen to bear. Since it is their livelihood, the higher penalty will impact them severely and, in some cases, it may force them to give up fishing. Hence, the penalties may be reduced to a lower amount,” Kanimozhi recommended in the meeting.The lowering of penalties was one of nine recommendations made by the Thoothukudi MP. She recommended a transfer of rule-making power from the Central government to respective state governments. She said this will enable the state governments to amend the rules according to the local situation, which may not be possible if the rules are to be made by the Central government.Also Read | Tamil Nadu: 7.8 million women availed of free bus travel in 3 days“The Act must give powers to state governments to protect the rights of traditional fishing boats to fish in the territorial waters, EEZ and also the high seas,” she added.Kanimozhi also recommended more clarity on terms such as “fisherman”, “processing” and “live transportation” of fishes in the draft Indian Marine Fisheries Bill 2021.Another recommendation made by her is more clarity on the laws regarding imprisonment for obstruction of authorised officers. “Penalty for obstruction of authorised officers, imprisonment for a period of one year for obstructing the authorised officer is too broad and unclear. This will lead to unnecessary harassment of fishermen at the hands of authorised officers,” a press note from the MP read.The Indian Marine Fisheries Bill 2021 is one of the 23 bills the Modi government intends to table in the upcoming monsoon Parliamentary session, scheduled to commence on Monday. This bill will repeal the Maritime Zones of India (Regulation of Fishing by Foreign Vessels) Act, 1981. It shall also provide for the sustainable development of fisheries resources in the exclusive Economic Zone of India and promote the livelihoods of small-scale and artisanal fishers and related matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-mp-kanimozhi-recommends-lowering-penalties-on-fishermen-101626417012789.html
16-07-2021||India||Right to life greater than religious right: SC asks UP to reconsider its decision of allowing Kanwar Yatra||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to reconsider its decision to allow Kanwar Yatra inside the state with a limited number of pilgrims and asked the government to instead consider a complete ban on the physical movement of Kanwariyas in the state. The government will have to reply by Monday on which date the case will again be heard.A bench led by Justice RF Nariman, which took a suo moto cognisance of the case based on "alarming newspaper report", noted that the matter concerns everyone and goes at the very heart of Article 21. "The health of citizens of India and right to life is paramount. All other sentiments -- be in religious-- are subservient to this basic fundamental right," the bench noted.The bench also mentioned the fear of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and as the Uttar Pradesh government defended the decision of holding the yatra for a few people, the bench said, "Either we can pass orders, or give you an opportunity to reconsider holding yatra physically at all."The Uttar Pradesh government told the Apex Court that the yatra will be symbolic and only a few people will take part in it, while the solicitor general said the state government can make arrangements to make gangajal available for the devotees.The Kanwar Yatra became a contentious issue this year after the Uttarakhand government cancelled the yatra in view of the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the second year that the yatra remains suspended. However, the Uttar Pradesh government decided to go on with a symbolic procession of the pilgrims starting from July 25.Kanwar Yatra is a procession of devotees of Shiva who walk barefoot with pitchers hanging from Kanwars (slings) on their shoulders. They get water from the Ganga River from sacred places mostly falling in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Then they carry the water back to their native places. The water is used for worshipping Shiv Lingams.After the Uttarakhand government cancelled the yatra and the Uttar Pradesh governmenyt did not, the Supreme Court took a cognisance of the issue. The Indian Medical Association's Uttarakhand chapter had written to Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami requesting him to suspend the annual yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-complete-ban-sc-asks-up-govt-to-reconsider-kanwar-yatra-decision-101626416281697.html
16-07-2021||India||States mustn't allow Kanwar yatra, but make Ganga jal available: Centre in SC||The Central government filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court on Friday stating that state governments must not permit movement of Kanwariyas for bringing of water from the Ganga river from Haridwar in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, considering religious sentiments, the governments should develop a system to make the sacred water available via tankers at designated locations, it said according to a report by news agency ANI.The Centre said the state governments must also ensure that distribution of water from the Ganga among devotees and rituals by such devotees in the nearby Shiv temples take place while mandatorily ensuring social distancing norms, wearing of masks and adhering to all steps required to contain the spread of the viral disease.The Supreme Court had sought responses from the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government on the matter as it took suo motu cognisance of the Yogi Adityanath administration’s decision to allow the Kanwar yatra from July 25 amid the pandemic.A bench, headed by Justice RF Nariman, had referred to a statement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that not even a bit of compromise can be made on containment of the pandemic and said citizens were perplexed about the fact that the UP government has given a go-ahead to the the annual pilgrimage.The Centre further informed the court that tankers be available at identified and designated locations so that nearby devotees can collect such Ganga Jal and do 'abhishek' at their nearest Shiv temples.Recently, the Uttarakhand government had cancelled the yatra, citing an imminent third wave of the coronavirus disease that has claimed thousands of lives across the country.UP’s Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh said on Thursday his government will look into the directions issued by the Supreme Court over the Kanwar Yatra and will ensure that Covid protocols are followed during the annual pilgrimage.Every year, thousands of 'Kanwariyas' (mostly young devotees of Lord Shiva) from the northern states travel on foot or by other means to collect water from the River Ganga at Haridwar and Rishikesh to offer at Shiva temples in their areas as part of the yatra during the Hindu month of 'Saavan' (July and August).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-mustn-t-allow-kanwar-yatra-but-make-ganga-jal-available-centre-in-sc-101626415427832.html
16-07-2021||India||78 militants neutralised by security forces this year in Kashmir: Top cop||Seventy-eight militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year, said the police on Friday. Most of the militants killed in operations were affiliated with Lashkar and included some of the top commanders involved in attacks on the forces, said Inspector general of police (Kashmir Range) Vijay Kumar on Friday.“In these encounters, most of the terrorists (killed) were affiliated with proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (39 out of 78) followed by Hizbul Mujahideen, and Al-Badr,” he said.Also Read | Two militants killed in Srinagar gunfight: PoliceOperations have been particularly successful in south Kashmir -- most of the militants were eliminated in districts of Anantnag, Pulwama, Shopian and Kulgam. Most of them were locals who had joined the militant ranks in the past one or two years, he said.Recently, top Lashkar commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat, who was allegedly involved in several killings of security forces and had joined the militants’ ranks in 2018, was killed.Last week, Hizbul Mujahideen militant commander Mehrajuddin Halwai from Sopore was killed after his detention by security forces in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Police said he was killed when he was taken to retrieve his weapon from a hideout where he allegedly picked up his rifle and started firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-militants-neutralised-by-security-forces-this-year-in-kashmir-top-cop-101626414372437.html
16-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu in Delhi today, likely to meet Congress chief Sonia Gandhi||Former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday left for Delhi, where he is expected to meet Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Congress’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat is also expected to attend the meeting amid infighting in the party and speculation over Sidhu’s appointment as the head of the state unit.The party is believed to be working on a formula to have chief minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu work together ahead of the elections in Punjab next year.Also Read | Captain to lead poll campaign, buzz persists over Sidhu’s roleSidhu on Thursday met some Cabinet ministers and lawmakers at the residence of minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. He sought their support. Singh also held a meeting of his supporters and lawmakers and reportedly spoke to Gandhi and expressed his displeasure over Sidhu’s possible elevation.Rawat on Thursday said Singh will continue as the chief minister. “The party will fight the elections under him,” he added. When asked about Sidhu’s likely appointment as the new state unit chief of the Congress in Punjab, Rawat said the final approval of the party president is awaited. Rawat’s comments intensified speculation about Sidhu, who has emerged as a vocal critic of Singh, replacing Sunil Jakhar as the state chief.Rawat is also one of three members of a committee set up to resolve the crisis in the party in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-in-delhi-today-likely-to-meet-congress-chief-sonia-gandhi-101626413352359.html
16-07-2021||India||'Covid 3rd wave can be bigger than second if...': What AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said||Amid apprehension of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, regarding which several mathematical predictions, projections are going around, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that there might be many scenarios of the possible third wave if it comes. If all restrictions are lifted and a variant is able to escape immunity, then the next wave can be bigger than the second wave, Dr Guleria said, citing one possibility as projected by an IIT mathematical model.If there is a balance between restrictions and reopening, with some restriction remaining in place, the impact will not be as huge as it was during the second wave, provided the virus also remains stable, Dr Guleria said."One such model from an IIT shows that if all restrictions are lifted and if a virus (variant) is also able to escape immunity then the next wave can be bigger than the second wave. If some restrictions are kept and the virus also remains stable then cases will not be much and if we keep more restrictions then cases will further reduce," he said.Explaining what may strengthen the third wave, Dr Guleria listed three factors including waning immunity, the emergence of a more transmissible variant, and lockdown relaxations as the possible reasons. In the case of waning immunity, individuals who have been exposed to the virus before again come to the susceptible state if they remain unvaccinated, once the natural immunity subsides.'Vaccines can be tweaked'Dr Guleria said that as evident for the third wave in other countries, vaccines are working, as the rate of hospitalisation has come down. He also said that available vaccines can be tweaked after detailed studies, if new variants emerge.Covid 3rd wave in IndiaThe overall Covid-19 situation in India is improving steadily with daily news infections falling, but a spike is being observed in pockets -- like in the northeastern states and in Kerala. Maharashtra's Covid-19 graph has hit a plateau. The jury is still out on whether these are the early signs of a third wave, while the government has been repeatedly cautioning people against crowding. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-wave-can-be-bigger-than-second-if-what-aiims-director-randeep-guleria-said-101626412227497.html
16-07-2021||India||Gandhinagar Railway Station: 5-star hotel, green building, state-of-the-art lighting||The Gandhinagar railway station which will be virtually inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday is now set to house world-class amenities at par with modern airports. The Indian Railways shared an old photo of Gandhinagar Capital railway station on Thursday, a day before its scheduled inauguration. The before and after photo puts into picture all the new additions.Read on to find out more about the new Gandhinagar Railway station:Also Read: PM Modi to inaugurate major railway projects in Gujarat today1. The redeveloped station has been designed to be disabled-friendly and has been provided with a special low height ticketing booking window, lifts, ramps, dedicated parking area2. A five-star hotel has been built atop the platform, construction of which was started way back in 2017. The luxury hotel will have 318 rooms and will be operated by a private entity. It is spread across 7,400 square meters and has been built at a cost of ₹790 crore.3. The hotel has been built to host national and international guests who would come to attend seminars and conferences at the Mahatma Mandir, a convention centre just opposite the railway station.4. Gandhinagar Railway and Urban Development (GARUD), a Joint Venture Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), was formed between the government of Gujarat and the Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) for the redevelopment of the station.5. The entire building has been constructed keeping in tune with green building features.6. The railway station’s external facade will feature state-of-the-art lighting themes with a wide selection of 32 themes to choose from.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhinagar-railway-station-5-star-hotel-green-building-state-of-the-art-lighting-101626412051457.html
16-07-2021||India||Delta sub-lineages unlikely to be more contagious than Delta itself: Insacog||The sub-lineages of the highly contagious Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, identified in India, that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), are unlikely to be more transmissible than Delta itself, according to the latest Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) bulletin. The sub-lineages, AY.1 and AY.2, of the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) are declining globally, with near-zero cases in the last week of June in the UK and the US where they were most frequently detected, according to the summary of the cumulative data based on whole genome sequencing of Covid-19 positive cases released by the department of biotechnology, government of India, on July 9. Also Read | India reports 38,949 new Covid-19 cases, 542 more fatalities“They also continue to be below 1% in available sequences from June in India. It is likely that neither AY.1 nor AY.2 is more transmissible than Delta. There are no indications of rising trend in the four clusters (in Ratnagiri and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh and Chennai in Tamil Nadu),” said the bulletin. A new sub-lineage AY.3 has been identified, which has primarily been detected in the US with single reclassified cases in UK and India. However, there are no known significant properties of this mutation, but since it is a Delta variant of concern sub-lineage, Insacog will continue to monitor it. Meanwhile, scientists have found that the proportion of known variants of concern that are in circulation in India remain unchanged from the preceding week. Delta is the dominant lineage for new cases across all parts of India in recent samples and remains the most rapidly rising lineage globally. New data points to efficacy of vaccination against severe disease by the Delta variant. Among other known variants, alpha variant prevalence has declined further in India and globally. Beta is also at very low levels in India at this time. Gamma and Lambda are not seen in over 10,000 community samples sequenced by Insacog since May. “In summary, Delta variant and its sub-lineages are the only VOC in India at this time. Continuing outbreaks across India are attributable to Delta, susceptible population, and opportunities for transmission. Public health measures to reduce transmission and vaccination remain critical,” said the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-sub-lineages-unlikely-to-be-more-contagious-than-delta-itself-insacog-101626412032416.html
16-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: 7.8 million women availed of free bus travel in 3 days||As normalcy returns to Tamil Nadu after the relaxation of lockdown measures, the free bus travel for women announced by the state government in May is turning popular again. Tamil Nadu transport minister RS Rajakannappan said that 7.8 million women availed themselves of this free travel in three days, reported Tamil Daily Dinamalar. On average 2.8 million women are travelling free every day, Rajakannappan said.The DMK government after taking charge announced the free bus travel scheme for women in the ordinary buses operated by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC). Rajakannappan said the scheme has been received well among the people and that the department is also considering bus services wherever necessary.Giving details of the women passengers, the minister said that 7.8 million women travelled free from July 12 to July 15. In addition to that, as many as 5,741 transwomen, 51,615 differently-abled people, and 8,396 of their companions travelled free in the transport corporation buses. Under the ‘Nirbhaya scheme’, the state government is planning to install CCTV cameras in 2,500 state government buses soon for which ₹70 crore fund has been set aside. Out of the sanctioned fund, the department has received ₹41 crore and the project is underway, Rajakannappan said.The transport minister said that the skyrocketing fuel price is bleeding the transport corporation which is running under the loss of ₹33,000 crore already. Diesel price was ₹68 per litre in 2018 and inflating fuel prices worsened the financial situation of the transport corporations. The objective of the government is not to profit but to provide affordable bus services to people. The fare when compared to other states is very low in Tamil Nadu and bus services are aimed at the last leg connectivity, he said.The bus services to the Union territory of Puducherry resumed after the lockdown norms eased in the state. Karnataka government’s request for resuming bus services is under consideration, Rajakannappan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-7-8-million-women-availed-of-free-bus-travel-in-3-days-101626408935369.html
16-07-2021||India||Harela: All you need to know about Uttarakhand’s folk festival||Harela, the festival commemorating the new harvest in the Kumaon region of Uttarakhand, was celebrated in several areas on Friday. Harela is celebrated as the monsoon starts and is considered one of the most important festivals in the entire Kumaon region. Uttarakhand, which is believed to be the mythological abode of the Hindu deity Lord Shiva, celebrates Harela with much pomp and show as it falls on Lord Shiva’s favourite month.To celebrate this festival dedicated to Hindu gods Shiva and Parvati saplings are planted by various societies, associations, and the government. On the occasion of World Environment Day, celebrated on June 5, the Uttarakhand police started a massive tree plantation campaign, under which one lakh saplings were to be planted in police premises by July 16, which is the day Harela is celebrated."This is a very difficult time for human life, if we do not take care of the environment even now, then destruction is certain. It is everyone's responsibility, we are responsible for the changes happening in the environment at present, especially the melting of glaciers which is the biggest sign that there is going to be a big crisis on life on earth. Life is becoming difficult in land and water, many species are going extinct." said Ashok Kumar, director general of police (DGP), Uttarakhand.Also Read: 13 tourists caught with fake RT-PCR reports in Dehradun: Uttarakhand PolicePreparations to celebrate Harela begins 10 days before the actual event is due. Around five to seven types of seeds are sown in small buckets and watered every day. Harela is celebrated with hopes of a good harvest and bringing happiness and prosperity to households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harela-all-you-need-to-know-about-uttarakhand-s-folk-festival-101626408125208.html
16-07-2021||India||Sadhvi Pragya gets first dose of Covid vaccine. Congress asks this question||Videos of Bhopal BJP MP Sadhvi Pragya playing basketball, dancing at a wedding have gone viral on social media in the recent past. Courtesy, Madhya Pradesh Congress leader Narendra Saluja, who only wished for Sadhvi Pragya's good health. Now, Saluja has again shared a video of Sadhvi Pragya getting vaccinated at home and asked if all BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan can go to the hospitals to get vaccinated, then why Sadhvi Pragya has been given the leeway. Especially, when the Bhopal MP's health apparently is not of any serious concern, as evident in the recent videos, the Congress leader implied as he shared the video of Sadhvi Pragya getting vaccinated at home.Reports said this was the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine that the MP recently took.अभी कुछ दिन पूर्व ही बास्केट बॉल खेल रही व ढोल की थाप पर नृत्य कर रही हमारी भोपाल की सांसद प्रज्ञा ठाकुर ने आज घर टीम बुलाकर वैक्सीन का डोज़ लगवाया ?मोदीजी से लेकर शिवराजजी व तमाम भाजपा नेता अस्पताल में जाकर वैक्सीन लगवा कर आये लेकिन हमारी सांसदजी को यह छूट क्यों व किस आधार पर? pic.twitter.com/QYEN4eNiV2Getting vaccinated against Covid at any place other than a vaccination centre is not allowed though some stray cases of celebrities bypassing the norm took place. For example, cricketer Kuldeep Yadav got vaccinated at a guest house in Kanpur. Gujarati folk singer Geeta Rabari too drew flak on social media after she posted a photo of getting vaccinated at home. In both cases, inquiries were ordered.Sadhvi Pragya's serious health conditions remained in the news as she had skipped the Malegaon blast hearing on several occasions citing her health reasons. In past, she was mostly seen moving in a wheelchair because of multiple injuries that she alleged was inflicted on her when she was in jail.This year too, Sadhvi Pragya's health deteriorated following which she was airlifted to Mumbai. But of late, she has been seen moving without wheelchair. As seen in the videos earlier shared by Narendra Saluja, she played basketball as she went to attend a meeting at a stadium in Bhopal, and also danced at the wedding that she arranged at her place for two sisters whom she considers her daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sadhvi-pragya-gets-vaccinated-at-home-congress-asks-this-question-101626407556577.html
16-07-2021||India||India reports 38,949 new Covid-19 cases, 542 more fatalities||India’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 31,026,829 on Friday after 38,949 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 542 people died and 40,026 recovered from the viral disease in the said period, taking the cumulative death toll and recoveries to 412,531 and 30,183,876 respectively. The active cases of Covid-19 stand at 430,422 and constitute 1.39 per cent of the caseload, the health ministry’s update further showed.Friday’s cases are 2,857 less than that of Thursday’s when 41,806 infections were seen. Meanwhile, the toll on Friday is 39 less than that of Thursday’s when 581 deaths were reported.A total of 440,023,239 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease so far of which 1,955,910 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday.Also Read| Covid-19 third wave likely by August-end, will be less severe than second: ICMREven though the daily infections in India are seeing a slight increase amid the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, the arrival of the third wave in the country is inevitable. The recent incidents of people in massive numbers flocking to hill stations, tourist destinations and market places with no adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, can prove to be super spreader events.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/ftF2Tjk5zXAccording to a report by news agency Reuters, apart from the above, pilgrimages can also prove to be super spreader events of Covid-19. This is an indirect indication towards the upcoming Kanwar Yatra- an annual pilgrimage of Shiva devotees to Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttarakhand to fetch Ganga water. The festival will begin on July 25.Also Read| SC ‘disturbed’ by Uttar Pradesh’s decision to hold kanwar yatraUttarakhand on July 13 decided to scrap the yatra to prevent overcrowding of devotees in Haridwar, a lesson which the state learned from hosting the Kumbh Mela, which turned out to be a super spreader event.However, the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh has allowed the Kanwar Yatra despite the apprehensions of a massive spread of Covid-19. The Supreme Court on Wednesday pointed out that it was a little disturbed by the UP government’s decision to allow the annual pilgrimage. State health minister Jai Pratap Singh said on Thursday that all Covid-19 protocols will be followed during the yatra. But, law enforcement officials in Uttar Pradesh, including the police, have pointed out it might be difficult to get thousands of devotees to follow social distancing, wear masks and undergo Covid-19 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-38-949-new-covid-19-cases-542-more-fatalities-101626407202978.html
16-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in Srinagar gunfight: Police||Two unidentified militants were killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in Srinagar on Friday morning, a police officer said. The operation was still underway in the old city.Police said the gunbattle was triggered after Jammu and Kashmir police and Central Reserve Police Force launched the joint operation at Alamdar Colony after a tip-off on the militant presence there.Also Watch | Pakistani Lashkar commander among 3 militants gunned down in PulwamaInspector general of police (Kashmir Range) Vijay Kumar said that with the killing in Srinagar, security forces have killed 78 militants in the Valley this year so far.“In these encounters, most of the terrorists (killed) were affiliated with proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (39 out of 78) followed by Hizbul Mujahideen, Al-Badr...,” said Kumar.The security forces have intensified counter-insurgency operations this month. On Wednesday, three militants were killed in the Pulwama district. Two militant commanders were earlier killed soon after they were captured in Srinagar and Handwara this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-militants-killed-in-srinagar-gunfight-police-101626406992206.html
16-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Heavy rainfall in Mumbai, key areas waterlogged and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rains continue in Mumbai, major areas of city waterloggedMumbai woke up to overcast skies on Friday as the heavy rainfall continued overnight, leaving several parts of the city waterlogged by the morning. Read MoreCovid-19 third wave likely by August-end, will be less severe than second: ICMRCovid-19 third wave may hit India at the end of August and will not be as deadly as the second one, a top doctor has told a television news channel. Read MoreSpate of burglaries the latest bane for Delhi“You are a father of two. You have no criminal record. Why did you decide to rob and murder her?” a Delhi Police officer posted at the Vasant Vihar police station on Monday asked Suraj Budhe, 36, arrested for the July 6 murder of Kitty Kumaramangalam, 70. Read MoreEU sets Uyghur and Hong Kong conditions for investment agreementThe members of the European Parliament have underlined the conditions to be met before the legislature gives its consent to the EU-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI). Read More'Scores at lightning pace, can be next finisher after Dhoni': Sivaramakrishnan names India's 'key' in white-ball cricketThere are few better experts than former India leg-spinner Laxman Sivaramakrishnan to talk about young and upcoming Indian cricketers. Read MoreShilpa Shetty grooving to Chura Ke Dil Mera at gym is perfect workout energyMove over motivational music while working out in the gym as Shilpa Shetty Kundra sets workout spaces on fire with her signature pelvic thrusts while grooving to Hungama 2 song, Chura Ke Dil Mera, in athleisure wear. Read MoreKareena Kapoor says she ‘didn’t know how to clean Taimur's poop’ initially: ‘Wasn’t the most perfect mom’Kareena Kapoor, who is making her debut as an author with the soon-to-be-released Kareena Kapoor Khan’s Pregnancy Bible, got candid about her motherhood journey in the book. Read MoreNever Have I Ever star Maitreyi Ramakrishnan on connecting to her Tamil rootsIn an exclusive interview with Hindustan Times, Maitreyi Ramakrishnan, the star of Netflix's Never Have I Ever, talks about connecting to her Tamil roots while making the show, her character Devi's evolution, and feeling more empowered to voice her opinons in season two. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-heavy-rainfall-in-mumbai-key-areas-waterlogged-and-all-the-latest-news-101626404284083.html
16-07-2021||India||Heavy rain warning for Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand over weekend||Widespread rainfall is likely to continue over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy falls till July 16, increasing to heavy to very heavy rainfall over these regions during July 17 and 18, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday.The axis of monsoon trough at mean sea level passes through south of its normal position along Amreli, Surat, Buldana, Adilabad, Jagdalpur, Vishakhapatnam and thence east-southeastwards to eastcentral Bay of Bengal and extends up to 1.5km above the mean sea level. As per the numerical weather prediction model forecasts of IMD, monsoon trough is likely to shift northwards from July 16 which will cause heavy rain along Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Enhanced rainfall activity is also likely over all of northwest India from July 17 with widespread rain over Haryana, Punjab, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and south Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19 and peak activity on July 18. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over north Rajasthan, Haryana, northwest Madhya Pradesh and west Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19. Heavy rainfall is also very likely over Punjab, Delhi and east Uttar Pradesh during the same period.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is likely over northeast India till July 19. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Konkan, Goa and Karnataka during the next two days. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Telangana and ghat areas of madhya Maharashtra on July 16. Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning is very likely over east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana during the next 24 hours. They may cause injuries leading to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-himachal-pradesh-uttarakhand-over-weekend-101626404472095.html
16-07-2021||India||JP Nadda to chair UP BJP Working Committee meeting today. 2022 polls top agenda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda will on Friday hold a meeting with the members of the Uttar Pradesh BJP working committee ahead of the high stakes assembly elections in the state next year. The meeting comes after the BJP secured a comfortable victory in the recently concluded block pramukh elections as it secured 635 out of the 825 seats.“BJP National President JP Nadda will address the Uttar Pradesh BJP ‘State Working Committee’ meeting through video conferencing, on 16 July 2021 at 11:30 am,” Nadda’s office tweeted on Thursday.During Friday’s meeting, organisational works will be reviewed and a roadmap will be prepared for the upcoming assembly elections in UP, according to news agency ANI.The participants in the meeting will include BJP’s general secretary Arun Singh, Union ministers Smriti Irani and Mahendra Pandey, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, state deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dr Dinesh Sharma, BJP’s state in-charge Radha Mohan Singh and state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, ANI also reported.More than 600 members of the UP BJP and 100 members of the working committee will also participate during Friday’s meeting.State BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi told ANI the meeting will be held in four sessions. The first session will include an inauguration by JP Nadda and the second will include a discussion on Uttar Pradesh’s political situation. In the third session, the BJP will deliberate on upcoming programmes in the organisation.“In the meeting, there will be a discussion about the strategies for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, in which the government’s programmes, achievements of the government, and measures for better performance will be discussed,” Tripathi added.The BJP is keen on continuing as the ruling party in Uttar Pradesh for a second consecutive time. Next year’s assembly elections in UP are also crucial for the party in view of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, where it is seeking to come to power in the Centre for a third straight term.In the 2017 assembly elections in UP, the BJP won 325 of the 403 seats, the Samajwadi Party and its allies, which included the Congress party, won 54 seats while the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won only 19 seats.This time, the SP and the BSP have ruled out forging any major alliance. On the other hand, Congress has also decided to fight the elections alone and is looking to make a comeback in Uttar Pradesh after more than three decades.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-to-chair-up-bjp-working-committee-meeting-today-2022-polls-top-agenda-101626403205838.html
16-07-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate major railway projects in Gujarat today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate a host of railway projects in Gujarat on Friday. These key projects include the newly-redeveloped Gandhinagar Capital railway station, the newly-electrified Surendranagar-Pipavav section, and gauge converted cum electrified Mahesana-Varetha line. PM Modi will also flag off two new trains -- Gandhinagar Capital-Varanasi Superfast Express and Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) service trains between Gandhinagar Capital and Varetha.“At 4:30 PM tomorrow, 16th July, a range of interesting development works will be inaugurated in Gujarat. These works cover the environment, nature, railways and science,” PM Modi tweeted on Thursday.The Gandhinagar railway station is now set to house world-class amenities at par with modern airports, the government said in a press release. It is now a disabled-friendly station that comes with a special ticket booking counter, ramps, lifts, and dedicated parking space. The station’s state-of-the-art external facade will have daily theme based lighting and a total of 32 themes. The station will also house a five-star hotel which will be run by a private entity, and the entire building has been constructed to house green building features. The upgradation has been done at a cost of ₹71 crore.Electrification of Surendranagar - Pipavav Section has been done to decongest Ahmedabad, Viramgam and Surendranagar Yards. The project is slated to provide seamless freight movement from Palanpur, Ahmedabad and other parts of the country up to Pipavav Port without any change of traction. The entire project cost has been completed at a total cost of ₹289 crore.The Mahesana-Varetha Gauge conversion of 55km also includes ten stations with four newly developed station buildings viz. Visnagar, Vadnagar, Kheralu and Varetha.This was done at a cost of ₹293 crore along with the electrification work at a cost of ₹74 crore.The Prime Minister took to Twitter to talk about the projects. “I have always wanted our Railway Stations to be of top quality, where apart from travels there is a boost to commerce, hospitality and more. One such effort has been made in Gandhinagar. The upgraded station will be inaugurated tomorrow,” he tweeted.Gujarat Science City is a place that I am very passionate about. When I served as CM, I had the opportunity to work towards developing it into a vibrant hub for encouraging science and innovation. Tomorrow, the Aquatics and Robotics Galleries and Nature Park would be inaugurated. pic.twitter.com/5wm4WR02F7PM Modi will also be inaugurating the Aquatics and Robotics Gallery, and Nature Park in Gujarat Science City. "You would love visiting the Nature Park. It houses a Mist Garden, Chess Garden, Selfie Points, Sculpture Park and an outdoor maze. I specially call upon parents to take their children here,” tweeted PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-major-railway-projects-in-gujarat-today-101626402306872.html
16-07-2021||India||Sabarimala temple to open for monthly rituals from today, but conditions apply||Sabarimala temple in Kerala, which remained inaccessible to devotees for months due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions, will be reopening its doors from Friday, July 16, and pilgrims will be allowed to enter the shrine from Saturday morning. Officials have already been instructed to enforce appropriate behaviour in the temple premises, including the use of masks, sanitisers and proper social distancing in accordance with the Covid-19 safety guidance issued by the central and state governments.Lord Ayappa temple in Kerala's Sabarimala would be opened for its monthly puja rituals from July 17 to 21, said officials familiar with the matter. Although the temple kept opening for a couple of days every month for monthly rituals even during the Covid-19 necessitated lockdown, devotees were not permitted for a darshan at the hill shrine.The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), the top body in the southern state which manages over 1,200 temples, ensured that shrines under its management would not permit devotees in its premises during the lockdown period. However, daily rituals were conducted without fail, according to TDB authorities in the know.The Sabarimala temple has imposed a number of conditions for devotees wishing to attend the monthly rituals on its premises from Friday onwards. No more than 5,000 devotees, who have booked their slots through the online queue, will be allowed for the darshan. Moreover, only those pilgrims who can produce their negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test reports issued within the past 48 hours will be able to enter the temple premises, said TDB officials.Sabarimala temple will be closed once again as soon as the monthly puja rituals end on July 21.Kerala reported as many as 13,773 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.95, according to the data released by the state's health ministry. The state also reported 87 deaths, taking total fatalities to 15,025 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-to-open-for-monthly-rituals-from-today-but-conditions-apply-101626396965725.html
16-07-2021||India||Haryana schools to reopen for classes 9-12 from today. Details here||Schools in Haryana will be gradually resuming offline classes for students from today (Friday, July 16), according to an order issued by the state government last week. While students of classes 9 to 12 will be able to attend their classes from Friday itself, the schools for classes 6 to 8 will be resuming from July 23, the chief minister's office (CMO) in Haryana announced earlier.Also Read | Haryana: Colleges, universities to reopen for doubt clearing classesThe decision to resume offline classes for students in standards 1 to 5 has not yet been taken, although state education minister Kanwar Pal said that the government is mulling over its options for the same.Haryana schools will be reopening from July 16 as per government orders, the CMO made the announcement last Friday on its official Twitter handle. The tweet read, “Haryana government has decided to open all the schools in the state for classes 9 to 12 from July 16 and for classes 6 to 8 from July 23.”हरियाणा सरकार ने प्रदेश के सभी स्कूलों को कक्षा 9 से 12 के लिए 16 जुलाई से तथा कक्षा 6 से 8 के लिए 23 जुलाई से खोलने का निर्णय लिया है।Schools in Haryana, following their reopening, have been instructed to strictly adhere to all coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols. Officials must enforce appropriate behaviour in the school premises, including the use of face masks, sanitisers, and maintaining social distancing, according to the guidelines issued by the Union education ministry and the Union ministry of home affairs.Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal, while announcing the reopening of schools in the state, had said that the decision to attend offline classes is completely voluntary and depends on the parents if they want to send their children for the classes. Meanwhile, offline classes will continue as usual for those who do not want to physically attend their classes. Students who do not attend the offline classes will not be marked 'absent', the minister clarified.Meanwhile, Congress has upped its attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state over its decision to reopen the schools. Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Selja Kumari indicated that resuming offline classes is irresponsible ahead of a potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government, on the other hand, has said that if a dire situation arises, the decision to stop the classes will be taken immediately since the lives of students are of paramount importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-schools-to-resume-offline-classes-for-classes-9-12-from-today-details-here-101626394697513.html
16-07-2021||India||Covid-19 third wave likely by August-end, will be less severe than second: ICMR||Covid-19 third wave may hit India at the end of August and will not be as deadly as the second one, a top doctor has told a television news channel. "There would be a nationwide third wave but that does not mean that it would be as high or as intense as the second wave," Dr Samiran Panda, the head of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, told NDTV.Samiran Panda also listed four things that could lead to the third wave of Covid-19, including a drop in the immunity among people against the coronavirus disease acquired in the first and second waves of the pandemic. "If that goes down, it could lead to a third wave," Panda told NDTV.He also said that there could be a variant of the coronavirus that can bypass the acquired immunity and if the new variant doesn't do that it can circulate fast in the population. The Covid-19 third wave could also be brought about by the premature easing of Covid-19 curbs by states, Panda said.Also read | PM Modi to meet chief ministers of six states today, review Covid-19 situation"I'm not expecting any more public health havoc from the Delta variant," Panda told NDTV when asked if Delta Plus could bring on the third wave.Panda's comments come as Dr Randeep Guleria, All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) director, said on Thursday that a possible third wave of Covid-19 can be precipitated by waning immunity among people, the emergence of a more transmissible variant of the coronavirus and relaxations by governments in lockdown curbs.Also read | Strong immune response in mixed jab: StudiesDr Guleria said that several studies and models have been conducted to project the possible third wave's trajectory under different scenarios. "One such model from an IIT shows that if all restrictions are lifted and if a virus (variant) is also able to escape immunity then the next wave can be bigger than the second wave. If some restrictions are kept and the virus also remains stable then cases will not be much and if we keep more restrictions then cases will further reduce," he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The Indian Medical Association said earlier this week the third wave is "inevitable and imminent" and urged state governments to disallow large gatherings as these could become “potential super spreader” events.“However, it is painful to note that in this crucial time, when everyone needs to work for the mitigation of the third wave, in many parts of the country, both governments and the public are complacent and engaged in mass gatherings without following Covid protocols,” IMA said in a statement on July 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-third-wave-likely-by-august-end-will-be-less-severe-than-second-icmr-101626393998676.html
16-07-2021||India||PM Modi to meet chief ministers of six states today, review Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday chair a virtual meeting with chief ministers of six states where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are on the rise, officials familiar with the development informed HT earlier this week. These states -- Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, and Maharashtra -- have seen a marked rise in Covid-19 cases across several districts in the recent past.Also Read | At Covid-19 review meet with northeast states, PM Modi shows concern over tourist rushThe Prime Minister's interaction with the chief ministers of these six states will come close in the heels of a similar virtual meet of his with the chief ministers of northeastern territories earlier on Tuesday. There, Prime Minister Modi had expressed his concerns over the influx of unmasked tourists at hill stations and marketplaces, calling for greater emphasis on micro-containment zones."The number of Covid-19 cases is rising," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, addressing the chief ministers present at the meet, "We need to take strict action to curb the situation at the micro-level."Prime Minister Modi also said that officials need to keep an eye out for the various Covid-19 variants which are currently being studied by experts. "We need to keep an eye on each Covid-19 variant. Timely prevention and treatment are very important in such a dynamic situation," he had said.The Prime Minister's meet on Friday is expected to focus on the overall Covid-19 situation and review the vaccination progress in six states -- Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, and Maharashtra. As many as 73.4% of the new Covid-19 cases in India have been reported from these states, barring Kerala, the central government said earlier this week. A total of 55 districts across the country reported a Covid-19 test-positivity rate of more than 10% in the week ending July 13.Also Read | Don't take Covid third wave predictions as 'weather update', says govtOf these six regions, Odisha and Tamil Nadu are prominently featured in the list of states that have been complaining of an acute vaccine shortage. In fact, Odisha halted its inoculation drive against Covid-19 due to the unavailability of enough doses earlier this week. "The Covishield allocation for July is 2.5 million doses while we require at least 2.83 million doses for the second dose this month," Odisha health secretary PK Mohapatra had said, adding that the vaccination drive would only start after the next consignment of the Covishield doses arrived.Tamil Nadu, too, reported facing an incessant vaccine shortage earlier last week. On Saturday, 18 districts had no vaccines left. By Sunday night, five-lakh doses of Covishield were sent, patching the situation up for a while.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-chief-ministers-of-six-states-today-review-covid-19-situation-101626392955953.html
16-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: Maharashtra logs 7,761 new Covid-19 cases; death toll reaches 126,727 with 167 new deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world.Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Today's top news:> Local train services resume on all railway lines in Mumbai>Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in Afghanistan's Kandahar province> Supreme Court rejects Uttar Pradesh govt's decision to allow Kanwar Yatra with limited devotees. > PM Modi holds meeting with chief ministers of 6 states to review Covid-19 situation. > Prominent actor Surekha Sikri dies of cardiac arrest at 75. > More than 41.10 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine provided to states, says Centre. Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra logs 7,761 fresh infections in 24 hoursMaharashtra has reported 7,761 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 167 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total fatalities to 126,727.Police constable arrested for supplying army's confidential documents to PakA police constable in Haryana has been arrested for supplying the Indian Army's confidential documents to Pakistan, said Palwal SP Deepak Gahlawat on Friday, according to news agency ANI. An FIR has been registered and the constable's mobile phone is being sent to a cybersecurity lab to recover data, reported ANI.Karnataka reports 1,806 new Covid-19 cases, 42 deathsKarnataka has reported 1,806 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 42 related deaths in the past 24 hours. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 31,399, according to Karnataka's health department.Jaishankar pays homage to former PM Lal Bahadur ShastriBefore departing Tashkent, paid my homage to former PM Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri ji at his memorial. pic.twitter.com/ah3sD934IlExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar paid homage to former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri at his memorial before departing Tashkent, Uzbekistan. Jaishankar was in Tashkent for the Central-South Asia conference.TN extends lockdown till July 31 with more relaxationsTamil Nadu government has extended coronavirus-induced lockdown till July 31 with few more relaxations.Flight instructor dies in training aircraft crash in MaharashtraA flight instructor died and a trainee was severely injured after a training aircraft belonging to the NMIMS Academy of Aviation, Maharashtra, crashed on Friday. "Shocked to hear about the tragic crash...An investigation team is being rushed to the site," Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya M. Scindia tweeted.Russian plane that went missing in Siberia found, all 18 passengers aliveThe Russian plane that went missing in Siberia earlier in the day has been found and all 18 passengers are alive, news agency AFP reports.Rajnath Singh meets former defence ministers AK Antony, Sharad PawarDefence Minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with former defence ministers AK Antony and Sharad Pawar. The former defence ministers were briefed by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat & Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane on the ongoing conflict on the China border: Sources pic.twitter.com/E3TT4M6f48Defence minister Rajnath Singh met with former defence ministers AK Antony and Sharad Pawar. They were briefed by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane on conflict at China border, reports ANI.Delhi's single-day Covid-19 tally drops to 66Delhi reported 66 new Covid-19 cases and one virus-related death in the past 24 hours. The active cases currently stand at 657 as 79 more patients recovered from the disease, according to the Delhi state health bulletin.Russian plane with 13 onboard goes missing near SiberiaA Russian passenger plane with at least 13 people onboard goes missing in Siberia, news agency Reuters reports.Madhya Pradesh governor Mangubhai Patel calls on PM ModiThe Governor of Madhya Pradesh, Shri Mangubhai Patel called on PM @narendramodi. pic.twitter.com/UuXAbZLob4Governor of Madhya Pradesh Mangubhai Patel called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the prime minister's office (PMO) said.Congress workers, police clash during protest against fuel price hike in HyderabadTelangana | Clash erupts between Congress workers and Police during protest against fuel price hike at Dharna Chowk in Hyderabad; several leaders detained on their way to Raj Bhavan. pic.twitter.com/pGBOeYYrUKCongress workers protesting against fuel price hike in Hyderabad, Telangana, clashed with the police at Dharna Chowk and several leaders were retained on their way to the Raj Bhavan, reports ANI.'Trend of increase in cases in Maharashtra, Kerala cause of concern': PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi, during his meeting with the chief ministers of six states, said that the increasing trend of Covid-19 infections in the states of Maharashtra and Kerala is a cause of concern.Landslide between Mangalore junction and Thokur railway station in Karnataka affect train movementKarnataka: An incident of landslide occurred between Mangalore Junction and Thokur railway station. Train movement from/to Konkan side affected. Details awaited. pic.twitter.com/qrDQ9O31eTA landslide between the Mangalore Junction and the Thokur railway station in Karnataka has affected the train movement to and from the Konkan side, news agency ANI reports.Local train services resume on all railway lines in MumbaiOn Friday afternoon, local train services on all railway lines in Mumbai resumed after they were interrupted due to heavy rainfall in the city.Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui killed in clashes in Kandahar's Spin Boldak district, say reportsDanish Siddiqui, a Reuters photojournalist, was killed in clashes in Spin Boldak district in Kandahar, sources confirmed.The Indian journalist was covering the situation in Kandahar over the last few days. pic.twitter.com/VdvIRGAEa3Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui has been killed in clashes in Kandahar's Spin Boldak district, according to reports on Friday. Read moreStates with high Covid-19 cases must take proactive measures to stop potential third wave, says PM ModiPrime Minister Modi on Friday chaired a Covid-19 review meeting with the chief ministers of six states including Maharashtra, Kerala, where he said that states which are reporting a high number of cases must take proactive measures to stop the potential third wave of the pandemic.Over 41.10 crore vaccine doses provided to states, says CentreThe Union health ministry said on Friday that states and Union Territories (UTs) across the country have received over 41.10 crore vaccine doses, adding a further 52,90,640 doses are in the pipeline.SC rejects UP's decision to allow Kanwar Yatra with limited devoteesThe Supreme Court on Friday rejected the Uttar Pradesh government's decision decision to allow Kanwar Yatra with limited kanwariyas. The apext court further asked the state to consider a compete ban on physical movement of kanwariyas. Read moreStates mustn't allow movement of Kanwariyas for bringing Ganga water from Haridwar: Centre tells Supreme CourtCentre tells Supreme Court that tankers be available at identified/designated locations so that nearby devotees can collect such 'Ganga Jal' and do 'abhishek' at their nearest Shiv temples.The Centre on Friday filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court with regard to the upcoming Kanwar Yatra, where it said that states must not allow movement of Kanwariyas for bringing 'Ganga Jal' from Haridwar in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. "However, considering religious sentiments, State govts must develop system to make 'Ganga Jal' available via tankers at designated locations," the Centre added.MP CM announces ex-gratia for kin of deceased in Vidisha incidentMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivaraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each of the families of the victims who lost their livesafter they fell into the well in Ganjbasoda area in Vidisha. According to an official statement, Chouhan added that a compensation of ₹50,000 will be given to those injured aloVeteran actor Surekha Sikri dies of cardiac arrest at the age of 75Actor Surekha Sikri has died at the age of 75 after suffering a cardiac arrest, her manager has said. Read moreMaharashtra's Nashik adds 162 new Covid cases, 6 more deathsNashik district on Friday recorded 162 new cases and six more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease, taking the caseload and death toll to 396,878 and 8,450 respectively. As many as 157 patients recovered from the viral disease and the total recoveries have climbed to 386,767.India logs 38,949 new Covid-19 cases, 542 more fatalitiesIndia’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 31,026,829 on Friday after 38,949 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Read moreJP Nadda to chair UP BJP Working Committee meeting today. 2022 polls top agendaBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda will on Friday hold a meeting with the members of the Uttar Pradesh BJP working committee ahead of the high stakes assembly elections in the state next year. Read moreSrinagar encounter update: 2 LeT terrorists killed, say policeIGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar told news agency ANI on Friday that two local terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba have been killed after an encounter broke out at Alamdar Colony, Danmar area of Srinagar. "With today's op, Police along with security forces neutralized 78 terrorists in the valley so far this year," Kumar added. Fully vaccinated Americans may enter Canada in mid-AugustCanadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced on Thursday that Americans who are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 may enter Canada as of mid-August for non-essential travel, according to news agency AP. Trudeau also said that Canada should be in a position to welcome fully inoculated people from all countries by early September. PM Modi to meet chief ministers of six states today, review Covid-19 situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday chair a virtual meeting with chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, and Maharashtra where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are on the rise, officials familiar with the development informed HT earlier this week. Read moreThailand sees record jump in daily Covid-19 cases at 9,692; tally nearing 382,000Thailand on Friday saw a record jump in its daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 9,692 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 381,907. As many as 67 people succumbed to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 3,099.Encounter breaks out between militants, security forces in SrinagarAn encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar city on Friday. A police official told news agency PTI that the security forces launched a a cordon and search operation in Danmar area, falling along Safakadal-Soura road in the early hours of Friday after they received the information about presence of militants. The official added that 2-3 militants are believed to be trapped inside the cordoned area and no casualties have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-16-2021-101626393839490.html
16-07-2021||India||'India to make best use of UNSC term for permanent seat': Shringla||India will make the best of its two-year term in the UN Security Council (UNSC) and underscore that it establishes the right to be a permanent member of the 15-nation body, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said, as the country prepares to assume Presidency of the Council. India also called upon the international community once again to “speak in one voice” against terrorism.“Next month, we have one of the most landmark events in our engagement in the UN. We will be president of the UN Security Council in the month of August,” Shringla said, adding, “We will make the best of our two-year term. We will leave our mark in the Council and our point is to say that India really, by its contribution, establishes the right to be a permanent member of UN Security Council.”During a UNSC briefing on UN support mission in Libya, Shringla raised concern over the failure of political parties in Libya to agree to a constitutional and legal basis for elections scheduled in December. “The next six months will be critical for Libya, as it embarks on a journey towards peace and stability. It is incumbent upon the international community and the Security Council, in particular, to continue to provide support to Libya in this critical phase,” he saidShringla will participate in two high-level events in UNSC to be held under the current French Presidency. He will also meet UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and address the Council briefing on Libya.India is Chair of the Libyan Sanctions Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-make-best-use-of-unsc-term-for-permanent-seat-shringla-101626381204571.html
16-07-2021||India||Bengaluru institute where Stan Swamy spent 16 years remembers activist’s legacy||At the Indian Social Institute in Bengaluru where Father Stan Swamy spent 16 years of his life working, a large gathering congregated on Thursday to share stories of the soft-spoken man, who raised his voice for the voiceless. Father Stan Swamy, a tribal rights activist arrested in the Elgar Parishad case last year, passed away at a private hospital in Mumbai on July 5.He was arrested on October 8, 2020 by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which alleged that the priest had Maoist connections and was working for frontal organisations of the banned CPI (Maoist). He was charged under the UAPA and was sent to Taloja jail. In his defence, Swamy said evidence against him was fabricated and that he never conspired to foment violence.An urn containing the ashes of the activist was kept at the centre, standing next to it, his friends and family shared stories of anguish and made calls for action.“Whenever we were in Ranchi, thatha would call my mother and tell her to keep idly batter ready. He wouldn’t spend more than two days with us, but when he stayed, he used to tell us endlessly about struggles of the adivasis (tribals) he was working with,” said Sheeba, Stan Swamy’s grandniece.Recollecting her last meeting with Stan Swamy, she said that she had asked him to stay back in Bengaluru when he had come for a visit. “When he had come in 2019, he told us about what was going on in the case. We asked why he can’t take the backseat and stay back in here, away from all problems. He said he wants to be with his people,” Sheeba added.Dr Joseph Xavier, the current director of the institute said that Stan Swamy believed in standing for truth and justice, even at the cost of pain. “Stan has created the wave. People are not questioning the government,” Dr Xavier said.“He lived and died for what he believed in,” said Bengaluru archbishop Peter Machado. “Stan, although dead, may come alive in us. . Even though he wanted to free those who were jailed unjustly, he was made prisoner. But he freed several minds.”Salil Shetty, a human rights activist, who was the Secretary-General of Amnesty International, quoted Brazilian Catholic archbishop Hélder Câmara: “If you feed the poor, you are a saint. But if you ask why the poor are hungry, you are communist.” Shetty said Fr Stan was neither a saint nor a communist. “He was a patriot. He was much more patriotic than the people who called him a traitor,” he added.Why did the Indian state treat Fr Stan so cruelly? The answer is in the dignity Fr Stan showed during his interrogation, said Babu Mathew is former Registrar and faculty at National Law School of India University.“In my reflection, whether guilty or not, they (government agencies) expect everyone to cringe before them. When they interrogated Fr Stan for 15 hours, he didn’t cringe before them. That’s why he was kept in judicial custody without ever being questioned again. He was denied medicines, warm clothes and even bail,” said Mathew.“Fr Stan was a good social analyst. He was not a Maoist, he was a Gandhian and organic intellectual,” Mathew said. “He took used RTI (Right to Information) and approached the courts for the adivasis. In one instance, translated a Supreme Court order which said whoever owns the land, owns what is underneath it and circulated among the Adivasi. How is Maoist activity,” he asked.Arvind Narrain who is a founding member of the Alternative Law Forum pointed out that how Stan Swamy’s case, the government and the judiciary violated his right to live. Mathew made a call for the best minds in society to fight and prove Fr Stan’s innocence.In a short tribute, Shujayathulla E, facilitator of programs at Indian Social Institute shared a short anecdote. “We were supposed to attend a protest, by the time we reached there the protest was over. Then we were told that a group of students were protesting the Mayura circle, so we went there. As we reached, they started playing the state anthem. As I didn’t hear the announcement and started walking, Fr Stan stopped me and asked me to wait until the anthem is over,” she said .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-institute-where-stan-swamy-spent-16-years-remembers-activist-s-legacy-101626374530333.html
16-07-2021||India||Anti-cattle slaughter law: K’taka approves setting up of gaushalas in every district||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Thursday approved setting up of gaushala’s or cow shelters across the state as part of the anti-cattle slaughter law. “The cabinet has approved to put up gaushala’s in every district,” Basvaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s minister for home, law and parliamentary affairs said in Bengaluru on Thursday. In the first phase an amount of ₹15 crore will be earmarked for the project which, the minister said, will be increased in subsequent phases. In February, when the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill-2020 was passed amid huge commotion and opposition in the upper house of the state legislature, Bommai had stated that the government will increase capacity of its existing 184 cattle shelters from around 50,000 currently to 200,000. He added that more such schemes will be announced in the upcoming budget that takes away the burden of maintaining non-milching and other cattle. The development comes even as the Karnataka high court continues to hear multiple petitions, challenging the bill that proposes to almost entirely stop cattle slaughter in a state where farmers have seen a sharp decline in income due to falling prices of produce and are dealing with the extremes in weather, alternating between floods and droughts in the calamity-prone state. The Yediyurappa government introduced the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill-2020, now an act, which was subsequently passed in the legislative council in February this year. The anti-cattle slaughter act is part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) attempt to bring in legislation in line with its core-ideology, according to at least two legislators aware of the developments. The Yediyurappa government had already promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance that widens existing provisions for punishment on killing of cattle. The bill also has a provision to safeguard those “acting in good faith” which activists fear would give rise to vigilantism. The new laws penalise people who slaughter cattle below the age of 13-years with a jail term of 3-5 years and fines ranging from ₹50,000- ₹10 lakhs. In a statement on June 9 last month, the chief minister’s office (CMO), stated that cattle that are too old to work can continue to produce fuel, manure and biogas as a way to counter arguments against the viability of retaining old and ailing cattle. Between 2015-16 till 2019-20, the government said that nearly 1.3 million cattle like bulls and bullocks had been killed for various reasons including meat. The government has argued that the cattle population has dropped drastically in the last eight years. According to the 19th livestock census in 2012, there were 9516,484 to 8469,004 in 2019 (20th livestock census). It had also added that the population of the indigenous cattle is 1,254,206 (Hallikar and Amritmahal) and both male and female are used for drought purposes. Beef produced in Karnataka is sent to neighbouring Kerala and Goa among other places and the ban resulted in an acute shortage in these states. Karnataka exported around $2.5 million worth of beef in 2019-20 to UAE, Qatar and other countries, according to government data. Leather exports from Karnataka account for around $8.25 million, Hindustan Times reported in February this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anticattle-slaughter-law-k-taka-approves-setting-up-of-gaushalas-in-every-district-101626374469068.html
16-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa to visit Delhi today amid looming political crisis||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa will depart for Delhi on Friday for a two-day visit which includes a possible meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi among other leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The CM will be leaving for Delhi soon after the scheduled virtual meeting with the Prime Minister on Friday,” said one person from the chief minister’s media team, requesting not to be named.The person cited above said that the chief minister is also hoping to meet BJP national president JP Nadda and union home minister Amit Shah among other leaders.Yediyurappa’s visit to Delhi comes at a time when the dissent within his own government and party has risen in recent times, calling for a replacement of the 78-year-old.Though a section of the central leadership have openly stated that Yediyurappa will continue in his chair for the next two years, a significant other section has demanded that he be replaced at the earliest.His detractors have alleged widespread corruption, mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, doling out favours for personal benefit, non-performance and have accused the chief minister’s son, BY Vijayendra, of running a parallel administration under the aegis of his father.Yediyurappa has had several close shaves in recent weeks and months as the courts have refused to close charges of corruption against the chief minister from his earlier stints in 2006 and 2008.On Wednesday, TJ Abraham, an activist and president of the Anti-Graft & Environmental Forum lodged a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau against Yediyurappa, his son (Vijayendra), son-in-law (Sanjay Sree), grandson (Shashidar Maradi) and M Sudheendra Rao, the former chairman of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board.The complainant alleges that Yediyurappa and his family members sought a bribe of ₹16 crores from Rao to be appointed as chairman of the KSPCB in December 2019.In an interview to a local Kannada channel on July 7, Rao is reported to have made the confession of the bribe amount being demanded of him and payment of ₹9.75 crores by selling his fixed assets like his apartments and other belongings.The complaint also lists the illegal clearance of around 60 files and illegal collection of ₹60 crore by the relatives of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-to-visit-delhi-today-amid-looming-political-crisis-101626374409492.html
16-07-2021||India||Crime branch detains 38 foreigners for staying illegally in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: After a city-wide crackdown against rowdies, Bengaluru police on Thursday morning raided the homes of foreigners living in Bengaluru. According to the Central Crime Branch (CCB) raids were conducted in several parts of the city and were based on specific inputs. During the raids, 38 foreigners were detained for not having valid documents and seven were detained on charges of overstaying. “The officials also found marijuana and 90 ecstasy pills from two foreigners. They have been arrested,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). 65 homes were searched by a team of six ACPs, 20 police inspectors and over 100 police constables, read a statement from the CCB. The raids come after Bengaluru police had announced that it will book house owners if tenants were found involved in narcotics cases. The top brass of the city police had issued directions to all police stations, after several instances of landlords not verifying documents of foreign nationals before renting out their property had come to the fore. “In many cases, this is done with the knowledge that they were staying illegally, in order to get more rent,” said a senior CCB official. As many as 70 foreign nationals were arrested in 2020 under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS) in comparison to 44 in 2018 and 38 in 2019. The number of arrested persons in 2020 under the NDPS Act increased by 200% last year. According to the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO), Bengaluru, there are more than 800 foreigners overstaying in the city. In a recent case, after two Nigerian nationals were arrested for possession of 55 grams of cocaine worth ₹4.7 lakh, police tracked down the owner of their house in Ramamurthy Nagar. A notice was issued to them asking for information about the duo’s visa and passport details collected while renting out the premises. 15 more landlords in east Bengaluru have been issued similar notices, said SD Sharanappa, deputy commissioner of police, east. In 2019, the Karnataka government had constructed a detention centre in the outskirts of Bengaluru after home minister Basavaraj Bommai told the Karnataka assembly that a survey of illegal foreigners will be conducted and those found violating the norms, would be lodged here before deportation. Located in Sondekoppa village near Nelamangala in Bengaluru Rural district, this is the first detention centre to be opened in the state. The facility has detained 30-40 people till now. However, a police officer said the police department wants to deport them at the earliest than filing charge sheets against them. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a senior police officer said that filing a case would require those overstaying, especially those caught for drug trafficking, to remain in the city. “If a charge sheet is filed and they are sent to court, they have to remain in the city till the case is over. In case they come out of bail, they would continue to indulge in criminal activities. So, we have been proposing to deport them at the earliest after dropping charges and blacklisting them from entering the country again,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crime-branch-detains-38-foreigners-for-staying-illegally-in-bengaluru-101626374228821.html
16-07-2021||India||Kerala’s Covid-19 woes continue, 13k new cases||Kerala has again bucked the national trend, reporting 13,773 new cases on Thursday with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.95, according to the data released by the state health ministry. The state also reported 87 deaths, taking total fatalities to 15,025. In last 24 hours, the country reported 41,806 new cases with a TPR below 3 per cent. The state has been contributing the highest number of cases since June 15. In last one week, average cases in the state were 12,000 and TPR 10.2, almost one-third of the total caseload of the country, statistics show. The state’s contribution to the national numbers has risen steadily even as the national numbers started to slide two months ago. The state’s different virus pattern and slow progression rate have baffled medical experts. “It has to be studied well. We need an in-depth scientific study,” said public health expert Dr N M Arun. Among the infected are 57 health workers. Though most of them had two doses of vaccine, many workers are getting infected for the second and third time. Malappuram district topped with 1,917 cases. In last 24 hours, 125, 742 samples were tested. What really worries experts is that the virus wave shows no sign of downward trend and curve refuses to flatten. During the first wave, it came down quickly but in the second wave recovery is prolonging, data shows. But state health minister Veena George said slow progression was expected and there is no need to panic. “We have noticed that many are getting infected in their homes these days. Home quarantine is allowed for those who have private washrooms. But in many cases, they use common family facilities, infecting other members also,” she said, adding that many patients prefer home isolation and it is another reason for rise in cases.Health workers admitted that in rural areas many jump home quarantine and infect family members easily. But it is true there are no signs of overcrowding or panic in hospitals. Some of the temporary first line treatment centres were closed down for want of patients and there is no shortage of oxygen also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-covid-19-woes-continue-13k-new-cases-101626373928810.html
16-07-2021||India||TN health minister meets Pradhan over demand to scrap NEET||Reiterating the call to scrap the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian on Thursday met Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan in Delhi to allow the state to fill admissions to all professional courses on the basis of class 12 marks.He urged the Union government to cancel all national level entrance exams like NEET required for admissions into professional courses like the CBSE cancelled class 12 exams. The board exams for class XII were cancelled owing to the pandemic and Tamil Nadu has constituted a committee to evaluate and decide on class 12 marks. Before NEET entered Tamil Nadu in 2017, medical college admissions were based on class 12 marks.This meeting comes a day after the AK Rajan committee submitted its report to chief minister M K Stalin after studying the impact of NEET on socially and economically backward medical aspirants. More than 80,000 persons had submitted their opinions and most of them were against NEET, Rajan had said. On July 13, the Madras high court dismissed a plea filed by the BJP challenging the formation of the committee. Abolishing NEET is one of the election promises of the DMK and it is supported by other regional parties. Subramanian in his letter said that NEET deprives opportunities for rural students. “Majority of them study in their mother tongue and do not have resources/access to the coaching institutions,” he said. Subramanian also met union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya seeking additional vaccines, to start operations at vaccine facilities at Chengalpet and Nilgiris districts and asked for more funds. “They immediately granted ₹800 crore,” he told reporters in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-health-minister-meets-pradhan-over-demand-to-scrap-neet-101626373808811.html
16-07-2021||India||Move to drop charges in Kerala House fracas ‘incomprehensible’: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that Kerala government’s decision to drop criminal proceedings against a group of members MLAs, who threw furniture and destroyed public property during a House proceeding in March 2015, was “incomprehensible”.The observations of the top court came while hearing separate appeals filed by the Kerala government and the accused MLAs against a March 12 order by the Kerala high court refusing to drop charges against the legislators. The bench reserved orders after hearing all sides.Taking this to be a serious issue where a state government was seen defending the actions by the MLAs accused of criminal trespass, mischief, and destruction of public property, a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “We have to consider if the withdrawal of prosecution request (filed by the public prosecutor) was in the interest of public interest where MLAs have thrown furniture and desecrated the sanctum sanctorum of the House.”Expressing its strong reservation on the conduct of the MLAs, who threw microphones, broke furniture and disrupted presentation of the budget, the bench remarked, “This is not their personal property. It is public property, and they are custodians of it in the public trust. It is incomprehensible what is the public interest being pleaded.” The incident in question took place on March 13, 2015.Appearing for the state, senior advocate Ranjit Kumar said that the action fell within the domain of the House, over which the court cannot adjudicate. The bench said: “We do not doubt your freedom of speech in the House. But suppose an MLA empties a revolver in the assembly, will you still say that the House is supreme?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scslams-kerala-govt-for-appeal-to-close-assembly-ruckus-case-101626373508793.html
16-07-2021||India||UP recorded 36% jump in exports in 2020-21: State MSMEs minister||Uttar Pradesh reported a 36% jump in exports to ₹1.21 lakh crore in 2020-21 compared to ₹88,967 crore in 2017-18 because of the government’s policies such as one-district-one-product (ODOP) and robustness of small industries, Sidharth Nath Singh, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) minister of the state, said on Thursday.The MSME sector is the “backbone for employment generation and industrial growth in UP”, and due to its excellent performance the state could achieve positive growth in exports even during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Singh told reporters on Thursday.Despite a 68-day nationwide hard lockdown since March 25 last year, UP achieved 0.65% growth in exports in FY-21 even as the top three performers – Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu -- saw 0.38%, 6.08% and 9.09% contraction, respectively, according to the central government data. UP was the fifth largest contributor in India’s export basket for the previous fiscal year after Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.Singh said export growth is part of a conscious effort of the Yogi Adityanath government, which conceived the policy of ODOP to boost its rural economy immediately after it came to power in 2017. “We launched it in January 2018. Now, it has caught attention nationally. The Union finance minister had mentioned it in the budget... Under this we focused on promoting traditional industries specific to particular districts,” he said.He gave the example of “kalanamak chawal” (black rice). “Kalanamak chawal is basically sticky rice... The cultivation of this crop was towards extinction. We encourage it in Siddharthnagar. And, I’m happy to inform, despite the Covid pandemic, buyers from Japan and Singapore are engaging with our farmers to export it,” he said.While inaugurating a highway project in Varanasi on November 30 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said “black rice was introduced two years ago in Chandauli to increase the income of the farmers. Last year, a farmer committee was formed and around 400 farmers were given this rice to grow in the kharif season. While normal rice sells for ₹35-40 a kg, this black rice was sold for up to ₹300 a kg. For the first time, this rice has been exported to Australia, that too at the rate of around ₹800 per kg.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-recorded-36-jump-in-exports-in-2020-21-state-msmes-minister-101626373029629.html
16-07-2021||India||Strong immune response in mixed jab: Studies||A second shot of a messengerRNA (mRNA) based coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine administered to those vaccinated with first dose of the Oxford-AstraZeneca (ChAdOx1 nCoV-19) vaccine induces a strong immune response, researchers have found in two separate studies, one of which was released on Thursday .On Thursday, the New England Journal of Medicine published the results of a study conducted at the University Hospital of Northern Sweden in CoVacc, with Umea University, Sweden, serving as trial sponsor, which showed that an AstraZeneca (ChAdOx1-S) shot followed by a Moderna (mRNA-1273) one generated more immunity than two doses of the former. The study was conducted on 88 health care workers.The second study, published in late June in Lancet, was conducted at five university hospitals in Spain and showed the effectiveness and safety of a second dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech (BNT162b2) vaccine on those who received one dose of the AstraZeneca one. The study covered 676 individualsThe studies are important as they show the advantages of mixed vaccine regimen, something that countries could use to their advantage while planning second doses, and, so-called booster doses (a third dose) that may be required a year or so after people receive both doses.“BNT162b2 given as a second dose in individuals prime vaccinated with ChAdOx1-S induced a robust immune response, with an acceptable and manageable reactogenicity profile,” said the study paper, which assess the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of BNT162b2 administered as second dose in participants primed with ChAdOx1-S.In the Moderna study, researchers found antibody levels up to 125 times higher when the second dose was mRNA-1273 as compared to five times higher when it was also AstraZeneca.“We conclude that the mRNA-1273 vaccine can efficiently stimulate the SARS-CoV-2–specific B-cell memory that has been generated by a prime dose of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine 9 to 12 weeks earlier and that it may provide better protection against the B.1.351 variant than a ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 boost...”Experts say it is time to think about booster doses. “We need to start thinking about this now as at some point we would need a booster dose. It would depend on how the pandemic pans out...,” said Dr Navin Kumar, head, clinical microbiology and infection control, Manipal Hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strong-immune-response-in-mixed-jab-studies-101626372968694.html
16-07-2021||India||2 million accounts blocked in one month: WhatsApp in report||WhatsApp blocked at least two million accounts in India from May 15 to June 15, a compliance report released by the Facebook-owned messaging platform said.The accounts were blocked using automated technology. The platform blocks around eight million accounts a month around the world.In the period between May 15 and June 15, the company received 345 complaints from India, where it has 530 million users. These included 70 cases of account support, wherein users reported problems regarding their accounts, but took action against none; 204 cases appealing the fact that their accounts were blocked (it acted against 63); and 20 issues of other support. There were also 43 cases of product support, referring to product services such as payments offered by the company, involving eight safety issues that were flagged. Overall, of the 345 complaints WhatsApp received, it acted against 63 accounts from May 15 to June 15.The company has challenged the traceability clause of the social media and intermediary guidelines, which also mandate it to publish a monthly grievance compliance report. This is the first such report WhatsApp has published for India. WhatsApp is now the fourth company after Google, Facebook and Twitter to publish the report and appoint officers in keeping with the new guidelines.“We are an industry leader among end-to-end encrypted messaging services in preventing and combating abuse,” WhatsApp said in its report. “In addition to our safety features and controls, we employ a team of engineers, data scientists, analysts, researchers, and experts in law enforcement, online safety, and technology developments to oversee these efforts. We enable users to block contacts and to report problematic content and contacts to us from inside the app. We pay close attention to user feedback and engage with specialists in stemming misinformation, promoting cybersecurity, and preserving election integrity.”A person familiar with WhatsApp’s compliance efforts said on condition of anonymity that automated take down of accounts happens using a range of behavioral signals, such as mass broadcasts and without breaking end to end encryption. “Even though WhatsApp is an encrypted platform, it takes action against accounts based on automated tools as it is committed to ensuring safety of its users,” the person said.Kazim Rizvi, founder, policy think tank, The Dialogue, said, “...WhatsApp utilises AI technology to detect behaviour of users. For instance, if 100 messages are sent to unknown contacts within 15 seconds of registration, the platform may block the user. The technology keeps learning from such instances of blocking and then prevents abuse by blocking users if it can predict the same through signals and patterns. For instance, behavioural cues like bulk registration along with data points like IP Address help in detecting instances at registration itself. It is important to note that platforms cannot take down content due to end-to-end encryption and can only ban accounts.”Facebook, which published a compliance report last week, said in a more detailed report published Thursday that it received 646 grievances from India between May 15 and June 15 through the newly created grievance channel, with the highest number of complaints being about accounts being hacked.A person familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that while number of complaints were far lower on the grievance redressal channel as opposed to reports filed on the platform, the route provides an opportunity for people who do not have a Facebook account to flag content.Instagram, also owned by Facebook, said it received 36 complaints, of which 25 were regarding nudity. “Of these incoming reports, we provided tools for users to resolve the issues in 10 cases. These include pre-established channels to report content for specific violations, self-remediation flows where they can download their data, avenues to address account hacked issues etc,” the report stated.Instagram took action against two million links across nine categories in the period between May 15 and June 15.In Facebook’s first report released last week, it said it removed a little over 30 million pieces of content ( posts, profiles, pages) between May 15 and June 15 in India. The links taken down related to content that was violent and graphic, contained adult nudity and sexual activity, and were about suicide and self-injury. The report released on Friday is an interim disclosure and the company said it will publish details on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-million-accounts-blocked-in-one-month-whatsapp-in-report-101626372908647.html
16-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha secretariat issues notice to three MPs under defection law||The Lok Sabha secretariat on Thursday evening issued notices to two Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs and a YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) MP under the anti-defection law after their respective parties sought their removal from the House, people familiar with the matter said. Sisir Adhikari, senior TMC MP and father of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, and Sunil Kumar Mondal, Trinamool’s two-term MP, have been served notice months after the party filed a complaint under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution for anti-party activities.K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju, who has taken on Andhra Pradesh chief minister and party chief Jagan Mohan Reddy, has also been issued notice.According to the Lok Sabha secretariat, the three MPs have been told to send their reply within 15 days of receiving the notice.People familiar with the matter said while TMC leaders filed for disqualification of the two MPs a few months ago but now, ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament, the process of evaluating the alleged anti-defection cases have started.Sudip Bandyopadhyay, leader of the TMC in Lok Sabha, sought Sunil Kumar Mondal’s disqualification, on January 4 this year. The request to remove Sisir Adhikari was sent on May 17, a fortnight after his eldest son Suvendu defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from the Nandigram seat by 1,958 votes.Sunil Mondal, TMC Lok Sabha member from East Burdwan seat, joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah in December last year.Sisir Adhikari, the MP from Contai in East Midnapore district, did not formally pick up the BJP flag but shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the election campaign.Section 2A of the Constitution’s Tenth Schedule provides for disqualification of MPs and MLAs “if he (a lawmaker) has voluntarily given up his membership of such political party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-secretariat-issues-notice-to-3-mps-under-defection-law-101626372849374.html
16-07-2021||India||SC suo motu takes up delay in releasing prisoners after bail||The Supreme Court has taken suo motu cognisance of the delay by jail authorities in releasing convicts after they have been granted bail by superior courts, and a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana will hear the matter on Friday.The apex court was faced with a situation on July 8, when the top court ordered prison authorities of the Central Jail in Agra to release 13 convicts who were found to be juveniles at the time of commission of crimes. These convicts spent 14 to 22 years in jail despite Juvenile Justice Boards giving clear findings that were not adults when the crimes were committed.It took four days for the jail authorities to execute the release of the convicts. When this delay was brought to the notice of the top court on July 13 by advocate Rishi Malhotra, appearing for the convicts, a bench of justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian decided to take up the matter on the administrative side to issue necessary directions.The same day, the suo motu case was registered under the title “In Reference: Delay in Release of Convicts After Grant of Bail”. A three-judge bench comprising the CJI and justices L Nageswara Rao and AS Bopanna will hear the matter.Commenting on the suo moto proceedings, Malhotra suggested that, to cut delay, the Registry of the Supreme Court can e-mail the bail order to the superintendent of the concerned jail.“The superintendent of jail can always verify by calling up the Supreme Court, and can ascertain the veracity of the bail order from the Supreme Court’s website. This will not only save time but would be expeditious keeping in view that bail orders should not be detained for more than one day,” he said.The 13 convicts approached the Supreme Court last month on the grounds that their detention was “illegal”, citing the Juvenile Justice Board orders passed at various intervals between February 2017 and March 2021 declaring them to be below 18 at the time of committing the crime.As per procedures under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act 2000, Once a person accused of a crime is found to be a juvenile at the time of commission of that crime, the regular court will require sending the matter to the Juvenile Justice Board for trial of the case.Juvenile offenders can be given a maximum sentence of three years and this period has to be undergone in an observation/juvenile home.The petitioners relied on a public interest litigation taken up by in 2012 in which the Allahabad high court was told about a significant number of prisoners lodged in jails across Uttar Pradesh who were juveniles at the time of committing the crimes. The high court called for a report from Director General (Prisons), who confirmed this fact.In May 2012, the high court ordered an enquiry by Juvenile Justice Boards, which resulted in the orders being passed with regard to the 13 convicts.Leading criminal lawyer and senior advocate Sidharth Luthra said the problem with delayed release of persons granted bail has increased over the years and needs redress.“There are cases in which the investigating agency raises objection to bail bonds on the grounds that they need to verify the address and particulars in the bail bond. As a consequence, the accused continues to remain in jail. The Code of Criminal Procedure does provide for verification of bail bonds but that cannot become a matter of course to deny a person’s liberty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-suo-motu-takes-up-delay-in-releasing-prisoners-after-bail-101626372728765.html
16-07-2021||India||Ram Temple to open for devotees from end of 2023: Trust gen secretary||The Ram temple in Ayodhya will open to devotees for worshipping the child deity, or Ram lalla, by the end of 2023 and the entire 70-acre campus will be completed by the end of 2025, said office-bearers of the trust overseeing the high-profile project on Thursday.The announcement came after a meeting of the 15-member Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust with engineers and architects. The meeting was chaired by trust chief Nripendra Misra, who wrapped up a two-day visit to Ayodhya.“By the end of 2023, the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram temple will be opened for devotees to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust.“Construction work on the 70-acre temple complex will be completed by the end of 2025. Then the entire temple campus will be opened for devotees,” added Rai.The foundation of the temple was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5 last year in a glitzy ceremony but work stalled in January after water was found under the proposed temple site. Currently, engineers are working on the foundation of the temple and it is likely to be completed by September 15. The second phase of the work is likely to start in November.The construction committee has decided to keep the Ram Janmabhoomi campus eco-friendly.“The temple complex will have provision of rainwater harvesting so that water collected on the campus does not choke drains outside the temple. All existing trees in the temple complex will be preserved so that they provide natural cooling to devotees,” said Rai.Security of the complex was discussed at the meeting on Thursday and it was decided that instead of cement, industrial fly ash will be used in the construction of the temple. It will be procured from Unchahar Thermal Power Plant in Rae Bareli.Sandstone from Mirzapur,sandstone from Jodhpur, marble from Makrana in Rajasthan, pink stone from Bansi Paharpur in Rajasthan will be used in the construction.“On completion of one year of Bhumi Pujan of Ram temple on August 5 this year, we are planning a media visit at the construction site,” said Rai.According to the temple’s master plan, the campus will also have a museum, record room, research centre, auditorium, cow shed, a centre for tourists, administrative building, yagya shala and other facilities.Construction of the temple, a decades-long demand of Hindu groups, was cleared by the Supreme Court in 2019 in its landmark verdict on the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit. Before that, devotees were allowed to offer prayers to the child deity under a makeshift shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-to-open-for-devotees-from-end-of-2023-trust-gen-secy-101626372488664.html
16-07-2021||India||Jaishankar holds talks with Afghan President, affirms India’s support||A regional conference on connectivity hosted by Uzbekistan that began on Thursday afforded external affairs minister S Jaishankar an opportunity to discuss the situation in Afghanistan with key leaders such as Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad.Jaishankar arrived in Tashkent after attending meetings of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe on July 13 and 14.The situation in Afghanistan figured in Jaishankar’s meetings in Tashkent with Afghan President Ghani, his Kazakhstan counterpart Mukhtar Tileuberdi, and US deputy national security adviser Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall and Khalilzad, the special representative for Afghanistan reconciliation.The meeting between Jaishankar and Ghani marked the first high-level contact between the Indian and Afghan sides amid a sustained campaign by the Taliban to capture territory following the rapid drawdown of US forces in Afghanistan.“Discussed the current situation in and around Afghanistan. Reiterated our support for peace, stability and development of Afghanistan,”Jaishankar tweeted after his talks with the Afghan president. Tweets from the official handle of the Afghan president’s office said Jaishankar had assured Ghani of India’s support to Afghanistan. Jaishankar also said India will continue its humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan by providing 150,000 tonnes of wheat.Jaishankar said India “would continue to work together to strengthen the regional consensus to support the regime in Afghanistan,” according to the tweets.Jaishankar tweeted that he had exchanged “views on the evolving situation in Afghanistan” with Sherwood-Randall and Khalilzad. He also tweeted that he had discussed the situation in Afghanistan and Covid-19-related cooperation during his meeting with his Kazakh counterpart Tileuberdi. There was no official word from the external affairs ministry on these meetings.The Indian foreign minister is expected to hold several bilateral meetings on the margins of the international conference being hosted with Uzbekistan with the theme “Central and South Asia: Regional connectivity, challenges and opportunities”. The meeting is being attended by key leaders such as Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi are also in Tashkent for the conference but people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there were no plans for the Indian side to meet them. Meanwhile, the meeting of the SCO Contact Group on Afghanistan said in a joint statement that the “activity of international terrorist organisations remains a key factor of instability” in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-holds-talks-with-afghan-president-affirms-india-s-support-101626372428687.html
16-07-2021||India||'Should set aside LAC standoff to revive ties': China||China has said the overall situation in the border areas with India has de-escalated and both countries should set aside the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to expand bilateral cooperation, reflecting the differences between the two sides on the issue.The Chinese position was articulated on Thursday in a statement on the meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Dushanbe. After the meeting on Wednesday, Jaishankar said both sides should speedily resolve the remaining issues on the LAC since the standoff was negatively impacting bilateral ties.According to the Chinese foreign ministry’s statement, Wang said that after his meeting with Jaishankar in Moscow last year, frontier troops of both countries disengaged in Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake areas, and the “overall situation in the border area was de-escalated”.Reiterating Beijing’s contention that the Chinese side wasn’t responsible for the standoff, Wang said: “The two sides must place the border issue in an appropriate position in bilateral relations, expand the positive momentum of bilateral cooperation and create favourable conditions for resolving differences through negotiation.”China’s stance is contrary to the position taken by the Indian side, as Jaishankar had said that normalisation of ties depends on restoring peace in the areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-set-aside-lac-standoff-to-revive-ties-china-101626372369285.html
16-07-2021||India||PM Modi backs UP model on Covid, governance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday for its handling of Covid-19, boosting investment, and improving law and order, saying that the manner in which the state controlled the second wave of the pandemic was “unprecedented”.Modi visited his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi, inaugurated a convention centre built with Japanese assistance, laid the foundation of development projects worth ₹1,583 crore and hailed Indo-Japan ties.The PM said Uttar Pradesh’s population -- roughly 200 million -- was more than a dozen big countries but the way it controlled the second wave and stopped its spread was: “unprecedented”.“And this (Covid) is the biggest problem the world is facing in 100 years. It is the biggest pandemic, and hence efforts made by Uttar Pradesh to tackle the corona are commendable,” said Modi. “But Kashi along with UP faced such a big problem with full strength. Even during difficult times, Kashi has shown it does not stop, nor does it get tired,” he added, appealing to the audience to not be careless and follow Covid-19 protocols.The Prime Minister also appreciated the Yogi Adityanath-led government for a “development-oriented approach” and bringing in the rule of law in the state. He said Uttar Pradesh emerged as the leading investment destination of the country due to the environment created by the government.“UP, which was considered difficult to do business in a few years ago, is becoming a favourite place for Make in India today...Today, Yogiji is himself working hard and personally reviewing all development schemes,” the PM said at a public gathering at IIT-BHU grounds in Varanasi.The PM’s endorsement is a boost for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state government that was battling criticism from opposition parties and its own lawmakers over its handling of the second wave.At the peak of the surge in April and May, several cities in the state reported shortages of oxygen, hospital beds and critical drugs, and many bodies were later found buried on the banks of the Ganga or floating in the river -- though the government disputed that these were Covid patients and said the administration made all arrangements for patients and their kin.The Congress took a swipe at Modi, saying Varanasi wanted good governance, not speeches. The party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the city was “left to fend for itself” during the second wave of Covid-19.The state goes to the polls in early 2022.“Under PM Modi’s governance, Kashi has made a new identity in country and world. New Kashi is reaching new heights in development. This smart Kashi has become a model for the country and the world. PM Modi’s vision and inspiration are pushing people to new heights,” said Adiyanath.The chief minister said projects worth ₹10,300 crore were completed in the last seven years and projects worth another ₹10,200 crore were in progress in Varanasi.The state government also came in for praise for the state’s law and order situation.In his speech, Modi hailed the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre, Rudraksh, and said the ₹186 crore-project had the shine of modernity and aura of culture.“I want to congratulate everyone, the people of Kashi for this achievement, especially India’s ‘param mitra’ (close friend) Japan, the people of Japan, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Japanese ambassador to India Suzuki Satoshi,” he said.“There is one more person in today’s event, whom I cannot forget to name. Another friend of mine from Japan - Shinzo Abe. I remember, when Shinzo Abe came to Kashi as Prime Minister, I had discussed with him the idea of Rudraksh,” Modi said.“Prime Minister Suga was the chief cabinet secretary at that time. Since then till the role of PM, he has been personally involved in this project continuously,” the PM added.In a video message played at the ceremony, Suga congratulated India and said the two countries hared the same fundamental values “The Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VICCC), Rudraksh, will be used as a stage to showcase Japan-India cooperation by hosting international conferences, cultural and art events. The centre will become a new symbol of friendship between Japan and India,” he said.In his speech, Modi said that Kashi was emerging as a major medical hub for the “Purvanchal” (eastern region) and praised the inauguration of 14 oxygen plants at various city hospitals. He reiterated that the cleanliness of the Ganga and beautification of Varanasi were the top priorities for his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-backs-up-modelon-covid-governance-101626372368674.html
16-07-2021||India||Captain to lead poll campaign, buzz persists over Sidhu’s role||A much-awaited (and still awaited late Thursday night) announcement, lots of speculation, and meetings of the two rival factions -- these were the passages of play on a tense Thursday that was expected to see a resolution of a crisis in the Congress’s fractious Punjab unit.As such, the day ended only with clarity on current chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s role. “Captain Amarinder Singh will continue as the chief minister. The party will fight the elections under him,” said Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs .Rawat is also one of three members of a committee set up to resolve the crisis in the party in Punjab where elections are due early next year, and where opposition to the incumbent CM has coalesced and grown around Navjot Singh Sidhu, a cricketer and television personality who has emerged a vocal critic of Singh.Congress president Sonia Gandhi was to decide on Sidhu’s role, and there has been talk, a lot of it (including on Thursday) that he will be the next Punjab Congress chief. Specifically queried about Sidhu’s likely appointment as the new state unit chief of the Congress in Punjab, Rawat said the final approval of the party president is awaited. Rawat has previously termed Sidhu the future of the state. An announcement is expected as early as Friday.Rawat’s comments intensified speculation about Sidhu replacing Sunil Jakhar as the state chief and the likely appointment of two other party leaders, a Hindu and a Dalit, as working presidents to balance the caste equations.This was one of the recommendations of the committee. The names of Vijay Inder Singla and Santokh Chaudhary are doing the rounds for the post of working presidents.“The broad contours of the formula for revamp of the state Congress seem to have decided and the central leadership is trying to bring senior leaders on board before making a formal announcement to avoid a situation,” two state leaders said on condition of anonymity. The chief minister’s camp is closely watching the developments. Though there were reports that Captain Amarinder called up the Congress president to convey his displeasure and offered to resign, his media adviser Raveen Thukral denied these. “Media reports of CM@capt_amarinder resigning are humbug. He has neither quit nor offered to do so. He’ll lead @INCPunjab to victory in 2022 Assembly polls as he did in 2017. Urge media to stop speculating & spreading misinformation,” he tweeted.The chief minister is opposed to Sidhu being named party chief in the state.Meanwhile, the battle lines in the faction-ridden state unit became clearer with the two sides holding separate meetings. Sidhu held a meeting with some ministers and MLAs at cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s residence. Besides the two, cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Charanjit Singh Channi, MLAs Pargat Singh, Kulbir Singh Zira, Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon and Barindermeet Singh Pahra were also present. “There were 9-10 ministers and MLAs. Since Sidhu happened to be here, we decided to meet. It was not a planned meeting,” one of them said on condition of anonymity.Singh also met at least 15-16 ministers, MPs and MLAs at his Siswan farmhouse. Those who met him include cabinet ministers Sunder Sham Arora, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, OP Soni and Aruna Chaudhary, MPs Gurjit Singh Aujla and Jasbir Singh Gill and MLAs Fatehjang Singh Bajwa, Raminder Singh Awla and Harpartap Singh Ajnala, according to sources. An aide of the chief minister termed the meeting “routine”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captain-to-lead-poll-campaign-buzz-persists-over-sidhu-s-role-101626369848486.html
16-07-2021||India||SC: Does India need a colonial sedition law?||The Supreme Court on Thursday rued the “enormous power of misuse” of the sedition law in India and asked the Union government why it should not scrap a colonial law that was once used by the British government to oppress the freedom movements and leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak.The government’s top law officer, attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal, on his part, submitted that the entire section need not be struck down, and the court could lay down strict guidelines so that provision meets its legal purpose.The court observed that indiscriminate use of Section 124A (sedition) in the Indian Penal Code is like a saw in the hands of a carpenter who cuts the entire forest instead of a tree.“Unfortunately, continuance of this law after 75 years...This government has been scrapping many obsolete laws. We don’t know why they are not looking into this law? Continuance of this law is a serious threat on functioning of institutions and individuals’ liberty,” remarked a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana.Putting the central government to notice on a clutch of petitions that have pressed for striking down Section 124A, the court emphasised that it was concerned about “misuse of the law and lack of accountability of executive and the investigating agencies”.The court’s comments come amid a sharp increase in the number of sedition cases filed. Between 2016 and 2019, according to data from the National Crime Records Bureau, the number of such cases rose by 160% to 93. But in 2019, the conviction rate in such cases was a mere 3.3%, which means just two of the accused were convicted.“There is no dispute that it is a colonial law and was used by the British to suppress freedom and was used against Mahatma Gandhi, Bal Gangadhar Tilak. Is this law still needed after 75 years of Independence? Do you have to keep it in the statute book?” the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, asked the A-G.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union government, sought time to place the formal response on record, saying that the work of the court may get reduced once the Centre has submitted its affidavit in the matter.The penal provision is punishable with a jail term ranging between three years to life term, with or without fine.On Wednesday, the bench requested the A-G to assist it in adjudicating a petition, filed by former army officer SG Vombatkere, that was argued by advocate PB Suresh. This petition questioned the constitutional validity of Section 124A, and sought a directive to quash all proceedings under Section 124A pending with the police and courts across the country.On Thursday, as the matter commenced, Venugopal pointed out that there were at least two other cases on the validity of 124A pending before the other benches of the Supreme Court, and hence, the CJI’s bench could hear all these matters together. At this point, senior counsel Shyam Divan submitted that the Editors Guild of India has also filed a petition for striking down the sedition law, and their petition should also be clubbed.Agreeing to hear all these matters together, the bench began by asking the AG if it was necessary to retain section 124A of the IPC in the statute book, given the fact that the law had its origin during the colonial era and that the conviction rate in these cases has been dismal.“If you see history of charging this section, conviction rate is very low. The enormous power of misuse of this section can be compared with a carpenter given a saw. Instead of cutting a tree, he cuts the entire forest,” observed the bench.It cited Section 66A in the Information Technology Act, which was still being used to book and arrest people for social media posts despite the top court having scrapped the provision in 2015 for being arbitrary and disproportionately excessive.“Take the 66A IT Act, thousands of cases were registered even after it having been struck down. If the police want to fix somebody, it can invoke 124A also. Everybody is a little scared when this section can be invoked. these are all issues which needs to be looked into...If a political party wants to suppress the dissenting voices, they can use this law to book others,” said the bench, adding it will examine all these cases on Section 124A after two weeks.The other petition challenging Section 124A is being heard by a bench headed by justice Uday U Lalit. It has been filed by two journalists – Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh. On July 12, the A-G and the Union government sought time to file their submissions before that bench and the case was hence adjourned to July 27.On June 3, a bench, headed by justice Lalit quashed a sedition case after ruling that every citizen has a right to criticize the government’s policies so long as it does not incite people to violence or creates public disorder. The bench underlined a 1962 constitution bench judgment in the Kedar Nath Singh case to assert that a journalist could not be prosecuted under Section 124A for “disapprobation of actions of the Government and its functionaries”,Another bench, led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, said in May that it is time to define contours of Section 124A of IPC to lay down what is sedition and what is not. The bench had said it while restraining the Andhra Pradesh government from taking any adverse steps against two Telugu news channels that were booked under Section 124A.On Monday, at a public event, justice Chandrachud again emphasised that criminal laws, including anti-terror legislation, should not be used for muzzling dissent and that courts must act as the “first line of defence” against deprivation of liberty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-does-india-need-a-colonial-sedition-law-101626369489813.html
16-07-2021||India||NHRC calls for CBI probe into Bengal poll violence||Incidents of post-poll violence in West Bengal should be federally probed and trials held outside the state, the National Human Rights Commission recommended to the Calcutta high court, slamming the state government and ruling party and calling the clashes a “death knell” for democracy. The seven-member panel, set up on the high court’s order in June to look into clashes in the state after election results on May 2, submitted its report to the high court on Tuesday. It said that at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged in the state between May 2 and June 20, including 29 complaints of murder, 12 of rape and sexual assault and 940 of loot and arson. Out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% are currently in jail, found the panel.“The situation in the state of West Bengal is a manifestation of law of ruler, instead of rule of law...This was retributive violence by supporters of the ruling party against supporters of the main opposition party,” said the 50-page report. “It is indeed ironical that, in the land of Rabindranath Tagore...thousands of its citizens have been subjected to murder, rape, displacement and intimidation, etc. in the last couple of months,” it added.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee hit back at the panel, saying the report was misleading and facts distorted. “How many commissions and central agencies did the PM send to Uttar Pradesh?...they are misleading people and distorting facts,” Banerjee said. Violence broke out in various parts of the state hours after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) trounced the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to secure a third consecutive term on May 2. BJP leaders alleged that they were thrashed and threatened by TMC members, their houses ransacked and offices vandalised.The TMC denied the charges and said that the BJP was trying to exaggerate isolated clashes.On June 18, the high court -- hearing a bunch of public interest litigation -- asked NHRC to probe the violence. Three days later, it rejected the state government’s review petition and said the administration’s conduct didn’t inspire confidence.The NHRC committee visited at least 311 spots and found that in 60% of the places FIRs were not registered. “Out of the 9304 accused cited in the FIRs only 1354 (14%) have been arrested and, out of these arrested, 1086 (80%) are already on bail. Thus, overall speaking, less than 3% of the accused are in jail, while 97% are out in the open, making a mockery of the whole system,” the report stated, adding that police didn’t have the courage to take action against goons belonging to the ruling dispensation. “Hence it is recommended that all heinous crimes, including murder, unnatural deaths, rape and grievous hurt, and complaints carrying these allegations should be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). . . Trial of all the above cases investigated by the CBI should be held outside the state,” the report recommended. It also suggested a court-monitored special investigation team with a special public prosecutor, trial in fast track courts, deployment of central forces, and reforms in police. “This may well be death knell for democracy in this great nation. It is high time that the rot is stemmed and this trend is reversed in the interest of having a vibrant democracy in this nation,” the committee said.The panel recommended constituting a committee headed by a retired judge to monitor the implementation of the orders of the high court. The committee should have independent officers as observers in each of the affected districts.“If the above mentioned worrisome trend is not arrested, where the entire might of the government machinery has been used for furthering the political objectives of the party in power, the disease may spread to other states also,” it noted.The committee held a “pernicious politico- bureaucratic-criminal nexus” responsible for the violence and said many displaced people were scared to return and sexual assault victims scared to speak out due to palpable fear. “The local police has been grossly derelict, if not complicit, in this violence..loss of faith in state administration among victims is very evident,” the report noted.Banerjee said the panel was trying to malign the state after the BJP’s poll loss. “How many commissions and central agencies did the PM send to Uttar Pradesh? Majority of the incidents (violence) took place when law and order was with the Election Commission. They are misleading people and distorting facts,” Banerjee said . She also said. “We will submit our opinion through an affidavit to the court when our turn comes. I am sorry to say that instead of giving the report to the court they (NHRC) have leaked the reports. They should have respected the court. How can they disrespect the court? The matter is being heard by the court. We are the government and the court is yet to hear us. Before that how can they leak the reports? It is their political vendetta.” The BJP attacked the ruling TMC. “Any report which results in the embarrassment of the TMC is tagged as political vendetta. The NHRC team was assisted the by state police and state government officials when they were visiting the spots. The NHRC team was taken to the spots where violence was comparatively less. But still the report nails the government. So the NHRC report is just the tip of an iceberg. The report shows where democracy in the state. The TMC has not faith on any constitutional body,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrcreport-slams-bengal-govt-over-post-poll-violence-101626349447741.html
16-07-2021||India||It was a difficult decision to stop kanwar yatra: Uttarakhand CM Dhami||The Supreme Court on Wednesday cited Uttarakhand’s move to suspend the kanwar yatra and said it was a “little disturbed” by Uttar Pradesh’s decision to allow the pilgrimage despite widespread fears of a third wave of Covid-19. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, 45, spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about the yatra for which around 30 million pilgrims walk to fetch the Ganga waters for temples back home. Edited excerpts:Was it a difficult decision to stop the yatra?The yatra is a matter of great faith and devotion for us. Crores of Kanwariyas come to carry water from the Ganga (in Haridwar). For us, it is a very difficult decision. The pilgrims come to Uttarakhand from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan... Haridwar is the centre of the yatra. For us, people’s lives and saving them is of primary concern. For that, we have taken a tough decision with God as our witness. We are sure that God will not be pleased if because of our laxity, lives are lost. That is why we have stopped (the yatra).Did you consult experts?The new variant of the Coronavirus has been found in Gadarpur of Uddham Singh Nagar district in our state. We kept that in mind and sought advice from all kinds of people. Our officers consulted their peers in Uttar Pradesh too and noted how infection rates continue to grow. Keeping all this in mind and since we are the host of the entire yatra, we did not want Uttarakhand to be the Covid hotspot... People know that we would have loved to have the yatra...Did you speak to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath about it?I called him and briefed him about the situation here. It is not that he has taken a different line from me. He is a revered figure for me.Adityanath faces polls next year and so do you. What impact will this have on the polls?I think people understand where we are coming from. If you believe in God as I do, you know that human life is more precious. God will not approve of this. I spoke to all, and we were all agreed. There are many yatras to be experienced in life.Uttarakhand has had three chief ministers in just a matter of months. Did you know that you would have to take such a tough decision so soon after taking over?I live in the present and I never thought that I would be chief minister. My party has given me the work, the Prime Minister and others considered me worthy. So, I do not worry about the past or regret it and neither do I fear the future. Whatever challenge I face, I will just fulfil my oath.How are you handling the tourists’ rush?People are tired of staying at home for so long. They are now dying to get out. All the things that people missed out on, they want to make up for it. I appeal to all to do it slowly and in a measured manner. One government cannot do it by itself. It has to be a community effort.Do you have enough vaccines?We have vaccinated 50% of our population with both doses. Our aim is to vaccinate all in the next four months. We have appealed to the Centre to double our allocation and if that is done, we will have total coverage.Elections are around the corner. Do not you think the frequent changes will work against the Bhartiya Janata Party?No. Responsibilities are given and taken. We have done lots of work in the last 4.5 years and I am working to further thatThe Kumbh was allowed despite the second Covid-19 wave. Would that have an impact?They must have decided according to the situation at that time. Those who took fake Covid certificates (to attend Kumbh) are facing investigation. ...such incidents should not happen again. Humans are always learning, and I am doing that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-was-a-difficult-decision-to-stop-kanwar-yatra-uttarakhand-cm-pushkar-singh-dhami-101626348427617.html
16-07-2021||India||MP government to move Supreme Court for 27% OBC reservation in state||The Madhya Pradesh state government will soon move the Supreme Court against the MP high court stay on 27% reservation for other backward classes (OBC), said a minister on Thursday. The then Kamal Nath-led Congress government had increased the OBC reservation from 14% to 27% in March 2019. The high court stayed the decision in March itself. On Tuesday, it ordered a continuation of its interim stay to release the list of candidates selected through various exams with 14% OBC reservation, and keep 13% seats vacant till the final order is issued in the case. The decision to approach the apex court was taken at a meeting of OBC welfare committee on Wednesday, headed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Horticulture minister Bharat Singh Kushwaha said, “The CM has clearly said that the state government will move the Supreme Court for 27% reservation for OBCs as MP has 51% OBC population and it is necessary to give reservation to the community members in this proportion.” Also Read | Punjab Police bust another weapon supply module in MP, two arrested“The OBC community has been demanding an increase in quota. At the meeting, it was decided to move Supreme Court against the high court stay,” said Bhagat Singh Yadav, president, BJP OBC morcha. The state government swung into action on OBC quota issue after former chief minister Kamal Nath and other Congress leaders attacked it for failing to pursue the matter effectively in court. In a series of tweets, Nath said, “Some petitions were filed in the high court against reservation, but due to lack of proper presentation by the BJP-led state government, the increased reservation could not be implemented till now. If the government supports the strong side, then the backward classes of Madhya Pradesh will get the benefit of 27% reservation.” MP advocate general Purushendra Kaurav said, “I won’t comment on the decision at the meeting.” The increase in quota for OBC violates Supreme Court reservation cap of 50%. In MP, the total reservation will gone up to 73% with 27% OBC quota. The state has 10% reservation for economically weaker section (EWS) people in upper castes, 20% reservation for scheduled tribes and 16% reservation for scheduled castes. The MP high court is hearing at least 70 petitions in connection to the reservation in jobs and educational institutes, officials said. One of the lawyers representing some petitioners, Aditya Singhvi, said, “They can move the Supreme Court but they will lose the case there too. The Supreme Court’s larger bench on May 5, 2021, gave a clear judgment in connection with Maratha reservation that population ratio can’t be a basis of increasing reservation in any state.” “Approaching SC is a political gimmick, nothing else,” he added. According to the 2011 census, OBCs constitute 50.09% of the total 72.62 million population of Madhya Pradesh. Out of 52 districts, 36 have over 50% OBC population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-government-to-move-supreme-court-for-27-obc-reservation-in-state-101626348187763.html
16-07-2021||India||India eases drone norms in boost for future tech||The Union civil aviation ministry on Thursday released the draft of the national drone policy, making it significantly easier for people and companies to own and operate drones, while also streamlining a labyrinthine certification process for manufacturers, importers and users, in a move that aims to boost future tech.Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia underlined the key highlights of the new policy in a series of tweets on Thursday. The document has been now been put up for public inputs till August 5, following which it will be notified. The rules will replace the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules (UAS), 2021, which came into force in March. “In a major fillip to the drone industry, I am happy to present the Draft Drone Rules 2021 that mark a stark shift from the earlier UAS Rules. 10 key takeaways: Several approvals abolished & processes made easier; number of forms reduced from 25 to 5; coverage of drones increased from 300 kg to 500 kg; fee reduced to nominal levels; yellow zone reduced from 45 km to 12 km from the airport perimeter; no flight permission required up to 400 ft in green zones...,” Scindia wrote.Drones have been in the spotlight since such a device was used to target an Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu with explosives last month. Officials in defence have since said they are working on anti-drone technologies. Typical consumer drones usually have some inbuilt safeguards, which mean not all are unsafe. Drones now form a significant new consumer tech category, particularly among hobbyists and visual artists, and are being tested for a range of practical as well as industrial uses such as automated package deliveries by e-commerce companies.Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of top ministers to discuss the policy regarding drones, which has been long awaited. The existing regulation, notified in March 2021, was seen to have a labyrinthine approval process.According to the draft rules, seen by HT, many of the approvals previously required, such as unique authorisation number, unique prototype identification number, certificate of conformance, certificate of maintenance, import clearance, operator permit, authorisation of R&D organisation, and student remote pilot licence, have been abolished. The draft rules also propose to reduce fee to nominal levels and not linking the fee with the size of the drone.Building on its attempt to make rules easier, the rules state no pilot licence will be required for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drones and for research and development (R&D) organisations. There will no longer be a ban on the use of drones by foreign-owned companies registered in India and no security clearance will be required before any registration or licence is issued.The government plans to open what is known as the Digital Sky platform, which manufacturers will be able to use for certification process, and from where interactive airspace maps with green, yellow, and red zones can be accessed. Digital Sky will also serve as a unified platform for users to obtain the mandatory registration number and remote pilot license, and people will need to check the service to determine if any restrictions are in place before they fly a drone at a location. The platform will be under India’s aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).“The central government may, within 30 days of the date of notification of these rules, publish on the digital sky platform, an airspace map for drone operations segregating the entire airspace of India into red, yellow and green zones, with a horizontal resolution equal or finer than 10 metre,” the draft rules state.The zones pertain to what is known as geo-fencing, which prohibit or limit the use of drones at some places, like close to an airport or over sensitive military and VIP locations. The yellow zone has been reduced from 45 km to 12 km from an airport’s perimeter, and the new rules suggest no flight permission will be required for operations up to 400 feet in green zones and up to 200 feet in the area between 8-12 km from an airport perimeter.“Green zone” refer to the airspace from the ground up to a vertical distance of 400 feet (120 metre) above ground level (AGL) that has not been designated as a red zone or yellow zone in the airspace map for drone operations; and the airspace from the ground up to a vertical distance of 200 feet (60 metre) AGL in the area located between a lateral distance of 8 kilometre and 12 kilometre from the perimeter of an operational airport, the draft rules say. In red zones, drone operations shall be permitted only under exceptional circumstances by the central government, the rules add. To fly in the yellow zone, a drone pilot will require permission from the air traffic control authority.“The airspace map for drone operations shall be designed to be programmatically accessible through a machine readable Application Programming Interface (API) and interactive so that drone pilots will be able to plot their proposed flight plan and easily identify the zone(s) within which it falls so as to assess whether or not they need to make an application for prior approval,” it said. This will allow for automatic drones to be automatically updated with geo-fencing details of where they can and cannot be flown. Some companies build such failsafe fences into their products, typically earmarking no-fly zones around airports and other sensitive locations.Discussions on a draft policy on drones have been on for over two years. The policy document uploaded on Thursday says integration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) into the National Airspace System (NAS) presents several challenges, technically and operationally. Integrating UAS within the current air traffic management systems need additional hardware on board, it added.The objective of the policy is to enable more types of unmanned aircraft operational scenarios, increase the ease of compliance for the unmanned aviation industry, and ensure safety and security.Industry representatives welcomed the rules. “The ministry of civil aviation’s decision to liberalise the drone policy even after the recent drone incidents in Jammu showcases the government’s bold approach to promote the use of the drone and focus on the development of counter-drone technology to address the threat posed by rogue drones. We appreciate the ministry’s initiative and will continue to extend our support towards making India global drone hub.” said Smit Shah, director, Drone Federation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-draft-national-drone-policy-relaxes-existing-rules-101626333666685.html
16-07-2021||India||Five more cases of Zika infection push Kerala tally to 28||Five more people tested positive for the Zika virus in Kerala on Thursday, taking the total number of cases of the vector-borne disease to 28 in the state, which is currently also the largest Covid-19 hot spot in India.“Of the 28 cases, 20 have turned negative. Among eight active cases, three are pregnant women. Special teams have been constituted to monitor their health,” state health minister Veena George said on Thursday after an emergency review meeting in the state capital. The latest Zika cases were reported from Thiruvananthapuram city and in neighbouring Parassala and Vizinjam areas. An alert has been sounded in all 14 districts of the state and a state-wide vector control drive has also been launched, the minister said. “Almost every household will have to ensure that there is no stagnant water collection in their house or periphery. Fogging and drying are in full swing. We will overcome this,” George said, underscoring that strict vigilance is needed but there is no need to panic yet. The first Zika case was reported from Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram district last week after a 24-year-old pregnant woman tested positive for the virus. Later, she gave birth and both the mother and infant are stable. However, Zika cases in Kerala have now risen from to 28 within a week. The state health department said on Wednesday a cluster of infections was identified near a locality in Thiruvananthapuram after they found large-scale presence of Aedes mosquitoes, the main carrier of the virus. The minister said the state has set up five testing labs and a control room to handle the Zika outbreak. Earlier, it used to send samples to the National Institute of Virology in Pune. The central government too has rushed a team of experts to the state. Controlling the Zika outbreak is of even greater significance to Kerala, which is currently the biggest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country right now. The state has been adding the most number of daily cases in the country – an average of 13,245 new infections every day in the past seven days – and has thus been responsible for a third of all infections reported in the country in the past week. Health experts say that unlike Covid-19, Zika is not a major threat and can be controlled with effective vector control programmes. The virus is spread mostly through mosquitoes and the fatality rate among patients is very low. Only one in five patients normally develop symptoms. However, the Zika virus can affect foetal development in pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-more-zika-cases-detected-in-kerala-total-28-now-101626327725947.html
16-07-2021||India||Choksi returns to Antigua after bail||Diamantaire Mehul Choksi on Thursday returned to Antigua and Barbuda, where he is a citizen, three days after a court in Dominica granted him bail on medical grounds. He mysteriously went missing from Antigua on May 23 and was found in Dominica, around 200 km away, the next day.Choksi’s family and legal team blamed India, which has sought his deportation to face trial in the ₹13,578 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, and Antigua and Barbuda for abducting him. India even sent a special jet with a team of eight officers to Dominica in the expectation of the country deporting him.Choksi, 62, spent 52 days in Dominica, where he was charged with “illegal entry”. The Dominica high court on Monday allowed his plea to return to Antigua “strictly for medical treatment” and ordered him to return once he is fit to travel. Indian investigators feel Choksi will now never return to Dominica.Choksi landed at Antigua’s VC Bird International Airport in an air ambulance around 3.30 pm Wednesday Caribbean time (Thursday early morning India time). He was received by the island’s ministry of foreign affairs officials, people familiar with the matter said. Choksi carried the Dominican court order and did not face any problems with immigration authorities, they added.Choksi’s lawyer, Vijay Aggarwal, said his client has returned home safely. “He faced no issues while entering Antigua. He is receiving medical treatment and his family is feeling relieved. ...torture during kidnapping has caused him a lot of psychological and physical harm. All is well that ends well. After tasting success in Dominica, now the legal team is gearing up for a long-drawn fight in Antigua.”Antigua and Barbuda government said on Wednesday evening that while Choksi has returned from Dominica, the Royal Police Force of the island will continue to investigate his claim of kidnapping. It added that the extradition case brought against him and the case of revocation of his Antiguan citizenship will also continue. The decisions were taken by the cabinet led by Prime Minister Gaston Browne. Choksi is facing two cases - extradition and revocation of citizenship (which he acquired in November 2017) - in the Antigua high court.An Indian team flew to Dominica on May 28 hoping to get Choksi deported. But Choksi’s lawyers filed a habeas corpus in the Dominica high court alleging abduction and torture.India told Dominica in June that Choksi was the mastermind of the PNB fraud and owed ₹7080 crore ($952 million). It also argued that he remained an Indian citizen because the appropriate authority did not accept his application relinquishing Indian citizenship, and sought to have him deported to India, but the matter was adjourned sine die.HT reported on July 15, citing unnamed officials in investigation agencies that Choksi’s return to Antigua could delay his potential extradition to India. The high court, while granting Choksi bail, said the illegal entry proceedings against Choksi will remain adjourned till he is fit to stand trial. Choksi’s arrival in Dominica on May 24 triggered a political controversy with the country’s main opposition party accusing the governments of Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda, and India of colluding to abduct the businessman to fly him to New Delhi. The allegations have been rejected by all three governments.Analysts in Delhi say that Dominica has rid itself of Choksi by agreeing to his bail on Monday as the whole episode has embarrassed the governments in the Caribbean nations. In Antigua and Barbuda, Choksi is fighting two cases over his extradition and the revocation of his citizenship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-reaches-antigua-101626319384325.html
