17-07-2021||India||Raje loyalist, ex-MLA Rohitash Sharma expelled for 6 years for indiscipline||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former minister Rohitash Sharma was expelled from the party for six years on charges of breach of discipline. BJP state president Satish Poonia issued the letter to expel Sharma from the primary membership of the party, HT has learnt.Sharma, who is considered close to former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje, was issued a show-cause notice last month for making anti-party statements. The former minister had said that the party’s state leaders were running the party sitting in the offices and not going to villages. He had held the party’s state leaders responsible for the results in bypolls held on three seats, in which the ruling Congress comfortably retained two seats while the BJP retained the third seat in May. BJP spokesperson and MLA Ram Lal Sharma said Sharma has been expelled for six years by state party chief Satish Poonia as he was constantly, for the last many days, making statements against the party in public. Sharma was first given notice on June 24, and after his reply, was constantly giving statements against the party. The party’s disciplinary committee took it seriously and on its recommendation, Poonia expelled him. Commenting on the expulsion, Sharma told media persons, “I just want to say that those who have expelled me have misused the post out of animosity. There was no reason to expel and I had done no indiscipline activity or made any statement against the party.” “I just stated that 22-years back, the state party chief used insulting words against the party and its leaders, resigned and left the party…what disciplinary action can be taken by such a person? BJP is my mother and will never cheat the party. I will fight for my rights. I have been expelled due to personal animosity. I will fight for justice and approach the Prime Minister, Amit Shah and national party chief,” said Sharma. “I have been a student of experienced leaders and trained under them. I never use insulting or derogatory language,” he said. Political analyst Manish Godha said, “Sharma is known to be close to former CM Vasundhara Raje, his expulsion is also a message to others who were making statements in support of Raje. He was not the only leader making a statement in support of Raje and questioning the party but among them probably was the one who could cause less damage as the rest were sitting MLAs and others”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raje-loyalist-ex-mla-rohitash-sharma-expelled-for-6-years-for-indiscipline-101626545598370.html
17-07-2021||India||ED arrests Punjab-born Dutch national for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday arrested a Dutch national named Shivlal Pabbi in a money-laundering probe initiated at the request of the Netherlands’ government, officials said.Pabbi was trying to flee from New Delhi by a flight to Paris at IGI Airport when ED sleuths caught him based on a look-out circular issued against him in February.Officials familiar with the developments said Pabbi was allegedly involved in a money laundering and hawala racket from the Netherlands and it is suspected that he transferred around ₹30 crore to India with the help of some Pakistani nationals based in Dubai.Originally, a resident of Phagwara in Punjab, Pabbi migrated to the Netherlands in 1981 and became a Dutch national in 1984.“Pabbi committed cheating and forgery in the Netherlands on the basis of fraudulent documents prepared in connivance with his Indian associates. He ran an underground banking/banking without permit/hawala business in the Netherlands under the garb of trading in garments. The proceeds of crime were laundered through Pakistani individuals based in Dubai, who transferred the money to Pabbi and his brother’s NRE (non-resident external) accounts in Phagwara,” the ED said in a statement.“The proceeds of crime were invested in the development and construction of Mayfair Resorts and Cabbana Resort & Spa in Phagwara on the Jalandhar-Ludhiana highway,” the ED added.Cabbana, spread over several acres, is a renowned venue known mainly for hosting luxurious weddings, corporate events, among other events.The resort was raided by the ED in February.Pabbi was produced before a special court and has been sent to ED custody till July 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-punjab-born-dutch-national-for-money-laundering-101626544999518.html
17-07-2021||India||Padma Shri awardee Rabindra Narain Singh elected as VHP president||The Vishva Hindu Parishad has elected Rabindra Narain Singh, an orthopaedic surgeon and a Padma Shri awardee, as its new president on Saturday. Singh replaced 82-year-old Vishnu Sadashiv Kokje, who has been in the post since April 2018."Kokje ji is now 82 years old. He wanted to be relieved of his responsibilities as the VHP president. The election has been conducted as per his wishes and our constitution," VHP's joint general secretary Surendra Jain said at a press conference.Rabindra Narain Singh was the vice president of VHP. In 2010, he received Padma Shri for his contribution to the field of medical sciences. Elections were also held for the post of the general secretary and Milind Parande, the outfit's current general secretary, was unanimously re-elected, news agency PTI reported.During the meeting, the outfit discussed the "condition of Hindus" in Haryana's Mewat and issued a statement demanding that the state government must ensure "protection of Hindus" in the Muslim-dominated region.Jain said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, after visiting Mewat last year, had announced that his government would bring a law against forced religious conversion, effectively implement the law against cow slaughter, constitute a Dharmada Board to look after the religious estate of Hindu-minority areas and set up a camp of paramilitary forces in Mewat district."It has been a year since his announcement, but nothing has yet been done so far," the VHP leader said while appealing to the Haryana chief minister to act on his promises "to establish rule of law" in Mewat.The VHP said the Hindu society has started standing up for "self-defence" in Mewat with support from the neighbouring areas."As a result, several maha panchayats have been organised there to warn Jihadis. The VHP welcomes this awakening of Hindu society,” the saffron outfit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-shri-awardee-rabindra-narain-singh-elected-as-vhp-president-101626543528945.html
17-07-2021||India||Assam Cong MP urges PM to enquire into nationality of MoS home affairs||Assam Congress chief and Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to enquire into the nationality of newly appointed Union minister of state for home affairs Nisith Pramanik. Bora tweeted that a section of media has alleged that Pramanik was a Bangladeshi national. The Congress MP wrote a letter to PM Modi on July 16 urging the prime minister to conduct an enquiry. He uploaded the letter on Twitter on Saturday.“Therefore I urge upon you to conduct an enquiry about the actual birthplace and nationality of Nisith Pramanik in a most transparent way and clarify the whole issue as it creates confusion across the country,” Bora wrote in his letter to the PM. Pramanik, a first-time Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Cooch Behar in West Bengal, was inducted into the Union Cabinet earlier this month. He was earlier with the Trinamool Congress (TMC). In 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha polls, he sided with the BJP. Even though Pramanik could not be reached, the BJP’s Bengal unit hit back saying that these are mere allegations and need to be backed by proof.“Anyone can raise any allegation. This doesn’t prove anything. Steps can’t be taken just on the basis of mere allegations. If he has some specific proof, he should make it public. It is not a healthy idea if one tries to become relevant just by raising some allegations,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. This is, however, not the first time that controversy has been triggered around the MP. Earlier, TMC Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy alleged that there were discrepancies in Pramanik’s educational qualifications. “Multiple portals in Bangladesh have recently claimed that Pramanik was born at Palasbari in Bangladesh. The portals quoted his relatives saying that they were proud of him as he has become an MoS. We were shocked and protested on social media. The air needs to be cleared,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cong-mp-urges-pm-to-enquire-into-nationality-of-mos-home-affairs-101626543557527.html
17-07-2021||India||'Should I tell you everything now?' Priyanka Gandhi on being CM face in UP polls||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Saturday dodged questions on contesting election from Uttar Pradesh or on being the CM face in the state. On the question of contesting the election, she said, "We will see", PTI reported. On whether she would be the party's CM face for the UP polls, Priyanka said, "Should I tell you everything now?"The Congress leader is on a two-day visit in the poll-bound state. On Saturday, she went to Lakhimpuri Kheri to meet two Samajwadi Party women workers who were allegedly attacked by BJP leaders during the recent block panchayat chief elections."They were beaten up while they had gone to file nominations and disrobed. You can imagine what was going on in their mind. Along with Anita, his 19-year-old son was also there," Priyanka said."I want to tell (them) that each and every woman of India stands with them. I told them not to feel afraid, and have confidence," she said.On the party's strategy for the upcoming elections, Priyanka said, "In the past a year and a half, our party has raised the strongest voice. We have hit the roads, our party workers have courted arrests. Rest of the parties have not spoken so much nor they came out (on streets) as compared to us, and we will continue with this."(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-i-tell-you-everything-now-priyanka-gandhi-on-being-cm-face-in-up-polls-101626541238085.html
17-07-2021||India||No end to Kerala’s Covid-19 woes, state reports over 16k new cases||Kerala on Saturday logged 16,148 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in a month, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The high volume of cases is a big concern and it emphasised the need for more vigil and surveillance,” Vijayan said during a press meeting. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 38,079 cases of Covid-19 and the state’s contribution was around 40 per cent of the total national caseload. The state’s test positivity remained 10.76 per cent while the national average is below 3 per cent. The state’s weekly average was above 14,000 cases with 10 per cent TPR. Since June 15, Kerala, the country’s first state to report a virus case in January 2020, topped in new cases and active caseload. Two districts, Malappuram and Kozhikode, reported more than 2,000 cases on Saturday but the CM reiterated that there is no need for panic.“High caseload is due to increased tests. We have set a high testing target and moving towards this. Even at the peak of the second wave, the state did not use 70 per cent of its hospital infrastructure. No oxygen shortage is reported here,” he said, adding that it was due to proper planning and execution of pandemic prevention activities. The CM said unlike other states, the second wave started in the state very late, by April end-May first week, and the situation will subside by the month-end. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed concern over the high volume of cases in Kerala and Maharashtra during the CMs’ conference on Friday. “It is true the state is reporting a lion’s share these days. We hope the situation stabilises by the month-end. It is a fact that the state is taking enough time to flatten the curve and it has to be studied scientifically,” said public health expert Dr N M Arun, adding there is no pressure on hospitals despite a high number of cases. “Though super spreaders are not around, a large number of the community and households are succumbing to the virus due to lax micro-management strategy,” he said.Minister of State for External Affairs, V Muraleedharan, also said the state is yet to approach a scientific approach to contain the pandemic. “It seems the government finds refuge in its old records. Instead of reaping political benefits out of pandemic control measures, it has to go by the guidelines of the Union government and the Indian Council of Medical Research,” he said. Meanwhile, the government announced a new set of norms to ease restrictions during Bakrid. At least 40 persons will be allowed in places of worship and there will be special relaxation from June 18-20. Shops and business establishments can be opened till 8 pm. It has also permitted to shoot movies as many Malayalam movie units threatened to shift their base to other states if Kerela remained in lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-end-to-kerala-s-covid-19-woes-state-reports-over-16k-new-cases-101626539177323.html
17-07-2021||India||‘Judiciary stands with people when things go wrong’: CJI Ramana||When things go wrong, the judiciary stands with its people, said Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Saturday, explaining the trust judiciary enjoys in India. He was addressing an international audience at the India-Singapore Mediation Summit 2021.“People are confident that they will get relief and justice from the judiciary. It gives them the strength to pursue a dispute. They know that when things go wrong, the judiciary will stand by them,” the CJI said in his speech at the event. He stated that this trust explains why so many cases flood Indian courts.At a separate event later in the day, launching an event held by Gujarat High Court for live-streaming the court proceedings, the CJI said, “It is high time for de-mystifying the justice delivery system in the country and furthering access through open courts.”Although courts in the country are open to litigants and lawyers, access to justice will become a true reality when litigants and interested parties get to witness, understand and comprehend justice dispensation first-hand through the live-streaming, the CJI said.The CJI hinted that at the Supreme Court, efforts are underway to open some courts for live-streaming as it is cost-effective. “People may want to follow the arguments of the lawyers and observations of the bench only in certain cases, such as those that involve Constitutional interpretation or attract public attention.” Currently, this information is available through the media. In the process, there can be some transmission loss leading to misinterpretation of questions asked and observations made by the bench, which often gets amplified by vested interests.“The formalisation of the live streaming of court proceedings is the best cure for the aforesaid malady,” the CJI said. However, he warned that live streaming of proceedings may become a double-edged sword as judges might feel the pressure of public scrutiny which can result in a stressful environment.At the same time, the privacy of the parties involved and the safety and security of the victims and witnesses should also be ensured during live streaming, the CJI told Justice Vikram Nath, Chief Justice of Gujarat High Court and other judges of the High Court at the virtual event.The CJI also sought to address the perception about pendency in Indian courts and said, “The often-quoted statistic that “pendency” in Indian Courts has reached 45 million cases, which is perceived as the inability of the Indian judiciary to cope with the caseload is an overstatement and an uncharitable analysis.”Pendency cannot be a useful indicator of how well or poorly a system is doing, said Justice Ramana at the Indo-Singapore Mediation event which was also attended by Justice Sundaresh Menon, Chief Justice of Singapore.The problem ailing the Indian judiciary is of delay, the CJI said and was of the strong view that the development of alternate dispute resolution (ADR) techniques, such as arbitration, conciliation and mediation, can have reduced delays by settling disputes outside courts. The current state of mediation in the country shows that since 2005, nearly 3.22 million cases have been referred and nearly 1 million cases have been settled till March 2021 by nearly 43,000 mediation centres.To ensure mediation is successful, the CJI suggested that mediation should be prescribed as a “mandatory first step” for the resolution of every allowable dispute. “Perhaps, an omnibus law in this regard is needed to fill the vacuum,” as mediation is not governed by any law unlike the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996. Some recent laws, such as Commercial Courts Act 2015 and the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016, provide a clause for compulsory pre-litigation mediation.Since mediation is cheap and simple, it can benefit a vast majority of litigants in India who belong to middle and poorer sections of society, he said, giving the example of Lok Adalats which has helped reduce a lot of cases from coming to courts.Over 7.84 million cases were settled by the Lok Adalats in 2019 and 2020 of which nearly 3.94 million cases were settled at the prelitigation stage.At the start of his speech, the CJI highlighted that mediation, as a concept, is deeply embedded into the Indian ethos. He shared an event from the great Indian epic Mahabharata where Lord Krishna made a futile attempt to mediate the dispute between the Pandavas and Kauravas. “Failure of mediation led to disastrous consequences,” the CJI said.Taking a leaf out of aviation, Justice Ramana said that just as commercial pilots have a simulator component in their training where they are equipped to respond to multiple scenarios, the training programmes of mediators should contain such a component. The CJI said that a game-like software for mediators would serve as a useful innovation.The mediation event was organized by the Singapore International Mediation Centre, CAMP, Mediation Mantras, and the officers of the Supreme Court of Singapore and the Supreme Court of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-stands-with-people-when-things-go-wrong-cji-ramana-101626537678660.html
17-07-2021||India||‘Smells of a scam’: Cong slams govt for ‘siphoning off thousands of crores’||Congress on Saturday hit out at the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for “siphoning off money worth thousands of crores” from Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF), which is pooled by the private telecom operators of the country for enabling rural Indians to be effectively connected through a reliable telecommunications network.Invoking a Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “From July 2019 to December 2020, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has given crores of rupees towards Common Services Centres (CSC) for maintenance and operation of optical fibre cables in the country. CAG says that this money came from Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) is a pool of funds generated from the levy that is charged upon all the telecom operators”.Khera added that there has been no clause in the agreement with these companies offering the services to the government through which the USOF could impose a penalty on them if their work was unsatisfactory.He added that there is also no “service level agreement” which means that these companies are not responsible for timebound redressal of complaints.Quoting the CAG report, Khera said that in absence of a prescribed timeline for restoration of faults and non-inclusion of the penal clause, “there was no deterrent for CSCs to ensure that there is no delay in rectification of faults.”Khera added that the Department of Telecommunication has been draining the USOF by allotting projects to various private partners worth crores of rupees and this has been happening for over a year without issuing any tenders.“Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has been awarding projects to private parties indirectly through… CSC Wi-Fi Choupal Services India Private Limited,” he said.CSC Choupal is an e-governance initiative for the development of digital infrastructure in the villages.What Khera called a “modus operandi of the government,” he said that the USOF would propose newer projects to the Digital Communication Commission of the telecommunication department and their approval was sought and later these projects were awarded to CSC Choupal.“CSC Choupal would then pass these projects to CSC-SPV (special purpose vehicle or a subsidiary company formed to undertake a specific business purpose). This CSC-SPV would actually be a private company branded as a CSC and this happened without issuing any tenders,” he said, adding that this has been one of the reasons for a reshuffle of the Minister of Electronics and IT.Khera added that as per the website of the Department of Telecommunication (DoT), as of January 2021, the USOF had collected Rs. 1,12,650 Crores, out of which, ₹57,433 crores have been disbursed.“Case in point is what happened in Bihar where the CSC-SPV submitted a proposal on September 13, 2020, to the Ministry of Electronics and IT offering to provide Fibre To The Home (FTTH) and Wi-Fi connections to all villages in Bihar. The estimated cost of this project was 630 crores. But, USOF calls this mega project a pilot project. On 19 September 2020, the Digital Communication Commission (DCC) approved the above proposal for Bihar and on 15 October, USOF issued a letter to CSC-SPV on nomination basis without a tender to start work,” he said.Khera added that no agreement was signed yet and an RTI filed with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology revealed that it is a private company.“On 23 November 2020, the CSC-SPV requested USOF by email to release mobilization advance (30%) of the total cost of the project. And, surprisingly, the USOF under the DoT moved a proposal on that day itself to release 189 crores as advance. Additional administrator for USOF made a noting on the file saying, as no agreement is available, the payment cannot be released,” Khera said.He added that following this, the administrator of USOF, Ms Anshuli Arya, on the 23rd November 2020, wrote, “Honourable PM has inaugurated this project on 21 September 2020. The agreement has not been finalized and is likely to take time. The project is running on a very tight schedule. Therefore, the advance as approved by the DCC is approved. However, the second payment will be made only after the signing of the agreement and reaching the milestone, if any.”As per Khera, Rs. 189 crores were then released to CSC-SPV without any formal agreement.He also said that Mr Vara Prasad, consultant, USOF, had moved a proposal to amend the Indian Telegraph Rules (ITR) for “facilitating the award of contracts on nomination basis to CSC-SPV.”“On 2nd November 2020, Ms Anshuli Arya, administrator of USOF has approved it. The file then went to the Secretary, Telecom through the Member (Finance) of Digital Communication Commission. We do not know the status of this,” Khera said, adding that the whole award of the USOF contracts “smells of a scam”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smells-of-a-scam-cong-slams-govt-for-siphoning-off-thousands-of-crores-101626537317258.html
17-07-2021||India||'Good news for travellers,' says Adar Poonawalla as 16 European countries recognise Covishield||As France accepts Covishield, the Indian version of Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Saturday said this is indeed good news for travellers. Tweeting a news report, Poonawalla said 16 European countries have now recognised Covishield for entry of international travellers. "However despite being vaccinated, entry guidelines might vary from country to country, so do read up before your travel," Poonawalla said.The Indian government has been pushing European Union member countries to recognise both Covishield and Covaxin. Otherwise, travellers from those countries, vaccinated with EU-recognised vaccines, will not be exempt from quarantine in India, the government is believed to have conveyed to EU countries.16 countries that accept CovishieldAustria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and France are the 16 countries that now recognise Covishield. Out of these, 13 are EU members.What does this recognition mean?This recognition means Indians vaccinated with two doses of Covishield vaccine will be allowed to travel to these European countries, once they gradually lift their travel restrictions. Some countries may also require negative RT/PCR test reports as the entry requirement will vary from country to country.Why Covishield's approval became a controversial issueFrom July 1, the European Union introduced a green pass for travelling across EU countries. For this green pass, it only recognised four vaccines -- Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and, Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen. But it clarified that these are for travelling from one EU country to another, not for outside travellers. It also said that the member nations can individually recognise other vaccines. The four vaccines that the EU enlisted are the ones approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Since Serum Institute did not apply for EMA approval, it was not listed.What about other EU countries?The European Medicines Agency has recently confirmed that it has not received any application from Serum Institute of India. "For the COVID-19 vaccine Covishield to be evaluated for use in the EU, the developer needs to submit a formal marketing authorisation application to EMA, which to date has not been received," the EMA said.Reacting to this, Adar Poonawalla reportedly said it can not apply for a marketing authorisation application as it does not intend to sell Covishield in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-news-for-travellers-says-adar-poonawalla-as-16-european-countries-recognise-covishield-101626535657990.html
17-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: PIL filed in SC seeking 'One Nation One Penal Code' instead of IPC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lawyer files PIL in Supreme Court seeking 'One Nation One Penal Code' in place of 'colonial' IPCLawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay has filed a PIL in the Supreme Court seeking directions for the Union government to implement 'One Nation One Penal Code' instead of the "colonial' IPC. Read moreShashi Tharoor says population move 'communal', Jairam Ramesh posts Twitter threadShashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, two senior Congress leaders, on Saturday questioned the push for population control in some BJP-ruled states. Read more'Before that, India were intimidated by us': Brad Hogg narrates how Sourav Ganguly 'rubbed Australia the wrong way'Former Australia spinner Brad Hogg spoke highly of Sourav Ganguly and feels the former captain deserves credit for changing the face of Indian cricket and bringing about a transition. Read more Priced at ₹10,499 on Flipkart, Poco M3 4GB RAM smartphone gets silent launch in IndiaPoco has rolled out another version of its five-month-old Poco M3 smartphone and this one comes with 4GB of RAM and 64GB of storage space. Read morePriyanka Chopra kicks off her birthday weekend with a stunning pic: 'Pri-birthday vibes'Priyanka Chopra Jonas has begun her birthday weekend on a stylish note. The actor is set to celebrate her 39th birthday on Sunday, July 18. Read more‘Pakistan created Taliban’: Pak PM’s 'RSS ideology' charge & Shiv Sena’s replyResponding to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s recent comment on RSS ideology, Shiv Sena's Raut said Pakistan is the creator of the Taliban. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pil-filed-in-supreme-court-seeking-one-nation-one-penal-code-instead-of-ipc-and-all-the-latest-news-101626532531015.html
17-07-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor says population move 'communal', Jairam Ramesh posts Twitter thread||Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh, two senior Congress leaders, on Saturday questioned the push for population control in some BJP-ruled states. Jairam Ramesh said according to the Economic Survey of 2018-19 under the PM Modi government, a growing population is not India's problem. In an interview to news agency PTI, Shashi Tharoor echoed the same thought and said the motive behind the population move is "purely political and communal.Hinting at the large Muslim population in Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Lakshadweep, Tharoor said, "It is no accident that the three states where the government is talking about reducing population are UP (Uttar Pradesh), Assam and Lakshadweep, where everyone knows who their intended audience is."Uttar Pradesh has unveiled a draft two-child policy in which people with more than two children will be deprived of government benefits. Assam too has mulled a similar population control move while several other states have this criterion for contesting local elections."The Hindutva elements in our polity have not really studied the demographic issues. Their motive is purely political and communal," Tharoor told PTI.By Modi Sarkar's own estimate in the Economic Survey 2018-19, some states in India will have to prepare for an ageing population by 2031, not growing population. This will be driven by existing policies to empower women, family planning programmes and socio-economic changes. 4/n pic.twitter.com/raGg7W0W0ZJairam Ramesh posted a Twitter thread on the BJP government's population move and quoting from this government's Economic Survey, the Congress leader wrote, "By Modi Sarkar's own estimate in the Economic Survey 2018-19, some states in India will have to prepare for an ageing population by 2031, not growing population. This will be driven by existing policies to empower women, family planning programmes and socio-economic changes.""I wonder how many in the BJP are aware of the basic facts that Modi Sarkar's own 2018-19 Economic Survey had presented in Parliament in July 2019," Jairam Ramesh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-says-population-move-communal-jairam-ramesh-posts-twitter-thread-101626530723033.html
17-07-2021||India||Kerala to relax lockdown curbs for Bakrid. Union minister offers a suggestion||As Kerala will be easing its ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown restrictions in the state for a few days owing to the Bakrid festival, Union minister V Muraleedharan said on Saturday the state government is not following a scientific approach to contain the spread of the viral disease.Kerala, which is continuing to report a high number of cases, will see lesser restrictions on July 18, 19 and 20 due to Bakrid, which will be celebrated either on July 20 or 21. The government had earlier said that apart from shops selling essential items, those selling textile, footwear, jewellery and electronics will be allowed to remain open till 8pm and this will be applicable to A, B and C category local self-government bodies.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, meanwhile, said on Saturday that a maximum of 40 people will be allowed in places of worship during the festival and they should be inoculated with at least the first dose of the vaccine.Also Read| Kerala observes 2-day complete lockdown before restrictions are eased for BakridSpeaking to news agency ANI, Union minister Muraleedharan said on Saturday despite Kerala accounting for a ‘lion share’ of infections across India, the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan-led government is yet to adopt a scientific approach to contain the pandemic.“Now that Bakrid has come, the government has announced a three-day exception for the lockdown. My suggestion is to follow the scientific approach and follow the guidelines of Government of India, ICMR guidelines and WHO. Do not utilise the pandemic as means of having political benefit out of it,” Muraleedharan added.The Union minister also suggested the Kerala government should handle the pandemic and the lockdown on a scientific basis and provide exemptions on scientific methodology. “Instead of knee-jerk reactions, scientific analysis of the issues is the need of the hour,” he told ANI.Kerala has so far 3,130,833 cases and 15,155 deaths due to Covid-19. The state on Saturday recorded another high of 13,750 cases while 130 more people succumbed to the viral disease. The active cases, which have been increasing for the past three weeks, stand at 121,944 while recoveries are nearing 3 million. A total of 25,060,933 samples have been tested in the state till now.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-relax-lockdown-curbs-for-bakrid-union-minister-offers-a-suggestion-101626529839462.html
17-07-2021||India||Lawyer files PIL in Supreme Court seeking 'One Nation One Penal Code' in place of 'colonial' IPC||Lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Upadhyay has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Supreme Court, seeking directions to the Union government to set up a committee of experts to draft a "comprehensive" and "stringent" penal code after examining the existing statutes, including the Indian Penal Code (IPC) of 1860, related to matters of crime and corruption."Direct the Centre to constitute an expert committee to examine all domestic and internal laws relating to corruption-crime, and draft a comprehensive and stringent 'one nation one penal code' in order to secure the rule of law, equality before laws and equal protection of laws," the PIL, filed through advocate Ashwini Dubey, stated. It further urged the top court to direct the central government to ascertain the feasibility of implementing a stringent and comprehensive IPC (One Nation One Penal Code), instead of the current "outdated" laws on crime and corruption.The petition, which is likely to be taken up for hearing next week, described the IPC, which is more than 160 years old, as "colonial." It also called for specific chapters on bribery, money laundering, black money, profiteering, adulteration, hoarding, black marketing, drug smuggling, gold smuggling and human trafficking to be included in the proposed "One Nation One Penal Code."The PIL also pointed that despite witch-hunting, honour killing, mob lynching, Goonda Act, etc. being pan-India offences, laws related to these are not included in the existing IPC. Due to this, it said, there are multiple sentences for the same offence in various states. "Hence, a new IPC is essential to standardise the punishment and make them uniform," the petition stated.The development comes at a time when the Supreme Court has questioned the Centre over the misuse of the "colonial" sedition law. Section 124(A) of the IPC has laws related to sedition.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyer-files-pil-in-supreme-court-seeking-one-nation-one-penal-code-in-place-of-colonial-ipc-101626527756620.html
17-07-2021||India||After Covid lockdown, mobility increased maximum in last 2 months: Govt data||With restrictions being eased across the country, mobility has seen a sharp rise, which may impact the spread of the Covid-19 infection in the country, the health ministry has said. Based on Google community mobility data, the ministry recently presented a comparison of community mobility between May 20 and July 10, which showed that the overall movement of people has become manifold in these two months."Most of the districts have reached pre-covid level mobility. Some have registered more mobility than previous times," Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the ministry of health said reiterating the need of adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Also Read: Mask usage will go down in August-September, Centre warns citing projectionAccording to the map showing data as of July 10, a few places in Kerala and the northeast have negative mobility. Some districts of western, central and northeastern India too have lower mobility. But the rest of India, shown in red on the map, have normal mobility. And the transformation took place between May and July. Mobility data for districts marked in white were not available.The comparison also reveals that while the sudden crowding at tourist places has become a cause of concern, high mobility is recorded in the majority of districts, which may not be tourist spots. The overall Covid-19 situation in the country in July has marked significant improvement. But crowding, violation of Covid-19 norms have thrown fresh challenges in front of India's Covid-19 management. The crowding of people in hill stations without masks has been referred to as "alarming" by the ministry. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too raised the issue and alerted his ministers, officials against the third wave of the pandemic, the threat of which is real for India.Only a handful of districts in India are still under lockdown or lockdown-like restrictions as Kerala, Maharashtra and the northeast have been identified as pockets where the Covid-19 situation has either plateaued or is becoming worse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covid-lockdown-mobility-increased-maximum-in-last-2-months-govt-data-101626528116024.html
17-07-2021||India||Aircraft skids off runway in Madhya Pradesh's Sagar; trainee pilot unhurt||A trainee pilot escaped unhurt after a Cessna 172 aircraft skidded off the runway while taking off from the Dhana airstrip in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district on Saturday. The aircraft, which was to go on a solo flight, belonged to Chimes Aviation Academy, a private aviation institute.The accident took place around 3pm, police said. Rahul Sharma, the local administrator of Chimes Aviation, said that the 22-year-old female trainee pilot was safe. According to eye witnesses, the aircraft skidded off the runway and ended up in a patch of land full of shrubs.“Just got the news of a crash of a Cessna aircraft (solo flight) that belonged to the Chimes Aviation Academy, Sagar, Madhya Pradesh. Fortunately, the trainee is safe. We are rushing an investigation team to the site,” Union minister for civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted.Just got the news of a crash of a Cessna aircraft (solo flight) that belonged to the Chimes Aviation Academy in Sagar, MP. Fortunately, the trainee is safe. We are rushing an investigation team to the site.This is not the first time when an aircraft belonging to Chimes Aviation has been involved in an accident at the Dhana airstrip. In January 2020, a flight instructor and a trainee pilot lost their lives when a training aircraft they were flying crashed in an agricultural field near the airstrip. Two months later, the Madhya Pradesh government banned the institute from using the airstrip after the academy was found allegedly flouting various norms. The ban, however, was lifted later.On Friday, a flight instructor lost his life while a trainee pilot was injured when their training aircraft crashed in Maharashtra's Jalgaon. The aircraft reportedly belonged to NMIMS Academy of Aviation.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircraft-crashes-in-madhya-pradesh-s-sagar-trainee-safe-probe-team-rushed-to-site-101626522559144.html
17-07-2021||India||NCP rubbishes speculation over Pawar’s meeting with Modi||Former Union minister Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Saturday rubbished speculation about his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and clarified the two met to discuss amendments to the banking regulations, their impact on the cooperative sector, and the Covid-19 vaccination drive.NCP spokesman Nawab Malik insisted there was nothing to be speculated about and that the two other constituents of ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA)--Shiv Sena and Congress--were apprised about the meeting. He added chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Congress’s Maharashtra in-charge H K Patil knew about the scheduled meeting.“A few people are linking the meeting between Pawar and Modi to that of earlier few meetings between leaders from NCP and BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party). Pawar’s was a scheduled meeting that took place as per the pre-determined appointment. BJP’s leader in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal called on Pawar as a courtesy to seek cooperation from opposition parties. Defence minister Rajnath Singh convened a meeting at his office with two former defence ministers Sharad Pawar and AK Antony yesterday (Friday). ...people are linking these two meetings and a meeting between Modi and the leader of opposition in Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis with speculation about the MVA government in Maharashtra. But the speculation has no substance,” said Malik, who is a minister in the MVA government.Malik said the NCP is with other opposition parties in both the Houses of Parliament and will join hands with them to raise voice against rising prices of petrol, diesel, inflation, vaccination, the tension on borders and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Thackeray was told about the meeting by Pawar during their meeting two days ago. Similarly, Patil was informed about the scheduled meeting early this week. The meeting was scheduled to take place much earlier, but the time constraint delayed it. Pawar had already spoken with the prime minister over the phone on the issues in the banking and cooperative sector, but the latter insisted upon a personal meet.”He said Pawar raised the issue of the shortage of the Covid-19 vaccines with Modi. “He has requested the prime minister to have a policy for a smooth supply of the vaccines to all states.”Malik said the new amendments to the Banking Regulation Act are expected to hit the cooperative banking sector badly. He added Pawar requested Modi to intervene.Pawar is believed to have taken up the issue of action by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against sugar factories, political leaders in Maharashtra. He requested Modi to avoid “unwarranted” action against the cooperative sector and also leaders from the ruling political parties in Maharashtra, people aware of the matter said. On Friday, ED attached property worth ₹4.2 crore of the former home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. Several leaders from the ruling parties in Maharashtra are facing the ED probes....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-rubbishes-speculation-over-pawar-s-meeting-with-modi-101626522858209.html
17-07-2021||India||These 7 states, UTs logged less than 30,000 Covid cases since pandemic struck||India on Saturday witnessed a marginal dip in the daily case count of Covid-19 infections, even as the number of new fatalities rose to 560 as opposed to Friday’s 542, according to the morning update by the Union health ministry.The active caseload of the country witnessed a decline and now stands at 424,025, while the total recoveries have reached 30,227,792 with 43,916 people recovering from the virus in the previous 24 hours.While six states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu have been reporting a spike in the daily number of Covid-19 cases, there are some states and Union Territories (UTs) that have a low cumulative tally of the infections. These states have recorded less than 30,000 overall Covid-19 cases ever since the pandemic hit India.Here’s the list of all states and UTs with less than 30,000 total Covid-19 cases:1. NagalandThis northeastern state has reported as many as 26,690 Covid-19 cases as of 8am July 17. A total of 20,829 people has recovered from the virus so far, while 120 people have succumbed to the same, as per a Twitter illustration released by the Centre.2. MizoramAnother northeastern state, Mizoram has recorded as many as 26,476 Covid-19 cases till date and seen 24,875 people recover from the virus as well. The state has recorded 519 fatalities as of 8am July 17.3. SikkimThis northeastern state has reported 23,080 coronavirus cases so far, and as many as 20,441 recoveries, according to the Twitter illustration by the central government. The state’s death toll currently stands at 319.#CoronaVirusUpdates: State-wise details of Total Confirmed #COVID19 cases (till 17th July, 2021, 8 AM) ➡️States with 1-100000 confirmed cases➡️States with 100001-800000 confirmed cases ➡️States with 800000+ confirmed cases➡️Total no. of confirmed cases so far#StaySafe pic.twitter.com/lmdMDimtTw4. LadakhThe Union territory has reported 20,240 coronavirus cases as of 8am July 17, the Twitter illustration suggests. As many as 19,929 people have recovered from the virus in the UT, while a total of 206 patients have succumbed to it so far.5. Dadra and Nagar Haveli & Daman and DiuThis UT located in the western side of India has recorded a total of 10,593 coronavirus cases till date. As many as 10,573 people have recovered from the virus, while four people lost their lives to it.6. LakshadweepThis is yet another UT where the overall tally of Covid-19 cases is less than 11,000. Lakshadweep has reported 10,053 confirmed coronavirus cases as of 8am July 17, and 9,925 total recoveries. As many as 49 people have succumbed to the virus, according to the Centre’s Twitter illustration.7. Andaman and Nicobar IslandsThe cumulative tally of this UT, which is also a popular tourist destination, is less than 10,000. Andaman and Nicobar Islands has recorded 7,505 total Covid-19 cases so far. The UT has reported 7,360 recoveries and its death toll stands at 129.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-7-states-uts-logged-less-than-30-000-covid-cases-since-pandemic-struck-101626521083892.html
17-07-2021||India||Not enough evidence to link Covid with increase in TB, says health ministry||Refuting reports that there has been a sudden uptick in the number of tuberculosis cases among patients recovering from Covid-19 infection, the Union health ministry on Sunday said there is not enough scientific evidence to link the two. Both the diseases are contagious and primarily attack the lungs, but it will not be right to ink the two as yet, the government said. A few reports claimed that Madhya Pradesh doctors have found the number of TB patients suddenly increasing and what links all of them is Covid.Then why are TB cases increasing? Or, are TB cases in India actually on the rise? The government has said that TB case notifications in India decreased by about 25 per cent owing to "the impact of Covid-19-related restrictions" in 2020. "But special efforts are being made to mitigate this impact through intensified case finding in OPD settings as well as through active case finding campaigns in the community by all states," the ministry said.Next 100 days crucial, says Union health ministry amid Covid 3rd wave fearsLike other post-covid infections, which are not new but are preying on the weakened immunity, TB can infect a person recovering from Covid as his or her immunity is weak at that time. "TB bacilli can be present in humans in a dormant state and has the potential to start multiplying when the individual’s immunity is compromised for any reason. The same is applicable in post-Covid scenario, when an individual may develop decreased immunity due to the virus itself or due to the treatment, especially immune-suppressants like steroids," the ministry said. The ministry also said that in 2020 only, it had recommended TB screening among Covid-19 patients as early as August 2020 and multiple such advisories have been issued."The dual morbidity of TB and Covid-19 can be further highlighted through the facts that both the diseases are known to be infectious and primarily attack the lungs, presenting similar symptoms of cough, fever and difficulty in breathing, although TB has a longer incubation period and a slower onset of disease," the ministry said.Covid and TBBoth the diseases primarily attack the lungs and have similar symptoms like cough, fever, breathing difficulty etc. However, TB has a longer incubation period than Covid.Earlier, the health ministry had said all Covid-19 cases should be screened for TB symptoms using the 4-symptom complex (Cough for > 2 weeks, persistent fever for > 2 weeks, significant weight loss, night sweats), history of contact with TB case, history of TB and those symptomatic should be offered Chest X-ray and upfront Nuclear Acid Amplification Test (NAAT) – CBNAAT/TrueNat) for diagnosis of Tuberculosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-enough-evidence-to-link-covid-with-increase-in-tb-says-health-ministry-101626521329776.html
17-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tripura cabinet expansion 'likely' on the cards and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tripura cabinet expansion ‘likely’ with less than 2yrs to go before pollsMore than three years after coming to power in Tripura following the defeat of the two decades old Marxist government, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT) coalition government is planning to induct new faces in the state cabinet. Read More'Sentiment of whole country': Sanjay Raut slams Imran Khan's RSS comment on J&KA day after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan blamed RSS ideology for the ongoing suspension of a formal dialogue between India and Pakistan, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the entire country believed in that ideology that Jammu and Kashmir is a part of India. Read MoreFrance to allow travellers vaccinated with Covishield after 'Green Pass' rowFrance has joined several other European countries to allow international travellers who have been administered Covishield, a version of AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Read MoreIndia vs Sri Lanka: Shikhar Dhawan could surpass Sourav Ganguly to achieve huge milestone in 1st ODIThe first ODI against Sri Lanka will be a big test for Shikhar Dhawan, who will be leading the troops for the entire tour. Dhawan has been named as the captain in the absence of Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma, who both are in the UK for the upcoming five-match Test series against England. Read MoreArjun Kapoor shares video as Anshula talks about dealing with their mom's loss; he calls her 'my strength, my life'Arjun Kapoor has shared a video snippet that shows his sister, entrepreneur Anshula Kapoor, talking about the loss of their mom Mona Kapoor, nine years ago and how she deals with the grief. Read MoreThe Minions are on Minecraft and we cannot keep calm!The Minions are on Minecraft!!! It is time for those little yellow guys to take over. In case you do not know about these delightful creatures, please Google it. Read MorePrashant Kishor: 3 theories after Gandhis’ meet; X-factor against Modi's BJP?After his success as a kingmaker in West Bengal, there has been intense speculation about the next move of election strategist Prashant Kishor. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tripura-cabinet-expansion-likely-on-the-cards-and-all-the-latest-news-101626519855488.html
17-07-2021||India||Allot unused Covid vaccines from private hospitals to state: Andhra Pradesh CM||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday reiterated his demand that the Centre should take back unused vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from private hospitals and re-allot them to the state in order to ramp up the vaccination drive.Andhra Pradesh has so far inoculated 18,392,496 beneficiaries against the viral disease of which 14,395,900 have received the first dose and the remaining 3,996,596 have received both doses. Last month, the state had set a record of administering over 1.37 million doses in a single day on June 20.Reddy, who was a part of Covid-19 review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, said that out of the total 1,771,580 vaccine doses given to private hospitals, only 420,209 were used in June.“In reality, the private hospitals are not vaccinating fully to their capacity.Whatever these people are earmarked and whatever they are not able to proceed with, if that quota (of vaccines) is re-allotted to the state government, it would help us in doing a better job,” Reddy told PM Modi, according to news agency PTI.Earlier, Reddy wrote a letter to the Prime Minister on June 29, requesting that the Centre procure vaccine doses, originally provided to private hospitals and not lifted, and supply them to the state government.In May too, the Andra Pradesh CM requested the Centre to halt supply of doses to private hospitals due to two reasons- limited availability of stocks and private hospitals charging exorbitant amounts for vaccinating beneficiaries, PTI further reported.The chief minister pointed out that charging exorbitant prices for inoculations was not only a disadvantage for the unfortunate sections, but also created a situation of black marketing of vaccine doses.Andhra Pradesh on Friday recorded 2,345 new Covid-19 disease cases and 16 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 1,934,450 and 13,097 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin.During the Covid-19 review meet with PM Modi, which was attended by chief ministers of five other states, Andhra CM pointed out that the state has managed the pandemic situation reasonably well, adding fever surveys have been carried out 12 times and the state government has also focused on testing people with Covid-19 symptoms.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allot-unused-covid-vaccines-from-private-hospitals-to-state-andhra-pradesh-cm-101626517991047.html
17-07-2021||India||'Sentiment of whole country': Sanjay Raut slams Imran Khan's RSS comment on J&K||A day after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan blamed RSS ideology for the ongoing suspension of a formal dialogue between India and Pakistan, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the enrire country believed in that ideology that Jammu and Kashmir is a part of India. "What is the ideology of RSS? That Jammu and Kashmir is a part of India, it is true. This is the sentiment of the people of the whole country as well," Sanjay Raut said.Imran Khan, who was in Tashkent to attend the Central-South Asian conference, was asked about India, Pakistan talks. "I want to tell India that we are waiting for a long time to live in a civilised manner. But what will we do as the ideology of RSS has created an obstruction," the Pakistan Prime Minister said in reply when he evaded a question on the Taliban.This is not the first time that Imran Khan alluded to RSS ideology. "Today in India we are seeing the Nazi-inspired RSS ideology take over a nuclear-armed state of over a billion people. Whenever a racist ideology based on hatred takes over, it leads to bloodshed," Imran Khan had tweeted in February 2020, after the Delhi riot.This time, his comment at a time when an Indian photojournalist has been killed by the Taliban has drawn sharp reactions. "Who are the creators of Taliban? It is Pakistan. The whole world has to bear the brunt of the terrorism that Pakistan has spread with the help of the Taliban, so don't trust Imran Khan," Sanjay Raut said.Congress leader Digvijaya Singh too slammed the comment and said the talks are stalled because the Imran Khan government is protecting terrorists. "As long as Pakistan government led by Imran Khan continues to give protection to those who sent terrorists to Mumbai, talks will continue to be stalled and there will be distrust between the countries," the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sentiment-of-whole-country-sanjay-raut-slams-imran-khan-s-rss-comment-on-jk-101626517994509.html
17-07-2021||India||'Historic and unique': When Rajiv Pratap Rudy pilots a flight full of BJP leaders||BJP MP and former civil aviation minister Rajiv Pratap Rudy shared a video on Friday on Twitter to commemorate a “unique” flight in which an MP “is going to fly the standing committee on civil aviation and tourism”.Rudy who is a commercial pilot can be heard saying over the in-flight announcement system that former Bihar deputy CM Sushil Modi, former Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, BJP MP Manoj Tiwari and many MPs and their family members were present in the Indigo aircraft, making it a “historic” flight. “On its own, it is a beautiful and historic day,” he announced.बालमन के साथ निश्छल और वात्सल्य भाव का अलौकिक अनुभव...संसदीय समिति की यात्रा के दौरान सांसद श्री @ManojTiwariMP की छह माह की बेटी सांविका के साथ हवाई यात्रा का संस्मरण@IndiGo6E @BJP4Delhi @BJP4Bihar @BJP4Chapra pic.twitter.com/r06rXZ6aKKRudy also asks passengers to welcome the youngest flier amongst all of them -- Manoj Tiwari’s six-month-old daughter Sanvika. “The smallest passenger today with us is little baby Sanvika, the youngest passenger who’s six months old and the daughter of Manoj Tiwariji. Let’s put our hands together for her first flight,” he says as the camera pans to the child in her mother’s arms.Also Read: 'A flight to remember': Dayanidhi Maran honoured to be flown by Rajiv RudyRudy recently flew another politician, Dravida Munnetra Kazahagam’s Dayanidhi Maran, who took to Twitter to express his gratitude. “A flight to remember indeed! How often does a sitting Member of Parliament captain a commercial flight? I'm sure I will be talking about this for a long time. Thank you Captain RajivPratapRudy, MP for flying us safely from Delhi to Chennai!" the DMK leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-and-unique-when-rajiv-pratap-rudy-pilots-a-flight-full-of-bjp-leaders-101626515985464.html
17-07-2021||India||Tripura cabinet expansion ‘likely’ with less than 2yrs to go before polls||More than three years after coming to power in Tripura following the defeat of the two decades old Marxist government, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT) coalition government is planning to induct new faces in the state cabinet, people in the party privy to the development said on condition of anonymity.“There’s a possibility of a state cabinet reshuffle. It may happen in a day or may take even ten days,” the people quoted above said.The reshuffle, if it happens, will address the coalition objectives of 2023 assembly elections. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb inducted eight ministers in 2018, while keeping home, general administration, PWD, labour, information and cultural affairs, industry and commerce portfolios with him.Later, in 2019, Sudip Roy Barman, who was the health minister, was dropped from the cabinet following alleged anti-party activities and Deb, himself, took over the charge. Four cabinet berths are still vacant.Prime Minister Narendra Modi too recently carried out an expansion of his cabinet, with nearly three years left for the next Lok Sabha polls.Biplab Kumar Deb recently visited New Delhi and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss his government’s initiative for economic development through Agar cultivation and requested a larger quota for its export.The state is expecting to export 75,000 kilograms of Agar chips and 1,500 kilograms of Agar oil in 2021-22 fiscal year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cabinet-expansion-likely-with-less-than-2yrs-to-go-before-polls-101626516256429.html
17-07-2021||India||At current pace, vaccination target in Manipur to be met by August: Official||Manipur has so far administered 1.010 million doses of Covid vaccines including 900,954 first and 109,401 second doses to the residents, according to official reports.Till date, a total of 408,683 first doses and 1,266 second doses of Covid vaccine were given to residents in the 18-44 years age bracket; 232,212 first doses and 18,210 second doses given to residents in 45-59 years age bracket, besides 118,975 first doses and 9214 second doses to people above 60 years since the beginning of the vaccination drive on January 16 this year.Among all the 16 hill districts, a maximum of 265,037 doses were administered in Imphal West district and the least, 7,909, doses were administered in Kamjong, a hill district, data shows.In the 10 districts where the district administration had promised cash rewards for motivating people for vaccination, the maximum of 82,812 doses were given in Churachandpur and a minimum of 15,410 doses were given in Tamenglong district.The vaccination rate was low at the initial stages but it gradually increased in the recent past. On July 14, 34,194 doses including 29,824 first and 4,370 second doses were administered, the highest in a single day in the state.Similarly 27,282 and 27,149 doses were administered on July 15 and 16 respectively.“If the present day vaccination trend continues, we may achieve our target by August this year,” says mission director Dr N Shyamjai of the State Health Society, Manipur.”The state has nearly two million residents eligible (18 years and above) for the Covid-19 vaccination programme.”On Friday, the state recorded more than 1,000 new cases for the third consecutive day with 1128 new positive cases detected out of 7,184 samples tested. The state’s total infection tally has increased to 82,688. The total number of active cases also increased to 9,033.The state also recorded 10 fatalities of Covid 19 patients in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s Covid 19 death toll to 1350, official sources said. With 643 new recoveries, the total number of recovered Covid 19 cases reached 72,305. The recovery rate stands at 87.44%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-current-pace-vaccination-target-in-manipur-to-be-met-by-august-says-official-101626514696297.html
17-07-2021||India||India's monsoon crop area shrinks by 12% this year as rain play hide-n-seek||The farmers in India have planted monsoon crops such as rice, cotton and soybeans on 61.19 million hectares (151 million acres) of land as of July 16, a decline of 12% from a year earlier, according to a report.Quoting the Union agriculture ministry, a Bloomberg report said that the crop-sown for monsoon has witnessed a decline as area under sugarcane has risen almost 1.7% to 5.37 million hectares so far this year. For cotton, the crop has been planted in 9.84 million hectares, down 13% from a year earlier, the ministry said late Friday.The decline in sowing crops comes after the country's rain pattern for the monsoon season has dipped, impacting the farm and agriculture sector directly.India is the world's biggest exporter of rice and top importer of edible oils. A drop in production could not only limit rice exports, but also boost imports of edible oils such as palm oil, sunflower oil and soyoil.Here is the crop-wise distribution on sowing of crops:In June-September this year, the monsoon rains were 7% below average in the week ended July 14, the India Meteorological Department said.Sowing of monsoon-sown crops normally begins in late May and peaks in July while harvesting starts in late September.Additionally, the planting of kharif or summer-sown crops has been hit by patchy rains in many parts of the country as the southwest monsoon showed a seasonal deficit of more than 5% for the first time this year on July 10.Forecasters said the rain-bearing system should reactivate soon. But the total acreage of kharif crops stood at 49 million hectares, nearly 11% less than 55 million hectares sown during the corresponding period last year, data from the agriculture ministry showed.The country relies heavily on monsoon which backs its agriculture sector for nearly all crops. Almost 60% of India's net-sown area does not have access to irrigation facilities. More than 100 nationally important reservoirs are replenished by rains, especially the monsoon rains. The rains also aid drinking water needs, power supply and irrigation in the country.In the absence of reliable irrigation facilities, millions of farmers across the country depend on the rains to sow summer crops.With inputs from Agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-monsoon-crop-area-shrinks-by-12-this-year-as-rain-play-hidenseek-101626508642661.html
17-07-2021||India||Bikru ambush: HC refuses bail to wife of an aid of gangster Vikas dubey||The Allahabad high court rejected the bail plea of wife of an aid of slain Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey, who was involved in the killing of eight Uttar Pradesh policemen including a superintendent of police (SP) and three sub-inspectors SI, in Bhikru village in Kanpur dehat on July 3, two years ago.The high court bench led by justice JJ Munir rejected the woman’s revision petition which argued that she had no role in the ambush and was present at the site of the killing of policemen by chance since she and her husband were that day visiting gangster Vikas Dubey as he was their relative. She also sought bail on the ground that she was declared a juvenile by the concerned Juvenile Board on September 1, 2020.The court while rejecting the plea observed, “Prima facie, if not at the center stage of this diabolical act, certainly as an important player, the revisionists seem to have actively participated. In the circumstances, permitting the revisionist to walk out free on bail would shake the law-abiding citizens’ faith in the rule of law and the State’s authority. If that were to be done, it would certainly defeat the ends of justice.”The court added that these remarks should, in no way, be understood or construed as comments on the merits of the case, which is to be judged at the trial.The woman said she was about sixteen years and ten months’ old on the date of the incident and had only been married for a few days to Vikas Dubey’s relative. In her defence, she added that she was not a member of Dubey’s gang.However, the state government cited testimonies of cops who survived the deadly ambush late that night to claim that the girl was an active participant throughout the assault, aiding, and egging and instigating Vikas Dubey’s gang not to spare any policeman.On July 3, 2020, when a police team went to arrest Vikas Dubey from his house in Bikru village of Kanpur Nagar, Vikas and his associates opened indiscriminate fire on the police force, killing eight and injuring six others grievously.While opposing her bail plea, the state government counsel cited the fact that the juvenile board had also held that she should be put on trial as an adult despite being a minor as she had the “requisite mental and physical capacity to commit the offence, as also the ability to understand the consequences” of committing the heinous crime.After hearing the concerned parties, the high court observed, “An overall look on the circumstances of the case brings to mind the fact that the occurrence, in which the revisionist was involved, was not of an ordinary kind. Not only the spontaneous elimination of eight policemen in action and six others left injured, is a horrendous crime that shocks the conscience of the society, but also an act that strikes at the roots of the state’s authority in its territory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bikru-ambush-hc-refuses-bail-to-wife-of-an-aid-of-gangster-vikas-dubey-101626509176860.html
17-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: India receives two MH-60 multi-role helicopters from US and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian Navy gets first two MH-60 Romeo multi-role helicopters from US. Details hereIndia received two MH-60 multi-role helicopters (MRH) from the United States on Saturday, after a long wait of more than a decade. Read MoreKerala observes 2-day complete lockdown before restrictions are eased for BakridKerala observed a complete lockdown on Saturday after the state government announced a two-day lockdown over the weekend following a rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Read MoreOdisha woman pushes her kids to death after fight with husbandA woman in Odisha’s Kandhamal district allegedly pushed her 9-year-old daughter and 5-year-old son into a well leading to their death after fighting with her husband over some domestic issues, police said. Read MoreTokyo 2020: First Covid case found at athletes' village, raising fears ahead of OlympicsSix days before the opening ceremony, the Tokyo Olympics registered its first Covid-19 case as a person tested positive in the athletes' village, organisers said on Saturday. Read MoreWoman celebrating her birthday alone gets this surprise from strangers. WatchBirthday is a special day in most people’s life. This is the day that most spend with their family and friends. Read MoreAlia Bhatt sneakily shows love for Ranbir Kapoor in post-workout selfie, Katrina Kaif has a fiery reactionAlia Bhatt, who has taken up a 40-day fitness challenge, took to Instagram to share a post-workout selfie as she hit the halfway mark. Read MoreNora Fatehi is ultra glam in ₹23k leather mini dress and bold red lips, see pics and videoDancer-turned-actor Nora Fatehi is creating a storm online with her latest pictures from a photoshoot. Read MoreOla electric scooter bookings: Record 1 lakh pre-launch orders in 24 hoursOla Electric on Saturday announced that its electric scooter has garnered 1 lakh bookings in just 24 hours of opening of pre-launch bookings, making it the 'most pre-booked scooter' ever. Read More'India condemns journalist Danish Siddiqui killing in Afghanistan': Foreign SecyIndia strongly condemned the killing of Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Afghanistan. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-receives-two-mh-60-multi-role-helicopters-from-us-and-all-the-latest-news-101626504813711.html
17-07-2021||India||IMD issues warning for heavy rainfall in Himachal, other states till July 19||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a fresh warning of heavy rainfall in Himachal Pradesh over the next six to seven days, news agency PTI reported. The Himachal Pradesh Met office has already issued a yellow warning to the state for heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, and lightning in the plains, low hills and middle hills on Saturday. An orange warning has been issued for July 18 to 20, the PTI report added.Meanwhile, various pockets of the state received light to moderate rainfall on Friday, with Sarkaghat gauging 86mn of rainfall, followed by 52mn in Nadaun, the met office stated.The IMD alerts come at a time when the death toll due to rain-triggered flash floods in Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district went up to nine, even as several remain missing. The body of Subhash Chand, 70, was dug out of the debris on Thursday, two days after the body of his only son, Shiv Prasad, was recovered.Apart from Himachal Pradesh, IMD has predicted heavy rainfall over several other states and Union territories (UTs). These include Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Delhi among others. IMD also said that moderate to severe thunderstorms with lightning are very likely at isolated pockets of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and south Rajasthan on Saturday, PTI reported. Such weather may cause injuries and even lead to casualties to people and animals staying outdoors, the report added.Here are the latest weather alerts issued by IMD:1. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to increase over the western Himalayan region and Uttar Pradesh from July 17 to 20. The same weather alert has been issued for Punjab, Haryana, north Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan from July 18 to 20, IMD’s Saturday morning bulletin stated.2. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Delhi on July 18, and isolated extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Uttarakhand on July 18 and 19, and Jammu on July 19.3. West coast of India and the remaining parts of west peninsular India, barring Gujarat, are very likely to receive fairly widespread to widespread rainfall over the next five to six days.4. Goa, Konkan, central Maharashtra, Mahe in Puducherry, Kerala, and Karnataka are very likely to receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall during the next five to six days.5. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall is likely over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, and Sikkim till July 19. The IMD bulletin said that the intensity and distribution of rainfall in these areas will decrease after July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-warning-for-heavy-rainfall-in-himachal-other-states-till-july-19-101626506164944.html
17-07-2021||India||Sharad Pawar meets PM Modi in Delhi for nearly an hour||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the national capital for nearly an hour on Saturday fuelling speculations about the political situation in Maharashtra. Prime Minister's Office or PMO tweeted a photo of their meeting, which also took place after speculation a few days ago that Sharad Pawar could be the presidential candidate. However, the NCP chief rubbished these speculations.According to the party leaders, the NCP chief Sharad Pawar met PM Modi in connection with amendments made by Center in Banking Regulation Act to limit rights of cooperative banks.Party chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said, "Rumours are being spread over the meeting but Pawar had already informed CM Thackeray and Congress leaders about the same." Pawar met PM Modi by formally seeking an appointment, Malik said. Rajya Sabha MP Shri Sharad Pawar met PM @narendramodi. @PawarSpeaks pic.twitter.com/INj26CLl0kThe Rajya Sabha lawmaker called on PM Modi a day after he met defence minister Rajnath Singh and Congress leader AK Antony for an "informal interaction" on the border situation with China and Pakistan and also the current scenario in Afghanistan.The meeting between Sharad Pawar and PM Modi also comes two days before the monsoon session of Parliament is set to begin on July 19.On Friday, the newly-appointed leader of Rajya Sabha and Union minister Piyush Goyal held consultations with NCP chief Sharad Pawar along with former prime minister Manmohan Singh and senior Congress leader Anand Sharma ahead of the monsoon session, government officials said.Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi has called an all-party meeting at 11 am on July 18 in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to be present, news agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-meets-pm-modi-in-delhi-101626505298068.html
17-07-2021||India||'Under no circumstances will Kanwariyas be allowed in Haridwar’, warn police||Uttarakhand police said on Saturday that Kanwariyas will not be allowed to come to Haridwar during the annual pilgrimage and the state’s borders will be sealed. "All the boundaries of the district will remain sealed so that the Kanwariyas cannot come to Haridwar. Along with this, QRT of the police will also be deployed," Haridwar's senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai K Raj S said according to news agency ANI.The SSP’s order comes on the heels of the Uttarakhand government suspending the annual Kanwar Yatra this year on July 14 in view of the Covid-19 situation. It was scheduled to begin on July 25.Also Read: Uttarakhand police launch special drive to check ‘nuisance’ at tourist places"We discussed with higher officials and with officials from neighbouring states and decided that we will not hold Kanwar Yatra at this time. A variant has been found in Gadarpur so we don't want to make Haridwar the centre of Covid," chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said.Also Read: Right to life greater than religious right: SC on UP's Kanwar Yatra decisionUttarakhand police issued a warning on July 14, asking Kanwariyas not to enter Haridwar district saying their vehicles will be confiscated and legal action will be initiated against them under the Disaster Management Act.The state government has decided to send holy water from the river Ganga via post to devotees since they will not be able to make the journey to collect it themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-no-circumstances-will-kanwariyas-be-allowed-in-haridwar-warn-police-101626505389873.html
17-07-2021||India||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa says he is not stepping down||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is in Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda and senior Union ministers, will not be stepping down from his position nor has he been asked to, said a person close to the CM.The CM also told media persons that he met the PM to discuss development projects and the reports of his stepping down were rumours.The Karnataka chief minister arrived in the capital late last evening and has since met Prime Minister Modi and Nadda. According to the person quoted above, the chief minister discussed various development projects related to the state with the senior leadership.“He told reporters on record that he will be back in the capital in the first week of August with a longer wish list for the state,” the person said.There has been speculation that the chief minister is in the capital to discuss the names for a possible cabinet expansion in the state.Following his meeting with the PM on Friday, he tweeted, “Called on Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji in New Delhi today. Had a fruitful discussion on various development projects of the state.”Talking to reporters after his meeting with home minister Amit Shah, the CM said he was asked to work hard to return to power in Karnataka and win more seats in Lok Sabha elections.“Home Minister Amit Shah said that we will win 100% in UP and in Karnataka we have a bright future. He said to take the responsibility of strengthening the party in Karnataka. I assure you I will not step back and will take complete responsibility,” ANI quoted the CM as having said.Speculations of Yediyurappa’s possible removal have been making the rounds amid reports of resentment among BJP MLAs in Karnataka against the 78-year-old Lingayat leader.Last month, several party MLAs and ministers demanded that Yediyurappa step down as chief minister. State tourism minister CP Yogeeshwara had said that Yediyurappa’s son has been running a parallel government in Karnataka.Yediyurappa, however, has been rejecting the allegations as rumours and had said that he would resign the day party high command asks him to quit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-says-he-is-not-stepping-down-101626505696061.html
17-07-2021||India||'Not at all true': Yediyurappa on resignation rumours a day after meeting PM Modi||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday dismissed rumours surrounding his resignation and said that he will work to bring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) back to power in the next assembly elections scheduled to be held in 2023. BS Yediyurappa scotched speculations surrounding his chief ministership amid talks of leadership change in the state as he visited Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the national capital on Friday.On being asked if he has tendered his resignation, Yediyurappa said, "Not at all. Not at all." "There is no truth in the rumour," the CM said at the Karnataka Bhavan in New Delhi.On Saturday, Yediyurappa met the party chief JP Nadda in Delhi and said he will work to ensure BJP retains power in Karnataka.Also read: Yediyurappa meets PM, fuels speculation amid looming political uncertainty"We discussed in detail the development of the party in Karnataka. He has a very good opinion of me. I will work for the party to come back to power in the state again," Yediyurappa said, reported news agency ANI.Shortly after his meet with Nadda, Yediyurappa shared a photo on Twitter. "Called on @BJP4India National President Shri @JPNadda ji in New Delhi today. Discussed on various matters including further strengthening the party's prospects in Karnataka ahead of 2023 general elections," he tweeted.Yediyurappa is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh. He will return to Bengaluru on Saturday after meeting the BJP chief and the Union ministers.On Friday, Yediyurappa had met PM Modi and discussed pending state works, including the Mekedatu project across river Cauvery.The chief minister’s visit comes at a time amid swirling rumours of the BJP looking at the possibility of a leadership change. Yediyurappa’s camp has rejected this speculation.His critics insist that his continuation threatens to dent the party’s chances in the 2023 assembly elections. Yediyurappa has made it clear that he would like to remain in power till 2023 and, people aware of the developments said that the 78-year-old is hoping to place his two sons in prominent roles in the government and the party.In his meet with PM Modi, Yediyurappa was flanked by his two sons, BY Vijayendra, BY Raghavendra; grandson Shashidhar Maradi; BJP MLC Leher Singh and two others. People aware of the developments asked why the chief minister chose not to take any officials with him if the agenda was indeed to seek support for developmental works.In the run-up to the 2023 elections, it will be seen how the BJP high command intends to handle the rebels and Yediyurappa, who is credited with building the party in Karnataka over the last four decades. His unceremonious exit in 2012 removed the BJP from power in the only state in the south of the country where the party has been able to gain a firm foothold in recent decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-at-all-true-yediyurappa-on-resignation-rumours-a-day-after-meeting-pm-modi-101626501534728.html
17-07-2021||India||Indian Navy gets first two MH-60 Romeo multi-role helicopters from US. Details here||India received two MH-60 multi-role helicopters (MRH) from the United States on Saturday, after a long wait of more than a decade. These two are the first in a line of orders that the Indian Navy placed with the United States navy.India is procuring 24 of these helicopters from the US government under foreign military sales. The choppers would be modified with many "India-unique" equipment and weapons, military officials with the matter told news agency ANI.The helicopters were formally handed over by the US Navy to the Indian Navy in a ceremony held at the United States naval air station in San Diego's North Island. The choppers were accepted from the Indian side by Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Indian ambassador to the USA.Helicopter documents were also exchanged between officials of the United States Navy and the Indian Navy."The ceremony marked the formal transfer of these helicopters from US navy to Indian Navy, which were accepted by His Excellency Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Indian Ambassador to the USA," a spokesperson of the Indian Navy said."The ceremony also witnessed the exchange of helicopter documents between Vice Admiral Kenneth Whitesell, Commander Naval Air Forces, US Navy and Vice Admiral Ravneet Singh, deputy chief of naval staff (DCNS), Indian Navy," the spokesperson said in a statement.MH-60R helicopter is an all-weather helicopter designed to support multiple missions with state-of-the-art avionics and sensors. In order to exploit these potent helicopters, the first batch of Indian crew is presently undergoing training in the USA. The induction of these MRH is expected to further enhance the Indian Navy's three-dimensional capabilities.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-gets-first-two-mh-60-romeo-multi-role-helicopters-from-us-details-here-101626502351516.html
17-07-2021||India||PM Modi gave India a defence policy, no one can challenge our borders now: Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Saturday no one can challenge India's borders and its sovereignty after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's crafted a separate defence policy for India. "There was no separate defence policy before Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014. Either it was the foreign policy that dictated the defence policy or the foreign policy overlapped with the defence policy. Today, due to this initiative no one can challenge Indian borders and sovereignty," Amit Shah said.In the context of the recent drone attack at Jammu airbase, Amit Shah said that the DRDO and other agencies are coming up with countermeasures. "We have to prepare for use of artificial intelligence and robotics by Pakistan based terror groups. This goes beyond the use of drones for attacks from across the borders," Shah added.Also read | Another Pak drone intrudes Indian space on LoC, fired upon by soldiersHe was speaking during the Border Security Force's (BSF's) investiture ceremony. The Union home minister also felicitated personnel of BSF for their service to the nation and also delivered the Rustamji Memorial Lecture."I salute those who have made the supreme sacrifice. These brave hearts and warriors cannot be forgotten. India has a place of pride on the world map due to BSF and our paramilitary forces who are protecting the borders," Amit Shah said.Two ministers of state Ajay Kumar Mishra and Nisith Pramanik, home secretary Ajay Bhalla and two intelligence chiefs were also present at the ceremony. BSF's director general Rakesh Asthana delivered the welcome address.Amit Shah tweeted about the ceremony on Friday."Looking forward to felicitating our brave BSF personnel for their outstanding service to the nation, tomorrow, at the 18th Investiture Ceremony of this valiant force. Will also deliver the Rustamji Memorial Lecture," Amit Shah posted on Twitter.Also read | Blazing sun no deterrent to BSF jawans manning barbed fence along Indo-Pak borderBSF has been observing its investiture ceremony since 2003 in memory of KF Rustamji, the force's first director general. "...the legendary and one of modern India’s most celebrated Police Officer popularly known as the Founding Father of BSF... The extraordinary vision & steadfast leadership of Shri K F Rustamji shaped BSF early in its existence. His charismatic personality later made BSF into a formidable fighting force. He has a special place in the hearts of all Seema Praharis protecting the borders of our nation," BSF said in a tweet.BSF was raised on December 1, 1965, with 25 battalions and now the force has more than 265,000 personnel with 192 battalions including three disaster management battalions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-gave-india-a-defence-policy-no-one-can-challenge-our-borders-now-shah-101626497641794.html
17-07-2021||India||Odisha woman pushes her kids to death after fight with husband||A woman in Odisha’s Kandhamal district allegedly pushed her 9-year-old daughter and 5-year-old son into a well leading to their death after fighting with her husband over some domestic issues, police said.Police officers in Raikia block of Kandhamal district said Bhagyalaxmi Patra, a resident of Christian Sahi reportedly left her home with her two kids on Friday afternoon after a fight with her husband M Rajesh Patra. “The woman then pushed the two kids into a well which resulted in their death. However, she herself did not jump into the well and was found crying near the well by local people and her husband on Saturday morning,” said Srikant Khamari, inspector of Raikia police station.The fire service personnel later recovered the bodies of the two kids. The woman was admitted to the hospital. Her condition is stated to be stable. Police said she would be charged with murder and arrested.The brother of the woman however accused her husband of having extramarital affair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-pushes-her-kids-to-death-after-fight-with-husband-101626503055845.html
17-07-2021||India||Kerala observes 2-day complete lockdown before restrictions are eased for Bakrid||Kerala observed a complete lockdown on Saturday after the state government announced a two-day lockdown over the weekend following a rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. “There will be a complete lockdown on 17th and 18th July 2021 with the same guidelines as issued for 12th and 13th June 2021," the Kerala government said in official order.Banks and other financial institutions have also been ordered to remain closed on the two scheduled days.Lockdown restrictions in Kerala will however be relaxed on July 18, 19, and 20 due to Bakrid, which will be celebrated either on July 20 or 21, depending on moon sighting. Along with shops involved in the sale of essential items permission has also been given to open textile shops, footwear shops, electronics shops and jewellery shops till 8pm, the Kerala chief minister's office (CMO) has said.Kerala logged 13,750 Covid-19 cases and 130 related fatalities on Friday, taking the state's infection count to 31,30,833 and the death toll to 15,155 in the span of 24 hours. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the state’s current coronavirus scenario on Friday. "The test positivity rate was close to 30 per cent. Now it has dropped to 10.4 per cent. The second wave started in Kerala later than other regions. Kerala has tried to contain the spread of the disease in such a way that the Covid peak can be delayed so that the health sector could accommodate all health requirements and succeeded in it. As a part of it, Kerala still has more patients than any other region," the chief minister said in the meeting attended by five other chief ministers, reported PTI.Also Read: India’s daily caseload down to 38,079; 560 deaths reportedVijayan urged PM Modi to send more vaccines so the inoculation drive can be accelerated. "Kerala has asked for 60 lakh doses of the vaccine to be made available in July and August to avoid vaccine shortages. A letter was sent to the Prime Minister on July 11 in this regard. There should be support from the Central Government for the more effective implementation of Covid vaccination," he told reporters on Friday.So far 1.17 crore people in the state have been administered the first dose of vaccine and 44.18 lakh people have been inoculated with the second dose of vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-observes-2-day-complete-lockdown-before-restrictions-are-eased-for-bakrid-101626501726880.html
17-07-2021||India||'Stain on India's human rights record': UN expert on Stan Swamy's death||A UN human rights expert has said that she is devastated to hear about the demise of Jesuit priest Stan Swamy in custody, saying there is “no reason” for a human rights defender to be denied his rights and that his death will forever “remain a stain” on India's human rights record.Swamy, 84, who was arrested last year under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, died at a Mumbai hospital on July 5.In a statement issued on Thursday, UN Special Rapporteur Mary Lawlor said Father Swamy’s case should remind all states that human rights defenders and all those detained without sufficient legal basis, should be released.Lawlor said the death in custody of Catholic priest Swamy, “a renowned human rights and social justice advocate for over four decades, will forever remain a stain on India's human rights record.”"There is no excuse, ever, for a human rights defender to be smeared as a terrorist, and no reason they should ever die the way Father Swamy died, accused and detained, and denied his rights,” she said.India has rejected international criticism over the handling of Swamy's case.The Ministry of External Affairs has said the concerned authorities act against violations of law and do not restrain the legitimate exercise of rights.It said India remains committed to the promotion and protection of the human rights of all its citizens and that the country's democratic polity is complemented by an independent judiciary and a range of national and state-level human rights commissions."Swamy was arrested and detained by the National Investigation Agency following due process under the law. Because of the specific nature of charges against him, his bail applications were rejected by the courts. Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law,” the MEA said in a statement in New Delhi soon after Swamy's death.It said Swamy was receiving all possible medical attention at a private hospital where he was admitted since May 28. His health and medical treatment were being closely monitored by the courts. He passed away on July 5 following medical complications.Lawlor said Swamy was jailed last October “on fabricated terrorism charges” and had been subjected to harassment and repeated interrogations.“I was devastated to hear that Father Stan, a Jesuit priest who had dedicated much of his life to defending the rights of indigenous peoples and the Adivasi minority, died in custody on July 5, despite many requests for his release as his health deteriorated in prison,” she said.She added that in early November 2020, UN experts joined her in raising his case with the Indian authorities, reminding them of their international human rights obligations. “I now ask again why he wasn’t released, and why he had to die in custody?” she said.Lawlor added that Swamy had been working for decades to protect the rights of Adivasi minority indigenous peoples and the Dalit minority, in particular violations involving forced displacement and illegal land acquisitions.“We know that defenders working on environmental, land or indigenous people's rights are among the most vulnerable to being targeted,” said Lawlor.Lawlor's call has been endorsed by Special Rapporteur on minority issues Fernand de Varennes, Special Rapporteur on the right to physical and mental health Tlaleng Mofokeng.Lawlor of Ireland is the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders. She is currently an Adjunct Professor of Business and Human Rights in Trinity College Dublin. She was previously Director of the Irish Office of Amnesty International from 1988 to 2000.Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. PTI YAS RS AKJ RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stain-on-india-s-human-rights-record-un-expert-on-stan-swamy-s-death-101626493982168.html
17-07-2021||India||Remembering Surekha Sikri, National Award-winning actor loved across film, theatre and television||Veteran Actress Surekha Sikri has left for her heavenly abode due to cardiac arrest at the age of 75 on July 16. Surekha gained popularity in the twilight of her career as Dadi Sa in Colors TV Serial Balika Vadhu. She has had a strong presence in the film, theatre, and television before and after the stint and is an award-winning actress with 3 National Awards to her name.Several stars from Bollywood and Indian Television Industry poured their condolences on her demise.Those eyes calm yet piercing. Will remain forever in our hearts.#SurekhaSikri ji  Om Shanti pic.twitter.com/BETAzAKxRJSikri was a pass out from the National School of Drama, New Delhi. She made her debut in Bollywood with Amrit Nahta’s Kissa Kursi Ka in 1978, which was banned during the Emergency in India.“I was pretty green regarding film work. I recall when I saw the film eventually that they hadn’t kept track of continuity – scenes would start in one place and end in another,” Surekha Ji told Scroll adding that she was still with NSD’s repertory company when she was offered the role and that most of the film was shot in New Delhi.She continued working in theatre and films and created a strong mark with her performance in Tamas in 1986. This won her very first National Award for Best Supporting Role. She played the role of Rajjo in the mini-series that was set against the backdrop of India’s partition. This was followed by her 1994 Shyam Benegal movie Mammo in which starred alongside Farida Jalal and Rajit Kapoor, bagging a second National Award.We are deeply saddened by the demise of #NationalAward-winning actress #SurekhaSikri. Her contribution across the media including cinema, theatre and television will be remembered forever.She is seen here with #VikramGokhale and #PavanMalhotra in #SalimLangdePeMatRo (1989). pic.twitter.com/f7zWJAWKn2After a few more supporting roles, she stepped into Television with the family comedy show Just Mohabbat where she played a school principal. But her works in films were equally shining in Zubeidaa, Mr and Mrs Iyer, and Humko Deewana Kar Gaye among other projects.Yet it was her role as the grandmother in Balika Vadhu that is remembered and became a part of her identity. Everyone was hugely impacted and fell in love with Surekha Sikri as Dadi Sa.“It was a wonderful role. It was a great opportunity, and I really enjoyed playing the character of the matriarch. Initially, the show’s story was gripping. Then it lagged a bit, and soon, it picked up. But the last leg of the show was a little weird, as far as my character was concerned. However, I stayed till the end, as it was a commitment I had made,” Surekha told Hindustan Times in an interview.It's so heartbreaking news, our Dadi Sa from Balika Vadhu has passed away 💔 you will always be remembered! Rip🙏#SurekhaSikri pic.twitter.com/S68loVJohBSurekha Ji then went on to act in Ayushmann Khurrana’s Badhaai Ho in 2018 which won her third National Award.“Mera pehla reaction tha… Mujhe laga arre ye kya ho gaya… (My first reaction was of disbelief) the director of the film called me to congratulate me, and even he deserves an award. Ayushmann has also won an award. I am extremely happy about it. Everybody worked hard on this film and now it feels so good. Families out there watched the film and enjoyed it, I am so grateful. Very excited about the win,” she told Zoom TV.The actress refrained to retire despite her failing health in recent years. She even made her OTT debut with her last appearance in Netflix Ghost Stories in 2020.“Retirement is an outdated word left to us by the British… There’s no limit to your work. Do anything you enjoy! Retirement doesn’t mean anything. You bet I have a lot of work ahead of me yet,” she told Rajeev Masand in an interview.Your voice. Your poise. Rest in peace #SurekhaSikri pic.twitter.com/saGYcyYRBmYou will always have a special place in our memories, Dadi Sa.This was story was first published on Life Beyond Numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remembering-surekha-sikri-national-award-winning-actor-loved-across-film-theatre-and-television-101626497497258.html
17-07-2021||India||Petrol price jumps 30 paise/litre on Saturday, diesel price remains unchanged||Petrol prices rose by 30 paise per litre on Saturday, the 41st hike in 75 days that made the transport fuel costlier by ₹11.44 a litre since May 4, a day after results of five assembly polls were declared.The diesel price remains unchanged as it was spared a hike for the third time since July 2 apart from the 16 paise/litre reduction seen on July 12, the first since May 4. However, several hikes in about two-and-a-half months have made Diesel costlier by ₹9.14 per litre since May.After the latest hike, petrol in Delhi is priced at ₹101.84 per litre, and diesel at ₹89.87. While fuel rates of state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Petrol prices have already crossed ₹100 per litre in five metros – Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bangalore.The cost of one litre petrol in Mumbai is now ₹107.83 and diesel, ₹97.45. The highest fuel rates have been recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar where pumps are selling petrol at ₹113.21 per litre and diesel at ₹103.15 a litre.Surging international oil rates and the high domestic tax structure are two key reasons for steep rates of petrol and diesel in Indian cities.International oil prices showed extreme volatility since Monday last week (July 5) when Brent crude jumped to $77.16 a barrel, its highest since October 2018 due to supply concerns. However, the recent compromise between two factions of producers’ cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) – over supplies pulled down crude prices by $3.57 or 4.62% to $73.59 a barrel at the end of this week’s close on July 16.While international oil prices impact pump rates of auto fuels because India imports more than 80% crude it processes, steep taxes are the other reason for high rates of petrol and diesel.In Delhi, central levies account for 33.29% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to an official data of July 1. On diesel, Central taxes are over 35.66% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic.Some of the cities selling petrol for over ₹100 per litre are Delhi, Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar, Banswara, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Bengaluru, Guntur, Kakinada, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Hyderabad, Leh, Imphal, Kalahandi, Sopore, Baramulla, Patna, Kolkata, Salem, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Mohali, Darjeeling, Dantewada and Kohima.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)—control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-price-jumps-30-paise-litre-on-saturday-diesel-prices-remain-unchanged-101626496335807.html
17-07-2021||India||India’s daily caseload down to 38,079; 560 deaths reported||India’s cumulative tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 31 ,064 ,908 on Saturday after 38 ,079 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours , according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). As many as 560 fatalities and 43 ,916 new recoveries were reported in the past day , taking the death toll to 41 ,3091 and 30 ,227 ,792 , respectively. The active caseload witnessed a drop by 6 ,397 , and now stands at 424 ,025 , constituting 1.39 per cent of the total number of Covid-19 cases.Saturday’s figures are 870 less than Friday’s 38 ,949 fresh cases. Meanwhile , the death toll is 18 more than the preceding day when 542 fatalities were reported.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday that a total of 44 ,20 ,21 ,954 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far in the country , of which , 19 ,98 ,715 accounts for the last 24 hours.This comes as the joint secretary of the Union health ministry, Luv Aggarwal, on Friday cautioned against the declining usage of masks owing to the resumption of several daily activities. In a weekly press briefing, he referred to a graph that showed mask usage reached its peak in India in May but the trend has been on a steady decline in June and July. The graph also projected that mask usage will further decrease in August and September, against which the central government warned.ALSO READ | Centre warns of third wave, says no herd immunity in population yetAmid the probability of a third wave, photographs of tourists thronging to popular tourist destinations in the northern hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh have created concerns.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court warned Uttar Pradesh against holding Kanwar Yatra this year amid Covid-19. On Friday, the top court said that the state “cannot go ahead with the Kanwar Yatra – 100%,” and asked Uttar Pradesh to either withdraw its decision to permit the annual pilgrimage or receive an order from the court.Notably, the Uttarakhand government has already scrapped the Kanwar Yatra this year, with chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami saying that people’s lives are the government’s first priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-caseload-down-to-38-079-560-deaths-reported-101626493553155.html
17-07-2021||India||BJP worker injured in misfiring by security guard: Jammu and Kashmir Police||Jammu and Kashmir Police has said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Ishfaq Mir was injured by a bullet misfired by his personal security officer (PSO) in Kupwara on Friday, ruling out speculations of a terror attack on the politician. Mir is son of BJP district president Kupwara, Mohammad Shafi.“The weapon of the PSO went off accidently in the car which hit the arm of BJP worker Ishfaq Mir. The other PSO fired in fear. Ishfaq got a minor arm injury. People are requested not to spread rumours of [a] terror attack,” SSP Kupwara GV Sundeep said.He said that the injured worker has been discharged from the hospital.BJP state spokesman Altaf Thakur said Mir is stable and out of danger.Earlier news of the attack had spread panic among BJP workers in Kashmir. In the past two years several BJP leaders were killed by terrorists in various attacks.On June 2, BJP activist and member of Kashmiri Pandit community Rakesh Pandita was gunned down by terrorists in Kashmir’s Tral in Pulwama district.10 days ago, Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) group commander Mehrajuddin Halwai alias Ubaid was killed in an encounter with security forces in Kupwara on July 7 after he was apprehended during routine vehicle checking at Watyen in Ganders area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-injured-in-misfiring-by-security-guard-jammu-and-kashmir-police-101626493635589.html
17-07-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 11 bodies recovered from Madhya Pradesh well and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.11 bodies recovered from Madhya Pradesh well, PM Modi offers condolencesEleven bodies have been recovered and 19 people rescued from a well, which collapsed on Thursday during a rescue operation to pull out a boy, in the Ganjbasoda area of Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha district, according to a report.Read more. Centre warns of third wave, says no herd immunity in population yetIndia will have to watch out for the signs of a third wave of the pandemic over the next 100-125 days, and people will have to adhere to all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. "If we all decide, then there will not be any third wave," said Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (health).Read more. Sabarimala temple opens; RT-PCR report or vaccine certificate mustSabarimala temple has reopened for five days from July 17 to July 21, officials said, adding that pilgrims wishing to visit will be allowed to enter the shrine only if they show a Covid-19 vaccination certificate of both doses or a negative RT-PCR report issued within 48 hours.Read more. Taliban denies role in photojournalist Danish Siddiqui’s death, says reportThe Taliban has said it does know how Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was killed and expressed regret over the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist’s death in Afghanistan's Kandahar during clashes between its fighters and Afghan forces.Read more. Disha Parmar dances the night away with Rahul Vaidya in sequin saree during receptionSinger Rahul Vaidya and actor Disha Parmar continued their wedding festivities with a grand reception on Friday night. The pictures and video of the couple have been doing rounds on social media. Disha looked exceptional during the celebrations as she slipped into a shimmery silver saree for the function, which took place in the late evening.Read more.Salman Khan wishes Katrina Kaif ‘lots of love’ as she turns 38, can’t take eyes off her in throwback photoAs Katrina Kaif turned 38 on Friday, many of her industry colleagues, including Kareena Kapoor, Ishaan Khatter, Anushka Sharma and Arjun Kapoor, took to social media to wish her. Salman Khan also dedicated a special birthday post to her.Read more. Arnold names cricketer who can be difference between winning and losing in Sri LankaArnold said India have the likes of Shikhar Dhawan and Hardik Pandya on their side but he would go ‘out of the box' and name Shaw as the player to watch out for in the upcoming three ODIs and three T20Is.Read more. PM Modi revamps 2 Gujarat stations, one replete with a 5-Star hotelThe needs of 21st century India won’t be fulfilled with the ways of the 20th century, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, stressing the need for reforms in the railways, as he inaugurated multiple development projects in Gujarat, including the redeveloped Gandhinagar train station.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-11-bodies-recovered-from-madhya-pradesh-well-and-all-the-latest-news-101626491240017.html
17-07-2021||India||11 bodies recovered from Madhya Pradesh well, PM Modi offers condolences||Eleven bodies have been recovered and 19 people rescued from a well, which collapsed on Thursday during a rescue operation to pull out a boy, in the Ganjbasoda area of Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha district, according to a report. News agency PTI cited MP's medical education Minister Vishwas Sarang as saying late on Friday that the boy's body was the last one to be taken out from the well. Sarang, the district's guardian minister, also said that the rescue operations have ended.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed his condolences to the families of those who died after falling into the well and also announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for the families of the victims. "Anguished by the tragedy in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. My condolences to the bereaved families. An ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted.Anguished by the tragedy in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. My condolences to the bereaved families. An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives: PM @narendramodiNearly 40 people, who gathered around a 40-feet-deep well to watch the rescue of the 10-year-old boy in Lalpathar village, fell into it when its boundary wall gave in, police said late on Thursday. A tractor being used to pump out water also fell into the well.Villagers said the sarpanch and local administration were to be blamed for the accident. “The well is the only source of water for 700 families of the village. A large number of people came here for fetching water. The safety wall of the well was weak and villagers informed the sarpanch and panchayat secretary about it. Even the boy fell into the well as a part of it caved in,” Anita, who lives near the well, said earlier.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered a high-level inquiry in the matter and also announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh for the next kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 to those injured in the accident.Several leaders, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, expressed their grief over the deaths. “Deeply saddened by the news of many people falling in the tragic accident that took place in Ganjbasoda, Vidisha, I pray to god for everyone’s safety,” Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-bodies-recovered-from-madhya-pradesh-well-pm-modi-offers-condolences-101626491359819.html
17-07-2021||India||Sabarimala temple opens; RT-PCR report or vaccine certificate must||The Sabarimala temple in Kerala, forced shut due to the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, on Saturday reopened its doors for pilgrims for its monthly rituals. The temple has reopened for five days from July 17 to July 21, officials said, adding that pilgrims wishing to visit the Sabarimala temple will be allowed to enter the shrine only if they show a Covid-19 vaccination certificate of both doses or a negative RT-PCR report issued within 48 hours.An upper limit has been fixed on the number of devotees allowed to enter the Sabarimala temple through the online booking system each day. Only 5,000 people will be allowed to enter the Sabarimala temple, officials said.The Kerala government officials have stressed people must follow Covid-19 safety norms as the hill shrine opens its doors to devotees. Officials have been instructed to ask people to wear masks and maintain social distancing as the temple is set to see devotees flocking to worship Lord Ayyappa.The famed Lord Ayyappa shrine in Sabarimala and several other major temples remained shut for devotees in May this year in the view of the lockdown to bring the surge in Covid-19 cases under control. In an order issued by the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), the top body in the southern state which manages over 1,200 temples, shrines under its management were not allowed to permit devotees in its premises for darshan during the lockdown period.However, daily rituals would be conducted without any fail, TDB authorities said.Even though the Sabarimala temple opened for the monthly rituals in May for five days, it did not permit devotees for darshan at the hill shrine as the cases surged.The southern state has been battered by the deadly viral disease outbreak. Kerala on Friday recorded 13,750 new Covid-19 cases and 130 deaths on Friday, taking the infection count to 31,30,833 and the death toll to 15,155.The test positivity rate stood at 10.55 per cent, Kerala health minister Veena George said. The state government has also decided to ease the lockdown curbs on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday in view of Bakrid which falls on July 21.During this period, on July 18, 19 and 20, fewer restrictions will be in place allowing shops, including textile, footwear, electronic, fancy and jewellery, to remain open till 8pm and this is applicable to A, B and C category local self-government bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-temple-opens-rt-pcr-report-or-vaccine-certificate-must-101626486915322.html
17-07-2021||India||Covid-19 this week: Third wave fears loom large, kids to get vaccines soon||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) threat in India still looms large above a population battered by two devastating waves of the pandemic and an ailing healthcare infrastructure. Although the country has been witnessing a decline in the number of daily new cases, talks of a potential third wave have raised concerns.India reported 38,949 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry update on Friday. As many as 542 people died and 40,026 recovered from the viral disease in the said period, taking the cumulative death toll and recoveries to 412,531 and 30,183,876 respectively. The active cases of Covid-19 stand at 430,422 and constitute 1.39 per cent of the caseload, the health ministry’s update further showed.Centre warns of Covid-19 third wave, says no herd immunity in population yetThe central government warned that the possibility of a third wave is very real as India's population is yet to get herd immunity. The next 100-125 days in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic will be critical, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said on Friday, adding that people need to remain 'cautious'."The question of the third wave keeps coming back," Paul said during a press conference on Friday. "This is because our population is still very vulnerable. We still have not reached the stage of herd immunity nor do we want to acquire herd immunity through infections."Covid-19 third wave likely by August-end, will be less severe than second: ICMRSpeaking of the third wave of the coronavirus disease, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that it may hit India at the end of August but may not be as deadly as the second wave."There would be a nationwide third wave but that does not mean that it would be as high or as intense as the second wave," Dr Samiran Panda, the head of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, told a Delhi-based news organisation.He also said that there could be a variant of the coronavirus that can bypass the acquired immunity and if the new variant doesn't do that it can circulate fast in the population. The Covid-19 third wave could also be brought about by the premature easing of Covid-19 curbs by states, Panda said.Supreme Court raps Uttar Pradesh on Kanwar YatraThe Supreme Court on Friday observed that “the Uttar Pradesh government cannot go ahead with the Kanwar yatra - 100%”, asking the state to either withdraw the decision to allow the religious pilgrimage “in the interest of the health of the citizenry of India”, or invite an order from the court.Citing widespread fears of a third wave of Covid-19, the bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai gave the state government time till Monday to reconsider its decision of allowing the Kanwar yatra due to “compelling religious reasons” and convey it to the court.Vaccine for kids to be available soon: CentreThe Union government told the Delhi high court this week that Covid-19 vaccines for children below the age of 18 years will be available “in the near future” as the clinical trials are on the verge of completion.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was informed by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma that Zydus Cadila, which is developing DNA vaccines for Covid-19, has concluded its clinical trial for children between the ages of 12 and 18 years of age and is awaiting statutory permission.Counting deaths in India is difficultLastly, since Covid-19 has wrecked lives, devastated families, and destroyed livelihoods, an inquiry into the excess deaths due to the pandemic is an important issue that needs redressal.The commonly used methodology of quantifying excess deaths based on India’s civil registry system (CRS), however, is not suited to address this. Any analysis based on it is likely to be misleading. The stark reality of India’s data system is that all deaths are still not accounted for; they are estimated based on demographic surveys.A few critical issues merit consideration. First, historically, CRS is not the source of estimates of deaths at the national, state, or city level for three important reasons. One, not all deaths in India are registered (primarily of women and those residing in rural areas); two, registered deaths are not necessarily domiciliary, that is, place of death could be different from where a person typically resides; and three, deaths, if registered at all, are not reported promptly, a large number of registrations happen after the stipulated 21-day period, and, in some cases, beyond a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-this-week-third-wave-fears-loom-large-kids-to-get-vaccines-soon-101626486875354.html
17-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: Former MP G Made Gowda passes away||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world.Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Top news headlines of the day:> First case of Covid-19 found in Tokyo Olympic Village, organisers confirm> India reports 38,079 new Covid-19 cases, 560 new fatalities> 11 bodies recovered from Madhya Pradesh well, PM Modi offers condolences> Sabarimala temple opens; RT-PCR report or vaccine certificate must> Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa meets BJP chief JP Nadda> Delhi airport's T2 terminal to reopen from July 22Follow all the updates here:Former Karnataka MP G Made Gowda passes awayG Made Gowda was undergoing treatment for lung disease in Mandya. Karnataka CM expressed his condolences. Uttar Pradesh govt cancels Kanwar Yatra in view of Covid crisisUttar Pradesh government said that the Kanwar Yatra has been cancelled in the state in view of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, reported news agency ANI. The Supreme Court had earlier advised reconsidering its decision to hold even a symbolic Kanwar Yatra.UK reports another 6-month high in daily Covid casesThe United Kingdom on Saturday reported 54,674 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), posting a fresh highest daily total in six months.Maharashtra's daily Covid tally goes up with 8,172 casesMaharashtra has reported 8,172 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, with state capital Mumbai recording 469 new infections.Karnataka CM calls legislative party MLAs, ministers meet on July 26Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has called a meeting of legislative party MLAs and ministers on July 26, news agency ANI reported. After meeting BJP president JP Nadda on Saturday, Yediyurappa said he has been told to bring the party back to power in the state.Fully vaccinated UK health minister tests positive for Covid-19UK health minister Sajid Javid said he has tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Javid was fully vaccinated against Covid-19 as he posted a picture of him getting a second dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine on May 16.SAD accuses Punjab govt of misusing State chopper to fly in Harish RawatShiromani Akali Dal has accused the Punjab government of misusing the State chopper to fly in Congress general secretary Harish Rawat to Chandigarh, reported news agency ANI. It has demanded a probe into the matter. Rawat, also in charge of the Punjab Congress, met chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday amid reports of infighting in the party's state unit.Physical classes for 10th and 12th to start from July 26: OdishaOdisha government has decided to begin physical classes for 10th and 12th from July 26 but online classes will also continue, reported news agency ANI quoting a government official. Satyabrata Sahu, principal secretary, department of school & mass education, said that the decision to attend physical classes will be on students.Cessna aircraft crashes in Sagar, pilot safe, says Scindia#WATCH | Madhya Pradesh: A Cessna aircraft strayed off the runway at around 3 pm at Chimes Aviation Academy situated in the Dhana area of Sagar pic.twitter.com/vAQcBZZkSsUnion minister for civil aviation said that a solo flight of Cessna aircraft crashed in Sagar, Madhya Pradesh. Taking to Twitter, Scindia said that the trainee is safe and an investigation team is rushing to the site.No live-streaming of 'Chardham Yatra': Uttarakhand CMUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has said that there would be no live streaming of the 'Chardham Yatra' as it is not written in Vedas. He added that the government is also going to file an affidavit in the High Court in this regard.Sidhu to head Punjab Congress, reports ANI quoting sourcesCongress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu will head the state unit of Punjab and four working presidents will be appointed with him, news agency ANI reported quoting people familiar with the development.Any decision taken by Cong president will be acceptable to all: Punjab CMAmid infighting in Punjab Congress, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said that any decision taken by the party president will be acceptable to all. HT had earlier reported that Singh wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi expressing his displeasure at the party's handling of the crisis in the state unit.Syria's Assad takes oath after controversial re-electionSyrian President Bashar al-Assad on Saturday took the oath of office for a fourth term after taking 95% of the vote in a controversial election, reported news agency AFP.Delhi airport's T2 terminal to reopen from July 22Delhi International Airport announced that flight operations at T2 will recommence from July 22 at 0001 hrs. Operation will resume with approximately 200 air traffic movements (100 departures and 100 arrivals) per day and increase progressively up to 280 by August endPilgrims arrive in Mecca for second pandemic hajjPilgrims began arriving in the holy city of Mecca on Saturday for the second downsized hajj staged during the coronavirus pandemic, circling Islam's holiest site in masks and on distanced paths.The kingdom is allowing only 60,000 fully vaccinated residents to take part, seeking to repeat last year's success that saw no virus outbreak during the five-day ritual.6-year-old girl killed in Washington shootingA six-year-old girl was killed and five others were injured in a shooting incident in Washington on Friday night.Ashan M Benedict, the executive assistant chief of the Metropolitan Police Department, said that the girl has been killed and that three men and two women had been injured, reported The New York Times."Any shooting that takes place in the city is unacceptable, and again, we are responding to too many calls of children being affected by gunfire," he said adding: "So please help us bring these shooters to justice."Cleaning staff at Sydney hospital refuse to enter Covid-19 ward over PPE shortageAlleging the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE), a group of 200 cleaning staff at a hospital in Sydney are refusing to enter the Covid-19 ward of the hospital.The state health minister has dubbed the matter as "some difference of opinion" between the hospital and the union on the matter, SBS News reported."But I've indicated to the team last night that I'd like us to be as generous as reasonable and understanding of our health workers and are on the side of being supportive," said New South Wales (NSW) Brad Hazzard.Delhi airport's T2 terminal to reopen from July 22The T2 terminal of the Delhi international airport will resume operations from July 22, two months after it was shut down due to significant drop in domestic air traffic owing to the Covid-19 pandemic's second wave, a statement said on Saturday.The resumption of operations at T2 from July 22 onwards will be with approximately 200 air traffic movements (100 departures and 100 arrivals) per day and increase progressively up to around 280 movements by August-end, the statement of Delhi airport's operator DIAL said.Priyanka Gandhi demands that Lakhimpur Kheri panchayat polls be held againCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday demanded that the recent panchayat elections held in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh be cancelled, and re-polls be held.She was speaking to reporters after reaching Semra village in Pathgava block of the district.On July 9, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had alleged that BJP workers misbehaved with his party candidate Ritu Singh and her proposer Anita Yadav. He also claimed that the saffron party workers pulled the sarees of Ritu and Anita.Karnataka CM Yediyurappa meets BJP chief NaddaKarnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday met BJP president JP Nadda and said he has been told to strengthen the party and bring it back to power in the state.The chief minister has said that he will also meet Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh.Derek Chauvin trial cost Hennepin County nearly USD 4 millionThe weekslong trial of former Minneapolis police Officer Derek Chauvin cost Minnesota's Hennepin County about USD 3.7 million for employee salaries, courthouse security, victims' services for George Floyd's family and other expenses, according to county documents released Friday.The Hennepin County Sheriff's Office, which oversees security at the courthouse, spent a total of about USD 3.2 million for employee salaries, equipment and security for the courthouse. The Star Tribune reported that after salaries, the single largest expense was for added courthouse security: USD 773,412 was spent on items such as barbed and razor wire fencing, barricades and boarding. That cost did not include staffing.Ashok Pradhan gang member arrested in DelhiA member of the notorious Ashok Pradhan gang was arrested after a brief exchange of fire with police in north west Delhi’s Rohini, officials said on Saturday.The accused, Gaurav alias Monti, was leading the operations of the gang in Delhi. He was also declared a ‘bad character’ of the Bawana Police Station, they said.Gaurav, involved in 13 criminal cases including murder, was arrested Friday night, police said.Clear morning in Delhi; heavy rainfall likely on SundayDelhiites woke up to a clear morning on Saturday with the minimum temperature settling at 28.2 degrees Celsius, a notch above season's normal.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has, however, predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in the city on Sunday.“The minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official reading of the city, was 28.2 degrees Celsius, and the relative humidity at 8.30 am was recorded at 75 per cent,” it said.11 bodies recovered from Madhya Pradesh well, PM Modi offers condolencesEleven bodies have been recovered and 19 people rescued from a well, which collapsed on Thursday during a rescue operation to pull out a boy, in the Ganjbasoda area of Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha district, according to a report.India reports 38,079 new Covid-19 cases, 560 new fatalitiesIndia on Saturday recorded 38,079 new Covid-19 cases. The death toll has also gone up to 413,091 with 560 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, health ministry data showed.Organisers say first case of Covid-19 found in Tokyo Olympic Village, reports AFPThe Tokyo Olympics has registered its first Covid-19 case in the Olympic Village six days before the Games open, organisers said on Saturday."There was one person in the Village. That was the very first case in the Village that was reported during the screening test," Masa Takaya, spokesman for the Tokyo organising committee, told a press conference.Rajasthan govt bans religious gatheringsAll religious programmes and congregations, including those of the upcoming Kanwar Yatra and Eid-ul-Zuha, have been banned in Rajasthan as part of the state government's efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19.As per the notification, even the annual Mudiya Poono Mela, which is organized every year in Mathura's Govardhan area, will not be held this year. Devotees will not be allowed to gather for the Chaturmas festival as well.US Navy hands over MH-60R helicopters to IndiaIn yet another sign of strengthening India-US defense relationship, the US Navy has handed over the first two MH-60R Multi Role Helicopters (MRH) to the Indian Navy.The Indian Navy is procuring 24 of these helicopters manufactured by Lockheed Martin under foreign military sales from the US government at an estimated cost of USD2.4 billion.Kabul, Taliban negotiators to meet in Qatar as Afghan fighting ragesRepresentatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban were due to meet in Doha for talks on Saturday as violence rages in the country while foreign forces finalise their withdrawal.The two sides have been meeting on and off for months in the Qatari capital but the talks have lost momentum as the insurgents have made battlefield gains.Several high-ranking officials including former president Hamid Karzai and former chief executive Abdullah Abdullah were heading to Doha on Friday afternoon.Biden administration mourns Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui’s deathThe Biden administration and US lawmakers have mourned the death of Indian journalist Danish Siddiqui, who was killed in Afghanistan while covering the fighting between Afghan troops and Taliban militants.Siddiqui, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018, worked for Reuters news agency and was killed on Friday in the town of Spin Boldak, near the border with Pakistan. He was embedded with Afghan special forces at the time of his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-june-15-2021-101626486232804.html
17-07-2021||India||PM Modi conveys grief over Vidisha tragedy, announces ₹2 lakh to each kin of deceased||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed his anguish over the accident in Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha district, where at least four people were killed after falling into a 40-feet-deep well. Conveying his condolences, PM Modi announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for the families of each victim who lost their lives in the accident.Also Read | Four dead, 10 trapped inside well in MP’s VidishaFour bodies have been recovered till now from inside the well in Ganj Basoda of Vidisha, about 100km north of Bhopal and reports indicate the death toll is likely to be higher. About 40 people, who gathered around it to watch the rescue of a 10-year-old boy, fell in on Thursday night after its boundary wall caved under their collective weight."Anguished by the tragedy in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. My condolences to the bereaved families. An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives," read a tweet posted on the official Twitter handle of the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) India.Anguished by the tragedy in Vidisha, Madhya Pradesh. My condolences to the bereaved families. An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives: PM @narendramodiThe rescue operation has now been on for over an entire day, with as many as 23 people of the Lalpathar village rescued so far, officials familiar with the development told HT. A high-level inquiry into the accident has been directed.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are trying to rescue others but the operation has slowed down due to mudslide inside the well. Three JCB machines are being used to pull out mud from the well.”Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has also announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh for the relatives of the deceased and ₹50,000 to those injured in the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-conveys-grief-over-vidisha-tragedy-announces-rs-2-lakh-to-each-kin-of-deceased-101626482398289.html
17-07-2021||India||'Imran Khan blaming RSS to cover up his terrorist connections': Leader hits back||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has responded to allegations of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan that "RSS ideology" was a hindrance in the way of friendship with India, according to a report. Live Hindustan, HT's sister publication, reported that Indresh Kumar slammed the Pakistan Prime Minister and said that "Imran Khan is blaming the RSS to cover up his terrorist connections.""Imran Khan's statement is a symbol of the fact that Pakistan is a country of rulers filled with poison since its birth. The people of Pakistan want to live in peace, but the rulers of Pakistan are enemies of their own country. In 1971, this poisonous spirit broke Pakistan and Bangladesh broke away," Indresh Kumar said according to Live Hindustan.According to Live Hindustan, Indresh Kumar also said that Pakistan's ideology is proof that they have divided Indians into two parts. The Talibani ideology of the rulers of Pakistan is the enemy of humanity, peace and brotherhood, he said.Union minister Kaushal Kishore also said terrorism has its roots in Pakistan, according to news agency ANI. "Imran Khan is well aware of terror havens in his country. Blaming RSS has no basis. It is an unnecessary statement by him. The RSS preaches harmony," Kishore told ANI.Their comments came after Imran Khan on Friday evaded questions on Pakistan's role about the Taliban's actions in Afghanistan and sought to put blame on "RSS ideology" for the stalled talks with India amid concerns over its support to cross-border terrorism.#WATCH Pakistan PM Imran Khan answers ANI question, 'can talks and terror go hand in hand?'. Later he evades the question on whether Pakistan is controlling the Taliban.Khan is participating in the Central-South Asia conference, in Tashkent, Uzbekistan pic.twitter.com/TYvDO8qTxkKhan was asked by ANI on the sidelines of the Central-South Asian conference in Tashkent if talks and terror can go together. "I can tell India that we are waiting for long that we live like civilised neighbours. But what can we do? The ideology of RSS has come in the way," Khan told ANI.Khan also evaded a question about allegations that the Taliban is under his control.Afghanistan vice president Amrullah Saleh on Thursday accused Pakistan Air Force of providing air support to the Taliban in the border areas of Chaman and Spin Boldak. The allegation has been rejected by Pakistan. "Pakistan air force has issued (an) official warning to the Afghan Army and Air Force that any move to dislodge the Taliban from Spin Boldak area will be faced and repelled by the Pakistan Air Force. Pak air force is now providing close air support to Taliban in certain areas," Saleh tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-imran-khan-blaming-rss-to-cover-up-his-terrorist-connections-leader-hits-back-101626481082631.html
17-07-2021||India||Centre warns of Covid-19 third wave, says no herd immunity in population yet||Amid widespread public negligence regarding pandemic-appropriate behaviour due to declining cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, the central government warned that the possibility of a third wave is very real as India's population is yet to get herd immunity. The next 100-125 days in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic will be critical, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said on Friday, adding that people need to remain 'cautious'.Also Read | Next 100 days crucial, says Union health ministry amid Covid 3rd wave fears"The question of the third wave keeps coming back," Paul said during a press conference on Friday. "This is because our population is still very vulnerable. We still have not reached the stage of herd immunity nor do we want to acquire herd immunity through infections."Pointing out the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases around the world, Dr VK Paul said it should serve as a warning sign for India. "Leaving the North and South American regions, all other WHO regions are moving from bad to worse," he said.Spain has registered a 64 per cent rise in the weekly Covid-19 case spike, Dr Paul highlighted. The Netherlands, on the other hand, has seen a 300 per cent rise in the same figure. Elsewhere, Indonesia, Bangladesh, and Thailand have also registered an increase in the number of cases, while a 50 per cent spike in cases was also recorded in Africa, he said.Also Read | Rising Delta variant cases make Covid-19 third wave real risk for India: Report"The world is moving towards a third wave and this is a fact," he said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, has asked us to take this as a red flag and warning... the Prime Minister has given us the target to stall the third wave and it is possible."Paul said that although India has progressed in terms of Covid-19 vaccination and now nearly 50 per cent of the "most vulnerable group" above the age of 45 years is protected, the infection can still spread. "This will also impact mortality and it will come down, but the infection can spread," he said, "We are vulnerable, the virus is still around."India will have to watch out for the signs of a third wave of the pandemic over the next 100-125 days, and people will have to adhere to all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. "If we all decide, then there will not be any third wave," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-of-covid-19-third-wave-says-no-herd-immunity-in-population-yet-101626479118877.html
17-07-2021||India||5 UPSC civil services aspirants back in race after SC makes an exception||Five civil services aspirants, disallowed by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to appear for the interview-cum-personality test because they were late in submitting their graduation certificates, were granted a special relaxation by the Supreme Court on Friday which said it didn’t want them to suffer for no fault of theirs.The aspirants - four of the five had approached the top court - told a two-judge bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna that they missed the November 11, 2020 deadline to submit their graduate certificate because their results were declared a month later due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The four aspirants told the court that their university examinations were conducted in August 2019 but the results came only in December 2020 due to the intervening Covid-19 pandemic. UPSC declined to accept the documents but allowed them to appear for the Mains examination held in January 2021 as they had cleared the preliminary screening testing held earlier.Two months later, they were informed that their candidature was cancelled as the certificates were not filed on time.UPSC told the court during arguments that it allowed 12 candidates (including the petitioners) who were similarly placed to take the Mains examination but only five cleared. Of them, four petitioned to the court.The public services recruiter told the court that the commission was bound to act as per rules as the cut-off date to submit documents is sacrosanct.The two-judge bench invoked the extraordinary powers vested in the Supreme Court under Article 142 that allows the court to pass any order necessary to do “complete justice” in any case but made it clear that this verdict should not be treated as a precedent.“Considering the piquant situation due to Covid-19 and for reasons beyond their control in as much as the University could not declare results till December 2020, coupled with the fact that they were permitted to appear in the Mains examination, it will be inequitable at this stage to deny them the opportunity to continue with the UPSC examination,” the judges said.The bench directed UPSC to consider even the fifth candidate who did not approach the court to face the interview board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-upsc-civil-services-aspirants-back-in-race-after-sc-makes-an-exception-101626467414512.html
17-07-2021||India||BJP looks to downplay ‘Kongu Nadu’ controversy||Chennai: The BJP formally put to rest a controversy on ‘Kongu Nadu’ by stating that they have no plans to bifurcate Tamil Nadu. Union Minister of State and outgoing Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan on Friday said that it was a “clerical mistake”. The controversy began after the party had released profiles of newly inducted union ministers and it referred to Murugan as hailing from ‘Kongu Nadu, Tamil Nadu’. “It is a clerical mistake. There is no need to talk about the issue anymore. It is over,” Murugan said after K Annamalai assumed charge as the new president of BJP in Tamil Nadu.Murugan and Annamalai said that the BJP does not have plans to bifurcate Tamil Nadu and there is no such demand. “The term ‘Kongu Nadu’ was used as a social identity for Murugan ji,” Annamalai said. Kongu is a colloquial term for the western region of Tamil Nadu with seven districts, including Coimbatore, Salem and Tiruppur which is considered the citadel of the AIADMK and their ally the BJP has a considerable support base here compared to its unpopularity elsewhere in the state. The AIADMK-PMK-BJP combine won 33 of the total 50 seats in the region while the DMK alliance almost every other region of the state. BJP’s executive Coimbatore north district unit on Sunday passed a resolution urging the Centre to create a separate state of Kongu Nadu by reorganising Tamil Nadu. The new BJP chief, Annamalai, said that he has sought an explanation from office bearers in Coimbatore. Annamalai, a former Karnataka IPS cadre joined the party only in August 2020 and his body of work as a police officer and backing from senior BJP leaders such as BL Santosh paved the way for him to occupy this post at the age of 37. On Friday, he reiterated that the BJP will continue to support NEET which DMK is seeking to abolish. However, the party will support Tamil Nadu’s stance in opposing the Mekedatu dam project though BJP is in power in Karnataka and in the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-looks-to-downplay-kongu-nadu-controversy-101626466093743.html
17-07-2021||India||Protect riot-hit Indians in SA, Stalin urges EAM||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Friday wrote to external affairs minister, S Jaishankar requesting him to safeguard the Indian community in South Africa which has a sizable Tamil population. His letter comes amid reports of riots in provinces of South Africa where people of Indian origin are being killed and thousands of businesses owned by the Indian community are being destroyed.Stalin said that this is a matter of “great concern and urgency” and requested Jaishankar to once again initiate diplomatic means with the South African government “to impress upon the need for restoration of peace and harmony at the earliest and also to take adequate measures to safeguard life and property of the Indian community including persons from Tamil Nadu.”“It has also been reported that the Indian community including a large section of Tamil the population has suffered economic losses. It is learnt that they are also apprehensive of further escalation of tensions there,” Stalin said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protect-riot-hit-indians-in-sa-stalin-urges-eam-101626466033846.html
17-07-2021||India||CMs from southern states ask Modi for more vaccines||Chennai/Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram: Chief ministers of the southern states urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday for an increase in vaccine supply to ensure maximum protection to people before a third wave of Covid-19 strikes.Interacting with the PM through a video-conferencing, the chief ministers briefed him about the steps being taken to check the spread of coronavirus even though cases were on the rise.In a video interaction with chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala, where many districts have been reporting a high number of cases, Modi said the country stands at a point in its battle with the pandemic where apprehensions about a third wave are being expressed.These states have accounted for 80% of new Covid-19 cases last week and 84% of deaths, the PM noted in his closing remarks, specifically mentioning the rise in infections in Kerala and Maharashtra as a matter of grave concern for the country. A similar trend was witnessed in January and February before the second wave started, he said. “It’s very important that states with a rising number of cases take proactive measures to rule out any possibility of a third wave,” Modi said.The PM emphasised an effective trace, track and vaccination methodology, asking states to strengthen micro-containment zone strategy, which has helped some states such as Assam to control Covid without enforcing a lockdown. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Covid-19 situation in the state is under control. “In Kerala the second wave started very late and at one point its test positivity rate went up to 30%, but now it is around 10%,” he said, adding the state’s mortality rate remained the lowest in the country at 0.48%.Vijayan said the state has given first dose of vaccination to 11.7 million people and both the doses to 4.41 million, maintaining zero vaccine wastage. The state has a population of 30.46 million. The Kerala CM sought six million more doses to cover a major portion of the population. Kerala has been contributing the highest number of Covid cases among all states since June 15. On Thursday, it reported 13,773 new cases, almost one-fourth of national total of 41,806, according to the state health ministry data. Its test positivity rate was 10.95% whereas the national average was below 3%. The virus has shown no sign of abating in Kerala with new daily cases hovering around 10,000 since March.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said the state managed “reasonably well” in fighting against the pandemic despite lack of modern medical facilities as in Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. He said the newly set up village/ward secretariats system has played a key role in effective containment of Covid. “12 fever surveys have helped in containing the spread of the virus.”The CM said that of 17,71,580 doses given to private hospitals, only 4,20,209 have been used in June. He requested the Prime Minister to allot the remaining stocks in private hospitals to the government, so that the vaccination process will be expedited.Karnataka chief minister BS Yeddyurappa urged the PM to provide at least 10.5 million doses of Covid vaccine to the state every month, saying the Covid cases in Karnataka have declined to 1,900 a day and in Bengaluru to about 400 cases a day.Stating that Karnataka has so far received 20.62 million vaccines, the chief minister requested the Prime Minister to provide 10.5 million doses of the vaccine with a targeted 500,000 doses every day, a government statement said. Yediyurappa also told Modi that the district authorities have been authorised to impose sanctions depending on the positivity rate of Covid-19, the number of cases and the opinion of the Technical Advisory Committee. He also informed the PM about steps being taken to deal with the anticipated third wave.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin sought 10 million vaccine doses as a special case and urged the PM to exempt all goods needed for Covid management from the goods and services tax (GST). He also said the Centre should reconsider its decision to conduct national-level exams like the NEET, as it may lead to virus spread. “The demand for vaccines has tremendously increased in Tamil Nadu,” Stalin said. “However, when compared with other states, the allocation for our state is very less. To handle this tough situation, I had requested a special allocation of one crore vaccine doses. I look forward to your support in this important issue,” he told Modi. Stalin said Tamil Nadu has reduced vaccine wastage from 6% to 0%.On July 13, Stalin had said that till July 8, Tamil Nadu received 29,18,110 vaccine doses from the Centre for people in the 18-44 years bracket and 1,30,08,440 for those above 45 years. “The allocation was very inadequate and TN did not receive vaccines proportionate to its population,” Stalin had said in a letter to Modi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cms-from-southern-states-ask-modi-for-more-vaccines-101626465733756.html
17-07-2021||India||Kerala continues to report high caseload||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala recorded a high Covid-19 caseload of 13,750 cases on Friday with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.55%, according to the data released by the state health ministry. In last 24 hours, total number of cases in the country was 38,949 with a TPR below 3%, which shows the southern state contributed more than 30% of total cases. At least six districts reported more than 1,000 new cases on Friday. Among 542 deaths, Kerala’s share was 130. The state’s active case pool, which went down to below one lakh last month, has been steadily rising for past three weeks and on Friday it stood at 121,944. Similarly new cases continue to show a rising trend in many northern districts triggering a fresh fear that there can be resurgence in cases even as the second wave shows slow plateauing. Though pressure on the health system has been eased considerably, every day the state is recording an average of 100 fatalities, according to records. The ICU admissions and critically ill patients, in both public and private hospitals, remained more or less unchanged in last two weeks. There are 724 patients that require ventilator support, according to health ministry data. Though the state put a target to conduct 3.75 lakh tests in two days, it failed to cross 2.50 lakh. Many experts have blamed its poor testing rate and obsession to cheap antigen tests for the present state. However, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected these contentions and said the situation is well under control. The state has administered the first dose of vaccination to 1.17 crore people and 44.18 lakh got both doses (state population is 3.46 crore). The CM sought 60 lakh more doses to cover a major portion of the population and he also cited zero wastage of the vaccine in the state. “The second wave started in the state very late. It is a fact that daily caseload and active cases are high but no need to panic. Our hospitals are not crowded and there is no shortage of oxygen also,” he said, adding the situation will stabilise by July end. But many experts complained that the government was going ahead with the advice of bureaucrats and it often ignored public health experts and medical bodies like IMA. Meanwhile, the government has eased restrictions in view of upcoming Eid-ul-Adha (Bakrid). In Kozhikode, many shopkeepers hit the street on Wednesday protesting severe restrictions on them and threatened to flout regulations. following which the CM held talks with them and eased some curbs. They can open shops this Sunday and shopping hours have been extended till 8pm. The CM also promised more relaxations in coming days, traders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-continues-to-report-high-caseload-101626465673743.html
17-07-2021||India||Banks can’t deny educational loans to students citing parents’ liabilities: HC||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Thursday said that banks cannot deny educational loans to students citing liabilities of their parents and directed a national bank to disburse the loan applied by a meritorious student. While giving a direction to the Indian Bank in this regard, the single bench of Justice PB Suresh Kumar observed that the very purpose of the educational loan is to ensure that a meritorious student cannot be deprived of an opportunity to higher education on the ground that he/she does not have enough resources for the same. The petitioner, a second-year student of Bachelor of Ayuveda Medicine and Surgery, approached the court after her loan request was turned down by the bank. In her petition, she contended that she secured admission through the centralised seat allotment process of the state in 2019 on the basis of her rank in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. She said since her family could not raise the full amount of course, she and her father approached the banks for an educational loan of ₹7,50,000 for which no collateral security is needed as per the educational loan scheme. However, theIndian Bank denied her loan, saying it was not satisfied with the economic background of her parents. Doing a small-time business, her father’s shop was closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions and he was not earning enough, the bank reportedly told her as she mentioned it in her plea. The court said such attitude will defeat the very purpose of the educational loan scheme. “The object of all educational loans formulated by banks in accordance with RBI (Reserve Bank of India) guidelines is to ensure that a meritorious student shall not be deprived of the opportunity to pursue higher education merely on the ground that he/she doesn’t have sources for the same,” the court observed. If the contentions of the bank are accepted, it would defeat the object and purpose of the scheme, the cout said while directing the bank to disburse loan to the meritorious student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-can-t-deny-educational-loans-to-students-citing-parents-liabilities-hc-101626465553764.html
17-07-2021||India||Medics to be trained before third wave: K’taka govt||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Friday said that all medical and para medical staff will be trained according to requirements to prepare for the imminent third wave of Covid-19 infections.“Vaccine is being given to the persons aged above 18 years. Experts are of the opinion that the infection can also be spread to those under 18 years. The same treatment given to adults cannot be given to children. They have to consult a pediatrician. Therefore, children specialist doctors are being trained to handle this. Doctors in all districts will be imparted training on this,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Friday.He said that the state government was taking all required measures as recommended by the committee headed by Dr. Devi Shetty regarding the third wave.“Covid virus is transforming itself and even developed nations are struggling to deal with it. India has successfully tackled the first wave when compared to other nations. Infrastructure had been significantly ramped up before the second wave. Four thousand doctors have been appointed,” he added.He added that the despite the decline in new infections, the state needed to remain on vigil as neighbouring Maharashtra and Kerala were experiencing another bout of infections.“Third wave is pesistant in many countries, we cannot invite it here. We can control the spread if we put (a) break into social and religious gatherings. We need to be careful till at least 70% of the population are vaccinated,” he added.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday, in a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, sought 10.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines per month to help the state achieve its target to vaccinate all eligible citizens by the end of the year.A statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that the Prime Minister has asked states to take extreme precaution as there was a surge in Covid-19 cases across Europe and other parts globally.The statements come at a time when an imminent third wave of infections is expected to hit India and Karnataka, which is yet to recover from the huge loss of life and deep impact on livelihood.Karnataka has so far administered 2,68,47,085 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, of which 2,17,38,761 and 51,08,324 account for the first and second dose, according to data available on CoWin portal. Karnataka administered 2,29,483 doses on Friday, according to official data.“Prime Minister has urged us to be more cautious. PM also instructed to follow micro containment zone policy and to increase coverage vaccines. Centre has already provided Rs. 23,000 crore for ramping up health infrastructure and PM advised to give importance to rural health care infrastructure,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medics-to-be-trained-before-third-wave-k-taka-govt-101626465373857.html
17-07-2021||India||K’taka to receive heavy rainfall till July 18: IMD||Bengaluru: A trough over the East Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast is expected to trigger heavy to very heavy rainfall in many parts of the state until the weekend. A low-pressure area above Kutch and in the neighbouring areas and a circulation that lies 528 kilometres above sea level over Chhattisgarh and neighbouring areas are adding to the precipitation, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.“Under the influence of the three systems, north interior Karnataka, south interior Karnataka and coastal Karnataka will receive widespread rainfall until July 18,” CS Patil, scientist and director, IMD (Bengaluru), said in a statement.The IMD has sounded an orange alert on July 17 in Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagalur, Hassan and Kodagu districts. The districts are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall with a few places receiving extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places, IMD said in its forecast.Chitradurga, Davangere, Belagavi, Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Bidar and Kalaburagi districts are also likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next few days. While an orange alert has been sounded between July 15 and July 17, a yellow alert has been sounded on July 18. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre scientist Sunil Gavaskar said that monsoon conditions are active over the state and the rain spells are expected to continue till July 20 while cloudy conditions will prevail.As heavy rainfall continued to wreak havoc across Karnataka, a 70-year-old man died after being washed away in floodwater in Kodagu district on Thursday. According to Kodagu district administration, the incident took place at Avandoor village in Madikeri taluk after the Harangi dam in the district reached its brim, following which over 6,000 cusecs of water was released into the river inundating the lower riparian areas and villages.The victim, identified as Babi Chinappa, a resident of Avandoor village in Madikeri Taluk, was found dead on Thursday by rescue workers, with the district administration saying that the elderly man was washed away by an overflowing stream near his house on Wednesday. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force and police conducted an overnight search operation to find his body on Thursday, an official said.According to the Harangi dam engineering department, the dam will be filled to its capacity in the next two days if the rain in the catchment area continued.In Madikeri, the district headquarters of Kodagu, work on a retaining wall to the district headquarters building has been affected due to the massive rainfall. Two houses have been damaged by the rainwater in Kodlipet, according to authorities.In Hassan district, floodwater has washed away a hillock, Adanagudde, in Aanemahal. Many areca nut and coffee plantations in Sakleshpur taluk of the district have also been inundated due to heavy to very heavy rains that the district has been receiving for the last two days.The stretch of National Highway-75 between Donigal and Marnahalli in Sakleshpur taluk has been flooded with debris from the floodwater over a distance of 6km. The highway was blocked on this stretch for some time on the night of July 15, officials said.The Yagachi dam near Hassan is also filled up to its maximum level. As a result of the excess water being allowed to flow into the river, two houses in Arehalli Koplu have been severely damaged.Shivamogga district also reported severe damage to property due to rain-related issues. Houses, public offices and roads in Soraba and Thirthahalli taluks have been affected due to the continuous downpour. State highways were flooded at Chandragutti and Hanagere, district administration said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-till-july-18-imd-101626465314806.html
17-07-2021||India||Medical institutes to reopen in K’taka||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Friday allowed the reopening of all medical and dental colleges in the state. The order also said that all AYUSH, nursing and other allied healthcare courses can resume physical classes, however, students and teachers attending the classes must have received at least one dose of the vaccine. The institutions have also been directed to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and safety guidelines issued by the government. The order states that those found violating the rules are liable to be charged under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. In another development, to make students of Polytechnics across the state both employable and entrepreneurial, an MoU was inked between the Department of Technical Education(DTE) and the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC) on Friday. This partnership was signed in presence of deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana, who is also the minister of higher education. Speaking on the occasion, Narayana said, establishing DTE-BCIC Case Center, will help DTE students learn from real-world case studies and provides opportunities for students to plan their career path leading to employment, entrepreneurship, research & higher education. “This MoU will enable the development of a joint online portal for the seamless offering of internships, industry visits, projects, and placements for diploma students across the state besides facilitating to make use of the Learning Management system (LMS) effectively,” he pointed out. This initiative will also support the upgrading of laboratory infrastructure across polytechnics and provide training to maintain the equipment to industry standards besides enabling training the faculty in the latest subjects, topics, and tools, Narayana explained. He said diploma curriculum has been revamped to make the students more employable as needed by the industry which has a very important role in providing inputs to the curriculum including real-world case studies and Industry-Academia partnership is key to ensure the success of both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-institutes-to-reopen-in-ktaka-101626465253732.html
17-07-2021||India||BSY meets PM in Delhi amid buzz over leadership change||Bengaluru Chief minister BS Yediyurappa who is on a two-day visit to Delhi met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. He said that the meeting was largely regarding the development works in the state.“I requested the PM to facilitate for early implementation of some state works. He has agreed for all,” he told media persons. Yediyurappa is expected to meet senior ministers of the union government and the national leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). After landing in Delhi, Yediyurappa said that he would meet the Prime Minister and other newly sworn in ministers from Karnataka and discuss with them the development works of the state including the construction of the contentious Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project. At around 7.30 pm, the chief minister spoke to reporters again where he said that the newly sworn in ministers from the state will meet him at dinner. When questioned, if there was any discussion on leadership change, Yediyurappa refrained from giving a straight answer. “I don’t know, you tell me,” he said. The chief minister’s visit comes at a time when the cloud of uncertainty looms large over his continuing in his post for the remainder of the two-year term. Before the meeting with the Prime Minister, Yediyurappa told reporters that he would meet union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and other prominent leaders of the party. There is also speculation that Yediyurappa would seek the Centre’s blessing for a cabinet reshuffle to accommodate the rebels to quell any dissent. It remains to be seen which way the BJP high command will sway when it comes to Yediyurappa, who almost single handedly built the party over the last four decades. His unceremonious exit in 2012 removed the BJP from power in the only state in the south of the country where the saffron outfit has been able to make some inroads in recent decades. People aware of the developments said that the chief minister meeting the Prime Minister in the guise of appraising the latter on the Mekedatu project and developmental works cannot be taken at face value. “In my experience, a chief minister would meet the minister in-charge, the party leadership and others but not the Prime Minister directly,” said the BJP legislator from Karnataka, requesting anonymity. He added that there may be no telling as to when the BJP will replace Yedyurappa but this meeting in Delhi is definitely the “a step” towards it. “They will start tightening everything from now,” he added. Interestingly, Yediyurappa was accompanied by his two sons (BY Vijayendra, BY Raghavendra), grandson (Shashidhar Maradi), BJP MLC Leher Singh and two others. People aware of the developments questioned why the chief minister chose not to take any officials with him, if the agenda was indeed to seek the support for developmental works. Though it remains to be seen when Yediyurappa will be asked to step down, his stay on the chair threatens to dent the party’s chances in the 2023 assembly elections. Another person aware of the developments said that the visit to Delhi is most likely to set the terms of a replacement, if the two sides do reach a deal amicably. “There is no leadership change in Karnataka and Yediyurappa will continue. Yediyurappa is visiting Delhi to meet the Prime Minister and home minister, party president and other central ministers, especially the irrigation minister. Cauvery river issue is a major issue,”R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue and a person regarded as a member of Yediyurappa’s inner circles said on Friday. Just two days ago, union Jal Shakthi minister, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat visited Karnataka and met Yediyurappa and all senior ministers of the state where he said that justice will be done to the southern state in the Mekedatu issue. Yediyurappa has made it clear that he would like to remain in power till 2023 and, people aware of the developments said that the 78-year-old is hoping to placate his two sons in prominent roles in the government and party. Vijayendra is the state BJP vice president and Raghavendra is the MP from Shivamogga, the chief minister’s home state. Yediyurappa has at least once before said that Vijayendra would contest the 2023 assembly elections as a way to show that he would be the “heir apparent” of the Lingayat community and the BJP in Karnataka. Raghavendra was among the probables to be inducted in Modi’s cabinet expansion but the centre favoured Shobha Karandlaje, another close associate of Yediyurappa, which was a strategy to keep the damage to a minimal if the chief minister does choose to do a repeat of his 2012 exit. Adding to the similarities from a decade ago, Yediyurappa and his family continue to see rising charges of corruption. There have been at least three major cases against the chief minister and his family in the last one month and several more against ministers and legislators of his party. Yediyurappa has sought to take refuge behind the Lingayat community, believed to be the single largest group in the state who have backed the former since the turn of the century. However, leaders like Basanagouda Yatnal among others have now successfully bracketed Yediyurappa as a person from one of the sub-sects of the Lingayats and not of the entire community. “There is no reason to complain because they have made all concessions for Yediyurappa. He left the party and came back as chief minister which is a first. He is over the 75-years age limit and there is non-performance,” said one senior BJP leader, requesting not to be named. Yediyurappa’s confidence, if any, comes from the fact that the BJP in Karnataka does not have a credible replacement, which people aware of the developments said, is not true since the saffron outfit will abide by the person nominated by the central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-meets-pm-in-delhi-amid-buzz-over-leadership-change-101626465193719.html
17-07-2021||India||16 dead in suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar: Police||Bettiah: At least 16 people have died since Wednesday in Bihar’s West Champaran district after allegedly consuming spurious liquor, police said on Friday. Of the total, eight of them died on Friday alone. The deceased belonged to Deurawa, Jogiya and Bagahi villages, district magistrate Kundan Kumar said.At least five persons, including two women, have been picked up for interrogation and one person has been arrested, police added. The sale and consumption of liquor are banned in the state since 2016.“In the course of investigation, family members of four of the deceased accepted the death occurred owing to the consumption of spurious liquor. However, family members of four of the deceased denied any liquor consumption. They did not furnish any medical documents about ailments either,” a release by West Champaran district administration read.Police on Thursday registered a case, in which two persons, identified as Thug Shah and Suresh Shah, were named.“One of the accused, Thug Shah’s son Sumit, has been arrested while two local chowkidars have been suspended,” the statement added. Bagaha SP Kiran Kumar Gorakh Jadhav, who is currently in-charge of Bettiah police station, said: “Their interrogation is underway. We have also deployed a dog squad for search operations and raids are being conducted. No seizure has been made as of yet.” “One of those who died in Bagahi village was on dialysis while the other at Deurawa village died following a heart attack,” Kumar said, adding: “The cause of the deaths could not be ascertained as the last rites were already performed. The matter is under investigation.” Lalan Mohan Prasad, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Champaran range, said: “We took statements from about 40 people, including the family members of those who died, but all of them denied any consumption of liquor. However, one of the two persons undergoing treatment confessed to having been served liquor.” Villagers at Deurawa admitted that the sale and consumption of liquor was rampant in the area. “My brother fell sick after consuming liquor which is being openly sold despite prohibition,” Bhola, a relative of one Mumtaz Ansari who confessed to have consuming liquor before falling ill, said. The incident evoked a sharp reaction from the opposition with Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad tweeting: “In Bihar, thousands of people are dying every year due to (consumption of) spurious liquor under good governance. Under the garb of prohibition, the ruling party is running a parallel illegal economy of ₹20,000 crore in Bihar.” Birendra Gupta, CPI-ML (L) legislator from Sikta assembly seat, termed the deaths as “state-sponsored” and demanded a compensation of ₹4 lakh for kin of each deceased.“The family members of the deceased are under pressure. They had earlier accepted that the deaths had occured due to consumption of illicit liquor,” Gupta, who visited the kin of the deceased, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-dead-in-suspected-hooch-tragedy-in-bihar-police-101626465074436.html
17-07-2021||India||Govt prepares House agenda with focus on Covid handling||New Delhi : The government is prepared to discuss its management of Covid-19, a a key demand of the opposition parties, in the upcoming monsoon session of parliament. A senior minister who asked not to be named said the government is confident of replying to all questions of the opposition related to Covid19. The opposition wants raise issues ranging from deficiencies in the healthcare system that were exposed during the second wave of the Covid pandemic, to the slow pace of vaccination during the monsoon session of Parliament beginning Monday. The government also has a busy legislative agenda : six ordinances, nine pending bills and as at least 15 new bills. According to a person aware of the details who asked not to be named, the key bills that the government will try to push are those on DNA technology, the rights of senior citizens, the National Institute of Food Technology, and tribunal reforms. The government hopes to pass the Marine Aid and Navigation bill, Juvenile Justice Amendment bill, Assisted Reproductive Technology bill during the session. While the government wants smooth functioning of both the houses to enable the passage of key bills, it is also prepared for a stormy session. The opposition has accused the government of being unprepared for the second wave of the pandemic, and blamed it for a botched vaccination strategy. The government has decided to take on the opposition “with facts and figures” said a BJP leader on condition of anonymity. “We are prepared to have a discussion on the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Let the opposition ask questions; we have all the answers. We have data to prove how India quickly got its act together to provide the essential health care and save lives. There was a 14 to 16 day period when there were some shortages but we overcame the problem within a short time,” this person added. On the opposition’s charge that the pace of vaccination is slow and the government did not take timely steps to procure vaccines, this leader said: “No country in the world can administer vaccines in a single day. India has administered more dozes than America,” the leader said.India has vaccinated 391 million people till Friday. Vaccine supply has triggered a row between some states and the union government. At least six states, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, Odisha have complained of scarcity of vaccines and said this has forced them to close some vaccination centres. Union health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday said the states were creating panic and that they were aware of the schedule and the number of vaccine doses being supplied to them. The opposition is also gearing to corner the government on the issue of inflation, especially the rise in fuel and cooking oil and gas prices.CPI data shows consumer price inflation at 6.26% and petrol price in Delhi has spiraled to ₹101.54 currently from ₹90.40 on May 2. On Friday, the newly appointed Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal called on several opposition leaders including former PM Manmohan Singh to discuss smooth functioning of the house. Goyal also met Congress leader Anand Sharma and NCP leader Sharad Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-prepares-house-agenda-with-focus-on-covid-handling-101626464954284.html
17-07-2021||India||TMC plans to bring parties opposed to NDA, Cong on board for House session||New Delhi: The Trinamool Congress (TMC), the second-largest Opposition force in Parliament after the Congress, is looking at the possibility of stitching a sub-group within the Opposition camp with parties that are opposed to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) but also not at ease with the Congress, people familiar with the matter said.The plan, prompted in part by the results of the last round of assembly elections in which West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee succeeded in containing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), could cast a shadow on the Opposition’s floor management and the unity of the non-NDA parties during Parliament’s monsoon session starting July 19.The TMC is well placed to work closely with parties from the anti-Congress platform such as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) which have a working relationship with the Trinamool. The West-Bengal based party also hopes to bring Samajwadi Party (SP) in this sub-group since Akhilesh Yadav’s outfit might be averse to follow the Congress agenda ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.“The assembly election has changed many equations. We want to set the agenda of the Opposition in this session,” said a senior Trinamool leader on Friday, “The other problem for the Congress is they don’t have leaders who can reach out to parties such as Akali Dal, SP or AAP. So, someone will have to bring these parties to a common platform and no one better than Trinamool can do that”.The aggressive plan will also sync with Mamata Banerjee’s first visit to Delhi after her third straight victory in the recent assembly election. Banerjee will be in Delhi for five days and Trinamool leaders said she would also visit Parliament for “at least two days”. Banerjee was a seven-term MP from West Bengal before she left Parliament in 2011.The Trinamool and the Congress also appear to differ on the agenda for the Opposition. While the Congress is keen to raise the Rafale issue after the appointment of a French judge to probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the ₹59,000 crore deal for 36 fighter jets, Trinamool’s prime pick is price rise and farm bills.On July 14, the Congress decided to raise a demand for debates on price rise, Rafale and the government’s management of the Covid pandemic.But the larger political brinkmanship would centre around Trinamool’s ambition to grab a space in dictating the Opposition’s floor management in Parliament.After the Congress failed to win any state in the latest round of assembly election and Trinamool positioning itself as the party that halted BJP in the polls, the parliamentary strategy will also be a part of the larger plan ahead of the 2024 election.TMC general secretary and the chief minister’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, last month confirmed that the party intended to expand its footprint outside Bengal, insisting that a concrete plan was in the offing. “This attempt to make TMC a national party will be very different from our previous endeavours,” Banerjee said at a news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-plans-to-bring-parties-opposed-to-nda-cong-on-board-for-house-session-101626464953735.html
17-07-2021||India||‘Tolerance need of time’: Jamia shooter denied bail||A Gurugram court on Thursday dismissed the bail plea of 19-year-old Gopal Sharma, who was arrested on July 12 for making provocative comments against Muslims at a mahapanchayat in Pataudi on July 4.The civil judge of Pataudi, Mohd. Sageer, observed that the rights of the accused to his personal liberty could not be preferred against the right of the society to live peacefully in communal harmony.“The act of the accused that is hate speech instigating abduction and the killing of girls and persons of a particular religious community is itself a form of violence and such people and their inflammatory speeches are obstacles to the growth of a true democratic spirit,” the court said.It added: “Religious tolerance is the need of the time and not intolerance. It is necessary for individuals within the society to get along, especially when a variety of cultures and the people with different religious beliefs live in one community or nation.”Gopal earlier grabbed headlines when he brandished a gun during an anti-CAA protest, even firing at protesters in Delhi’s Jamia area in January last year.Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, counsel for Sharma, said his client has been made a scapegoat in this case. “My client attended the mahapanchayat but did not organise it. Those who did had not even taken permission for the same but no action was taken against them. Before he addressed the crowd, there were several other orators who used very offensive language and hate speech but only my client was booked and arrested. He has no political connection and is not even powerful unlike others.”The counsel argued that Sharma got carried away by the charged atmosphere and said what he did.The counsel for the state, however, argued that Sharma voluntarily participated in the event and can be seen in the video clip instigating the mob in the name of religion. “Sharma can interfere in a free and fair investigation and can threaten and put pressure upon the complainant and other witnesses, even flee from the trial if bail is granted,” said counsel SP Gothwal.“These kinds of incidents have become very common nowadays and the common man is under constant threat of violence in the name of religion, caste, etc. This incident cannot be seen only with respect to a young man’s religious intolerance, rather it is far more serious and has dangerous hidden consequences. If such people are allowed to move freely and to indulge in such kinds of activities, the very existence of communal harmony may be disturbed and that will give a wrong message that these types of acts are acceptable in society,” the court said.Sharma was arrested a week after the mahapanchayat following a complaint from a resident of Jamalpur village in Gurugram. He was booked under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence) and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tolerance-need-of-time-jamia-shooter-denied-bail-for-hate-speech-against-muslims-101626464833699.html
17-07-2021||India||SC slams jail admin over delay in releasing convicts after bail||In the age of technology, “we are still looking at the skies for pigeons to communicate orders”, the Supreme Court said on Friday, rebuking jail authorities for delaying the release of prisoners by insisting that bail orders be sent through post.The court took suo motu cognisance of the issue after it came to its notice that jail authorities at an Agra prison in Uttar Pradesh took four days to release 13 convicts who had been granted bail on July 8.“We are in a time when we use information technology tools, and we are still looking at the skies for pigeons to communicate orders... It is too much that prisoners have to wait even after the Supreme Court has granted bail as jails are insisting on the bail order to come by post,” said the three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana.To ensure “fast” and “secure” communication about bail orders, the bench proposed using a new tool that is under consideration of the top court.The bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and AS Bopanna, said: “The scheme being proposed is called ‘Fast and Secured Transmission of Electronic Records’ (FASTER). We are looking at communicating the bail orders passed by us directly to the jail authorities.”Details of the proposed new channel of communication were not immediately available.The bench also directed the secretary general of the Supreme Court to prepare a report within two weeks after taking inputs from solicitor general Tushar Mehta, and court-appointed amicus curiae senior advocate Dushyant Dave, along with data from states.“If this scheme goes through, our orders can be securely transmitted,” the bench said. The court is keen on implementing the scheme within a month, CJI Ramana added.While hearing the suo motu petition on Friday, CJI Ramana referred to the July 8 order of the court.A bench of justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian directed prison authorities of the Agra Central Jail to release 13 convicts who were found to be juveniles at the time that the crime was committed. The jail authorities in Agra waited till the bail order arrived by post and released the convicts — who had already served 14 to 22 years in prison — on the night of July 12.Informed about this delay by the convicts’ advocate Rishi Malholtra, the top court on July 13 agreed to take up the matter on the administrative side for passing necessary directions, and on the same day, registered the suo motu (on its own) petition on the instruction of the chief justice.Attorney general KK Venugopal agreed with the court’s view and said that the insistence on receiving bail orders by post was “wrong and very bad”.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, pointed out at the hearing that there was a possibility that prisoners may obtain fake bail orders to secure their release.But “if the jail authorities can verify it (order) from the official website of the court, there should be no concern over its authenticity,” Mehta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-slams-jail-admin-over-delay-in-releasing-convicts-after-bail-101626464713739.html
17-07-2021||India||At UNSC meet, Harsh Shringla condemns killing of journalist Danish Siddiqui||NEW DELHI: India on Friday condemned the killing of photo-journalist Danish Siddiqui in an attack by the Taliban in Afghanistan during a meeting of the UN Security Council on protecting civilians in armed conflicts. Danish Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize winner, was killed in the southern Afghan province of Kandahar on Thursday while on a reporting assignment embedded with Afghan security forces. He was covering clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters near a border crossing with Pakistan in Spin Boldak. Photos: Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui’s last work from Kandahar, AfghanistanWhile address the UN Security Council meeting in New York with the theme “Protection of civilians in armed conflict – preserving humanitarian space”, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla recalled the long history of differentiating between combatants and civilians in India and other countries around the world. “In this regard we condemn the killing of an Indian photo-journalist, Danish Siddiqui, while he was on a reporting assignment in Kandahar in Afghanistan yesterday. I extend our sincerest condolences to his bereaved family,” Shringla said.Harsh Shringla said the world is currently grappling with a range of humanitarian crises, most of them caused by armed conflicts. These crises have severely impacted millions of civilians and the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated the situation, he said. While international humanitarian law has its genesis in the recent past, civilisations have developed rules of warfare to protect non-combatants and civilians and India has followed the path of Dharma or righteous conduct and provided refuge to persecuted people over the centuries, he said.“Dharma-based norms” for armed conflict in ancient India were based on humanitarian norms and there were many rules protecting civilians during conflict,” Shringla said. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani too condoled Siddiqui’s death in a message posted on Facebook. “I am deeply saddened with the shocking reports that Reuters photo-journalist Danish Siddiqui was killed while covering the Taliban atrocities in Kandahar,” he said. “While I extend my heartfelt condolences to Mr Siddiqui’s family and also to our media family, I reiterate my government’s unwavering commitment to freedom of speech and protection of free media and journalists,” he added. Siddiqui was part of a Reuters team that won a Pulitzer for its coverage of the Rohingya refugee crisis. He also won praise for his images of communal violence in northeast Delhi in 2020 and the devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-unsc-meet-harsh-shringla-condemns-killing-of-journalist-danish-siddiqui-101626463034306.html
17-07-2021||India||Permanent commission: Army seeks clarification from SC over women officers||The Indian Army has sought a clarification from the Supreme Court on the grant of permanent commission to women short service commission officers (WSSCO) pointing out that around 14% of them failed one criteria for this -- and whether an apex court ruling of March meant permanent commissions had to be granted irrespective of the criteria being met.The issue involves 72 of 514 women short service commission officers (WSSCO). The Selection Board that considered their case in September 2020 found serious charges of indiscipline, forgery, disobedience and unbecoming conduct as an officer -- and on this basis denied them permanent commission.Under a Supreme Court order of March 25, 2021, Army was directed to positively grant permanent commission to all such women short service commission officers (WSSCO) who obtained 60 per cent marks, subject to disciplinary and vigilance clearance. In all, 514 women officers met this rule, of which 442 were declared “fit” for permanent commission (PC) and 72 declared “unfit”.The charges against the 72 officers are serious and have been disclosed for the first time by the army despite the findings being available when the top court decided the case in March. These include “discipline, disobedience of orders, lapses in government procurement, forging medical documents, poor work ethics, lack of professionalism, un-officer like conduct, poor performance in courses, etc.”As per the army policy, laid out on September 30, 1983 and February 24, 2012, short service commission officers have to fulfil the twin criteria of minimum cut-off grade of 60% in the assessment and a “fit” declaration by the Selection Board. In the past, this rule has been uniformly applied to all short service commission officers.As the SC order of March 25 comes in the way of the army rejecting them, Colonel Sachidananda Prabhu, the Colonel Military Secretary (Legal) of the Integrated Headquarters of Ministry of Defence (Army) has filed an application in the top court seeking clarification.The application said: “To avoid any ambiguity and misinterpretation, the Applicants seek clarification as to whether the 72 women officers who have scored 60% grade but are graded “unfit” for grant of Permanent Commission by the Selection Board are eligible for grant of Permanent Commission.”The March judgment of the court said: “All women officers who have fulfilled the cut-off grade of 60 per cent in the Special No 5 Selection Board held in September 2020 shall be entitled to the grant of PC, subject to their meeting the medical criteria prescribed by the General Instructions dated 1 August 2020 and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance.” The court also set a three-month deadline to complete this exercise. In its application the army has cited the pandemic and also sought additional time off two months to comply with the judgment.Women officers have claimed the finding of the Selection Board to be “ambiguous” and one that “reeks of vendetta”. In their reply to the army’s application filed on Wednesday, they said: “Charges like lapses in government procurement and forging medical documents are grave offences for which an officer faces inquiry and may be dismissed from service.” The officers found it strange that none of them were warned by the army for committing such grave offences. “This is highly misplaced, and it gives an impression of another well framed excuse by respondents for not granting PC to Women Officers on a very untenable ground,” the lady officers said.Interestingly, the army application also seeks to repair the damage caused by the Supreme Court in accusing the Army of gender discrimination. It has urged the top court to expunge remarks of “systemic discrimination” against WSSCOs from its March 25 judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/permanent-commission-army-seeks-clarification-from-sc-over-women-officers-101626461114688.html
17-07-2021||India||Centre revises rates for jab procurement, places order for 660 million doses||The government will procure Covishield at a rate of ₹215 per dose and Covaxin at a rate of ₹225 per dose, officials aware of protracted discussions between the companies and the authorities said, while adding that new orders for 660 million doses for supply between August and December have also been placed.The new rates are higher than the ₹150 per dose the government paid till now, a price that vaccine makers said was untenable for them in the long term and for them to be able to expand their production capacity.“The negotiations for revising the price were on for some time and finally the revised rates have been decided at which future procurements should happen,” said an official aware of the matter, asking not to be named.The person quoted above added that a new order of 660 million doses has been placed and these will be delivered through August and December at a total cost of ₹14,505 crores. The total orders are with both the companies -- Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) that manufactures Covishield and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech which makes Covaxin -- though a break-up of doses was not given.“For Moderna’s vaccine, contractual specifics are currently being worked out as there is a certain process that needs to be duly followed. The discussions have not concluded as yet...,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog on Friday, during media briefing on Covid-19 updates.“WHO warning is a global warning for the world...it is in our hands to prevent the country from seeing the third wave.... The next 100-125 days are critical,” said Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-revises-rates-for-jab-procurement-places-order-for-660-million-doses-101626461115236.html
17-07-2021||India||Rajnath holds ‘informal’ talks on border situation with Sharad Pawar, AK Antony||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday held an “informal” interaction with Congress leader AK Antony and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on the border situation with China and Pakistan, and also the current scenario in Afghanistan.The Union minister, HT has learnt, invited the two former defence ministers to South Block where the meeting lasted for 75 minutes. The meeting was also attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen MM Naravane.“There was nothing political about it, it was all very informal,” a person familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity. There was no formal statement on the meeting from either side.While Antony served as defence minister in the Congress-led UPA government from 2006 till 2014, Pawar held the post in the Narasimha Rao government from 1991 to 1993.The meeting took place ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament which is slated to begin from July 19. The Congress is planning to corner the government over the border row with China in the House.“The CDS and COAS did a briefing on both Pakistan and China. The two former ministers had questions that were clarified. The government put its point of view forward,” the person cited above said.HT has learnt that while talks on the Afghanistan situation were not part of the agenda, it did feature in the meeting in the wake of the killing of an Indian photojournalist while covering the region’s escalating conflict with the Taliban in Kandahar on Friday. When asked if there were any differences of opinion, the person cited above said: “It was an exchange of views and friendly in nature.” There was no response from the offices of either the current or the former defence ministers. A Congress leader, however, said that this was an old tradition that was prevalent during the Vajpayee regime.“This is a welcome step... for the minister to meet his predecessors, at a time when national security issues almost never get discussed in Parliament. Covid has taken its toll too with Parliament being in stasis. One presumes that the defence minister will apprise former ministers like Mr Antony and Sharad Pawar and Mulayam Singh et al about the current challenges, especially on Ladakh and China. It would be desirable if Arun Singh joins, he is the minister archivist for the MoD,” Uday Bhaskar, former director of IDSA, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-holds-informal-talks-on-border-situation-with-pawar-antony-101626460513552.html
17-07-2021||India||Party will suffer if Sidhu is made state unit chief: Captain to Sonia||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Friday and expressed displeasure at the party’s handling of infighting in the state unit, said people aware of developments, signalling an escalation in the crisis engulfing the party months before polls.The letter by an upset chief minister also mentioned resentment brewing in the state unit, and cautioned that if his rival and trenchant critic, Navjot Singh Sidhu, is appointed Punjab Congress chief, it could lead to a split in the party, said the people quoted above.Singh’s letter was delivered to the Congress president at her 10, Janpath residence in Delhi before she met cricketer-turned-politician Sidhu on Friday afternoon, the people added.The letter came after two days of meetings and intense speculation of rapprochement between the rival factions in Punjab Congress – party leaders had on Thursday said that broad contours of a revamp plan had been drafted - and indicated that the crisis, which first surfaced in May, was far from resolution.It marks a personal shift in strategy by Singh, who until now had not responded to Sidhu’s public attacks, and met twice with a party panel set up to defuse the tension. A member of that panel, party general secretary Harish Rawat, will meet Singh on Saturday in Chandigarh.The two-time chief minister’s missive delivered by his officer on special duty (OSD-Delhi) Narender Bhambri also indicated that Singh, who met two dozen ministers, MPs and MLAs loyal to him in last 48 hours, dug in his heels.On Thursday, the party cleared the air about Singh’s role, saying he will continue as chief minister and lead the party in the next elections, scheduled in early 2022. The 79-year-old leader met Gandhi on July 6.Officially, Gandhi is yet to take a call on the role of Sidhu, around whom the opposition to Singh has coalesced and grown in recent months. But there has been a lot of talk that Sidhu may be appointed the next Punjab Congress chief, overriding Singh’s strong objections.It is these speculations that prompted Singh to write the strongly worded letter, said the people quoted in the first instance.In the letter, Singh conveyed his displeasure over reports of Sidhu’s “impending appointment” as the state unit chief. He told Gandhi that senior leaders and traditional Congressmen would object to any such move and even cautioned the central leadership about the likelihood of a split in the party in such an eventuality.Separately, he also raised questions over Sidhu’s style of working.Sidhu, who quit the state cabinet after the chief minister changed his portfolio in 2019, wants to head Punjab’s Congress unit – a position that will give him significant powers ahead of the assembly elections.But Singh is strongly opposed to having Sidhu, a Jat Sikh like him, in the top party position in the state and has repeatedly advocated for a Hindu face for the position.Sidhu, who joined the Congress in 2017, appears to be close to former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, both of whom he met on June 30.Tensions between Singh and Sidhu have simmered since 2019 but the bitterness mounted in May after the government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 case of police firing on a crowd protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book.Sidhu and some leaders publicly accused Singh of allowing corruption, prompting the Congress to set up the three-member panel.The panel met around 150 functionaries – including Singh twice -- and submitted its report to Gandhi on June 10. The panel recommended that Singh retain charge but Sidhu be accommodated in a key role. There has been little public progress since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-will-suffer-if-sidhu-is-made-punjab-unit-chief-captain-to-sonia-101626460273551.html
17-07-2021||India||Sidhu meets Sonia amid buzz of revamp in Punjab||Chandigarh: Former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu met Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday amid rising tensions in the party over the cricketer-turned-politician’s factional fight with chief minister Amarinder Singh. The meeting at Gandhi’s Delhi residence was also attended by party leader Rahul Gandhi. It came after days of talk – with no official announcement – that Sidhu could be appointed the state unit chief overriding objections by Singh. But there was no official word on the outcome of the hour-long meeting. “I had come to submit my report on Punjab to the Congress chief. As soon as any decision is taken by the party president, I will share the details,” said Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, who also attended the meeting. He refused to give any direct answer to a query about the state Congress chief’s appointment. This was the first time Sidhu met Sonia Gandhi since the row erupted in the Punjab Congress in May. He previously met Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on June 30.Singh is bitterly opposed to Sidhu’s elevation as party chief and has publicly advocated for a Hindu face for the post. On Friday, Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari tweeted demographic details of the state, mentioning that Sikhs form 57.75% of the population and Hindus constitute 38.49%. “Punjab is both progressive and secular, but balancing social interest groups is the key. Equality is the foundation of social justice!” Tewari tweeted, tagging the Congress and Rawat.His party colleagues, Anish Sidana and Pawan Dewan, were more direct. Sidana, a former member of the Kandi Area Development Board, said Hindus felt neglected. Dewan, chairman of the Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, asked for better representation. Sidhu’s early morning departure for Delhi made his supporters confident of an announcement of his elevation. They even put up hoardings in Amritsar thanking the party leadership. But no such announcement came.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-meets-sonia-amid-buzz-of-revamp-in-punjab-101626460213531.html
17-07-2021||India||‘State lawyers to handle riots, R-Day clash cases’||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday decided that a panel of government-appointed prosecutors will deal with cases related to the January 26 violence during a farmers’ tractor rally as well as the 2020 north-east Delhi riots which left 53 people dead and hundreds injured, and not the prosecutors proposed or appointed by the Delhi Police, the Delhi government said in a statement.The move is in disagreement with lieutenant governor (LG) Anil Baijal’s stance on the issue and has become the latest flashpoint between the Centre and the state government.In July 2020, Baijal overturned a similar decision of the Delhi Cabinet to appoint a panel of lawyers of its choice to argue cases related to the 2020 communal riots and issued an interim order saying till the matter is resolved by the President, the panel of lawyers appointed by the Delhi Police and approved by his office will stand. Currently, the Delhi Police-appointed panel of special public prosecutors approved by the LG is representing the state in the riot-related cases.In matters related to the January 26 tractor rally violence, Delhi Police proposed a panel of special public prosecutors, which was recommended by the LG but dismissed by the Delhi government in a meeting earlier this month. The LG asked the Delhi Cabinet to take a call on the matter and inform his office. The Delhi government, in a statement on Friday, said decisions on the appointment of a panel of special public prosecutors have been sent to the L-G.A senior official in the LG’s office said they are yet to receive communication on the Cabinet decision, and will comment only after they get more details.‘Delhi Police lawyers will rid case of fairness’“The Cabinet refused to permit Delhi Police’s proposed list of lawyers from appearing in the court cases related to the farmers’ protests. The Central Government through the Delhi LG had been pressuring the cabinet to give their nod to the list of lawyers sent by the Delhi Police. The Cabinet, however, refused to allow Delhi Police’s own lawyers from appearing as public prosecutors. In a separate decision, the cabinet also refused to allow the panel of lawyers recommended by the Delhi Police in the North-East Delhi Riots case. The cabinet’s decision has been sent to the Lieutenant Governor,” said the government’s statement issued on Friday.It further said, “The farmers have been constantly agitating against the contentious laws and the Cabinet observed that appointing lawyers of the Delhi Police, who is investigating the case will devoid the case of fairness and impartiality. Similarly, in the second instance, the lawyers were supposed to appear in the north-east Delhi Riots case against those who were accused by the Delhi Police. The Cabinet noted that the courts had remarked that the Delhi Police had conducted dubious investigations earlier in the cases where lawyers of their preference were appearing.”Delhi Police did not comment on the matter.The statement added that the Cabinet observed that the demand of the Delhi Police to appoint lawyers of their choice in the case was “baseless: and “unwarranted”, and that letting Delhi Police’s lawyers appear in the case of the farmers who have been protesting against the three farm laws “would seriously hamper legal parity and would not be fair to the accused farmers who bear a right to go through an unbiased trial”.A senior government official, who did not wish to be identified, said: “Delhi Police, through the LG’s office, has also proposed names of three more special public prosecutors recently with regard to north-east Delhi riots. That, too, was rejected.”The LG’s office did not comment.Move comes in backdrop of Punjab pollsAfter Friday’s meeting, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet, “To support the farmers of the country is the duty of every Indian. We have not done anyone any favour. We have just fulfilled our responsibility towards farmers of the nation. Farmers are not criminals. They are not terrorists. They provide us with food.”A majority of the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws, which were passed by Parliament in September 2020, are from Punjab. The state is going to the polls in 2022, and the Aam Aadmi Party is the principal opposition party in the Punjab assembly.Earlier in the day, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in a video press briefing, “In today’s Cabinet [meeting], we have decided that Delhi government will appoint its own panel of lawyers. The LG had earlier dismissed the Delhi government’s recommendations on appointing such a panel. It is unfortunate that the central government through the LG is intervening in routine affairs of Delhi’s governance. Appointing prosecution in Delhi comes under the elected government’s domain, going by Supreme Court’s directions. The LG, however, has a veto power which can be used in rarest of the rare cases. Such routine use of the veto power is unconstitutional, anti-democratic and goes against the spirit of Supreme Court’s directions.”Senior officials in the LG’s office did not respond to the comments of Kejriwal and Sisodia.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Nalin Kohli said the AAP government was being unreasonable.“Clients have the right to engage an advocate of their choice to prosecute on their behalf. The same would hold true for the Delhi Police. Should they be forced to accept any advocate they do not wish to engage? No. How would the Aam Aadmi Party government feel if the Union government forced them to use advocates they are not comfortable with?,” said Kohli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-lawyers-to-handle-riots-r-day-clash-cases-says-delhi-cabinet-101626459674139.html
17-07-2021||India||Afghan president Ghani hits out at terror by Pak||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Friday launched a blistering attack on Pakistan for failing to prevent foreign terrorists sneaking into Afghanistan and not doing enough to pressure the Taliban to join peace talks even as Prime Minister Imran Khan and world leaders listened on as part of the audience of a regional conference in Tashkent.Ghani used his address at the conference, hosted by Uzbekistan to foster connectivity between Central and South Asia, to criticise Pakistan for failing to deliver on its commitments to influence the Taliban to participate in negotiations and to prevent the cross-border movement of jihadi fighters.The president’s remarks reflected the Afghan government’s frustration over the Taliban’s refusal to begin talks to find a political settlement while it conducts a massive campaign to capture territory amid the rapid drawdown of US and NATO forces. Afghan officials have repeatedly blamed Pakistan for not putting pressure on Taliban leaders present on Pakistani soil to launch peace talks.Khan, who addressed the conference after Ghani, responded to the allegations by saying he was “disappointed” by the Afghan leader’s comments and that no country had “tried harder to get Taliban on the dialogue table than Pakistan”.Ghani told the audience, which included US deputy national security adviser Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall and special representative Zalmay Khalilzad, India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, that intelligence estimates indicated the “influx of over 10,000 jihadi fighters from Pakistan and other places in the last month as well as support from their affiliates and the trans-national organisations” for the Taliban. “There’s a consensus among credible international observers that [the Taliban have] not taken any steps to sever their relationship with terrorist organisations,” he said.Contrary to the “repeated assurances by Prime Minister Khan and his generals that Pakistan does not find a Taliban takeover in Afghanistan in Pakistan’s interest and short of use of force, will use its power to influence to make the Taliban negotiate seriously, networks and organisations supporting the Taliban are openly celebrating the destruction of the assets and capabilities of the Afghan people and state,” he said.Ghani said Afghanistan is not asking for sympathy but for a clear definition of interest. “Embracing regional connectivity and support for a political pathway to walk back the Taliban and their supporters from the brink of descent to hell is a win-win approach. To plunge Afghanistan into all-out war is to plunge the region into radical uncertainty,” he said.“Pakistan, therefore, needs to be engaged coherently and urgently from the perspective of regional interest,” he added.Ghani made it clear that while his government is committed to peace, the Afghan security forces will continue the fight. “We are prepared to face the Taliban and their supporters for as long as it takes, until they realise that a political solution is the only way forward,” he said.Khan said in his address that Pakistan’s foremost priority is stability in Afghanistan as it is “petrified” about the possible influx of more refugees at a time when it is supporting three million Afghan refugees.“Let me just say that the country that is going to be most affected by turmoil in Afghanistan is Pakistan...the last thing Pakistan wants is more conflict,” he said.“To blame Pakistan for what is going on in Afghanistan, I feel, is extremely unfair...,” he said. Khan also questioned whether the Taliban would compromise at a time when the US has set a date for the exit of its troops. “Why would they listen to us when they are sensing victory?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-president-ghani-hits-out-at-terror-by-pak-101626459194675.html
17-07-2021||India||Call off kanwar yatra, or we will, SC tells UP||The Supreme Court on Friday observed that “the Uttar Pradesh government cannot go ahead with the kanwar yatra - 100%”, asking the state to either withdraw the decision to allow the religious pilgrimage “in the interest of health of the citizenry of India”, or invite an order from the court.Citing widespread fears of a third wave of Covid-19, the bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai gave the state government time till Monday to reconsider its decision of allowing the kanwar yatra due to “compelling religious reasons” and convey it to the court.The ultimatum effectively ends any chance of the yatra, which attracts around 30 million pilgrims from many northern and northwestern states to Haridwar in Uttarakhand, where they collect water from the Ganga (gangajal) and take it back home, on foot or on cycles. Many of the pilgrims are from Uttar Pradesh, which is keen to go ahead with the yatra despite fears that it could be a superspreader event, and despite warnings from public health officials. Uttarakhand has already cancelled the yatra and said it will not allow the entry of pilgrims. Uttar Pradesh was looking at ways to ship gangajal in tankers and then allow the pilgrims to collect it by walk or cycle. Both states go to polls early next year.“The UP government can’t go ahead with it - 100%...Either we order directly or we give you one final opportunity to reconsider your decision. Pandemic affects all of us. We are all the citizens of India. This suo motu (case initiated by the court on its own motion) has been taken up since Article 21 (right to life) applies to all of us. It is to safeguard each one of us,” the bench told senior counsel CS Vaidyanathan, who appeared for the UP government and agreed to return on Monday after a review of the decision.Vaidyanathan earlier informed the court that the state has decided to allow a symbolic yatra with a restricted number of kanwariyas (pilgrims) who will have to follow safety protocols. He said that the district administration will ensure that the number of permissions thus granted will be kept to a minimum.The UP government did not make any disclosure about a possible decision on Friday, but officials said they were in talks with kanwar associations, who may themselves call off the pilgrimage like last year.“The UP government has instructed the administration to establish a dialogue with kanwar associations so the right decision can be taken regarding the organisation of the yatra,” said a government spokesperson.“We are in talks with the kanwar sanghs and other states,” added Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home), Uttar Pradesh.For the Union government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta submitted that movement of kanwariyas for bringing gangajal from Haridwar must not be allowed in view of the pandemic. The Centre’s affidavit advocated a system to make gangajal available through tankers at designated locations for devotees to collect and perform rituals. Advocate Abhishek Atrey, representing the Uttarakhand government, told the court that Uttarakhand has completely banned any physical form of yatra.“We are of the view that this is a matter, which concerns every one of us as citizens of India, and goes to the very heart of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which has a pride of place in the fundamental rights chapter of our Constitution. The health of the citizenry of India and their right to life are paramount. All other sentiments, albeit religious, are subservient to this most basic fundamental right,” said the court in its order.The court was satisfied with the response of the Union and Uttarakhand governments but told the UP government unequivocally that it was not for allowing any physical movement for the pilgrimage. “Either you (Vaidyanathan) take this up with authorities to reconsider not allowing any physical movement at all or we will pass orders that we think is right,” the court said.The bench then recorded in its order that “given the Covid pandemic and the fear that looms over all the citizens of India of a third wave of the pandemic”, Vaidyanathan has been asked whether the authorities would be in a position to reconsider holding or the allowing, for compelling religious reasons, this yatra in physical form at all.“He (Vaidyanathan) responded positively to the court’s suggestion and asked for time to come out with an additional affidavit by Monday, July 19, to apprise this court as to whether there can be a reconsideration of holding the physical kanwar yatra at all,” stated the court in its order.Stating that it is a “little disturbed” by UP government’s decision to allow the kanwar yatra despite fears of a third wave of Covid-19, the bench on Wednesday sought explanations from the Union and the relevant state governments on the proposed religious pilgrimage and “disparate political voices” on avoiding large gatherings.It remarked that “the citizens of India are completely perplexed and don’t know what is going on” when different states are adopting a different stance.The court in its order on Wednesday pointed out that UP is pressing ahead with the kanwar yatra while the neighbouring state of Uttarakhand, “with its hindsight of experience”, has suspended it over apprehensions of a possible third wave of the coronavirus disease.Uttarakhand, which went ahead with the Kumbh Mela despite warnings from experts, saw a sharp increase in Covid-19 infections soon after. The management of the event has come under question with unearthing of a fake Covid tests racket.The bench also noted discordant political voices, all on the same day as Uttarakhand said no to the kanwar yatra; UP said yes; and Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers of north-eastern states that it is up to the people to stop the third wave by adhering to safety protocols. “Given the disparate political voices, all speaking at the same time, it is important that the relevant secretary, Union of India, respond,” the court had said in its order.Months after the Mahakumbh drew 9.1 million devotees and seeded clusters of infections, concerns have grown over the kanwar yatra.Uttarakhand on Tuesday announced scrapping the annual pilgrimage this year, heeding warnings from health experts who cautioned that millions of devotees thronging the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar could spark a third wave of Covid-19.The hill state also turned down a request from Uttar Pradesh, which allowed the pilgrimage to begin from July 25.On Thursday, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami told HT: “God won’t be pleased if lives are lost because of our laxity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-off-kanwar-yatra-or-we-will-sc-tells-up-101626459133520.html
17-07-2021||India||To evade tax, luxury cars imported in name of ‘diplomats’||The Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) on Friday busted a luxury cars smuggling racket involving the misuse of diplomatic privileges, with the arrest of three persons, including Nipun Miglani, a senior executive of Gurugram-based luxury car dealership, Big Boy Toyz, people familiar with the matter at the agency said.DRI said in a statement that the accused imported around 20 luxury cars such as Range Rovers and Prados over the past five years in the name of diplomats, and then sold them, evading duty of at least ₹25 crore.A Dubai-based man, who has been involved in Customs rackets in the past and has been probed earlier by DRI, is behind the entire racket but he is yet to be caught, the statement added.According to the statement, upon receiving specific details of one such luxury car imported in the name of a Delhi-based diplomat of an African nation, DRI launched an operation codenamed “Operation Monte Carlo” and kept discreet watch over the vehicle after its arrival at the port. It found that the vehicle was loaded onto a transport vehicle and taken to a showroom in Andheri (Mumbai) where it was displayed.Subsequently, it carried out searches across seven cities and recovered six luxury cars.Detailing the modus operandi used by accused, DRI said “a Dubai based mastermind would arrange for import of luxury cars into India from countries like the UK, Japan and the UAE, in the names of diplomats.”The actual buyers for the vehicles would be identified by Miglani. “Upon arrival in India, these vehicles would be directly ferried to the city of the buyer or a dealer of luxury cars. The domestic registration for these vehicles would be done in certain specific Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab. After the registration formalities were completed, these cars on which full Customs duty @204% was evaded would be sold to the Indian buyers, thereby making a huge profit at the cost of government revenue,” the DRI statement added.Founder and managing director of Big Boy Toyz Jatin Ahuja told HT that his firm has fired Miglani as the CEO with immediate effect and a police complaint is also being filed against him to secure the interests of the company.“We absolutely have no idea about what Nitin Miglani was doing in his personal capacity beyond office hours but Big Boy Toyz has not role in it and not a single customer of the company has been affected (by his activities). We were totally unaware of this,” Ahuja said.He added that BBT is not into the business of importing cars.A statement by Big Boy Toyz said, “Mr. Nipun Miglani, an employee of the organisation... conducted certain transactions thereof in his individual capacity & without the knowledge and consent of the management of Big Boy Toyz. Mr. Nipun Miglani is terminated with immediate effect & BIG BOY TOYZ does not hold any liability and responsibility towards his alleged individual transactions. It is made known to the general public at large that whatever Mr.Nipun Miglani has done in his individual capacity, Big Boy Toyz Ltd. is not liable for the same.”Apart from Miglani, DRI has also arrested Liyakat Bachau Khan, an employee of the Dubai -based mastermind, and Suriya Arjunan, a Bengaluru based financier who used to fund the purchase of vehicles before they were transferred to private persons in India, said an official who didn’t want to be named.DRI said that imports made by foreign diplomats and missions in India are governed by the Foreign Privileged Persons (Regulation of Customs Privileges) Rules, 1957. The net customs duty on import of cars works out to 204% but the law exempts certain classes of members of Diplomatic Missions in India and their family members from duties on all imported goods.The agency said the “investigation is likely to identify more players of this racket in the coming days”.“It is estimated that more than 20 luxury vehicles have been smuggled into India in the name of diplomats over the past 5 years, resulting in duty evasion of more than ₹25 crore,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-evade-tax-luxury-cars-imported-in-name-of-diplomats-101626459134163.html
17-07-2021||India||India's real vaccination test yet to come, 10 million second doses due from July 21||India is expected to see a massive rush in the demand for both major Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) starting as early as the middle of next week of July as two significant groups of people – those in the 18-44 age group who received Covishield shots at the start of May when the drive was thrown open for all adults; and those who received Covaxin jabs after the June 21 shift in vaccination policy – become eligible for their second dose almost simultaneously.The number could be as high as 10 million doses in the week starting July 21, more second doses than have ever been administered in a seven-day period.The expected jump in demand comes at a time when the states and the Centre have been locked in a war of words over the supply of doses.Several states have said in recent days that they are facing severe scarcity of doses, and some said they have been forced to close down some vaccination centres.On Wednesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that vaccine availability in July is 135 million doses.Till the evening of July 16, nearnearly 64 million doses had been administered in the month.The pace of daily vaccinations, meanwhile, has been slowing again. On average, 3.8 million shots have been administered every day in the past seven days, a drop of over 40% from the peak levels witnessed in the country.Of the total 315 million people who have been administered vaccines in India till Friday evening, according to the Centre’s Co-WIN dashboard, 235.7 million have been partly vaccinated (have received one dose), while another 79.3 million are fully vaccinated. This translates into a little over one-third of India’s population eligible for shots having received at least one dose of the vaccine (25% partially vaccinated, and 8.4% having received both doses).The wide gap between these two groups can be partly attributed to the revision of the prescribed gap between the two doses in the case of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield (a vaccine that accounts for nearly 90% of all doses administered in the country).On May 13, the Union health ministry announced the widening of the gap between the doses of Covishield from 4-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks. And due to the large proportion of those vaccinated having received Covishield, this change in policy has had a cascading effect on the number of people getting second doses. It ended up having a plateauing effect on the total number of people who were completely vaccinated in the country (see chart) after mid-May, even as more people received first doses.Till mid-May, the gap between the proportion of people fully vaccinated and those partially vaccinated was closing. At the start of April, only 16% of all the people who received the shots were completely vaccinated. This proportion rose to nearly 30% by May 17, but as the gap between Covishield doses was increased, it started falling again.To be sure, from the last week of June – which is the corresponding 12-week period from April 1, when the drive was expanded to include everyone over the age of 45 years – the number of people being fully vaccinated has again started rising. This phenomenon is expected to be magnified with an even larger group of people becoming eligible for their second shots starting July 24 (which is 12 weeks since May 1).The second bump in demand will come from those people who received first jabs of Covaxin from June 21 onwards, when the latest phase of the inoculation drive pushed up vaccination numbers. Since Covaxin has a recommended gap period four-to-six weeks, people in this group will be due for their shots starting July 21.To be sure, the Union health ministry has not released daily data on the first and second dose breakup of these two vaccines, which makes it difficult to ascertain the exact demand expected for second doses in the coming days. However, a rough estimation can be made based on the nearly consistent 9:1 ratio of Covishield-Covaxin administration. Based on Co-WIN data, around 6.9 million first doses were administered in the first week of May – if we assume 90% of these were Covishield, then around 6.2 million people will be eligible for their second shot in the last week of June. Similarly, 38 million doses were administered between June 21 and June 28 – if 10% of these were Covaxin, then around 3.8 million people may become eligible for Covaxin shots in the week starting from July 21.This demand, of course, will be in addition to the number of people who will be getting first doses at the same time.Experts said the situation stressed the need for authorities to be more strategic in using their supplies.“While the data for mRNA vaccines had showed that delaying second doses, and thus covering more people with first doses, was an effective strategy, I don’t know yet if that is true for our vaccines. Doing so may buy us a little time, but it may also mean that people who are administered one dose end up seeing antibody titer going down to the extent that they may not be protected from Covid. But prioritising second doses risks leaving a larger proportion of population vulnerable to the disease... It becomes very important for the government to not only increase production, but it also puts pressure to be a lot more strategic in using their vaccine supplies,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/real-jab-test-yet-to-come-as-more-2nd-doses-due-101626459074735.html
17-07-2021||India||Vaccine for kids to be available soon: Centre||The Union government on Friday told the Delhi high court that Covid-19 vaccines for children below the age of 18 years will be available “in the near future” as the clinical trials are on the verge of completion.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was informed by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma that Zydus Cadila, which is developing DNA vaccines for Covid-19, has concluded its clinical trial for children between the ages of 12 and 18 years of age and is awaiting statutory permission.He also said that a policy would be formulated and implemented by the Centre for vaccination of children as expeditiously as possible after grant of requisite permissions by the experts adding that some clinical trials are ongoing.In its affidavit, the government told the court that the Drug Controller General of India has permitted Bharat Biotech to conduct clinical trials on children between the ages of 2 and 18 for its vaccine, Covaxin.The submissions were made in response to a plea by 12-year-old Tia Gupta, seeking direction to the Centre and the Delhi government to immediately vaccinate children between the ages of 12 and 18 in the city. The petition, filed through advocate Bihu Sharma, has also asked for prioritising vaccination for parents with new-born children.To be sure, around a third of the 940 million eligible population of adults in India has received at least one dose of the vaccine.Research has also shown that infection and fatality rates continue to remain low among children, although some medical professionals have created panic by warning that children will be especially susceptible should a third wave of the disease descend on India -- a claim that is entirely bereft of scientific backing. However, public health experts have said that children, like everyone else, should get vaccinated against the disease as and when they become eligible and shots become available.On Friday, senior advocate Kailash Vasdev submitted that the Union government has not specified any timeline for vaccinating children who have been out of physical school since last March.“Nobody is delaying, there cannot be a time limit granted by the court that too for research. The trials are ongoing and pathological effects have to be seen. They are saying trials are on and it is on the verge of completion. What time bound schedule do you want?” the court said while rejecting the request for a timeline to complete the clinical trials.The court observed that while the entire country is waiting for the vaccine, there should be a “foolproof trial”.“Everybody is in a hurry. Everybody is for the vaccine but a foolproof trial should be there, otherwise it will be a disaster,” the court said and granted time till September 6 to the Centre.Gupta’s plea contended that India’s vaccine policy failed to factor-in children or parents of children, who are a vulnerable section of society, for vaccination against the deadly virus.Meanwhile, the court also disposed of a separate plea which had sought vaccination of the children in wake of the board exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-for-kids-to-be-available-soon-centre-101626458833555.html
17-07-2021||India||Uncertainty persists over EMA approval for SII’s Covishield||The European Medicines Agency (EMA) on Thursday said it was yet to receive a market authorisation application for Covishield, which is yet to be recognised by the European Union (EU) for vaccination certifications that may soon become mandatory for international travel.An industry executive aware with the matter, however, contended that the certification is following a different route since Serum Institute of India – the maker of Covishield – will not seek to sell the vaccine. Instead, along with its UK-based partner AstraZeneca, it is seeking to be recognised as an alternative production site for the Oxford-AstraZeneca dose.“EMA is technically not wrong because the application that has been sent via AstraZeneca is not really for grant of market authorisation in EU. It is actually for grant of approval to recognise SII as an alternate manufacturing site of the AstraZeneca vaccine. EMA would obviously say no if you ask them if Serum has applied for marketing authorisation because it is not an application for full marketing authorisation,” said this person who asked not to be named. “It is basically an extension of the already granted approval to AstraZeneca’s vaccine, Vaxzevria. They have not applied for full marketing authorisation (for Covishield), and rightly so as Europe is not Serum’s territory to market Covishield. This arrangement was clear from the start that Europe is AstraZeneca’s territory,” this person added.When contacted, an AstraZeneca spokesperson confirmed: “We have requested the addition of Serum Institute of India as an alternative manufacturing site on the Vaxzevria licence.”To be sure, the request is a variation to the marketing authorisation process, and not a full marketing authorisation.In a tweet on Thursday, EMA said: “For the Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to be evaluated for use in the EU, the developer needs to submit a formal marketing authorisation application to EMA, which to date has not been received”.EMA has approved Pfizer BioNTech’s Comirnaty, Moderna’s Spikevax, AstraZeneca’s Vaxzevria and Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine for Covid-19.Covishield is one of the four vaccines that have been granted emergency use authorisation by the Indian drugs regulator Drugs Controller General of India, and it accounts for nine of every 10 doses given to people in India.The person quoted above said the SII application to EMA was sent along with all necessary documents in May. “Ideally travel should have been allowed based on the WHO emergency use listing,” said the person familiar with the matter.To be sure, India is still on blacklists of most countries for incoming travel due to the prevalence of the Delta variant, which is linked to faster transmission and somewhat more severe disease.SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla said at an event recently that the company was confident of receiving approval from the EMA in about a month’s time. Speaking at India Global Forum 2021 on June 30, Poonawalla said: “It is not a controversy, it is just that blown out of proportion and the issue of vaccine passports should be on the basis of reciprocity between the countries.”“EMA is absolutely correct in asking us to apply, which we have through AstraZeneca, a month ago, and that process has to take its time,” added Poonawalla||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-persists-over-ema-approval-for-sii-s-covishield-101626458773476.html
17-07-2021||India||Modi reviews situation in 6 high caseload states||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held a review meeting on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation with six high disease burden states, and reiterated the need to take proactive measures to prevent the possibility of a third wave of infections even as some of the CMs asked for more Covid-19 vaccine doses.Modi interacted with chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Maharashtra and Kerala, and said that the visible trend of increase in new Covid-19 cases Maharashtra and Kerala was a cause for concern.He pointed out that similar trends were seen in January-February before the second wave hit the country.“…all of us are at a point where apprehensions of the third wave are continuously expressed. Despite experts giving positive signals due to the downward trends increasing number of cases in few states is still worrisome. During the last week, 80% cases as well as 84% unfortunate deaths came from the states present in the meeting. Initially experts believed that states where the second wave originated will see the normalisation first. However, increasing numbers in Kerala and Maharashtra are cause of grave worry,” Modi said.“…if the cases keep on rising for long time, chances of mutation of the coronavirus will also increase and dangers of new variants will also rise. Therefore, we need to continue with the strategy of Test, Track, Treat and Teeka (vaccination) while putting special focus on micro-containment zones. Districts with large numbers should be focused on…,” the PM added.With numbers falling for the country’s second wave of infections, the seven-day average of new cases in the country has dropped to 39,112 new cases a day – the lowest in four months, or since mid-March – from a peak of 391,819 infections a day for the week ended May 9.Union home minister Amit Shah, who was also present during the meeting, mentioned that some of the states whose CMs were in the meeting have high test positivity rates of around 10% or more test positivity rate in some of the districts.While on average, 2.1% of all samples tested across the country have returned positive for Covid-19, the average positivity rate (a crucial statistic to gauge the outbreak) has been several times higher in many regions such as the northeast, along with states such as Kerala (where this figure was over 10%).Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan talked about the need to reinforce Covid-appropriate behaviour and containment measures in the districts that are reporting high caseloads. Terming vaccine as a strategic tool for high infection areas, the Prime Minister stressed the effective use of vaccination. He assured the chief ministers of all possible help in ensuring successful implementation of not just disease containment measures but also taking forward the Covid-19 vaccination drive, wherever it was required.CMs ask for more vaccinesThe chief ministers of southern states asked the PM to increase vaccine supply to ensure maximum protection for people before the third wave of the pandemic begins.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state has vaccinated 11.7 million people with the first dose and 4.41 million people with both doses (Kerala’s population is 34.6 million), and no vaccine was wasted. He sought six million more doses to cover a major portion of the population. He also said Covid-19 situation in Kerala was under control; the second wave started very late, and at one point the state’s test positivity rate went up to 30%, but now was around 10%. The CM said the state’s mortality rate remained the lowest in the country at 0.48%.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said the state had managed reasonably well despite a lack of modern medical facilities. He said the newly setup village/ward secretariats system played a key role in effective containment of Covid-19 and 12 fever surveys helped in containing the spread of the virus in the state. Karnataka chief minister BS Yeddyurappa urged the PM to provide at least 15 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to the state every month and said Covid-19 cases in Karnataka now stand at about 1,900 a day, and in Bengaluru at about 400 cases a day.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin sought 10 million vaccine doses as a special case and urged the PM to exempt Goods and Services Tax on all goods needed for Covid-19 management.The demand for vaccines has tremendously increased in Tamil Nadu, Stalin said. “However, when compared with other states, the allocation for our state is very less. To handle this tough situation, I request a special allocation of one crore (10 million) vaccine doses. I look forward to your support in this important issue,” he said.The PM assured the state chiefs of all possible help in ensuring successful implementation of not just disease containment measures but also taking forward the Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-reviews-covid-situation-in-6-states-underlines-measures-to-prevent-3rd-wave-101626434773291.html
17-07-2021||India||Indian journalist killed in line of duty by Taliban||New Delhi: Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, whose searing images of wars, riots and human suffering won global accolades including the Pulitzer Prize in 2018, was killed in Afghanistan’s Kandahar province on Friday while covering the region’s escalating conflict for Reuters. He was 38.A largely self-taught photojournalist, Siddiqui is survived by his wife and two young children. Friends and family described him as a shy, friendly man from south Delhi’s Jamia Nagar who cared deeply about the issues he covered, and played cricket in a local park every week. “Deeply disturbed by the sad news of the killing of a friend, Danish Siddiqui in Kandahar last night. The Indian journalist & winner of Pulitzer Prize was embedded with Afghan security forces,” Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay tweeted. Mamundzay said Siddiqui, the chief photographer for Reuters in India, was with Afghan security forces when they were attacked by “terrorists” in Kandahar. An Afghan commander told Reuters that Siddiqui was killed on Friday while covering a clash between Afghan security forces and Taliban fighters near a border crossing with Pakistan in Spin Boldak. Afghan special forces were fighting to retake the main market area of Spin Boldak when Siddiqui and the senior Afghan officer were killed in what was described as “Taliban crossfire”, the official said. Siddiqui had earlier told Reuters he was injured in the arm by shrapnel on Friday while reporting on the clash. He was treated and was recovering when Taliban fighters retreated from the fighting in Spin Boldak. Siddiqui was talking to shopkeepers when the Taliban attacked again, the Afghan commander said. “I am deeply saddened with the shocking reports that Reuters photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was killed while covering the Taliban atrocities in Kandahar,” said Afghan President Ashraf Ghani . “While I extend my heartfelt condolences to Mr Siddiqui’s family and also to our media family, I reiterate my government’s unwavering commitment to freedom of speech and protection of free media and journalists,” he added. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Indian ambassador in Kabul was in touch with Afghan authorities regarding the development. “We are keeping his (Siddiqui’s) family informed of the developments,” he said. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian embassy in Kabul was in touch with Afghan authorities to bring back Siddiqui’s body. “We have been informed the body has been handed over by the Taliban to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). We are actively facilitating the return of the body in coordination with Afghan authorities and the ICRC,” the people said. Siddiqui was embedded with Afghan special forces in southern Kandahar province since earlier this week and was reporting on fighting between Afghan commandos and Taliban fighters. ‘HE SOUNDED COMFORTABLE’“I last spoke to him on Wednesday night. He spoke pleasantly and sounded quite comfortable. He anyway was quite used to tense reporting environments,” said Akhtar Siddiqui, Siddiqui’s father.On Tuesday, Siddiqui reported on a mission by the Afghan special forces to rescue a wounded policeman who had been cut off from others and had been trapped by the Taliban for 18 hours. His report included graphic images of vehicles being targeted with rockets. “Afghan Special Forces, the elite fighters are on various frontlines across the country. I tagged along with these young men for some missions,” he tweeted on July 13. Siddiqui was part of a Reuters team that was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Feature Photography in 2018 for documenting Myanmar’s Rohingya refugee crisis. A Reuters photographer since 2010, Siddiqui’s work spanned the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Rohingya refugee crisis, the Hong Kong protests and Nepal earthquakes.In recent years, his images of the Delhi riots, migrant worker crisis last year and devastation during the second wave of Covid earlier this year also won high praise. “Danish Siddiqui leaves behind an extraordinary body of work...Sincere condolences. RIP,” said Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur.OBSESSED WITH CAMERASThe oldest of three children, Siddiqui was born on May 19, 1983. He became a journalist after a master’s degree in mass communications from Jamia Milia Islamia in 2007. “Even while holidaying with friends, Siddiqui would be lost in his cameras, even during the days when he could only own a digicam,” said his childhood friend, Humayun Shahzad.His memories of photography were “a camera borrowed from a neighbour, black and white rolls of film bought with half my pocket money, and a school hiking trip in the Himalayas”, according to a Reuters profile. As news of his demise spread on Friday, friends and neighbours gathered at his two-storey ancestral house in Jamia Nagar’s Ghaffar Manzil and remembered him as being focused on ensuring safety during reporting and always giving tips to colleagues on how to stay safe in conflict situations. “It is such an irony, and so cruel, that a photojournalist so conscious about personal safety was killed on duty,” said Dr Sabeena Gadihoke, a professor who taught Siddiqui at Jamia. After his post graduation, Siddiqui went on to work with some news channels before abruptly quitting his television job in 2010. “He left a well-paying job and went on to purchase a DLSR camera worth ₹1.5 lakh. That was the moment we knew he would make it big,” said his childhood friend Shams Raza.Himani Singh, who also worked with Siddiqui in 2018, said she remembered his fearlessness. “He never feared any circumstances, he wasn’t afraid of any situation, and he never shied away from showing the truth through his images,” Singh said.In his own words on the Reuters website, Siddiqui said he enjoyed capturing the human costs of conflicts. “I shoot for the common man,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-killed-in-afghanistan-s-kandahar-province-101626420192681.html
17-07-2021||India||Was considering India return, now wary about safety: Choksi||New Delhi Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who reached Antigua and Barbuda on Thursday after 52 days in custody of Dominican authorities, released an audio message soon after, claiming that he had considered returning to India to prove his innocence but is now “extremely apprehensive” about his safety in the country.Choksi said the change was brought about by what he described as an “inhuman abrasion kidnapping” by Indian agencies, a reference to the allegation by his legal team and family that he was abducted from Antigua by 7-8 people on May 23, tortured and brought to Dominica in a vessel.Choksi’s lawyers allege the kidnapping was a joint operation between Indian and Antiguan security agencies to get him deported to India where he is wanted in the ₹13,578 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud.“I am back home but this torture has left permanent scars on my psychology and physically,” Choksi said in an audio message shared by his lawyer Vijay Aggarwal hours after the air ambulance hired by him for the 200km journey landed in Antigua.A Dominican court this week allowed him to return to Antigua, whose citizenship he holds, for medical treatment, and ordered him to return to face charges of illegal entry after he is declared fit, a move that officials in Indian investigative agencies admitted was a setback to their efforts to have Choksi extradited. India flew a team of officials to Dominica, where Choksi mysteriously appeared on May 24 after going missing from Antigua the previous day. The diamantaire is a citizen of Antigua, although the country is engaged in a legal battle to revoke his citizenship; India’s position is that because Choksi’s relinquishment of citizenship wasn’t approved by the appropriate authority, he remains a citizen of India. “Though till now, I have been seriously considering return[ing] to prove my innocence in India. My medical condition is very bad and it has worsened like anything in the last over 50 days of my kidnapping and I am extremely apprehensive about my safety in India. This was so inhuman…,” the 62-year-old businessman said in the statement, his first after he went missing . Choksi’s statement also referred to the probe against him in India.“Also, many times I have said that due to my poor health I am not able to travel and offered the Indian agencies to visit here (Antigua) and interrogate me. But this inhuman kidnapping was never expected by me,” Choksi, who has an Interpol red notice against him for the bank fraud case, said. Choksi and his nephew, Nirav Modi, are accused of colluding with PNB employees to defraud the bank. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-seriously-planning-to-return-to-india-but-not-any-more-mehul-choksi-101626410772344.html
