18-07-2021||India||‘Govt committed to right to privacy’: India’s response over Pegasus hack||India is a “robust democracy committed to ensuring the right to privacy to all its citizens as a fundamental right”, the government said in response to some of the media organisations that reported on Sunday a surveillance operation targeting politicians, journalists and activists.A consortium of 17 media organisations, including The Guardian, The Washington Post and India’s The Wire, said a phone hacking software known as Pegasus was used to target potentially thousands of people around the world. The software is made by Israel-based NSO Group, which said it only supplies to government clients.In its response published by The Guardian, The Indian government termed the reports a “fishing expedition” and said there is no concrete basis or truth associated with the claim that there was government surveillance on specific people. “The commitment to free speech as a fundamental right is the cornerstone of India’s democratic system. We have always strived to attain an informed citizenry with an emphasis on a culture of open dialogue,” it said.HT reached out the ministry of electronics and information technology but did not receive a confirmation on the response. Screenshots of an email sent by the ministry to one of the journalists were shared by news agency ANI.The statement added that the “questionnaire sent to the Government of India indicates that the story being crafted is one that is not only bereft of facts but also founded in pre-conceived conclusions. It seems you are trying to play the role of an investigator, prosecutor as well as jury”.“It also indicates poorly conducted research and lack of due diligence by the esteemed media organizations involved,” the government said.It added that the minister of electronics and IT has spoken in detail, including in the Parliament, that there has been no unauthorised interception by Government agencies. “It is important to note that government agencies have a well-established protocol for interception, which includes sanction and supervision from highly ranked officials in central & state governments, for clear stated reasons only in national interest,” the government said.It added that each case of interception, monitoring, and decryption is approved by a competent authority “i.e. the Union Home Secretary”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-committed-to-right-to-privacy-india-s-response-over-pegasus-hack-101626631762226.html
18-07-2021||India||Speculations over leadership continue despite Yediyurappa’s denial||Despite Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa denying the rumours of his resignation, speculations over his replacement continue within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Yediyurappa calling for a legislative party meeting on July 26 has further intensified a section of party leaders claiming that a change of guard is imminent, while others claiming only a cabinet reshuffle would take place during the legislative party meeting, HT has learnt. Two senior BJP leaders from Karnataka, on the condition of anonymity, said that apart from news reports suggesting that a decision has been made to replace Yediyurappa during his meeting with Prime Minister Modi on Friday, no information is available to legislators. “As far as we are concerned, the legislative party meeting is about a possible cabinet shuffle and not a change of guard,” said a legislator from Bengaluru. Yediyurappa, following his two-day visit to New Delhi, had said, “No, not at all... There is no truth in the rumours.” He went on to say that he had no reason to hide if he had resigned and “not a single word” was discussed on the issue by him or Central party leaders. After the meeting with party BJP chief JP Nadda, Yediyurappa said he had been asked to give his all to strengthen the party ahead of the elections in 2023. He added that he would be returning to Delhi to discuss various developmental issues early next month. The Karnataka chief minister arrived in the capital late last evening and has since met Prime Minister Modi and Nadda. Talking to reporters on his arrival, he said, “The central leaders have asked me to continue as chief minister and strengthen the party. It is our duty to follow their instructions from time to time. There is no question of leadership change.” However, a legislator, associated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) faction of the BJP, said that there are clear indications that Yediyurappa will be handing over the charge. “You can’t expect the party or Yediyurappaji to reveal the details of the meetings with the Prime Minister to the media. But the fact is that there is a consensus between the party leadership and Yediyurappa to do what is required for the long-term success of the party. You will know the details soon,” he added. Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President DK Shivakumar said several MLAs and the workers belonging to the Lingayat community are ready to join the Congress. Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi Airport on Saturday, Shivakumar said that former ministers MB Patil and Eshwar Khandre and others are holding discussions in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speculations-over-leadership-continue-despite-yediyurappa-s-denial-101626629061179.html
18-07-2021||India||At the end of bitter battle, elevation for Navjot Singh Sidhu in Punjab Congress||Drawing curtains to the ongoing feud between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Congress on Sunday appointed Sidhu as the president of the Punjab Congress. The appointment will come into effect immediately, the press release, signed by Congress leader KC Venugopal said. Sangat Singh Gizian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra have been appointed as working presidents of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. The rift between Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu has been going on for long with Sidhu openly rebelling against Captain. The Congress High Command was trying to reach out to both the factions of the Congress leaders to stop the fort from crumbling ahead of elections in 2020.Punjab formula will be accepted by all, says CMAhead of the revamp in the state unit, 10 MLAs issued a joint statement in support of Captain and said Sidhu was a celebrity and undoubtedly an asset to the party, but criticism of his own party in public has created the rift.That Sidhu will be elevated as the chief of the party's state unit and Amarinder Singh will remain the CM face for the upcoming election was a formula that many insiders were aware of. On Saturday, Sidhu met Sunil Jakhar who was in charge of the party's state unit so far.Amarinder Singh had met Sonia Gandhi last week, while Congress general secretary in charge of Punjab Harish Rawat met Sonia Gandhi on Friday. After the meeting in which Sidhu was also present, Rawat reiterated that there is no question of replacing Captain as the CM face in the poll-bound state as his governance was well received by the people of Punjab who are not very experimental with their political leadership.Meetings, statements add fuel to Punjab Congress row amid Captain-Sidhu tussleAmarinder Singh was not in favour of Sidhu's elevation as he wrote to Sonia Gandhi that elevating a Jat Sikh to the post would upset senior leaders representing the Hindu community.However, he maintained his official stance that he will welcome any decision that the High Command takes. Reports said Captain made it clear to Harish Rawat that he would not meet Sidhu till he publicly apologises for the tweets against the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-appointed-as-punjab-congress-president-101626624448002.html
18-07-2021||India||Monsoon session of Parliament starts from Monday; fuel price rise, farm laws on agenda||The stage is set for a confrontation between the government and the Opposition over raging issues of fuel price rise, vaccination strategy and the farm laws in the monsoon session of Parliament that starts from Monday.The government announced it is ready to face any debate. The Opposition has planned an offensive on the first day over the fuel price hike.According to two leaders, government managers proposed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will brief floor leaders on India’s covid management in an exclusive meeting. All Opposition parties rejected the offer, insisting on a proper, parliamentary debate on the subject.The session comes against the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic that saw an acute oxygen crisis in large parts of the country. While both the treasury and the Opposition bench would look for opportunities to corner each other, the recent assembly polls and the long-term goals of the 2024 election may also add to the underlining politics in the session.Participating in an all-party meeting on Sunday, PM Modi urged 31 political parties that “there should be meaningful discussion in both the Houses” and reminded them it’s “the responsibility of all to create such a conducive environment”.Parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi told journalists, “The Prime Minister said that as per our traditions of a healthy democracy, issues concerning the people should be raised in an amicable manner, and the government should be given the opportunity to respond to these discussions.”“The Prime Minister said the people’s representatives truly know the ground level situations, and hence their participation in the discussions enriches the decision-making process,” said Joshi. Modi also pointed out that most of the MPs have been vaccinated and it will help them in actively working in Parliament.In the all-party meeting, Rajya Sabha Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge demanded more bills to be scrutinized and every week, one short-duration discussion and a Calling Attention motion must be allowed. The Congress leader also asked for an election for the post of deputy speaker, which has been lying vacant for more than two years now.Kharge even took jibes at the PM, before he joined the meeting at its fag end, to demand that the PM should not come when key parties have already spoken as it amounts to disrespect for those parties, according to two leaders present in the meeting.Trinamool Congress leaders Sudip Bandopadhyay and Derek O Brien raised seven issues including sidelining of the states, discrepancy in vaccine distribution, and “motivated functioning of central agencies”.But petrol price hike remained the top issue for most opposition parties followed by a fresh demand to repeal the controversial farm laws. The TMC also asked for the enactment of the Women Reservation Bill.The DMK demanded a discussion on the devolution of GST after many states claimed the Centre has not paid their dues. TRS mentioned that PSUs should be turned profitable and should not be disinvested.5 political parties including, TRS, YSRCP, and BSP wanted a debate on Scheduled Ten of the Indian Constitution as anti-defection cases regularly comes up before the legislative houses or the courts. The BJD demanded that the bill for the legislative council of Odisha should be expedited.Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Varma expressed concerns over the quick passage of bills without scrutiny. His outburst against some governors surprised many as he accused gubernatorial offices of trying to become more powerful than elected chief ministers.NCP leader Sharad Pawar asked for a debate on inflation and CPIM demanded a review of labour laws.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi listed 29 bills and two financial legislation. He sought cooperation for all and reiterated that all issues can be discussed in Parliament.In another all-party meeting, chaired by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, several Opposition leaders asked for the reintroduction of the MPLAD funds after it was canceled last year for two fiscals due to the pandemic. The Speaker assured the members that he will talk to the Prime Minister....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-of-parliament-starts-from-monday-fuel-price-rise-farm-laws-on-agenda-101626624262324.html
18-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chhattisgarh govt orders probe against suspended IPS officer and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chhattisgarh govt orders probe in 3 cases against suspended IPS officer GP SinghChhattisgarh government has ordered probes in three different cases against suspended Indian Police Service (IPS) officer GP Singh who was also booked for sedition, officials confirmed on Sunday. Read moreParts of Delhi receive rainfall; IMD predicts downpour at isolated placesLight to moderate rains lashed several parts of Delhi on Sunday, bringing some relief to the continuous heatwave. The IMD said the national capital will witness a generally cloudy sky with moderate rain or thunderstorms. Read moreIs Indian taxpayers' $3 bn in Afghanistan going down the drain? Tharoor asks CentreSenior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has sharpened his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central government over its domestic as well as foreign policy ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament. Read more‘A result of a lot of hard work’: Coach Dravid welcomes Suryakumar, Ishan Kishan to the Indian ODI teamBatsman Suryakumar Yadav and wicketkeeper-batsman Ishan Kishan made their ODI debuts on Sunday in the opening encounter of the 3-match series against Sri Lanka at the R Premadasa Stadium in Colombo. Read moreKapil Sharma reunites with Krushna, Bharti Singh for The Kapil Sharma Show: 'New beginning with all the old faces'Kapil Sharma has reunited with co-actors Krushna Abhishek, Kiku Sharda, Bharti Singh, Archana Puran Singh and others to shoot for the next leg of his popular TV show The Kapil Sharma Show. Read moreWhat PM Modi said during all-party meet ahead of Parliament’s Monsoon SessionPrime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an all-party meeting on Sunday before the Monsoon Session of Parliament. PM Modi said healthy and fruitful debates should take place in Parliament. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chhattisgarh-govt-orders-probe-against-suspended-ips-officer-and-all-the-latest-news-101626619417051.html
18-07-2021||India||Covid 3rd wave: Has it arrived? What government, latest projection reports say||The World Health Organization this week has set the alarm bells ringing as it said that the world is at the very advanced stages of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. This wave is mostly being driven by the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2, first reported in India. WHO's warning is a red flag for India as well, the Union health ministry has said this week as the fall in the Covid-19 cases in India has slowed down. In India, the Covid-19 situation remains worrisome in some pockets, including some districts in Maharashtra, Kerala and the northeast.Govt says next 2-3 months crucialHas the third wave in India set in? Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said this week that the present situation in India is under control. But India is far from achieving herd immunity either through vaccination or through natural infection. Hence, the risk remains. The next few months will be very crucial, the government has said.'Third wave arrived on July 4'University of Hyderabad pro-vice-chancellor physicist Dr Vipin Srivastava has recently said that the third wave in India has already arrived on July 4. He said July 4 recorded a similar trend like what the first week of February (the beginning of the 2nd wave) saw.ICMR on third waveThe third wave may hit the nation by August-end, but it will be of less intensity than the second wave. Head of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Samiran Panda has said that the third wave is not inevitable.Economists' reports on the third waveUBS Securities India has said the risks of a third wave look real because of the increased presence of the Delta variant and the pace of vaccination.SBI Research in its report prepared early this month said India may witness the third wave of the pandemic by the second fortnight of August.Difficult to predict timing: Devi ShettyDr Devi Shetty, chairman of the Karnataka Covid expert committee, said it is difficult to predict the timing and the severity of a third wave. "People have to respect COVID appropriate behaviour like social distancing, wearing a mask. These are the things that will protect us. If people behave in an irresponsible manner no government, no anti-biotic no vaccine can protect them. So people have to take the responsibility," he said to ANI.May be more severe than 2nd wave: Randeep GuleriaAIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that there are many possibilities in which the third wave if it comes, may shape up. If an immuno-escape variant of the virus emerges and all restrictions are eased, then the third wave can be more severe than the second wave. Waning immunity, the emergence of a more transmissible variant, and lockdown relaxations will decide the third wave, Dr Guleria said.IIT scientists' 3 scenariosAt the beginning of this month, a group of IIT scientists project three scenarios in which the situation could go back to normal by August, could continue as it is or could worsen.Last month, Reuters conducted a poll and predicted that the third wave in India will come by October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-has-it-arrived-what-government-latest-projection-reports-say-101626620955675.html
18-07-2021||India||Is Indian taxpayers' $3 bn in Afghanistan going down the drain? Tharoor asks Centre||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has sharpened his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central government over its domestic as well as foreign policy ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament. Speaking to news agency ANI, Shashi Tharoor accused the government of “terribly mismanaging” the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, claiming there aren’t enough vaccines as people across the country are lining up at vaccination centres.“This is a major issue for which the government should be held accountable,” ANI quoted Tharoor as saying.The Lok Sabha member from Thiruvananthapuram also asked about India’s perspective vis-à-vis Afghanistan at a time when the Taliban fighters are rapidly making advances in the war-torn country. India has invested more than $3 billion in Afghanistan for various projects, including reconstruction efforts, the 218-km road between Delaram and Zaranj Salma dam, and the Afghan Parliament building which was inaugurated in 2015.“Where's that (Afghanistan) country going at the moment and what's India's perspective (on that). Our taxpayers' $3 billion is invested in Afghanistan. Is that all going to go down the drain as the Taliban coming back to power? These are important questions,” he added.Also Read | Pakistani fighters, Taliban told to target India-built assets in Afghanistan: ReportTharoor’s statement suggests that Congress is likely to focus on the government's pandemic response and the Afghan issue during the Monsoon session.Earlier today, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla held a meeting with floor leaders where PM Modi was also present. After the meeting, Birla assured that all members will be given adequate opportunity to express their views within the decorum of the House. He said that the Monsoon session, which is commencing on Monday, is likely to conclude on August 13 subject to “exigencies of Government Business.”“The Monsoon session of Parliament, 2021, will commence from July 19 and subject to exigencies of Government Business, session is likely to conclude on August 13. All members will be given adequate opportunities to express their views within the decorum of the House,” Birla was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-indian-taxpayers-3-bn-in-afghanistan-going-down-the-drain-tharoor-asks-centre-101626619175388.html
18-07-2021||India||All MPs can express views within decorum: LS speaker Om Birla on Monsoon session||The Monsoon session of Parliament will begin on Monday and all members will be given adequate opportunity to express their views within the decorum of the House, said Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla after holding an all-party meeting with floor leaders on Sunday. The meeting was also attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Birla said Parliament is likely to be in session till August with all Covid-19 protocol in place.“The Monsoon session of Parliament, 2021, will commence from July 19 and subject to exigencies of Government Business, session is likely to conclude on August 13. All members will be given adequate opportunities to express their views within the decorum of the House,” Birla was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He further said small parties will be given enough time and issues raised in the House will be discussed. “With the cooperation of leaders from all parties, there was 122% productivity last time,” the speaker added.An all-party meeting is a customary procedure before the beginning of every session of Parliament to ensure its smooth functioning.Earlier, Modi chaired another all-party meeting wherein he said the government is ready to hold discussions on any subject if raised following parliamentary rules and procedures, adding that suggestions of all representatives, including those from the Opposition, are important. .He also put out a tweet that read, "We look forward to a productive session where all issues can be debated as well as discussed in a constructive manner."The meeting called by parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi was attended by more than 40 leaders of 33 parties.The upcoming session is likely to be a stormy one with opposition parties preparing to take on the Union government on issues like the rise in petrol and diesel prices, the alleged Covid-19 mismanagement and vaccine shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-mps-can-express-views-within-decorum-ls-speaker-om-birla-on-monsoon-session-101626614661015.html
18-07-2021||India||Higher education, skill devpt institutes can reopen in J&K post-July 31||The Jammu and Kashmir government said on Sunday higher education and skill development institutes in the Union territory (UT) can consider a phased reopening after July 31 based on the vaccination status of staff and students against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.“Higher educational institutions and skill development centres may be considered for phased reopening for onsite learning after 31st July 2021, subject to vaccination status of the students and staff,” the government said in an order.The government said public and private institutions are permitted to seek personal attendance of limited vaccinated staff for administrative purposes.Sunday’s order was issued after the government carried out a review of the current Covid-19 situation in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. An overall assessment was carried out in the UT focusing on areas such as total weekly new cases, positivity rate, bed occupancy, fatality rate, vaccination coverage and extent of compliance to Covid-appropriate behaviour.J&K | Higher education and skill development institutes can consider phased opening based on the vaccination status of staff and students after 31 July. Public & private education institutes can seek the attendance of vaccinated staff for administrative purposes: State govt pic.twitter.com/HFuYfGoZYdSignificant improvement was seen in some districts compared to the previous week, the administration said. However, it was noted that daily Covid-19 cases were showing an uneven trend for the past few days.As the previous Covid-19 containment orders remain imposed in Jammu and Kashmir until further orders, the deputy commissioners can allow shops to open at 6am instead of 7am to avoid rush on July 19 and 20 ahead of Eid-ul-Azha, it was told.All deputy commissioners have been further instructed by the government to focus on the positivity rates of the medical blocks under their jurisdictions, according to Sunday’s order.“All Deputy Commissioners shall keep active track of the positivity rates in these blocks and consider implementing stricter control measures in closed clustered spaces like Public-Private Offices, Community halls. Malls, Bazaars etc, in case the weekly positivity rate goes beyond 4 percent in these Blocks,” the order said. The three-“T” protocol of testing, tracking and treating and vaccination would also have to be strengthened in these blocks, the government said.Jammu and Kashmir reported 179 new Covid-19 disease cases on Saturday, which took the total caseload to 3,19,755. One more person succumbed to the viral disease and the total deaths have climbed to 4,363. Of Saturday’s case count, Srinagar recorded the highest number of infections at 59, followed by 15 cases in Doda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-higher-education-skill-devpt-institutes-to-reopen-in-j-k-post-july-31-101626609755814.html
18-07-2021||India||'Hindus forced to live as secularists': Sanjay Raut on population control move||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut in his weekly column in party mouthpiece Saamana welcomed Yogi Adityanath's draft bill on population control and said the chief minister should be congratulated for this move. But this should not be introduced because of the impending election, Sanjay Raut said. As Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has opposed the bill, Raut said the BJP should withdraw its support of the Nitish Kumar government if Nitish Kumar opposes the legislation.Amid strong rumours of the BJP and Sena coming back together in Maharashtra following reports of a rift in the three party-led Maha Vikas Aghadi, Sanjay Raut wrote both Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have suffered owing to over-population because of which people have to migrate to other states in search of livelihood.Observing that the population of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar is nearly 15 crore and a majority of the people migrate to other states in search of livelihood, Raut said legal steps must be taken in these states to control the population.Shashi Tharoor says population move 'communal', Jairam Ramesh posts Twitter threadReferring to the religion-based Partition of India after 1947, Raut wrote that Hindus were forced to become secularists while Muslims and members of other religions enjoyed their religious freedom. "These people don't believe in population control and family planning. Their sense of freedom is having more than one wife and giving birth to children...Obviously, the population of the country increased but most of them are illiterate and remain unemployed," he said, claiming that Hindus have become a minority in eight states and two Union Territories. "Due to illegal migration (from neighbouring Bangladesh), the population demography has changed in Assam, West Bengal and Bihar," Raut wrote."Hindutvawadis who wanted Hindus to give birth to four or five children to counter the growing population of Muslims are bringing the population control bill. The UP draft bill should be seen as an experiment and all good things should not be measured in terms of religion, caste and politics," Raut wrote in reference to Vishwa Hindu Parishad's objection to the draft bill.In an addendum, Sanjay Raut poked fun at Lok Sabha MP Ravi Kishan who will introduce a private bill on population control for discussion in the monsoon session. "Call it insult or irony, if Yogi Adityanath implements the population policy, 160 BJP MLAs will come under its purview. MP Ravi Kishan who will introduce a private bill in the Lok Sabha for discussion has four children. Ata kay karaych (what to do!)," he wrote.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindus-forced-to-live-as-secularists-sanjay-raut-s-take-on-population-control-101626611960236.html
18-07-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui's body to be buried at Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard||Danish Siddiqui, the Indian photojournalist who was killed on duty in Afghanistan on Thursday, will be laid to rest in Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard. The university issued a statement on Sunday saying the Vice Chancellor has accepted the request of Siddiqui's family to bury his body in its graveyard."Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) Vice Chancellor accepted the request of the family of late photojournalist Danish Siddiqui to bury his body at the JMI graveyard meant exclusively for university employees, their spouses and minor child," the university said in the statement.Siddiqui had studied at AJK Mass Communication Research Centre (MCRC) from 2005 -2007. His father Akhtar Siddiqui was the Dean of Faculty of Education there."Danish was one of the brightest stars in our hall of fame and a proactive alumnus who kept returning to his alma mater to share with students his work and experiences. We will miss him deeply but are determined to keep his memory alive," the officiating director of AJK MCRC said.Siddiqui, a Pulitzer Prize winner, was killed in the southern Afghan province of Kandahar on Thursday. He was on a reporting assignment and embedded with the Afghan special forces. Siddiqui was covering clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters near a border crossing with Pakistan in Spin Boldak.Indian foreign secretary Harsh V Shringla condemned Siddiqui's killing in an attack by the Taliban during a meeting of the UN Security Council. "I extend our sincerest condolences to his bereaved family,” Shringla said on Friday.The Taliban, meanwhile, denied role in the photojournalist's killing, a report claimed. “We are not aware during whose firing the journalist was killed. We do not know how he died," Taliban’s spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid told CNN-News18 on Friday.Danish Siddiqui worked for the Reuters news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/danish-siddiqui-s-body-to-be-buried-at-jamia-millia-islamia-graveyard-101626611717178.html
18-07-2021||India||326 sedition cases filed in India from 2014 to 2019; only 6 convicted: Govt data||More than 300 cases were registered under the controversial, “colonial” era sedition law across the country from 2014 to 2019, news agency PTI has reported citing data from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA). Of the total 326 cases registered under sedition in the six-year period, only six people were convicted, it further said.According to the data, Assam reported the highest number of such cases, at 54. Of these, chargesheets were filed in 26 cases, while trials were completed in 25. However, none of these cases resulted in a conviction, the data showed.Also Read | The sedition story: Complicated history of Sec 124AJharkhand and Haryana were next, with 40 and 31 cases respectively. In Jharkhand, chargesheets were filed in 29 cases and trials completed in 16, while the corresponding figures for Haryana were 19 and six respectively. However, both the states recorded one conviction each.Next on the list are Bihar, Kerala and Jammu & Kashmir, with 25 cases each in this period, followed by Karnataka at 22. While no chargesheet was filed in both Bihar and Kerala, these were filed in three cases in Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka saw chargesheets in 17 cases. No case ended in a conviction in any of the four states.Also Read | SC: Does India need a colonial sedition law?Among other states, 17 cases under the sedition law were reported from Uttar Pradesh, eight from West Bengal, four in Delhi, and one each in Maharashtra, Punjab and Uttarakhand. Both Uttar Pradesh and Bengal saw zero convictions, while no chargesheet was filed in Delhi. The data also showed that no sedition case was filed in the following states and Union territories: Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar, Lakshadweep, Puducherry, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli in these six years.As per the data, the number of sedition cases registered each year from 2014 to 2019 stood at 47, 30, 35, 51, 70 and 93 respectively. Two convictions were recorded in 2018, and one each in 2014, 2016, 2017 and 2019. No conviction took place in 2015.According to MHA officials, data for 2020 is yet to be complied.These numbers have come out at a time when the Supreme Court has expressed concern over “enormous” misuse of the law, which comes under section 124(A) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The top court questioned the Union government why it is not repealing the provision which was used by the British to “silence” freedom fighters like Mahatma Gandhi to suppress the freedom movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/326-sedition-cases-filed-in-india-from-2014-to-2019-only-6-convicted-govt-data-101626609219246.html
18-07-2021||India||Modi govt ensured Pakistan is retained on FATF grey list, says Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Sunday said the Narendra Modi government ensured that Pakistan remained on the grey list of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Addressing a virtual training program on the foreign policy for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, Jaishankar said India has made efforts to have cordial relations with its neighbours while ensuring that terrorism is treated as a global issue, reported news agency ANI.“Due to us, Pakistan is under the lens of FATF and it was kept in the grey list. We have been successful in pressurizing Pakistan and the fact that Pakistan's behaviour has changed is because of pressure put by India by various measures,” ANI quoted Jaishankar as saying.During the training program, the minister also credited the Union government’s efforts through the United Nations for sanctions on terrorist organisations like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, reported ANI. The session was reportedly aimed at informing BJP’s members of Parliament about foreign policy initiatives taken by the Union government so that they can counter opposition charges during the Monsoon session starting Monday.Last month, FATF retained Pakistan on the list of countries under “increased monitoring”, observing that the country failed to prosecute top leadership of the UN Security Council-designated terror groups. Pakistan had completed 26 out of the 27 tasks assigned to get delisted but failing to complete one task worked against its efforts. Moreover, the terror-financing watchdog handed down Pakistan another list of six tasks, mainly related to money laundering actions.Jaishankar said that PM Modi’s personal efforts on global forums like G7 and G20 made nations realise that terrorism was everyone’s problem, reported ANI quoting people familiar with the development. He told the BJP leaders that India made China back down on the Doklam issue and gave an appropriate reply when the People’s Liberation Army tried infringing the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh."Now the world knows, India will not bow down to pressure from China," the minister reportedly said, according to ANI.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-ensured-pakistan-remained-on-fatf-grey-list-says-jaishankar-101626608739423.html
18-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Assam CM Himanta Sarma burns illegal drugs worth ₹163 cr and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam CM burns illegal drugs worth ₹163 cr to send message of zero-toleranceAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma participated in four different events over Saturday and Sunday, where seized contraband worth nearly ₹163 crore was burnt to give out a message of zero-tolerance against illegal drugs. Read moreIMA urges Kerala govt to withdraw order easing Covid-19 curbs for BakridThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday expressed its displeasure over the Kerala government’s decision to ease ongoing lockdown restrictions for three days due to Bakrid amid the worsening crisis of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Read moreSenior Maoist quits, 3 others surrender before Odisha PoliceA senior Maoist leader has left the insurgent ranks allegedly due to differences with the non-tribal leaders in the outfit who were ordering the killing of innocent tribal villagers after falsely declaring them to be police informers, said police officials. Read moreBitcoin a climate calamity? UN experts see sustainable development in cryptoDespite issues of greenhouse gases produced in Bitcoin mining, the United Nations believes that cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology could play an important role in sustainable development. Read more'I will take more time here': Resurgent Shaw determined to make of his opportunities during India vs Sri Lanka seriesPrithvi Shaw is back into the India team after seven months. After being dropped from the Test side in December 2020, during the Test series against Australia Down Under, the youngster is set to feature in the first ODI vs Sri Lanka in Colombo. Read moreTaapsee Pannu on negative reviews of Haseen Dillruba: 'I don’t mind criticism, I have made a career out of it'Taapsee Pannu has said that she does not mind negative reviews, but was affected when Haseen Dillruba was slammed. She also said that she made peace with the fact that not everyone will be happy with her, or like her films. Read moreBenelli India to add three new motorcycles to its portfolio by year-endItalian superbike maker Benelli is looking to add three more motorcycle variants to its portfolio in India by the end of this year as well as expand its dealership network, the company's Business Head and Managing Director, Vikas Jhabakh told PTI. Read moreDog’s reaction to human not sharing food with it is hilarious. WatchHow would one react if someone eats a delicious dish in front of them without even offering them a bite? This video featuring a dog in such a situation may give you a clue. Read moreWatch| Mumbai: Cars swept away, roads flooded amid heavy rain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-assam-cm-himanta-sarma-burns-illegal-drugs-worth-rs-163-cr-101626607758099.html
18-07-2021||India||Do you have a 50-year-old vehicle? Know government's new rules for vintage cars||All two- and four-wheelers that are 50+ years old and have been maintained in their original form will be defined as vintage motor vehicles, which will not be driven for regular and commercial purposes and will have to get a special registration, the ministry of road transport and highways has recently mandated in its amendment of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989.As of now, there were no existing rules for regulating the process of registration across different states. "The new rules shall provide a hassle-free process along with salient features such as retention of old numbers for already registered vehicles and a VA series (unique registration mark) for fresh registrations," minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari tweeted a few days ago.…such as retention of old number for already registered vehicles and a “VA” series (Unique Registration Mark) for fresh registrations.What do the amendments say?1. A vintage motor vehicle shall not be driven on roads for regular or commercial purposes, it said.2. Which cars will be defined as vintage cars? The rules say all 2/4 wheelers over 50 years shall be defined as vintage motor vehicles. But they should not have undergone any substantial overhaul. The original form must be retained.3. Application for registration or re-registration shall be made as per Form 20 and shall be accompanied by an insurance policy, fee, bill of entry in case of imported vehicles, and an old RC in case of an already registered vehicle in India.4. The state registering authority shall issue a certificate of registration as per Form 23A, within 60 days.5. The new registration rules say vehicles that are already registered can retain their original Registration Mark. For a new registration, the registration mark will be assigned as XX VA YY. Here, the VA stands for vintage, XX stands for state code and YY will be a two-letter series and “8” is a number from 0001 to 9999 allotted by the state registering authority.6. Fees for new registration will be ₹20,000 and the subsequent re-registration fee will be ₹5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-you-have-a-50-year-old-vehicle-know-government-s-new-rules-for-vintage-cars-101626607057066.html
18-07-2021||India||Total curfew in Manipur begins under tight security to curb Covid transmissions||The 10-day long complete curfew in Manipur began on Sunday with an aim to break the chain of Covid-19 transmissions that have resulted in 10,812 active cases in the north eastern state as of Saturday.All roads leading to the state capital wore a deserted look with only a few essential service vehicles plying and all shops except a few pharmacies were closed.Armed and unarmed security personnel were stationed at every strategic location and junction in and around the state capital to crack down on curfew violators.The curfew in the other district headquarters of the state was also very effective as residents remained indoors while police personnel ensured tight security arrangements.“There’s no sound of movement of vehicles since early. It seems the curfew is very strict,” said a resident of Churachandpur district headquarters, around 70 km south of Imphal. Local body and civil society organisations in the state were also supporting the total curfew, calling it the only way to tackle the present situation. Jeetendra Ningomba of Joint Committee on Covid-19 appealed to the masses to strictly follow the rules to aid in the fight against the pandemic and to get vaccinated at the earliest.The curfew till July 27 was clamped after detection of Delta Variant of the Coronavirus in the state and the need for stringent measures to break the chain of its transmission.Daily Covid cases in the north eastern border state breached the 1000-mark for the 4th consecutive day and the death toll rose to 1,365. State’s total infection tally has increased to 83,859, while 73,047 patients have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-curfew-in-manipur-begins-under-tight-security-to-curb-covid-transmissions-101626607760241.html
18-07-2021||India||'Do not rule out alliance for UP polls', says Congress' Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said that her party will have an open mind on forging alliance for Uttar Pradesh assembly elections 2022. Vadra is in Lucknow to give a push to the Congress party and stop the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from returning to power."I do not rule out (alliance). We are absolutely not closed-minded. We are having an open mind," said Vadra. "Our aim is to defeat the BJP," she added.The Congress leader also urged other parties to have an open mind. Vadra said that the party organisation is also her area of focus, and emphasised that a lot of work have been done on it, buin a silent manner."We have done the maximum work during the COVID-19 pandemic. You can see that we are the ones who have raised issues. Congress is no longer confined to garlanding photographs. Our party has been out of power for 30-32 years, and it has become weak. However, full efforts have been made, and a lot of energy has come (into the party)," the Congress general secretary added.Vadra later interacted with senior party leaders of the state, including UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, co-incharge of Uttar Pradesh Dheeraj Gurjar, party spokesperson Ashok Singh and Naseemuddin Siddiqui.Though the entire state unit of the Congress party is rallying behind Vadra hoping her canvassing across the state will revive the fortunes of the party. So far, that has not happened.“We are hopeful that her visit will help in gearing up the party organisation for the 2022 UP assembly elections,” a senior leader of the party said on Friday, when Vadra visited Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters in Lucknow.Vadra has so far not answered the question on whether she will be the party's chief ministerial face for the upcoming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-rule-out-alliance-for-up-polls-says-congress-priyanka-gandhi-101626606868732.html
18-07-2021||India||Assam CM burns illegal drugs worth ₹163 cr to send message of zero-tolerance||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma participated in four different events over Saturday and Sunday, where seized contraband worth nearly ₹163 crore was burnt to give out a message of zero-tolerance against illegal drugs.The events at Diphu, Golaghat, Barhampur and Hajoi in central Assam were part of the new Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led government’s ongoing campaign against illegal drug trade after it returned to power in May this year. “Trade in illicit drugs is an epidemic and those involved in it should be dealt with stringently. It affects youths, destroys their families and gives rise to various other social ills,” Sarma said at one of these events in Barhampur on Sunday. “When we assumed office, we decided to provide succour to those addicted by illegal drugs and also their families. Our first effort was to stop the supply of drugs to our state, second was to end its circulation and third was to rehabilitate those affected by its abuse,” he added. Sarma said that between May 10 and July 15, the state police registered 874 cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and arrested 1,493 drug dealers across the state and seized nearly ₹163 crore of the contraband. On July 14, the CM informed the state assembly that over 27 kg of heroin, 12,823 kg marijuana, 41 kg opium, 78,000 bottles of cough syrup, over 1.3 million psychotropic tablets, 3 kg morphine, 3 kg crystal methamphetamine, 3,300 kg poppy straw and ₹1.80 crore in cash were seized since May 10. On Saturday, Sarma burnt 802 gm of heroin, 1,205 kg of cannabis, 3 kg opium and over 200,000 psychotropic tables at Golaghat followed by burning of 3.47 kg of heroin, 11.88 kg of morphine, 103 kg of cannabis, 2.89 kg of crystal methamphetamine and over 200,000 psychotropic tablets at Diphu. On Sunday, the CM burnt 10 kg of heroin, 253 kg of cannabis, 977 gm opium, over 271,000 psychotropic substances at Barhampur followed by burning of 3.2 kg heroin, 1,015 kg cannabis, over 35,000 psychotropic substances at another event at Hojai later. “If we assume that the seized drug was just 10% of the entire quantity smuggled into Assam, we can say that the trade in illegal drugs in Assam is worth nearly ₹5,000 crore annually,” the CM said on Sunday. Reacting to allegations by opposition parties that police were trigger happy in their operations against the drug dealers, Sarma said that the cops have been instructed to deal with the drug dealers strictly.“Some people say that the police should shoot these criminals dead instead of arresting them, but we can’t do that and we have to perform our duties within the ambit of law. I have asked the police department to be as strict as possible against drug dealers while following [the] laid down laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-burns-illegal-drugs-worth-rs-163-cr-to-send-message-of-zerotolerance-101626606260313.html
18-07-2021||India||‘Unfortunate’: IMA slams Kerala’s decision to ease Covid curbs due to Bakrid||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday expressed its displeasure over the Kerala government’s decision to ease ongoing lockdown restrictions for three days due to Bakrid amid the worsening crisis of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The medical body further said it would knock the doors of the Supreme Court “if the state is not enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour and become a model state to curtail the rising menace of Covid, by withdrawing this decision”.Stating that the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government’s decision to loosen curbs is ‘unwarranted and inappropriate at this time of medical emergency’, the IMA, in its press release, called for immediate withdrawal of the order and enforcement of a zero-tolerance policy towards Covid-appropriate behaviour. It further urged the administration not to deviate from its statutory duty and vision to ensure the safety of the state as well as the country.Kerala, which is one of the worst-hit states in India that has, so far, recorded over 3.14 million Covid-19 cases and 15,269 deaths due to the viral disease. On Saturday, the state recorded 16, 148 new infections, the highest single-day spike in one month.The state government has allowed a relaxation in lockdown restrictions on July 18, 19 and 20 due to Bakrid, which will be celebrated either on July 20 or 21.The IMA said in its press release that many states in north India such as Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand have stopped traditional and popular pilgrimage and yatras, adding it is unfortunate that Kerala decided to ease curbs that would pave the way for mass gatherings. Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have called off the Kanwar Yatra in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The IMA’s statement came just a day after Union minister V Muraleedharan urged the Kerala government to better manage the pandemic and impose a lockdown on a scientific basis instead of taking knee-jerk reactions.“Now that Bakrid has come, the government has announced a three-day exception for the lockdown. My suggestion is to follow the scientific approach and follow the guidelines of Government of India, ICMR guidelines and WHO. Do not utilise the pandemic as means of having political benefit out of it,” Muraleedharan told news agency ANI on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imaurges-kerala-govt-to-withdraw-order-easing-covid-19-curbs-for-bakrid-101626604897707.html
18-07-2021||India||Heavy rainfall expected in north India till July 21: States to be affected||With the arrival of delayed monsoon in the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday predicted intense rainfall over north India from July 18 to July 21. The severe rainfall is likely to continue over the west coast till July 23, the IMD said.The northern part of the country can expect moderate to severe thunderstorms and lightning at isolated places like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan in the next 24 hours, the IMD said on Sunday.Issuing a caution, the weather department said that the intense rainfall accompanied with lightning is likely to cause casualties in people and animals staying outdoors.The rainfall activity is expected to increase with widespread rainfall to isolated heavy to very heavy rains likely over the western Himalayan region, the weather body said. These areas include - Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. In adjoining areas, states like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and north Madhya Pradesh will be affected from July 18-21.These areas will also witness a decline in the rainfall after the predicated period, the IMD said.Uttarakhand, an ace tourist attraction during this period of time, is likely to witness isolated to extreme heavy rainfall on July 18 and July 19. A similar pattern will be observed over the northwestern parts of UP on July 19, IMD said.Moderate to heavy rainfall at isolated places are also very likely over Delhi and Chandigarh on July 18 and 19.Western and southern India are also expected to receive heavy rains.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rains are very likely to continue over the western coast and adjoining inland areas during the next 5-6 days, accordigng to IMD.The IMD issued a red alert for Maharashtra, which has now shut down its local train transit system due to inundated tracks following heavy rainfall. At least 22 people were killed on Sunday due to landslides triggered by heavy rainfalls in Chembur and Vikhroli, officials said.The IMD said isolated, extremely heavy falls are also very likely over Konkan region and Goa adjoining the ghat areas of central Maharashtra, coastal and south interior Karnataka during July 18 to 19 and over Gujarat region on July 18.Isolated heavy falls are likely over east and adjoining central India from July 22 onwards, the IMD forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-expected-in-north-india-till-july-21-states-to-be-affected-101626597933485.html
18-07-2021||India||Senior Maoist quits, 3 others surrender before Odisha Police||A senior Maoist leader has left the insurgent ranks allegedly due to differences with the non-tribal leaders in the outfit who were ordering the killing of innocent tribal villagers after falsely declaring them to be police informers, said police officials. In another related incident, two other Maoists from Odisha, who were involved in several encounters with the police, surrendered, dealing a double blow to the rebels.Senior police officials in Odisha said Sudheer alias Chikudu Chinna Rao, who was a divisional committee member and commander of Pedabayalu and Korukonda area committee of Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) of Maoists, walked out due to sharp differences with non-tribals such as Gajarla Ravi, secretary of the above mentioned committee, Aruna, Mahendra and Suresh. Sudheer himself is a tribal leader and a native of Pedabayalu Mandal in Andhra Pradesh, the officials said.The officials said that Sudheer has been questioning the non-tribal leaders over killing of innocent tribals after branding them as police informers and accusing them of taking undue advantage of tribals’ simplicity.However, Aruna, secretary of Visakhapatnam East Division, claimed in a press release that Sudheer had been expelled from the party as he eloped with a girl named Mahita, deserting his wife and children.In other development, Rame Podiami alias Sabita, commander of Maoists’ Palachalam local operational squad of Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) and Raidhar Dhurua alias Raidhar, party member of the ultras’ Mahupadar local operational squad under DKSZC surrendered before Odisha police chief Abhay at Malkangiri on Sunday morning. Podiami had a reward of ₹2 lakh on her head and she had participated in many attacks on security forces in Sukma district.Similarly, Raidhar Dhurua alias Raidhar was given formal training of arms and IEDs by the Maoists and she conducted meetings to motivate villagers to join their frontal organisations and the militias.DGP Abhay said that in the last two years more than 20 active Maoist cadres and hundreds of active militias/Maoist sympathizers have surrendered in Malkangiri district. He said Maoist cadres willing to join the mainstream could take advantage of Odisha’s surrender and rehabilitation policy for the rebels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-maoist-quits-two-others-surrender-before-odisha-police-101626601280074.html
18-07-2021||India||At all-party meet, PM Modi calls for healthy debates, says Oppn suggestions key||Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an all-party meeting on Sunday a day before the Monsoon session of Parliament is scheduled to begin. The meeting was attended by more than 40 leaders of 33 parties, said Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi.Addressing the meeting, Modi said that all representatives' suggestions, including those from the Opposition, are very valuable, added Joshi, according to an ANI report.The PM further said healthy and fruitful debates should take place in Parliament, adding the government is ready to hold discussions on any subject if raised as per parliamentary rules and procedures.Later, Modi put out a tweet that read, "We look forward to a productive session where all issues can be debated as well as discussed in a constructive manner."Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla also met leaders of parties in the lower House of Parliament.The Monsoon session is expected to be stormy with opposition parties preparing to take on the Union government on issues like the rise in petrol and diesel prices, the alleged Covid-19 mismanagement and vaccine shortage.About 17 bills are listed for introduction in the Lok Sabha and five bills for consideration and passage, and a similar number of bills are expected to be introduced in the Rajya Sabha during the session.Also read | Sonia Gandhi to meet Congress' Lok Sabha MPs today ahead of Parliament's monsoon sessionBesides Modi and Joshi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union minister and Leader of House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal were present at the meeting. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also attended the meeting.Floor leaders of all prominent opposition parties, including Derek O' Brien from TMC, Tiruchi Siva from DMK, Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav and BSP's Satish Mishra were also present. Apna Dal leader and NDA ally Anupriya Patel and LJP leader Pashupati Paras also attended the meeting.Earlier, CPI (M) MP Elamaram Kareem a meeting of Opposition parties will take place at Parliament after the all-party meeting called by the government.BSP president Mayawati said Opposition parties should come together and hold the Central government accountable. “The government's apathy towards the farmers protesting against three farm laws is very sad. BSP MPs will raise matters related to fuel and LPG prices, inflation and Covid-19 vaccination in Parliament,” Mayawati said.“I have directed my party MPs to raise matters related to the benefit of the country and people in the Monsoon session of Parliament,” she added.The monsoon session will continue till August 13 with all pandemic-related protocol in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-all-party-meet-pm-modi-calls-for-healthy-debates-says-oppn-suggestions-key-101626600619082.html
18-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Delhi Police asks DMRC to close 7 stations 'if needed'||The police on Sunday wrote a letter to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to keep extra vigil at seven of its station in view of the protest call given by farmers near Parliament, news agency ANI reported.The police also urged DMRC to close Janpath, Lok Kalyan Marg, Patel Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, Mandi House and Udyog Bhawan stations on Monday if needed, according to ANI.The letter was sent after the Delhi Police held a meeting with a delegation of farmers near Singhu border, ahead of their planned protest starting from July 22.Farmer unions are planning to intensify their nearly eight-month-long stir by protesting till the scheduled end of Parliament's monsoon session to demand scrapping of three farm laws passed in September last year and a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP)."We told Delhi Police that 200 people will march to Parliament from Singhu border every day. Each person will have identification badge. We'll hand over a list of protesters to the government," farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka was quoted as sayijg by news agency ANI.The police asked us to reduce number of protesters, which we declined, he added.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait had said last week that the protest near Parliament will be 'peaceful'. "It will be a peaceful protest. We will sit outside the Parliament while proceedings will continue in the House," Tikait said on Wednesday.The statement came in the wake of apprehensions of violence, like the one witnessed on the Republic Day when the farmers reached Red Fort as a part of their 'tractor rally' protest.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-near-parliament-delhi-police-asks-dmrc-to-keep-extra-vigil-101626599730788.html
18-07-2021||India||Nagaland to punish non vaccinated govt staff found without Covid-19 certificate||The Nagaland government has asked staff at the state civil secretariat and directorates to get vaccinated or produce a Covid-19 negative test report every 15 days, failing which their salaries will be stopped beyond July 31 and they will be sent on unpaid forced leave.“The administrative head of departments/head of departments shall enforce the directive, and submit report to the Home Department on or before 15th of every month, giving in detail the status of vaccination or submission of Covid-19 negative test report, as the case may be, for all the employees/staff, and the salaries deducted on account of the staff/employees concerned availing leave without pay...,” the July 17 order issued by state chief secretary J Alam, said.Nagaland on Saturday notified Unlock-3, lifting some of the Covid-19 related restrictions by allowing the reopening of colleges, higher secondary education institutions and other in-house skill development facilities apart from several other activities. It also issued a set of guidelines for Covid containment measures, applicable from July 18 till August 1. The guidelines said that the higher section of educational institutions will be allowed to reopen from July 26 on the condition that all teaching and non-teaching staff had been vaccinated against Covid-19 and there’s strict adherence to government guidelines.Public gatherings will be allowed up to a maximum of 50 and 100 persons for indoor and outdoor events respectively. Restaurants have also been allowed to resume dine-in facilities with a maximum of 50% capacity, only if all the attendants and staff have been vaccinated with at least the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine.The state will also allow asymptomatic and fully vaccinated returnees, travellers and tourists through the point of entry without subjecting them to Covid-19 test or quarantine.Meanwhile, Nagaland reported an upsurge in Covid-19 cases with the weekly sample positivity rate rising 2% above the previous week’s 6%-mark. The week ending July 17 recorded 689 fresh cases and 12 deaths and the state health department sounded a word of caution that Nagaland remains at an “overly critical juncture”.Out of 26,576 Covid cases reported since 2020, the state currently has 1,112 active cases and it has also registered 510 fatalities so far.The state has administered 660,000 vaccine doses so far, health officials said, and added that more than 70% population in the state is still susceptible to Covid-19 infection and vaccination needs to be ramped up urgently along with the strict maintenance of Covid-appropriate behaviour. The state has been facing vaccine hesitancy, particularly in the older age groups.The weekly Covid bulletin of the state integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) said that 99.5% of Covid casualties in Nagaland were among people who were not fully vaccinated and 88% of the dead were not vaccinated even with the first dose.“With the delta variant in circulation, it is highly advisable to get the second dose for full protection and remain very cautious till then,” the IDSP bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-to-punish-non-vaccinated-govt-staff-found-without-covid-19-certificate-101626597739953.html
18-07-2021||India||Meetings, statements add fuel to Punjab Congress row amid Captain-Sidhu tussle||Infighting in the Punjab Congress continued to make news on Sunday with some MLAs vouching for chief minister Amarinder Singh’s appeal among the masses, while his rival and senior functionary Navjot Singh Sidhu held a meeting with a few of the legislators to push his case.Besides, party MP Pratap Singh Bajwa, another strong critic of the chief minister, is scheduled to meet all parliamentarians of the Congress at his residence in Delhi during the day, according to news agency ANI. Assembly election is slated to be held in Punjab next year.Meanwhile, state party chief Sunil Jakhar called a meeting of MLAs and disctrict Congress heads on Monday to bring an end to the ongoing crisis and “pass a resolution expressing faith in the Congress high command and that its decision will be acceptable to all".The 10 MLAs, who issued a joint statement urging the central leadership not to let down the chief minister, included Harminder Gill, Fatehjang Bajwa, Khaira, Kuldip Vaid, Laddi and Pirmal Khalsa. They said Singh, a retired Captain of the Indian Army, is still the tallest leader of the masses in Punjab, ANI reported.Around the same time, Sidhu, a cricketer-turned-politician, reached the residence of MLA Madan Lal with six party legislators, including state minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, in Patiala. Sidhu, who is said to be in contention for the state Congress chief’s post, has been holding several rounds of talks with party leaders over the past few days. He met about 30 sitting MLAs and ministers on Saturday.The chief minister has reportedly written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing his reservation over Sidhu’s appointment as the state unit president and is believed to have warned against the move having an "adverse" impact on the party's prospects in the upcoming assembly elections. The possible elevation of Sidhu would amount to ignoring the old guard, Singh said.Meanwhile, Bajwa said he had invited the Punjab Congress MPs from the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha at his Delhi residence to devise a strategy on the farmers' issue and discuss some important matters related to the party.Senior party leader Mallikarjun Kharge, former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat and ex-parliamentarian JP Aggarwal have been tasked by Gandhi to resolve the months-long crisis in the state ahead of the crucial election. The committee has been holding talks with the warring groups, but no solution seemed to be in sight as the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meetings-statements-add-fuel-to-punjab-congress-row-amid-captain-sidhu-tussle-101626595949318.html
18-07-2021||India||President Kovind to visit J-K, Ladakh from July 25; to celebrate Kargil Diwas||President Ram Nath Kovind is expected to visit Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh next week for three days during which he will celebrate Kargil Diwas on July 26. President Kovind's visit will start on July 25, officials said. The President is likely to go to the Kargil War Memorial during his stay, officials said, adding that the tour plan is is still under preparation.India will observe the 22nd anniversary of ‘Operation Vijay’ this year, which marks the victory of the Indian armed forces over Pakistan in the mountains of Kargil in Jammu and Kashmir on July 26, 1999.The high-tension battle between the two countries ensued after India launched Operation Vijay to clear the posts in the high-altitude Kargil sector, which was occupied by the Pakistani soldiers and infiltrators on the Indian side of the Line of Control (LoC).The nuclear-armed nations and their armies fought the war between May and July in 1999, etching a historical territorial fight under a minus 10 degree Celsius temperature.It took about three months for the Indian forces to recapture the posts and led to 527 deaths on India’s side. The conflict began after Indian forces detected infiltrations by Pakistani troops and terrorists into Indian territory. The Pakistani side had a strategic advantage during the start of the conflict as they positioned themselves in key locations and could fire at advancing Indian troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-visit-j-k-ladakh-from-july-25-to-celebrate-kargil-diwas-101626593298314.html
18-07-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh’s ancestral houses in Nagpur raided in ₹100 cr extortion case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Sunday morning raided former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s ancestral house in Wadvihira and Katol in Nagpur district in connection with the ₹100 crore extortion case.The Central investigative agency, a couple of days ago, had provisionally attached the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader’s assets worth ₹4.20 crores in a money laundering case.Around 7am on Sunday morning, six ED sleuths accompanied by a team of armed Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) reached Deskhmukh’s two houses and started a search operation, which is still continuing at the time of the writing of this report. The houses have been cordoned off by the CRPF.Two days ago on Friday, one residential flat owned by Deshmukh in Mumbai’s Worli, valued at ₹1.54 crore, and 25 land parcels in Dhutum villages in Raigarh district of Maharashtra, book value ₹2.67 crore, were attached by the ED. The agency then also issued summons to his wife Aarati Deshmukh for questioning.Former Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh had alleged that as a minister in the Maharashtra government, Deshmukh had asked suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and few others to extort ₹100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.Following the allegations, the Bombay high court ordered a preliminary enquiry by the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation). The agency later registered an FIR against Deshmukh in April this year. The ED, which was also invited to join the probe, last month arrested Anil Deshmukh’s PA Kundan Shinde and PS Sanjeev Palande, and also summoned Deshmukh and his family members.People aware of the developments said that Deshmukh or his close relatives were not present in the houses at Katol and Wadvihira, which were being raided on Sunday. The ED had also raided his Civil Lines residence here last month and interrogated his wife Aarati and son Rishi.The fresh raids come close on the heels of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-s-ancestral-houses-in-nagpur-raided-in-rs-100-cr-extortion-case-101626593359695.html
18-07-2021||India||Opposition parties call separate meet to strategise ahead of Parliament's monsoon session||Ahead of the monsoon session of the Parliament, an all-party meeting called by Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi is underway. However, all the opposition parties will come together for a separate session following the meeting to chalk out a strategy to target the central government over a host of issues ranging from farmers' agitation, privatisation, and the Supreme Court's comments on the validity of sedition laws, reported news agency ANI citing a Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) leader."We have decided that the meeting of opposition leaders will be held immediately after the meeting convened by the Union parliamentary minister is over," ANI quoted CPIM Rajya Sabha MP and floor leader Elamaram Kareem as saying.He said that the opposing parties will try to reach a "consensus" about the issues that are to be raised in the forthcoming monsoon session starting on Monday.The monsoon session of the Parliament is scheduled to start tomorrow (i.e. from Monday, July 19). It will be the first session after the second wave of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) broke out in the country. The session is expected to conclude on August 13, with 19 days of business.The monsoon session is expected to be quite stormy, with the Opposition gearing up to corner the ruling BJP-led NDA government. "Privatisation, farmers issue, government's attitude towards federalism and many other issues are there," the CPI-M told the news agency, "The Supreme Court's comments on 124 A of the IPC is a national issue."Kareem said that the Opposition meeting is being convened to discuss all such issues which will be raised in the upcoming monsoon session."The aim is to achieve maximum consensus among the opposition parties," he added. "But, if all parties do not agree on the proposal of the left parties, particularly Privatisation Bill, and factory employees' strike issue then left parties will raise these issues in both houses of the Parliament separately."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-call-separate-meet-to-strategise-ahead-of-parliament-s-monsoon-session-101626589890920.html
18-07-2021||India||As rains pound Mumbai, IMD bulletin predicts more showers along western coast||The onset of monsoon has brought incessant rains in several parts of the country, including Mumbai where massive overnight downpour led to at least 20 deaths and massive damage following landslides on Sunday morning. Several parts of the Maharashtra capital reported waterlogging while rainwater entered many houses.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) turned the alert from ‘orange’ to ‘red’ for Mumbai in the backdrop of the heavy rains. In an early morning bulletin, the IMD said a sudden change in climatic conditions led to Mumbai witnessing over 100 mm rainfall in six hours.Also read | No respite from rains, Mumbaikars take a dip in waterlogged streetsThe weatherbody said the city would receive “heavy to very heavy” rainfall at a few places with extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places. The IMD predicted widespread rainfall on the country’s western coast, except in Gujarat, for the next five-six days. Heavy rains are likely to pound the Konkan region, Goa, the Ghats of central Maharashtra, coastal and southern Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe. Similar downpour is expected to be seen over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on Sunday and Monday.It said intense rainfall activity likely over north India from July 18-21 and over the west coast till July 23.Also read | Monster thunderstorm twice Mt. Everest’s height dumps over 250mm rain in MumbaiThe weatherman further predicted moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, and east Rajasthan during the next 24 hours and warned against injuries and deaths of human beings and animals. The IMD said rainfall activity is very likely to increase with widespread rainfall to isolated heavy to very heavy rains very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining northwest India -- Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, UP and north Madhya Pradesh -- from July 18 to 21.There will be decrease in rainfall activity over the same regions thereafter.Isolated, extreme heavy rainfall is also very likely over Uttarakhand on July 18 and 19 and over northwestern parts of UP on July 19.Moderate to heavy rainfall at isolated places are also very likely over Delhi and Chandigarh on July 18 and 19.Western and southern India is also expected to receive heavy rains. Isolated heavy falls are likely over east and adjoining central India from July 22 onwards.Meanwhile, Delhi and its suburbs may see generally cloudy sky with moderate rain during the day.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-rains-pound-mumbai-imd-s-monsoon-bulletin-predicts-more-showers-in-region-101626589148924.html
18-07-2021||India||Chennai metro services extended to Sundays and public holidays||Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) announced extending the services on Sundays and other public holidays starting from today. The services will be operated with a frequency of ten minutes from 7am to 10pm, Tamil Daily Hindu Tamil reported.According to the statement from CMRL, metro services are operated from 5.30am to 10pm from Monday to Saturday after the state government eased Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. During peak hours of 8am to 11am in the morning and 5pm to 8pm in the evening, the services are operated with a frequency of five minutes while the frequency is maintained at 10 mins during the rest of the day.The statement further mentioned that the CMRL adheres to Covid-19 guidelines of the state government and that coronavirus-appropriate norms are implemented in the trains. Passengers not wearing masks are slapped with a fine. The CMRL said that it collected ₹9,200 from 42 passengers for violating the mask rule.To facilitate the passengers, the CMRL decided to operate the metro services on Sundays and public holidays with a frequency of 10 minutes, the statement noted.After the metro services resumed on June 21, the CMRL recorded a footfall of 12,37,552, all of them being passengers who regularly use the metro train services. On Friday, a record 69,794 passengers availed its services, said CMRL officials.Metro train services were suspended on May 10 after the state government announced a total lockdown from May 10 to 24. The services resumed on June 21 after the state government allowed public travel in Chennai, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, and Thiruvallur districts. The services resumed with 50% occupancy once the government started relaxing the lockdown in phases.The train services were operated from 6.30am to 9pm initially, when the lockdown was relaxed in Chennai. The operations were scaled as more relaxations followed when the state government extended the lockdown in coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-metro-services-extended-to-sundays-and-public-holidays-101626587574845.html
18-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh latest to cancel Kanwar Yatra: List of other states||The annual Kanwar Yatra, which was scheduled to start on July 25, was cancelled by the Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday. The state government said that the associations of pilgrims which organise the pilgrimage, decided to call it off in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic on government's appeal.The development came a day after a nudge from the Supreme Court, which asked the UP government to reconsider the decision to hold the yatra despite Covid-19 concerns.With this, Uttar Pradesh joined the list of states which have cancelled the annual event due to Covid-19. Here is a list of such states:Uttarakhand: The Uttarakhand government had already announced the suspension of the yatra for second consecutive year due to the coronavirus disease pandemic. The concerns flagged by experts about a possible third wave of the disease triggered the state government's decision. Haridwar, the holy city where Kanwariyas visit to collect the water of holy river Ganga, has sealed the borders of the city.Jharkhand: The state government too has shown reluctance to hold the Kanwar Yatra to check Covid-19 from spreading. There has been no preparations from the Deoghar district administration where Kanwariyas gather at the famous Baba Baidyanath temple, considered one of the 12 Jyotirlingas, to offer the Ganga water collected from the river. The Jharkhand government had earlier withheld permission for the Ratha Yatra festival at the Jagannath temple in Ranchi.Bihar: The Nitish Kumar government has closed all the religious places till August 6 this year, so there won't be any Kanwar Yatra to Deoghar. The Kanwarariyas carry Ganga water from Sultanganj in Bihar to offer it to Lord Shiva in Deoghar.The Kanwar Yatra goes on till the first week of August and sees thousands of Shiva devotees called Kanwariyas travelling mostly on foot from states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to collect water from the Ganges in Haridwar, Gangotri and other places.The yatra is held in the Shravan month of the Hindu calendar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-latest-to-cancel-kanwar-yatra-list-of-other-states-101626586254162.html
18-07-2021||India||Shimla administration restricts people on Ridge, Mall Road amid Covid-19||The district administration in Himachal Pradesh's Shimla has put restrictions on the number of people visiting the hill city. The curbs were announced amid concerns around tourist influx at a time when experts have warned about a possible third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The restrictions were announced on Saturday by deputy commissioner Aditya Negi, who held a meeting with traders and those associated with the tourism sector.According to the latest guidelines, no one will be allowed to sit on the Ridge and pavements along the Mall Road except senior citizens. The decision has been taken to prevent overcrowding in the area."We will try to avoid overcrowding. Sitting will not be allowed except for the senior citizens. We have been experimenting to reduce crowd and also to implement Covid-appropriate behaviour," Negi said.He also said that if the number of people or tourists increases more than the capacity of Ridge and Mall Road, their entry can be banned.The police in Himachal Pradesh, like other states with popular hill stations, have been imposing fine on people found without violating the Covid-19 protocol and roaming around without masks. They have also launched awareness campaign campaigns to tell people how important it is to follow Covid appropriate behaviour."If they (the tourists) don't understand to abide by the law in place, then challaning is being done. To reduce the crowd from the Ridge area, we shall first remove sitting benches and overcrowding will not be seen likely in near future," said the deputy commissioner.Chief minister Jairam Thakur too had last week appealed to the visitors coming to the state to follow Covid-19 norms.Shimla, along with Mussoorie and Nainital, has seen a huge influx of tourists in recent weeks who are heading to hills to escape heat in the plains. The state government and respective district administrations stepped up vigil along the border to restrict the number of tourists.Covid tests like RT-PCR have been made mandatory and people urged to keep wearing masks while outside.The photographs of people thronging the hill stations were also displayed by the officials of the Union health ministry during a meeting, who cautioned people against letting their guards down and warned of reimposing the curbs if violations continue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed concern about the violations at a meeting with chief ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shimla-administration-restricts-people-on-ridge-mall-road-amid-covid19-101626584846347.html
18-07-2021||India||Indian Railways gears up to roll out 10 trains to link 40 cities in Vande Bharat boost: Report||The Indian Railways is gearing up to roll out at least 10 new Vande Bharat indigenous semi-high speed trains, linking around 40 cities, by August next year to commemorate 75 years of India's Independence. The Indian Express has reported that Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has reviewed the project and directed that the rollout plan be advanced to connect at least 40 cities with the Vande Bharat trains by August 2022. Vande Bharat is the name given to India’s own semi-high speed train set, a collection of 16 coaches, self-propelled and do not require an engine to drag them.Medha Servo Drives Ltd secured the contract to supply the electrical systems for 44 Vande Bharat trains in January this year. The Hyderabad-based engineering firm has now been told to advance its production plan so that at least two prototypes can be rolled out by March next year following all trials.There is a contract condition that along with all the trials and testing that are needed to give nod to a Vande Bharat, the prototype train set that comes out of its anchor should also complete 1 lakh kilometre of commercial run with passengers before the following lot can be placed for production. Under this, the Vande Bharat trains could take months to hit the tracks commercially. Officials estimate that if all three production units are put to use, Indian Railways can manufacture around six to seven Vande Bharat train sets every month.The idea of the new plan is to get maximum train sets rolled out by 2024 by utilising Integral Coach Factory in Chennai, Modern Coach Factory in Raebareli and Rail Coach Factory in Kapurthala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-gears-up-to-roll-out-10-trains-to-link-40-cities-in-vande-bharat-boost-report-101626582550550.html
18-07-2021||India||15 dead, many injured in 2 incidents of rain-triggered landslides in Mumbai||15 people died and at least two were injured following heavy rains in two separate incidents of landslides in Mahul and Vikhroli area of Mumbai’s eastern suburbs overnight, municipal authorities confirmed. Prime Minister’s office announced ₹2 lakh in relief from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the next of kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 for the injured.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s disaster management cell, at around 1 am on Sunday, a retaining wall collapsed in Vashi Naka area of Mahul due to a landslide, killing 12 people and injuring at least two. According to BMC, all 12 people were brought dead to Rajawadi Hospital and the two injured were treated and discharged.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was also called in for search and rescue operations at the Mahul landslide site. The NDRF in a statement earlier this morning, said, “Incessant rainfall has caused landslides in Vashi-naka, Chembur. About 4-5 houses were affected. 10 dead bodies have been retrieved by local BMC/ fire brigade personnel before NDRF reached and 1 dead body of a female has been retrieved by NDRF team. Further, 6 to 8 persons are feared to be trapped. The NDRF team under command is at the incident site and search and rescue operation is going on.”In another similar incident, five to six houses collapsed in Panchsheel Chawl in Surya Nagar area of Vikhroli, killing three and injuring two, according to BMC’s disaster management cell.The city reported heavy rainfall overnight with most intensity seen between 12 am and 3 am. Water logging was reported at several places in the city including in Borivali, Kandivali, Malad, Andheri, Chembur, Kurla, Gandhi Market, Hindmata etc. According to BMC, between 8 pm on Saturday and 2 am on Sunday, the island city recorded a rainfall of 156 mm followed by eastern suburbs reporting 143 mm of heavy rainfall and western suburbs reporting 125 mm of rainfall.Sunday morning a tweet from PMO announced that ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the wall collapses in Mumbai and ₹50,000 will be given to those injured.PM Narendra Modi also expressed his regret at the loss of lives.“Saddened by the loss of lives due to wall collapses in Chembur and Vikhroli in Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that those who are injured have a speedy recovery,” PM said in a tweet on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-dead-many-injured-in-2-incidents-of-rain-triggered-landslides-in-mumbai-101626584599689.html
18-07-2021||India||PM Modi prays for Mumbai landslides' victims, announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for families||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday expressed his grief over the loss of lives in Mumbai and one of its suburbs earlier in the day due to a series of landslides, triggered by heavy rains. A number of houses collapsed following the rockfall, leading to the deaths of at least 19 people while several others remain injured.Also Read | 19 dead, several injured in Mumbai landslide after heavy rainsThe Prime Minister, saddened by the incident, tweeted out on this day saying his thoughts are with the bereaved families. He also prayed for the speedy recovery of all those injured in the incident."Saddened by the loss of lives due to wall collapses in Chembur and Vikhroli in Mumbai," Prime Minister Modi wrote in his tweet. "In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that those who are injured have a speedy recovery."Saddened by the loss of lives due to wall collapses in Chembur and Vikhroli in Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that those who are injured have a speedy recovery: PM @narendramodiThe Prime Minister later announced ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for the families of those who died in the Mumbai landslides. " ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to wall collapses in Mumbai," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted. " ₹50,000 would be given to those injuredAccording to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC's) disaster management cell, the accident in Vashi Naka of Mumbai's Mahul area was reported at around 6.30am when the retaining wall of a house collapsed due to a tree fall, it said. BMC's disaster management cell said the 12 people were brought dead to the Rajawadi Hospital and two were discharged after being treated for their injuries.In a separate accident, three people died and two were injured after four to five houses collapsed due to a landslide in the Vikhroli area due to heavy rainfall overnight. The accident was reported at around 2.40am.Mumbai woke up to rain-drenched roads, a sight the city has gotten so familiar with over the past week or so, on Sunday as overnight downpours kept major sections and stretches waterlogged. The city reported heavy rainfall overnight especially between 12am to 2am. Waterlogging was reported at several places in the city, including Borivali, Kandivali, Malad, Andheri, Chembur, Kurla, Gandhi Market, Hindmata, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-tweets-condolences-for-mumbai-landslides-victims-prays-for-injured-101626581552296.html
18-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu private schools told to collect 75% fees this academic year||The Tamil Nadu school education department has directed private schools to collect only 75 per cent of their fees from students for this academic year. The direction comes after parents complained about private schools pressuring them to pay the entire school fee for the academic year , according to the Tamil language newspaper Dinakaran. The department also instructed the schools to collect 40 per cent of the fees in the first instalment and the rest 35 per cent in the second one.  All the educational institutions were closed in Tamil Nadu on April 24 following the second wave of Covid-19. The Tamil Nadu government is yet to announce the reopening of the schools.  Considering the Covid-19 pandemic situation , private schools should collect only 75 per cent of the fees for this academic year. The first instalment of 40 per cent could be collected by August 31. The remaining 35 per cent could be collected two months after the schools reopen. The government will decide on the remaining 25 per cent of school fees based on the Covid-19 situation in the state , the circular noted.  Unlike the first wave , the second wave ravaged the state resulting in more infections and deaths. The second wave and the lockdown drained the sources of people's livelihood and many are finding it difficult to afford the education cost of their wards. Under these circumstances , there were complaints that some private schools are forcing the people to pay the entire school fees for the academic year 2021-22.  Following the complaints , commissioner of school education K Nandakumar has sent a circular to all chief education officers of the districts with directions about the school fees. The circular has stated that the schools closed because of the Covid-19 second wave since April 24 are not open for offline classes to date. But there are complaints about private schools forcing parents to pay the school fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-private-schools-told-to-collect-75-fees-this-academic-year-101626583160376.html
18-07-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi reconstitutes Congress’ Parliamentary hierarchy||In a major reshuffle in the Congress party’s parliamentary hierarchy, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has reconstituted the parliamentary groups in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, bringing in senior faces such as former Union ministers P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari, Ambika Soni and former chief minister Digvijaya Singh. Gandhi, in a letter said, “As the chairperson of the CPP (Congress Parliamentary Party), I have decided to reconstitute the following groups to facilitate and ensure the effective functioning of our party in both Houses of Parliament. These groups will meet daily during the session and can meet during the inter-session periods as well where Parliament issues are concerned.” The letter makes it official that Bengal MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury will continue as the Leader of the Party (LoP) in the Lok Sabha. But inclusion of Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor in the group underlines that Gandhi wants more heads in the party’s parliamentary decision-making process. Interestingly, both Tewari and Tharoor were perceived as a possible replacements for Chowdhury. The two leaders have joined Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi (deputy leader), K Suresh (chief whip), Ravneet Singh Bittu and Manickam Tagore (both whips). The Rajya Sabha hierarchy, which earlier had Mallikarjun Kharge as the Leader of the Opposition, Anand Sharma (deputy leader) and Jairam Ramesh (chief whip), will now include Chidambaram, Soni and Singh—the three senior leaders with years of experience in parliament as well as the party. The latest reshuffle in the parliamentary teams come just a day before the monsoon session of Parliament starts on Monday. After two curtailed session, this one holds promise to be a full session. It is also likely to be stormy as the Opposition wants to corner the government on economy, vaccination strategy, job loss and farm issues. The groups will have various roles. Mustering numbers, coordinating with various political parties and deciding on key floor issues such as support for a bill or the extent of cooperation with the government. It will also decide which issue needs to be raised and how the Congress will manoeuvre on issues raised by other parties. Only last week, the Congress had entrusted LoP Mallikarjun Kharge with coordination with other parties in Parliament. Kharge, a former Union minister, is expected to play the key role in Parliament as the lack of Opposition unity has proved to be an advantage for the ruling dispensation in passing key bills such as on Triple Talaq, bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir as union territories and the scrapping of Article 370. The groups with senior, more accessible leaders also come when the Opposition camp has seen signs of fissures with a few regional parties trying to carve out their independent spaces keeping in mind the upcoming state elections and the larger goal of 2024 national poll. The Congress already has two panels—the parliamentary strategy group headed by Gandhi to look into the larger issues relating to parliamentary functioning and a smaller group headed by P Chidambaram to carefully scrutinize all government bills....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-reconstitutes-congress-parliamentary-hierarchy-101626582139442.html
18-07-2021||India||India records 41,157 Covid-19 cases, 518 deaths in 24 hours||India on Sunday recorded 41,157 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the country's cumulative tally to 31,106,065, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. In the last 24 hours, the country also saw 518 people succumbing to Covid-19, taking its death toll to 413,609.The active cases in India dipped further in the last 24 hours and were logged at 422,660, accounting for 1.36 % of the total cases recorded in the country since the start of the outbreak last year. Active Covid-19 cases, which refers to the existing patients in the country, have decreased by 1,365 in a span of 24 hours.A total of 42,004 people recovered from the infectious disease in the last 24 hours, taking the country's recovery rate to 97.31%, the health ministry data showed.The second wave of Covid-19 is visibly receding in most regions in the country over the past two months, except for Kerala and Maharashtra - states which are witnessing rising infections over the past four weeks, data shows.On Saturday, India crossed the milestone of the 400-million mark in the number of coronavirus vaccine doses administered across the country so far. The new high in administering vaccine doses makes India a country with the highest number of shots given among any nation in the world with the exception of China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-41-187-covid-19-cases-518-deaths-in-24-hours-101626576972107.html
18-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa shares what Amit Shah told him on Lok Sabha polls, Karnataka affairs||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has shared details from his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday. Yediyurappa was in Delhi to call on the minister of home affairs to discuss party affairs and governance-related matters in his state. Talking to reporters following the much-anticipated meeting, the Karnataka chief minister said that their conversation included such topics as the next Lok Sabha elections, as well as the upcoming Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka state assembly polls.Called on Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah Ji in New Delhi today. Wished him on his new role as the Minister in the newly created Ministry of Cooperation and discussed matters related to the state.@HMOIndia @AmitShah pic.twitter.com/W4Vletg2LA"He (Shah) asked me to work hard to come back to power in Karnataka and that we must win more seats in the next Lok Sabha elections," news agency ANI quoted Karnataka chief minister Yediyurappa as saying. "He said that we will win 100% in Uttar Pradesh and in Karnataka; we have a bright future."Yediyurappa, talking to reporters, also said that Union home minister Amit Shah asked him to take the responsibility of strengthening the party in Karnataka. The development comes in the wake of speculation about leadership change in the state and the chief minister tendering his resignation.When asked about these rumours, Yediyurappa strongly denied reports suggesting that he had resigned. "There is no truth in it... Not at all, not at all," the Karnataka chief minister was quoted as saying. "There is no value of such news.""I will resign the day party high command asks me to quit," he said. "I do not speak about the rumours and the speculation created by some of the ministers and legislators."Yediyurappa added that he would be returning to the Capital next month.The Karnataka CM landed in Delhi on Friday. He then met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and attended other meetings regarding the ongoing Covid-19 situation and development projects in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-shares-what-amit-shah-told-him-on-lok-sabha-polls-karnataka-affairs-101626576442568.html
18-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: All party meeting today ahead of Parliament’s monsoon session and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Day before Parliament's monsoon session, all-party meeting todayA day before the Parliament convenes for its monsoon session, an all-party meeting will take place at 11am today (i.e. on Sunday, July 18), said officials familiar with the matter. Read moreDelhi's Sarojini Nagar export market shut for violating Covid-19 normsAuthorities in Delhi have closed the export market in Sarojini Nagar until further orders for "grossly" violating Covid-19 norms. Read more‘When people say I don’t smile enough’: Sania Mirza’s video amuses peopleSania Mirza often takes to Instagram to share various kinds of posts. From inspiriting to witty, her posts are of different tastes. Case in point, her latest share captioned “There's the smile everyone looking for.” The post has now left people chuckling. Chances are it’ll make you giggle too. Read moreSaba Ali Khan breaks last week's vow, shares baby photos of Sara Ali Khan and Ibrahim after saying she wouldn'tSaba Ali Khan has shared a fresh batch of baby pictures of her niece, actor Sara Ali Khan. This comes a couple of days after she vowed never to do it again. Read moreRahul Vaidya and Disha Parmar look mesmerising in bespoke ensembles for post-wedding bashSinger Rahul Vaidya and his wife, actor Disha Parmar hosted another grand bash for their friends after their wedding in Mumbai. The celebration was attended by the biggest names of the television industry, making it a star-studded affair. For the party, Rahul and Disha slipped into bespoke ensembles and set major couple goals. Read moreTokyo Olympics: Athlete COVID-19 infections rise in TokyoTokyo Olympics organisers on Sunday reported three new cases of COVID-19 infection among athletes, up from one new case a day earlier, as the population of the athlete's village swells ahead of the start of the pandemic-hit Games next week. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-all-party-meeting-today-ahead-of-parliament-s-monsoon-session-and-all-the-latest-news-101626577652707.html
18-07-2021||India||Odisha to resume offline classes for class 10 and 12 from July 26||Almost 3 months after the schools in Odisha were closed due to the second wave of Covid pandemic, the state government on Saturday decided to reopen schools for class 10 and 12 students from July 26.School and mass education department secretary Satyabrata Sahu said that the decision to reopen schools and resume physical mode of teaching for class 10 and 12 students was taken keeping in mind the problems faced by students in online teaching mode due to poor mobile (internet) connectivity.“We have been able to reach out to 40% of the students via online teaching while the remaining 60% are yet to be connected. These students have lost 150 days of regular teaching days. As both the Board of Secondary Education and Council of Higher Secondary Education have reduced syllabus, resumption of physical teaching in classrooms has become a necessity,” said Sahu.He said the department will issue a comprehensive standard operating procedure (SOP) to schools for the reopening.Prior to reopening, all school teachers will be vaccinated on priority and the district education officers (DEOs) have been instructed to ensure that all the Covid-19 protocols are strictly followed.“We have given an option to students to come to school with consent from their parents. Keeping in mind the safety of the students, the decision on reopening of schools will be taken by the respective district collectors. The offline classes for standard 10 and 12 students will be held between 10 am and 1: 30 pm with no lunch break. The schools will remain closed on Sundays and on all state government holidays,” said Sahu.Last month, the Odisha government kicked off YouTube live streaming of classes for students in standard 1-8 in 8 districts and standard 9-10 in all the 30 districts. While Odia, English, history, geography, Hindi and Sanskrit classes were held three times a week, science and mathematics classes were telecast twice a week for class 10 students.Sahu said nearly one million students of class 10 and 12 from the state were preparing for various competitive exams and losing out on learning due to lack of mobile connectivity.Odisha shut down all the schools on April 19 after Covid-19 cases started rising and cancelled class 10 and 12 board exams while promoting the students of class 9 and 11 without examinations.Lockdowns of varying degrees are in place in Odisha’s 30 districts till August 1 with weekend shutdown in 10 districts that have more than 5% Test Positivity Rate (TPR)-- percentage of positive samples among those tested in a specific period. On Saturday, the state reported 2,182 cases with TPR of 2.94%.So far states such as Gujarat, Bihar, Chandigarh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Uttarakhand and union territory of Chandigarh have either reopened the state-run schools or are in the process.Meanwhile, the Odisha government has asked all its employees to start coming to office immediately. The general administrative (GA) department said since most of the employees are now fully vaccinated they were required mandatorily to attend office regularly.“Employees who are neither vaccinated nor exempted will not be permitted to attend office and their absence will be treated as wilful,” the department said in an order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-resume-offline-classes-for-class-10-and-12-from-july-26-101626578299112.html
18-07-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi to meet Congress' Lok Sabha MPs today ahead of Parliament's monsoon session||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will be chairing a meeting with the party's Lok Sabha members of Parliament (MPs) on Sunday, a day before Parliament's monsoon session. Party officials informed that the meeting will be held through video conferencing, news agency ANI reported.Meanwhile, an all-party meeting has also been called at 11am on Sunday, said officials familiar with the matter. ANI reported that the meeting, called by Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, is also expected to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Later in the day, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has also called an all-party meeting of floor leaders at 4pm.The monsoon session of the Parliament is expected to be stormy with the opposition parties all geared up to corner the central government on issues like the rise in petrol and diesel prices, the alleged Covid-19 mismanagement and vaccine shortage.Around 17 bills are listed for introduction in the Lok Sabha and five bills for consideration and passage, and a similar number of bills are expected to be introduced in the Rajya Sabha during the monsoon session.Parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi has informed the meeting of representatives of various parties that the government has identified 29 bills, including six ordinances replacing bills and two items of financial business, for the session.The monsoon session of the Parliament will continue till August 13. Both the Houses will meet daily from 11am to 6pm with a one-hour lunch break. It will have 19 working days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-to-meet-congress-lok-sabha-mps-today-ahead-of-parliament-s-monsoon-session-101626566947822.html
18-07-2021||India||Day before Parliament's monsoon session, all-party meeting today||A day before the Parliament convenes for its monsoon session, an all-party meeting will take place at 11am today (i.e. on Sunday, July 18), said officials familiar with the matter. The meeting, called by Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, is also expected to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reported news agency ANI.Also Read | Pralhad Joshi calls all-party meeting day before monsoon session beginsLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will also chair a meeting on Sunday with all the floor leaders of the Lower House of the Parliament.Such meetings are customary before every session of the Parliament to ensure its smooth proceedings.The monsoon session of the Parliament is scheduled to start tomorrow (i.e. from Monday, July 19). It will be the first session after the second wave of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) broke out in the country. The session is expected to conclude on August 13, with 19 days of business.The monsoon session of the Parliament is expected to be quite stormy, with the Opposition gearing up to corner the ruling BJP-led NDA government on a host of issues -- including the rise in petrol and diesel prices, the alleged Covid-19 mismanagement, and vaccine deficiency.Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders met earlier this week on Tuesday to deliberate upon monsoon session proceedings, ANI reported, adding that the meeting took place at the residence of Union defence minister Rajnath Singh. It was attended by BJP national president JP Nadda and Union ministers Amit Shah, Dharmendra Pradhan, Bhupendra Yadav, Pralhad Joshi, and Arjun Ram Meghwal. An executive meeting of the BJP's Parliamentary party is also expected on Sunday, according to ANI.Also Read | The political drivers of the monsoon sessionMeanwhile, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla took stock of Covid-19 related preparations earlier this week, ahead of the Parliament beginning its monsoon session. "In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all arrangements to adhere to preventive norms will be followed during the monsoon session," Birla said at a press conference.Those who have not been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease will be requested to undergo an RT-PCR test before entering the premises of Parliament during the session, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allparty-meeting-to-be-held-today-day-before-parliament-begins-its-monsoon-session-101626565018661.html
18-07-2021||India||10mn households in JE hot spots get tap water access||The country’s flagship programme to provide rural households with piped drinking water, Jal Jeevan Mission, has expanded rapidly to cover more than 10 million homes in 61 districts notorious for Japanese Encephalitis-Acute Encephalitis Syndrome, a brain fever in children that needs a multi-pronged approach for treatment, according to health experts.The 61 districts spread over five states are endemic to various forms encephalitis.Years of repeated outbreaks have contributed to poor health outcomes for children, particularly in states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The figure of households provided tap water in these districts is a milestone, an official of the Jal Shakti ministry said, requesting anonymity.“This represents a 32% increase in household tap water connections in the 61 priority districts, about 12% higher than the national average increase of 23.43% in providing tap water connections in the country during the past 22 months,” the official added.This is the fastest pace yet in covering a priority segment within the overall target of providing every rural household with a functional water tap by 2024 under the Jal Jeevan Mission.Experts say better sanitation and clean drinking water are essential to lessen the disease burden, although the encephalitis syndrome is caused by a clutch of vectors.Acute encephalitis syndrome, which includes Japanese encephalitis (JE), is caused by different types of viruses, bacteria, parasites, fungi and spirochetes.Vaccines are the mainstay of preventing JE, part of a federal intervention in these districts, but there is little check on other strains.“The absence of clean drinking water aggravates encephalitis syndrome because unsafe water is a cause of malnutrition. When malnourished children are afflicted, they either take longer to recover or have poorer chances of survival,” said Lokesh Nath, a former in-charge overseeing the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, one of the hotspots.Encephalitis syndrome is a serious public-health problem in India, said KN Bhilegaonkar of the ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Pune, the author of a study of the disease’s prevalence in Bareilly district.According to the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, between 2007 and 2016, over 70,000 cases were reported from the endemic districts.More than 30,000 children have died of encephalitis in the past three decades.A 2010 report by the erstwhile Planning Commission had stated five broad measures to tackle encephalitis: vaccination, vector control, sanitation facilities, safe drinking water and adequate nutrition, Nath said.The five states most vulnerable to the syndrome include Assam, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.Official data shows that when the Jal Jeevan Mission began in 2019, nearly 800,000 or 2.67% households in the 61 districts had access to tap water supply.At the end of last month, an additional 9.7 million families were provided access to tap water, taking the total number to slightly over 10 million, or 35% of total households.However, progress has not been equal in all five states, data shows. With 15 encephalitis-endemic districts, Bihar comes out on the top.The state, on average, has provided tap water connection to 85.53% of households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10mn-households-in-je-hot-spots-get-tap-water-access-101626549523442.html
18-07-2021||India||West Block Blues: A fan base no less than family for Bengaluru FC||Meghna Nair was eight months pregnant in 2019 when Bengaluru FC was to take on Kerala Blasters at the Kanteerava Stadium in the city. A fan of the club, she had attended two matches in the season despite the inconveniences caused by the pregnancy. In both matches, she was not allowed to take water bottles inside the stadium due to security regulations.“I was eight months pregnant. I needed hot water, and I needed to take my medicine as well. At the same time, I didn’t want to miss the match because of this. So, I wrote to Bengaluru FC, asking permission to carry hot water. I got a call from them, and they explained that taking water bottles inside the stadium was not possible. But then they blew mind saying I can watch the match from the owner box,” said Nair, who recently clicked a picture with her child, warped in Bengaluru FC’s colours, outside the stadium.For fans like Nair, Bengaluru FC is not just a club, but it is their extended family.Formed on May 28, 2013, Bengaluru FC was the new kid in the block, which took pride in its football culture. Bengaluru’s rich history in the sport dates back to the pre-Independence era. After all, it was a team from Bengaluru that beat the British in their own tournament for the first time.The feat occurred during the Rover’s Cup, the second oldest of the three big tournaments in the country started by the British in 1891. During its early years, the tournament only included the football teams of the British army regiments but in 1923, Indian civilian football clubs were allowed to participate in the tournament. Even though Kolkata-based Mohun Bagan reached the final that year, the dream of an Indian team winning the tournament remained unfulfilled for 45 years until the barefoot men of Bangalore Muslims created history at Bombay’s Cooperage football stadium.Even though the Bangalore Muslims put Bengaluru on India’s football map, they were forgotten over the years. Several legendary teams like ITI, HAL came along and produced national players, but the love for the game died down over the years.So, when a new football club came to town, there was scepticism. “In 2013, after the club was formed, we called for an open practice session with the Bengaluru FC players to promote the team. The fact was that they were always available but made it premium by making it a formal event. Seven people turned up,” recollected Kunaal Majgaonkar, the media manager for Bengaluru FC.“There were more players than fans that day. But the most important thing was those fans were happy. They had three players talking to one fan. Then, the word spread. People heard stories about Sunil Chhetri (national team captain) playing football with fans. In the next session, we had 60. Now, every season starts with a practice session and the numbers are beyond belief,” Majgaonkar.What started at that small group of people at a practice session is now known as the West Block Blues, a name worn proudly by the fans of Bengaluru FC. “West block A was one of the stands at the Bangalore Football Stadium (near Garuda mall). It was from there we got the name west block blues. From season 2, when the games were shifted to Kanteerava stadium, we occupied the West Block A there and the number stuck” said Rakesh Haridas, a Bengaluru FC fan.Even in terms of the fan base, Bengaluru FC has stood out. While Bengaluru had several football fans who thronged the stadiums, it never had a football culture like the English clubs. “Before Bengaluru FC came into the picture, many of us were followers of many English football clubs. Those of us who argued in pubs over English clubs finally had a team of our own to rally behind. So, we wanted to introduce those elements to our team too. We created an anthem and created chants for each player,” said Haridas.According to Akanksha Singh, meeting the players or the coach after the match and even running into them at a pub is not common with Bengaluru FC. “The Bengaluru FC team itself lives as a family in one single apartment in the city. They are always accessible, and even when the team management organises events with fans, players don’t come because they are asked to, but because they love it. Also, they don’t behave like the politicians, they become one of us,” said Singh, a fan since the team’s inception.From chats inspired by English football culture to loudly singing ‘Santoshakke’ the famous Kannada song by S P Balasubrahmanyam, the atmosphere is always an experience for the fans.When Bengaluru FC calls itself a family or part of the community, it doesn’t end with slogans. During the two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, the team and their fans were part of the city’s fight against the virus. “We knew that we can’t be sitting on the sidelines when the city was going through one of the biggest challenges. So, during the first wave started using our network to support small businesses in Bengaluru. We worked with them to put their message out in the public and help them get their businesses back on their feet. The team and fans took the campaign personally,” said Majgaonkar.When the city was hit by the pandemic again, in 2021, blues decided to roll up their sleeves. “Since the season was happening under strict lockdown, we were confined to our hotel. We asked what we could do, so it was decided that we would use our reach. The skipper (Chhetri) had more than 1 million followers, so we found volunteers, who were helping with SOS messages seeking beds and medicines. So, the skipper gave them access to his account to promote the message. He didn’t just give the access, we are constantly in touch with them asking what more can be done,” he added.According to Majgaonkar, when a team becomes a community and even family, a team becomes much more than just a game. “We know that even though not big football fans, the owners of the small businesses and those who were helped during the pandemic will cheer us when the team steps on the field next time,” Majgaonkar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-block-blues-a-fan-base-no-less-than-family-for-bengaluru-fc-101626550757264.html
18-07-2021||India||52% rise in frequency of cyclones in Arabian Sea over two decades: Study||The frequency and intensity of cyclones developing over the Arabian Sea has increased in the last two decades, while fewer such storms have been seen over the Bay of Bengal, researchers have found in a paper that underlines the increasing risk of disasters hitting the west coast of India if the trend continues to hold over the years.A 52% increase was noticed in the frequency of cyclones over the Arabian Sea between 2001 and 2019 , and an 8% decrease over the Bay of Bengal, compared to the 19-year period between 1982 and 2002, according to a new study by scientists of the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) under the Union ministry of earth sciences.Normally four to five cyclones form over the north Indian Ocean region (includes both Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea) in a year, with the majority -- about three-four of them -- developing over the Bay of Bengal.But this is fast changing. For instance, 2019 witnessed eight cyclones in the north Indian Ocean, out of which five formed in the Arabian Sea. The total figure was seven for 2018, including three over the Arabian Sea.Not just the frequency, the intensity and duration of the cyclones over the Arabian Sea too are changing, according to the paper published in Springer’s Climate Dynamics journal on Saturday. Apart from a higher than usual number of cyclones over Arabian Sea in recent years, back-to-back “extremely severe cyclonic storms” (with wind speeds between 167-221kmph) occurred within a single month over the Arabian Sea in 2015, according to the paper.This trend means India’s west coast may have to prepare for more frequent and stronger storms, researchers said.“Until now the west coast was least prepared for very severe cyclones. Our study shows that the number of very severe cyclones in the Arabian Sea has gone up by 150% during the last two decades. This means that we need to be prepared, not only in terms of forecasts but also have a risk assessment. This risk assessment should be based on the overlapping impacts of storm surges, heavy rains and a rising sea level that can act together, resulting in prolonged floods in the west coast. More cyclones in the Arabian Sea means the chances of (storms) some getting closer to the west coast are more, like we saw in the last four years,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist and co-author from IITM.The study, titled Changing status of tropical cyclones over the north Indian Ocean, said cyclones over the Arabian Sea have become extremely intense in recent decades.The research also noted that the duration for which a cyclonic storm lasts over the Arabian Sea is on a rise. The total time span of cyclonic storms over the Arabian Sea rose 80% between 2001 and 2019 when compared to the 1982 to 2002 period. Similarly, there was a three-fold increase in the duration of “very severe cyclonic storms” (which see wind speeds in the range of 118-166 kmph) for the same period.The findings consolidate what has been theorised for a few years: abnormal warming of the Arabian Sea is creating a recipe for deadlier cyclones compared to the Bay of Bengal, which was earlier considered to host ocean-atmospheric conditions that are more conducive to the development of cyclones.When asked what could be causing this switch in cyclone patterns, Sunitha Devi, in-charge of cyclones at IMD agreed that there may be connections to the climate crisis, but said more studies are needed. “This is happening because of an increase in the ocean thermal energy, enhanced mid tropospheric moisture content as well as a reduced vertical wind shear compared to the past over the Arabian Sea,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/52-rise-in-frequency-of-cyclones-in-arabian-sea-over-two-decades-study-101626550577184.html
18-07-2021||India||Jal Jeevan Mission: 10 million homes in encephalitis hot spots get tap water access||New Delhi: The country’s flagship programme to provide rural households with piped drinking water, Jal Jeevan Mission, has expanded rapidly to cover more than 10 million homes in 61 districts notorious for Japanese Encephalitis-Acute Encephalitis Syndrome, a brain fever in children that needs a multi-pronged approach for treatment, according to health experts. The 61 districts spread over five states are endemic to various forms encephalitis. Years of repeated outbreaks have contributed to poor health of outcomes for children, particularly in states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The figure of households provided tap water in these districts is a milestone, an official of the Jal Shakti ministry said, requesting anonymity. “This represents a 32% increase in household tap water connections in the 61 priority districts, about 12% higher than the national average increase of 23.43% in providing tap water connections in the country during the past 22 months,” the official added. This is the fastest pace yet in covering a priority segment within the overall target of providing every rural household with a functional water tap by 2024 under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Experts say better sanitation and clean drinking water are essential to lessen the disease burden, although the encephalitis syndrome is caused by a clutch of vectors. Acute encephalitis syndrome, which includes Japanese encephalitis (JE), is caused by different types of viruses, bacteria, parasites, fungi and spirochetes. Vaccines are the mainstay of preventing JE, part of a federal intervention in these districts, but there is little check on other strains. “The absence of clean drinking water aggravates encephalitis syndrome because unsafe water is a cause of malnutrition. When malnourished children are afflicted, they either take longer to recover or have poorer chances of survival,” said Lokesh Nath, a former in-charge overseeing the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, one of the hotspots. Encephalitis syndrome is a serious public-health problem in India, said KN Bhilegaonkar of the ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Pune, the author of a study of the disease’s prevalence in Bareilly district. According to the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, between 2007 and 2016, over 70,000 cases were reported from the endemic districts. More than 30,000 children have died of encephalitis in the past three decades. A 2010 report by the erstwhile Planning Commission had stated five broad measures to tackle encephalitis: vaccination, vector control, sanitation facilities, safe drinking water and adequate nutrition, Nath said. The five states most vulnerable to the syndrome include Assam, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Official data shows that when the Jal Jeevan Mission began in 2019, nearly 800,000 or 2.67% households in the 61 districts had access to tap water supply. At the end of last month, an additional 9.7 million families were provided access to tap water, taking the total number to slightly over 10 million, or 35% of total households. However, progress has not been equal in all five states, data shows. With 15 encephalitis-endemic districts, Bihar comes out on the top. The state, on average, has provided tap water connection to 85.53% of households. Assam has been able to provide tap water to only 30% schools and 8% anganwadi centres, while West Bengal fares no better with 14% schools and 7% anganwadi centres, compared to the national average of 65% schools and 60% anganwadi centres, official data shows. Anganwadis are state-run child-care centres. Uttar Pradesh, which has managed to cover just 11.8% of total households, too, needs to ramp up. The Union government has allocated a ₹10,870 crore to Uttar Pradesh under the Jal Jeevan Mission for 2021-22, the highest allocation for any state. The allocation has been increased four times over last year. The state will go to polls in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-mission-10-million-homes-in-encephalitis-hot-spots-get-tap-water-access-101626550517172.html
18-07-2021||India||Priyanka meets UP ‘panchayat poll violence’ victims, demands re-poll||Lucknow: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday demanded demanded that the recent panchayat chief elections held in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh be cancelled and re-polls be held. She also demanded that all those behind the alleged nomination day violence on July 8 be brought to book. The elections were held on July 10.The Congress leader, who is on a three-day visit to the state, visited Semra Ghat village of Pasgawan block area in Lakhimpur Kheri, about 130 km from the state capital, and met the Samajwadi Party worker (who was party’s block pramukh candidate) and her proposer who were victims of the alleged violence during the elections. She said there was no point in providing reservation to women in the panchayats when they were not being allowed to file their nomination.Both the women had allegedly been misbehaved with on the nomination day. The SP worker had alleged that she was not allowed to file her nomination.An FIR in the incident has been lodged and police have arrested three people. Six police officials, including Mohammadi deputy police superintendent, have been suspended after the government took strong note of the incident. “Filing of nomination (for panchayat election) is her right. This right was taken away from her… She was targeted and attempt were made to pull away her saree and tear her clothes. One can imagine what she went through. She had a small child with her. A 19-year-old boy was also with her. She had her family with her…The circle officer, who tried to save her, has been placed under suspension and the administration is maintaining silence,” Priyanka told reporters after meeting the two women.“I have come here as a fellow woman to extend my support to her, to assure her that every woman of the state and that of the country is with her in her fight for justice,” she said.She added, “The violence took place in all the districts (during block pramukh polls). Bomb explosions were there at some places, violence was witnessed at some other and atrocities were committed against the women… I have come here to meet her because she is a woman. She is my sister as well… I demand that the election should be countermanded. Whosoever is occupying such a high position can see this is not the way any election is held and so it should be countermanded.”“Not alone in Pasgawan, fresh elections should be held in all other blocks of the state where such violence took place,” she told reporters.“The purpose of reservation to women in a democracy was their empowerment. However, situations have come to such a level that women are being misbehaved with,” Priyanka said.The Congress leader targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi again for his congratulatory message after the panchayat elections and said, “Re-election is ordered whenever such things happen. Why should re-election not be held? Can anybody be allowed to win election by indulging in violence? We have a video. Everything is clear whatever happened there. The police is seen not helping her. Only one or two persons came for her help. Do you want all democratic norms should be thrown to the winds? Prime Minister Narendra Modi is praising and congratulating the government.”In a social media post, she said she would write to the state election commission to get justice to the victims of panchayat poll violence.“I will write a letter to state election commission to demand justice for all the sisters and citizens who became victim of BJP-sponsored violence,” she said in a tweet earlier on Saturday.A large number of party workers welcomed Priyanka at Bakshi Ka Talab on way to Lakhimpur Kheri. Later, she held meetings with the party’s office bearers from different districts at the UPCC headquarters here on Saturday evening.(With inputs from Deokant Pandey in Lakhimpur Kheri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-meets-up-panchayat-poll-violence-victims-demands-repoll-101626550338990.html
18-07-2021||India||Kumar’s family alleges extortion bid, 1 booked||The Mumbai police have registered a case against a man for allegedly trying to extort money from T-Series managing director and film producer Bhushan Kumar by threatening to get a rape case filed against him, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday.On Thursday, police registered a case against Kumar after a 30-year-old woman accused him of raping her several times between 2017 and 2020 on the pretext of giving her a job, officials said. She alleged that Kumar, 43, called her to his bungalow on October 14, 2017, where he raped her. Kumar allegedly recorded the act and threatened to make the video public if she approached the police, the woman said, adding that she did not file a complaint earlier as she was frightened. Kumar, son of music baron, the late Gulshan Kumar, however, denied the allegations and accused the woman of extortion.In his complaint, Kumar’s uncle, producer and director Krishan Kumar Dua, said the accused Mallikarjun Pujari called Kumar several times between July 3 and July 10, demanding and threatening that if he did not comply, the woman will file a rape complaint against him. Kumar was also given a death threat if he did not pay the money, Dua said in the complaint.A case was registered against Pujari under sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 500 (Punishment for defamation), and criminal intimidation under sections 506 and 506(2) of the IPC, an official said on condition of anonymity.“We have registered a complaint and will question the named accused to find how he is related to the victim and who directed him to demand money,” said a police official from the Amboli police station, requesting anonymityHT tried reaching Pujari but he was not available for a reaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rape-complaint-bhushan-kumar-s-family-alleges-extortion-bid-1-booked-101626550338385.html
18-07-2021||India||Farmers begin a sit-in at Sirsa after talks fail||Rohtak: Scores of farmers attended the ‘mahapanchayat’ in Sirsa on Saturday, demanding the release of five members of their community, who were arrested under sedition charges for allegedly attacking Haryana assembly’s deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa on July 11.According to the police, the entire Sirsa was converted into a cantonment with heavy deployment of Haryana Police personnel and paramilitary forces to stop farmers from breaking law and order while the local administration had imposed Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to prohibit the assembly of four or more people in an area.Police had barricaded loads leading to Shahid Bhagat Stadium, but farmers managed to reach the mahapanchayat venue by removing barricades.Addressing the mahapanchayat and reacting on sedition charges slapped against more than 100 farmers, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said the Supreme court has questioned the relevance of sedition law, describing it as ‘colonial’, but the Haryana government has imposed the ‘colonial law’ on farmers to stop the dissent.Attacking the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union government over the three farm laws, Tikait alleged that the Centre was being run by “corporate companies”.“Some BJP workers have the misconception that their party is in power at the Centre. The Modi government is being run by big corporate companies and that’s why the government has failed to hold dialogue with farmers protesting against three farm laws. If any other party had been in power, they would have held a meeting with farmers to end the deadlock,” Tikait added.“We will hold a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on September 5 to launch a mission against the BJP in UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab, where assembly polls are due,” he said.Earlier in the day, a 20-member committee of farmers met Sirsa administration officials to discuss the release of arrested farmers. However, the talks could not reach a logical conclusion, Tikait told reporters.The farmers have decided to stage an indefinite sit-in in front of the mini-secretariat to protest the arrests and slapping of the sedition cases, Tikait said, adding that a 20-member delegation of farmers met officials for over two hours over the issue. While the district administration maintained that action against arrested will be taken by the court, the delegation sought the withdrawal of the sedition charge.Meanwhile, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said, “The country’s law is supreme, and that law does not function on anyone’s advice, be it a politician like me.” He said the law functions at its own pace and in its own ways, and such activities have no effect on the legal procedures.Meanwhile, former Leader of the Opposition and INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala objected to the use of the sedition law by the state’s BJP-JJP government. “It is a law of British times. The British had made this law so that any Satyagrahi could be imprisoned by accusing him of rebellion or terror,” he said.Protesting farmers have been opposing public functions of the BJP and the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) in the state.Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for over seven months in protest against the Centre’s three agriculture laws.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-begin-sit-in-at-sirsa-after-talks-with-officials-over-sedition-cases-fail-101626550217779.html
18-07-2021||India||People know that judiciary will stand by them, says CJI||The judiciary stands by the people when things go wrong, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said on Saturday while addressing multiple events, where he also supported opening up court proceedings to people through efforts like live streaming.The chief justice first addressed an international audience at the India-Singapore Mediation Summit 2021 before inaugurating the Gujarat high court’s live streaming service later in the day. Through the day, he touched on the issue of pendency of cases – which he said was not an indicator of a system’s effectiveness or failing – and called for a greater role of mediation in settling disputes.“People are confident that they will get relief and justice from the judiciary. It gives them the strength to pursue a dispute. They know that when things go wrong, the judiciary will stand by them,” the CJI said at the Mediation Summit, adding that this trust explained why cases flood Indian courts.At the launch of the Gujarat High Court live-streaming, the CJI said: “It is high time for de-mystifying the justice delivery system in the country and furthering access through open courts.”Justice Ramana said that while courts in the country are open to litigants and lawyers, access to justice will “become a true reality when litigants and interested parties get to witness, understand and comprehend” justice dispensation first hand through live-streaming.He hinted that at the Supreme Court, efforts were underway to open some courts for live-streaming. “People may want to follow the arguments of the lawyers and observations of the bench only in certain cases, such as those that involve Constitutional interpretation or attract public attention.” Currently, this information is available through the media, he added, and there can be some transmission loss leading to misinterpretation of questions asked and observations made the bench, which often gets amplified by vested interests.“The formalisation of the live streaming of court proceedings is the best cure for the aforesaid malady.”But, Justice Ramana warned, live streaming could also become a double-edged sword as judges might feel the pressure of public scrutiny, which can result in a stressful environment.The privacy of parties involved and the safety and security of the victims and witnesses should also be ensured during live streaming, the CJI told Gujarat High Court Chief Justice Vikram Nath and other judges of the HC at the virtual event.At the earlier event, the CJI spoke about pending cases in Indian courts. “The often-quoted statistic that “pendency” in Indian courts has reached 45 million cases -- which is perceived as the inability of the Indian judiciary to cope with the case load -- is an overstatement and an uncharitable analysis.”Pendency cannot be a useful indicator of how well or poorly a system is doing, he said.The problem ailing the Indian judiciary is of delay, he added, and said he was of the strong view that the development of alternate dispute resolution (ADR) techniques such as arbitration, conciliation and mediation can reduce delays by settling disputes outside courts.The current state of mediation in the country shows that between 2005 and March 2021, nearly 3.22 million cases have been referred and nearly 1 million cases have been settled by nearly 43,000 mediation centres.To ensure mediation is successful, CJI suggested it should be prescribed as a “mandatory first step” for resolution of every allowable dispute. “Perhaps, an omnibus law in this regard is needed to fill the vacuum,” as mediation is not governed by any law unlike the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996.Some recent laws, such as Commercial Courts Act 2015 and Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016, provide a clause for compulsory pre-litigation mediation.Since mediation is cheap and simple, it can benefit a vast majority of litigants in India who belong to middle and poorer sections of society, Justice Ramana added, giving the example of Lok Adalats that have helped reduced cases coming to courts.Over 7.84 million cases were settled by the Lok Adalats in 2019 and 2020 of which nearly 3.94 million cases were settled at the pre-litigation stage.The CJI cited the Indian epic Mahabharata to say that mediation, as a concept, is deeply embedded into the Indian ethos. In the epic, he said, Krishna’s futile attempt to mediate the dispute between the Pandavas and Kauravas was pivotal. “Failure of mediation led to disastrous consequences,” CJI said.He also cited the example the example of aeroplane pilots to suggest ways in which mediation can be improved. Commercial pilots have a simulator component in their training where they are equipped to respond to multiple scenarios – similarly, training programmes of mediators should contain such a component, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-know-that-judiciary-will-stand-by-them-says-cji-101626549918304.html
18-07-2021||India||Kanwariyas accept yatra cancellation, albeit reluctantly||For four consecutive years until Covid stopped him in 2020 and now in 2021, Ajay Kumar and a small group of friends travelled every July to Haridwar and came back with a small pot of holy water. Working odd jobs, Kumar, 21, saved a little over ₹8,000 as his contribution for the trip for hiring a truck, a DJ, new clothes, and other items such as food, water, generator and even videographers needed for the pilgrimage.His friends would begin planning for the 200-km trip months earlier – all for the joy and pride of getting to call themselves kanwariyas. This year though, they dropped the idea months ago. “I don’t have the money to spare,” said Kumar, who works as a food delivery agent.Late on Saturday, the Uttar Pradesh government decided to cancel the yatra amid Covid-19.Kumar said while he was worried that cancellations for two consecutive years could change the way the festival is celebrated, the decision has reduced his guilt of not being able to go for the pilgrimage due to financial constraints.“Now, I’ll just think that even if I could go for the yatra, I couldn’t have gone,” he said.The yatra, which attracted 36 million people in 2019, stoked a controversy this year after UP initially allowed the pilgrimage to go ahead despite experts warning that overcrowding and violating of Covid protocol could spark the third wave of infections across the country. Uttarakhand cancelled the yatra this week.The popular yatra attracts tens of millions of pilgrims across north India. For them, carrying holy water from the Ganga back to their local Shiva shrines is an article of faith. But for Kumar and his friends, religious devotion was mixed with something far more worldly – public recognition in their otherwise mundane lives.“There is always ‘astha’ (faith), but the yatra also offers freedom from the daily tensions of life,” said Kumar, wearing a shirt with Shiva’s image on it.“Local residents recognised me as an important part of the ‘Shiv Bhola Kanwar Samiti’. We were a popular group of local youngsters united by our joint participation in the yatra. Now, we are all just trying to find work and support our families,” Kumar said.Kumar and other kanwariyas were not particularly worried about the pandemic – they believe Shiva will take care of their health and immunity. “There is no fear of corona, this is a work of the Lord himself,” said Amar Singh Shekhawat, vice-president of Shiv Kanwar Sewa Sangh, a Ghaziabad-based group that organises camps for the kanwariyas. “A kanwar yatra will actually improve our immunity,” said Harish Singh, a 35-year-old businessman.Doctors and health experts rubbished these claims and warned that allowing the devotees to travel to Haridwar would not only endanger their lives but also cause a potential superspreader event that could trigger a devastating surge of infections.“Social distancing in the yatra is practically impossible. Devotees from far corners of north India will be travelling hundreds of kilometres and exposing themselves to risk,” said Dr Arun Gupta, senior consultant at Fortis Hospital and the president of Delhi Medical Council. Preparations for the yatra were elaborate. Noida resident Balaji Sinha and his friends created a WhatsApp group in March, followed by meetings, budget sessions, and donation collection drives.In recent years, however, kanwariyas have increasingly been associated with lawlessness and boorish behaviour in cities they pass through, such as Delhi.Mamata Sharma, who lived in east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden -- next to the road which the yatra takes -- said that she avoided letting her two daughters out on the streets during the kanwar season. “I feel there would be no accountability if something wrong happened.”The more serious devotees – who see the kanwar yatra as part of their vows to Shiva – dismiss these charges. Keshav Kumar is one of them.The 32-year-old Noida resident wakes up at 5.30am every day and exercises an hour in the local park, trying to rebuild his stamina for his role as dak bam (the courier who runs with the pot of water).Despite the announcement of cancellation, Keshav remains hopeful. “There is still time. The government may still find a way to make it happen. If not, I’ll see how I can carry out my vow differently,” he said. Ashok Bhati, president of the Shiv Kanwar Sewa Sangh, said he will ensure people abide by the UP government’s order to cancel the pilgrimage. “The disease must still be severe enough for the government to cancel the yatra. Those who must carry out the yatra will do it with the Ganga Jal saved from the previous year,” said Bhati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanwariyas-accept-yatra-cancellation-albeit-reluctantly-101626549017223.html
18-07-2021||India||Oppn to target govt over Covid, inflation, farm stir in House||The Centre’s management of the Covid-19 pandemic, price rise, the ongoing farmers’ agitation and implications of US troops pulling out of Afghanistan will be the focus of the Opposition strategy during the monsoon session of Parliament starting from Monday, representatives of various parties told Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu during a meeting on Saturday.During the meeting, the Opposition members also underlined the need for more scrutiny of bills by parliamentary committees.Responding to their suggestions, Naidu said though it is for the central government to take a view on referring bills to parliamentary committees, it may be “done to the extent possible”.He also urged the ministers, particularly the parliamentary affairs minister, to reach out to leaders of various parties and apprise them of key bills pending for passage, said a person aware of the details, who did not wish to be named. “The chairperson said all issues can be discussed in the House, but none should seek to force their own position on the others,” the person added.Naidu also called for upholding the spirit of cooperation in the House and said: “A dysfunctional Parliament adds to the prevailing gloom and hence all sections of the House should ensure a smooth and productive session as it offers an opportunity to address the concerns of the people affected by Covid-19.”According to people aware of the details, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP, Derek O’Brien had underscored the need for more scrutiny of bills by the Parliamentary committees.“He pointed out that while 60% of the bills were sent for Parliamentary scrutiny during the UPA1, the number was 71% during UPA2. During the current dispensation, the percentages of bills referred to the committees was 25% (NDA1) and 11% (NDA2),” said a person privy to the meeting.The TMC MP also tweeted that scrutiny of bills has “dropped drastically” and that the government should ensure discussions and calling attention motions are listed weekly and ensure rules and precedents are implemented.Opposition MPs have been raising the issue of lack of scrutiny of bills by Parliamentary committees. The Opposition leaders also asked for taking up issues of “broader concerns” for discussion in the House.“Leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge proposed discussion on the situation caused by Covid-19, including its impact on economy and employment, poverty, the possibility of a third wave and the government’s preparations for it, the ongoing farmers protest, China’s actions along the border, situation in Jammu and Kashmir and issues related to cooperative federalism,” said the person quoted above.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar suggested a discussion on the situation in Afghanistan and the implications of the withdrawal of US troops from the region.Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Binoy Viswam said the Chairperson assured the Opposition members that issues raised by the smaller parties in particular will be allocated time.The government on Friday said it is ready with facts and data to answer the questions that the Opposition will put forth during the upcoming monsoon session. “The government will respond to all the questions and issues that the Opposition raises...,” said a minister on condition of anonymity. Parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi informed the meeting that the government has identified 29 bills, including six ordinances replacing bills and two items of financial business, for the session.Among those present at the meeting were the newly appointed Leader of the House Piyush Goyal, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-to-target-govt-over-covid-inflation-farm-stir-in-house-101626548597090.html
18-07-2021||India||Meeting with Modi touched upon issues of national interest: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar appeared to downplay the speculation around his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, stating that they held discussions “on various issues of national interest”, including the Banking Amendments Act and the cooperative sector.The meeting, held against the backdrop of talks of fissures among Maharashtra’s ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies and the Enforcement Directorate’s action against NCP leaders Anil Deshmukh and Eknath Khadse created buzz in the political circles. Pawar had earlier in the week also met senior BJP leaders and Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Rajnath Singh.“Met the Hon’ble Prime Minister of our country Narendra Modi. Had a discussion on various issues of national interest,” Pawar said in a tweet.The 80-year-old former Maharashtra chief minister also tweeted a letter he wrote to the PM about the amendment to the Banking Act.“I reiterated in the letter that the aims and objectives of the amended Act are well-intentioned and many provisions are necessary… but at the same time it should be ensured that while doing so, the cooperative principles laid down in the Constitution are not sacrificed at the altar of over-zealous regulation,” Pawar said.The letter comes days after the Centre formed a new ministry of cooperation under home minister Amit Shah.NCP national spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik said there were no political implications of Pawar’s meetings with BJP leaders. He said the MVA partners knew about the meeting and “even CM Uddhav Thackeray was apprised of this meeting [with PM]”. “Pawar’s meeting [with Modi] took place as per the pre-determined appointment. Piyush Goyal had called on Pawar saheb as a courtesy call after his appointment as leader of the house. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had convened a meeting at his office with two former defence ministers Sharad Pawar and AK Antony yesterday…The speculation has no substance,” Malik said.Political analyst Hemant Desai, however, said that it would be wrong to assume that the meeting had no political implications. “NCP has been ambiguous on many fronts and has never taken a strong stand against the BJP and Modi. BJP is any way in the search of new allies ahead of the 2024 elections, so it would be wrong to say there was nothing political in this meeting,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-with-modi-touched-uponissues-of-national-interest-pawar-101626548417132.html
18-07-2021||India||16k cases in Kerala as Covid spike continues||Kerala reported 16,148 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Saturday – the highest single-day increase in infections in over a month – as outbreak continued to expand again in the state which is currently India’s biggest Covid-19 hot spot.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the high volume of cases coming out of the state is a matter of concern and emphasised the need for more vigil and surveillance.The test positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive for Covid-19 – remains the highest among India’s populous states. On Saturday, the positivity rate in the state was 10.8%. On average, 10.3% of all samples tested in the past week in the state have returned positive – nearly five times the national average of 2.1%. Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with increasing new cases, it indicates that the virus is spreading fast within the community.While the second wave of Covid has been receding in most regions in the country over the past two months, Kerala has been witnessing rising infections over the past four weeks, data shows.The seven-day average of daily infections in the state, which had dropped to 11,357 for the week ended June 27, has now again climbed to 13,409 cases a day in the past week. While this number has dropped more than 90% from peak of second wave across India, it has only fallen 65% in Kerala, data shows. This has resulted in the state becoming the biggest outbreak centre in the country. More than one-third of all infections reported across India in the past week have been in the state.The CM, however, put up a brave front and reiterated that there is no need of panic as the state’s healthcare system is equipped to deal with the rising cases. “High caseload is due to increased tests. We have set a high testing target and have been moving towards this. Even at the peak of second wave, the state did not utilise 70% of its hospital infrastructure. No oxygen shortage is reported here,” Vijayan said.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had expressed concern over high volume of cases in Kerala and Maharashtra during a meeting with the CMs of six states.“It is true the state is reporting a lion’s share these days. We hope situation will stabilise by month-end,” said public health expert Dr N M Arun. To be sure, Kerala has performed the best in terms of deaths being reported among those infected with the virus. On average, while 1.5% of all reported cases across India have resulted in deaths, only 0.5% of confirmed Covid patients have died in Kerala.Central government ministers, however, said that the state wasn’t following a scientific approach, “ Instead of reaping political benefits out of pandemic control measures, it has to go by the guidelines of the Union Government and Indian Council of Medical Research,” said minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, who is from Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16k-cases-in-kerala-as-covid-spike-continues-101626548237173.html
18-07-2021||India||India administers 400mn coronavirus vaccine shots||India on Saturday crossed 400-million mark in the number of coronavirus vaccine doses administered across the country so far – a key milestone in the country’s inoculation drive, making it the highest number of shots given among any nation in the world with the exception of China.Until Saturday night, 404.5 million shots had been administered across the country to 318.4 million people, according to data released by the Union health ministry. This translates into a little over one-third of India’s eligible population (currently only people above the age of 18 years qualify for shots) having received at least one dose of the vaccine – 25.2% of India’s adults are partially vaccinated, and 8.7% have received both doses.But despite this milestone, India has the unique and monumental task of inoculating the world’s second largest population with nearly two-thirds of the eligible population yet to receive a single jab. The country’s vaccination drive, meanwhile, faces challenges such as constraints regarding supplies and production, and a heavily fluctuating pace of shot administration.“India takes another leap in the fight against #COVID19 by administering more than 40 crore vaccine doses so far under the world’s #LargestVaccineDrive!” said the ministry of health in a tweet on Saturday.Also on Saturday, two panchayats in Jammu and Kashmir completed 100% vaccination for everyone above the age of 18 years, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said. They join Ladakh, which achieved the feat earlier this month, as regions that have given single shots to their entire eligible populations. “I want to congratulate the ASHA [workers] and the people of the two panchayats in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajauri district for 100% vaccination. The way they have taken the vaccination drive to the most inaccessible places is admirable,” the minister said.India’s vaccination drive, which kicked off on January 16, has seen huge fluctuations so far. The drive picked up pace in April after it was opened up for everyone over the age of 45 years, but numbers remained low through May despite vaccinations being thrown open to everyone over the age of 18. This forced the central government to announce a change in procurement strategy, where the Centre purchased 75% of all vaccine doses and gave it to states for free starting June 21. As the latest vaccine policy kicked off, the vaccination rate briefly soared to its highest ever, but has again slowed down over the past few weeks. In the past week, India has averaged administration of around 4.1 million shots a day – a drop of over 36% of the peak levels seen in the third week of June. State governments too have said lately that they are facing severe scarcity of doses, and that some of them have had to close down some vaccination centres due to patchy supply. On Wednesday, Mandaviya said that vaccine availability in July was increased from 120 million doses to 135 million. Till the evening of July 17, nearly 64 million doses had been administered in the month.On Friday, during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with the chief ministers of six states regarding the Covid-19 outbreak, the CMs of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu stressed on the need for increased vaccine supply. The PM assured them of all possible help in taking forward the Covid-19 vaccination drive.These states were in addition to several regions such as Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Odisha, who have over the past week raised concerns over their diminishing vaccine supplies.Earlier this week, Mandaviya had said that “misinformed” statements were being put out to “create panic” among people regarding vaccine supply. He added that states knew “well in advance” the time and volume of doses they were scheduled to get, so any supply shortage was the result of “mismanagement” at the state level.Till Saturday morning, 416 million doses of vaccines have been sent to states, with another 1.8 million doses in the pipeline, according to the government data.Experts, however, stressed that with less than 10% of the country’s adults fully vaccinated, it still leaves a massive task at hand for the government.“Having fully vaccinated less than 10% of the eligible population is too small a fraction if our aim is to inoculate a big enough proportion of the country to reduce the transmission of the infection... We need to vaccinate at least 40-50% of the eligible population (to achieve that),” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore. He said that in order to solve the issue of patchy vaccine supply and production, the government should have started stockpiling vaccines when they entered Phase 3 of trials. “Once vaccine candidates pass Phase 1 and 2 of trials, we know there’s a good chance they will get approved. The government should have started ordering doses then. Instead they waited till the drug regulator approved the vaccines and bought stockpiles that were created by the companies. The manufacturing capacity has been increased only in the last couple of months, the effect of which will only be seen August onwards,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-400mn-coronavirus-vaccine-shots-101626548177180.html
18-07-2021||India||Punjab formula will be accepted by all, says CM||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said on Saturday that he will accept any decision of the Congress high command on changes in the state unit but, people aware of the situation said, he refused to meet Navjot Singh Sidhu unless the latter made a public apology for tweets and statements critical of the state government.The developments suggest the apology may lead to a possible way for the two Punjab leaders to reach a compromise. Sidhu is tipped to take over as the head of the party’s state unit, but the elevation has been stuck over objections from Singh, who on Friday wrote a letter to the Congress central leadership warning of a split if Sidhu were to be elevated.The state is due for elections early next year and both leaders enjoy wide support. The Congress has rushed Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge to deal with the situation.“Had a fruitful meeting with @harishrawatcmuk. Reiterating that any decision of @INCIndia President will be acceptable to all. Raised certain issues which he said he’ll take up with @INCIndia president: @capt_amarinder,” the chief minister’s media adviser Raveen Thukral said in tweet after Singh and Rawat met.According to a person aware of the developments, Singh made his precondition for the apology known to Rawat when the latter suggested the CM and Sidhu meet.“Capt told the state in-charge that he will not meet Sidhu till he tenders a public apology for putting out hundreds of derogatory tweets and statements in the media against him,” said one of the people aware of the matter, asking not to be named.“One thing is very clear... Captain Amarinder Singh ji who had earlier made a ‘mahan’ (great) statement that that whatever decision will be taken by the Congress president will be honoured by him reiterated that statement today,” Rawat told reporters.The truce formula also involves the appointment of four working presidents to balance caste and religious equations, a second person aware of the discussions said, asking not to be named. Amarinder cautioned the central leadership that if Sidhu, a Jat Sikh, is appointed the state unit chief, it could lead to a split in the party, and advocated for a Hindu face for the position.In his meeting with Rawat, Singh conveyed his displeasure over the way the central leadership handled the infighting in Punjab, particularly what he said was insufficient consultation, premature announcements and deliberate leaks, the first person quoted above said.Sidhu has in recent months made several tweets and appeared on media interviews accusing the chief minister of colluding with the rival Shiromani Akal Dal’s Badals, promoting mafia raj, and allowing corruption in the government.Several cabinet ministers sought action against Sidhu for repeatedly targeting the chief minister in public for several weeks, but the high command was not seen to have acted on these. Sidhu has held meetings recently with the Gandhis.On Saturday, Sidhu was in Chandigarh and called on several senior party leaders, starting with the incumbent state chief Sunil Jakhar. Their meeting lasted nearly 45 minutes during which he sought Jakhar’s support and margdarshan (guidance). “He (Jakhar) is an elder brother and a guiding force,” Sidhu told reporters after they came out together.Jakhar said Sidhu is “very capable and does not need any guidance”.Sidhu also met cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa at his residence in Chandigarh where party MLAs Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Barindermeet Singh Pahra, Devender Singh Ghubaya, Kulbir Singh Zira, Darshan Singh Brar were also present.A day earlier, on Friday, Sidhu called on Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo, both former presidents of Punjab Congress and known rivals of the chief minister.On Saturday, after the CM met Rawat, he was visited by Bajwa and assembly speaker Rana KP Singh and cabinet minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi.Bajwa has been a strident critic of the CM for most part of his current tenure and their meeting signalled a possible realignment of forces in the state Congress. “Good to see @Partap_Sbajwa & @capt_amarinder together along with our Hon’ble Speaker @RanakpINC & @iranaosodhi. Partap who I know since 1983 and Captain Sahib would make a good team for the times ahead. He is an old dyed in the wool Congress man,” said senior Congress leader and MP Manish Tewari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-formula-will-be-accepted-by-all-says-cm-101626547098180.html
18-07-2021||India||Indigenous anti-drone technology to be made available soon: Shah||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and other agencies are working on indigenous counter-drone technology, and it will be available soon, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Saturday and added that all gaps in India’s border fencing will be covered by 2022.The comments came over two weeks after a drone was used to target the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu with explosives on June 27. The explosives left two personnel injured. Drones have since been repeatedly spotted hovering over military installations in the region.“Smuggling of drugs, arms, and explosives through tunnels and drones is a major challenge. Today, it is very important for us to deal with these challenges at the earliest. I am confident that we will soon increase our presence at the borders with Swadeshi (made-in-India) anti-drone technology,” Shah said at an investiture ceremony of the Border Security Force (BSF).The June 27 attack on the IAF station was the first such instance of Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital installations in India. The National Investigation Agency is investigating the case. There have been several incidents of terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs, and money to fuel terrorism in the region. At least 300 drones have been sighted along the border there with Pakistan since 2019.HT last week reported several rounds of meetings have been held between various agencies and private players on a technology to detect, identify and mitigate the threat of rogue drones. A procurement plan for it is at an advanced stage.Shah told top security officers at the investiture ceremony that it is their responsibility to find new technology with help of experts to help India deal with the threat of the use of Artificial Intelligence and robotics technology by enemies and terrorists.Intelligence Bureau chief Aravind Kumar, Research and Analysis Wing head Samant Goel, BSF director general Rakesh Asthana and heads of other central police forces attended the ceremony.Shah said all gaps in India’s border fencing will be filled by 2022 to completely end the infiltration and other anti-national activities.India shares over 15,000 km land border with Pakistan, Bangladesh, China, Myanmar, Nepal, and Bhutan.Fencing has been sanctioned over 2,069 km of the 3,323-km-long India-Pakistan border. It has been completed over 2,021 km. India shares a 4,096-km-long border with Bangladesh. About 3063.24 km of it has been fenced.The government last year approved a plan to replace the old with a new design fencing with “anti-cut, anti-rust, and anti-climb features”. Shah cited the hurdles in the fencing at certain stretches--habitations within 150 yards of the border, pending land acquisition and protests by the border populations, and bureaucratic hurdles. He added these hurdles often delay the fencing progress. He added the issues were being sorted out through discussions.“If 97% border is fenced, then that 3% is part of the problem as it leaves an opportunity for the infiltrators. The government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked towards resolving the border security issues. There is no benefit if there are gaps. So, I can assure you that there will be no gaps in fencing on the border by 2022,” said Shah. “A country cannot be secure if its borders are not secure.”Shah praised the BSF for its work in guarding borders and especially in detecting tunnels used by terrorists and smugglers. He urged the paramilitary forces deployed at different borders to make sure the local populations do not migrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-counter-drone-technology-very-soon-shah-101626511996661.html
