19-07-2021||India||Will continue to speak my mind, says Manipur activist Erendro Leichombam released on SC order||GUWAHATI: Manipur political activist Erendro Leichombam, who was released on Monday evening on orders of the Supreme Court, said he will continue to speak his mind irrespective of the consequences. Leichombam was picked up from his house on May 13 for his post on Facebook on the death of BJP’s Manipur unit president S Tikendra Singh due to Covid-19. In his post, Leichombam also stressed that cow urine and dung isn’t a cure for the infection.“I have been targeted by the state government in the past and am sure it will happen again. But I am not afraid and will express what I think is right. I will continue to raise my voice and speak my mind,” Leichombam told HT, moments after his release from an Imphal jail.Leichombam also underlined that journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem who was also arrested on May 13 after a post on the state BJP leader’s death, is still behind bars. “I have mixed feelings following my release as my friend Kishorechandra is still in prison. I would have been happier if he was also out,” Leichombam said.Leichombam, who has worked with World Bank and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), co-founded Peoples’ Resurgence and Justice Alliance outfit along with activist Irom Sharmila and unsuccessfully contested the 2016 Manipur elections from the Thangmeiband seat.A bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah had ordered Leichombam’s release on a petition by his father L Raghumani Singh, telling the authorities to ensure his release by 5pm.“We are of the view that continued detention of the petitioner before this court would amount to violation of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the bench held. The court directed that Erendro should be released forthwith subject to filing of a personal release bond and a surety of ₹1000. “We approached the Supreme Court as we felt that there were sufficient grounds to secure Leichombam’s release as the provisions of NSA were incorrectly slapped on him. The SC order has come as a relief,” said Leichombam’s lawyer Victor Chongtham over phone from Imphal after his release. In July last year, Leichombam was booked for sedition for a Facebook post on Manipur’s titular king, Sanajaoba Leishemba, greeting union home minister Amit Shah after the former’s election to the Rajya Sabha. “Wangkhem is still behind bars. We have not yet decided on what approach we will take to secure his release. But based on Leichombam’s order we are hopeful that he will also be out soon,” said Chongtham.Wangkhem, a popular TV journalist, was first arrested in November 2018 for uploading a video on social media which was critical of the government of Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh. Several charges under IPC that included sedition and National Security Act were slapped against him. He was released in April 2019 after the Manipur high court revoked his detention. He was again arrested in September 2020 on charges of sedition and promoting enmity between different groups on social media. Wangkhem was released in December 2020 following which joined Frontier Manipur and started hosting a talk show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-to-speak-my-mind-says-manipur-activist-erendro-leichombam-released-on-sc-order-101626718470492.html
19-07-2021||India||Actress Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra arrested in porn film creation case||The property cell of the Mumbai Crime Branch arrested Raj Kundra, a renowned businessman and husband of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty Kundra in connection with the case of a pornography racket busted by Mumbai police in February. The police have arrested a total of nine accused in this case, officials said. “The crime branch registered a case in February about the creation of pornography films and publishing them through some apps. After investigation, we have arrested Raj Kundra in the case as he appears to be the key conspirator of this. We have sufficient evidence regarding the case,” stated the press release issued by Mumbai Police. Kundra was called by the property cell and he reached the office at 8 pm. He was arrested after questioning, said a police officer. Earlier, the property cell had arrested Umesh Kamat who had claimed in his statement that he used to work in the company of Kundra.Kamat lives in Vashi, Navi Mumbai, and his name cropped up during interrogation of model and actress Gehana Vasisth who was arrested on February 6. Kamat used to work for a UK-based firm as a coordinator and used to take obscene videos from Vasisth and send those videos to the UK-based firm that later used to upload them on an app called ‘hotshots’, said the police official.The racket was busted on February 4, when an official of the property cell raided a bungalow in Madh area, Malad (West) and arrested five accused of their alleged involvement in luring young women and men on the pretext of offering roles into web series and short films. They allegedly forced them to act in a pornographic film instead. The obscene videos were then uploaded on mobile apps and several other porn websites by the accused. Initially, police arrested persons during a raid. One among those arrested was Rowa Khan alias Yasmeen who claimed to be a producer-director; photographer Monu Sharma, and creative director Pratibha Nalawade along with and two actors, Arish Shaikh and Bhanu Thakur.After questioning them, actress Vasisth’s role was also found in the creation and uploading of obscene videos on the mobile app, she was also arrested in the case. The police seized several instruments worth Rs. 5.68 lakh which were used for shooting in the bungalow, including the accused’s mobile phones. During an inquiry, police learnt that Khan runs a mobile application ‘HotHit Movies’ where she uploads porn videos....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shilpa-shetty-s-husband-businessman-raj-kundra-arrested-for-involvement-in-porn-film-creation-101626717449891.html
19-07-2021||India||India crosses 41-crore Covid-19 vaccination milestone||India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage on Monday crossed 41 crore (41,13,55,665), according to the data updated by the health ministry at 7pm.The day also saw 47,77,697 lakh of Covid-19 vaccines being administered throughout the country till 7pm in the evening.The health ministry showed as many as 22,38,900 doses were administered to beneficiaries who took the jab for the first time while 1,48,075 people in 18-44 years age group got the second dose in a single day on Monday.“Cumulatively, 12,73,70,809 persons in the age group 18-44 years across 37 states and UTs have received their first dose and a total of 50,58,284 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive,” a statement released by the health department read.The Centre launched the third phase of the universal vaccination on June 21, under which it decided to vaccinated all adults against the coronavirus disease.The government said three states, including Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, have administered more than 1 crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the 18-44 age group so far.On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-41-crore-covid-19-vaccination-milestone-101626715483741.html
19-07-2021||India||Stalin says no talks with Karnataka over Mekedatu project||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday ruled out any talks with Karnataka over the proposed construction of the Mekedatu reservoir across the Cauvery river. Stalin met President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi on Monday and he was responding to reporters when asked if he would participate in talks with Karnataka on the issue.“No scope for talks (with Karnataka). Our water resources minister (S Duraimurugan) has made our stand clear,” Stalin told reporters at the Delhi airport before returning to Chennai.“The Prime Minister has given us an assurance. The Jal Shakti minister has also assured us (that the project will not be implemented). The issue is before the Supreme Court. We will face the issue legally,” he said.Stalin’s comments come in the backdrop of Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa writing to him on July 3 and inviting him for talks to clear apprehensions over the project.While responding to Yediyurappa’s letter, Stalin didn’t address the invitation for bilateral talks but he registered Tamil Nadu’s strong opposition to the 9000-crore project. Successive governments in Tamil Nadu have challenged the project stating that it would disrupt the natural flow of water from Cauvery which originates in Karnataka and irrigates Tamil Nadu’s agrarian regions.Stalin held an all-party meeting on July 12 so that Tamil Nadu can speak in one voice as Karnataka is assertive in its plans to go ahead with the project. Tamil Nadu’s petition challenging the project in the Supreme Court in 2018 is pending. On July 16 representatives from 13 political parties in Tamil Nadu, led by S Duraimurugan, flew to Delhi to hand over a resolution to Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat urging them to not give Karnataka clearance for the project.Though the BJP is in power at the Centre and in Karnataka, the party’s unit in Tamil Nadu is siding with the state. The NDA government in Puducherry has also opposed the project. When asked if Tamil Nadu will hold talks with other lower riparian states such as Puducherry and Kerala that have a share in Cauvery water, Stalin said that there was no necessity for it now.In his meeting with the President, Stalin denied having spoken about the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. He had written a letter to the President in May urging him to remit their life sentence and release them early. “We will face the issue legally as it is pending in the Supreme Court, and the DMK will voice for their release,” he said.Stalin was on his second visit to Delhi after taking charge as chief minister on May 7. He invited the President to attend the centenary year celebrations of the Madras Legislative Council established in 1921 under the then British rule. It would include unveiling a portrait of his father and five-time chief minister M Karunanidhi in the Assembly hall.Stalin also invited President Kovind to lay the foundation stone for new projects that the two-month-old DMK has announced - construction of a library in Madurai, a super speciality hospital in Chennai and a memorial tower to mark 75 years of Independence on the city’s Marina Beach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-says-no-talks-with-karnataka-over-mekedatu-project-101626716609467.html
19-07-2021||India||India has been offered 7.5 million doses of Moderna vaccine through Covax: WHO||The Government of India is holding discussions with Covid-19 manufacturers Moderna and Pfizer over several issues including indemnity waiver, Dr VK Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog said on Friday.Earlier, Dr VK Paul told ANI that government is in touch with the companies and holding discussions, "We are in touch with them. We are holding discussions. It is a process of negotiation and dialogues. We are trying to get a solution on contractual and commitments issues. This process is ongoing."Keeping in view of the above developments, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional director of World Health Organisation (WHO) South East Asia told ANI that India has been offered 7.5 million doses of Moderna vaccine through Covax."In June, US biotechnology company Moderna announced that India has granted permission for its Covid-19 vaccine to be imported into the country for restricted use in an emergency situation.Pfizer has not even applied for an emergency use authorisation in the country.Moderna and Pfizer had sought indemnity which would ensure that they can't be booked in case of any adverse effect of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-been-offered-7-5-million-doses-of-moderna-vaccine-through-covax-who-101626713807061.html
19-07-2021||India||AAP won’t be able to even open account in Goa: CM Sawant slams Arvind Kejriwal’s free electricity promise||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday took a dig at his Delhi counterpart and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) national convener Arvind Kejriwal over his promise to provide free electricity in the state if it comes to power next year.Kejriwal, who was in Goa on July 14 as a part of next year’s election campaign, unveiled four guarantees to the state’s populace with regard to the power sector.Also Read| 'Kejriwal jo kehta hai...': Delhi CM promises free electricity in Goa if AAP wins 2022 pollsKejriwal said that every family will get 300 units of electricity per month for free, all old and pending electricity bills will be waived off, there will be 24x7 supply of electricity in Goa and farmers of the state will also get free electricity. Apart from Goa, he has made similar promises in Uttarakhand and Punjab, which are also due for elections in 2022.There are some people who won't be able to even open their accounts in Goa. So they can say or offer anything. People of Goa are very smart & they won't take such things seriously: Goa CM Pramod Sawant on AAP's promise to provide free electricity to people of Goa pic.twitter.com/bmN8fxTenKSpeaking to news agency ANI, Goa chief minister Sawant, who is also leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said on Monday that the AAP won’t be able to even open its account in the state. “They can promise to bring moon and stars, but the people of Goa are intelligent and they know the reality; eople of Goa will not take them seriously”, he added.Highlighting BJP’s footprint in Goa with 28 of the total 40 seats, the chief minister said that the Arvind Kejriwal party thinks that it could “open an account in the state by speaking anything.”Sawant’s comments on AAP’s electricity promise come just three days after Goa power minister Nilesh Cabral on Friday urged the state’s residents not to get carried away with the promise of free electricity, adding such promises could harm the state in the long term.Cabral claimed a large number of people in Delhi were fed up with the AAP’s model of governance based on freebies and had vented out their anger on social media platforms, according to PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-sawant-hits-out-at-arvind-kejriwal-s-free-electricity-promise-in-state-101626711789505.html
19-07-2021||India||Manipur exempts e-commerce, dairy biz from the 10-day coronavirus curfew||The Manipur government on Monday exempted certain services from the 10-day complete curfew imposed in the state from Sunday to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. The new order has exempted e-commerce and those involved in dairy business.The declaration was made by chief secretary Rajesh Kumar ,who is also chairman of the state disaster management authority. “The undersigned in the exercise of the powers conferred under Section 20(2)(a) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 in his capacity as Chairperson, State Executive Committee of the State Disaster Management Authority, hereby also allows the following additional activities,” the government release said.Post offices have also been allowed to operate with minimal staff for urgent office work and delivery. Individuals involved in the dairy industry for collection and home delivery of milk and feeding of animals and birds in government farms, and e-Commerce delivery agents have been exempted from the order.Also Read: Total curfew in Manipur begins under tight security to curb Covid transmissionsBanking and ATM services will continue as per the earlier order, which said banks can remain open with limited staff on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 10 am to 2:30 pm for urgent government and non-government transactions only, while ATM services, including refilling cash in ATMs, will continue.A minimum number of employees of the Consumer Affair Food and Public Distribution, Food Corporation of India have also been exempted. Officials and workers from the Forest Department, National Highways and Infrastructure Development, Asian Development Banks, and those employed at various railway projects have also been exempted.The curfew, which will continue till July 27, was imposed after the Delta variant of Coronavirus was detected in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-exempts-e-commerce-dairy-biz-from-the-10-day-coronavirus-curfew-101626714607906.html
19-07-2021||India||‘Not a shred of evidence to link govt or BJP to controversy’: RS Prasad on Pegasus leak||Reports by an international media consortium that claim Indian politicians, journalists, judges and at least two serving ministers could have been among those targeted for hacking through Israeli spyware that is sold only to governments have snowballed into a political slugfest between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition.While the opposition parties are demanding a probe and raised the issue in Parliament, the BJP has denied any link to the wrongdoing.On Monday former IT and telecom Minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad said there is “not even a shred of evidence” to link the BJP or the Union government to the entire Pegasus snooping controversy and raised questions about the timing of the story coinciding with the monsoon session of Parliament.Responding to the Congress party’s demand for an independent probe into the issue, he said,” We strongly refute, condemn the baseless and bereft of political propriety comments of the Congress party. This is a new low in the political discourse of the party that has ruled India for 50 years.”The former minister, during a press briefing, said the country has a robust system and specific laid down rules and procedures that allow tracking or tapping phones for national security purposes.Referring to the statement made by IT minister Ashwini Vaishnav in Parliament on the controversy, Prasad said, “The IT minister confirmed today that lawful interception of electronic communication can only be made as per relevant rules under provisions of section 5(2) of Indian telegraph act, 1885, and section 69 of the information technology act 2000.”Raising questions about the timing of the reports, the minister said the question to ask is that if 45 plus countries are using the cases then why is India being targeted only.He went on to say those who broke the story themselves did not claim that a presence of a particular number in the database does not confirm that it is infected with the spyware. ”The whole story has broken out just one day before the monsoon session, what is the agenda behind this? Why is India being targeted?”The former minister also questioned if the targeting has anything to do with India’s handling of the Covid crisis and the vaccination drive. ”Is it an attempt to block the story of India’s development which is Atmanirbhar and full of confidence? Are some people upset that India is making strides and getting the highest FDI?” he questioned.Training his guns at the Congress, Prasad said, it was during the UPA rule that the then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee wrote to the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh complaining that his phone was being tapped at the behest of then home minister P Chidambaram. “In 2013, there were news reports based on RTI queries that peoples’ phones had been tapped,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-shred-of-evidence-to-link-govt-or-bjp-to-controversy-rs-prasad-on-pegasus-leak-101626712529181.html
19-07-2021||India||Uproar in Rajya Sabha over new minister's nationality, govt slams Oppn claims||The Narendra Modi government on Monday dismissed on Monday demands of the Opposition to discuss in the Rajya Sabha the nationality of Minister of State for Home Nisith Pramanik and slammed them for casting aspersions on a leader from a tribal community. When Opposition members, led by TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, sought to raise the issue alleging Pramanik was a Bangaldeshi national (without naming him), Union Minister and Leader of the House Piyush Goyal said such remarks should be expunged as it was an insult to Pramanik and the society to which he belongs. As the issue triggered an uproar, the House was adjourned till 3pm.Without naming the minister, Sekhar said, “Go through Wikipedia, you will find the name of a gentleman… A Minister of State for Home Affairs is a reportedly a Bangladeshi.” Soon after, Kharge said, “I have every right to know whether he is a Bangladeshi or not."Last week, Rajya Sabha member and Assam Congress president Ripun Bora had written to Modi seeking an inquiry into the matter. Pramanik was made a junior minister in the home and sports departments in the recent revamp of the Union Cabinet. Ever since his elevation, a number of allegations have been raised against him, including questions being raised about his educational qualifications.Pramanik’s silence on the issues have provided fodder to the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state and is also making news in home district of Cooch Behar.However, some BJP leaders said Pramanik has been busy with two key portfolios and will respond at the right time.The controversy reportedarose after several Bangladeshi media outlets published stories of how Pramanik’s ancestral village celebrated his elevation as a Union minister and that some of his relatives distributed sweets over the matter.Bora has reportedly claimed in his letter that Pramanik was born in Bangladesh. He was born in Harinathpur village under Palashbari police station in the neighbouring country, he wrote.Earlier, Modi was prevented from introducing his newly inducted Union ministers to Rajya Sabha as several slogan-shouting opposition members trooped into the Well of the House to protest over various issues, including farm laws and fuel price hike.Questioning the opposition's conduct, Modi wondered "what kind of mindset is this" that prevents them from giving respect to the new ministers who are women, Dalits and come from Scheduled Tribes and OBC communities.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uproar-in-rajya-sabha-over-new-minister-s-nationality-govt-slams-oppn-claims-101626711877427.html
19-07-2021||India||Kerala reports 2 more cases of Zika virus, tally climbs to 37||KKerala health minister Veena George said on Monday that two more people have tested positive for Zika virus, taking the state’s tally to 37. Of total, seven patients are undergoing treatment.Monday’s cases include a 41-year-old woman from Kattaikonam, Thiruvananthapuram and a 31-year-old doctor from Kumarapuram, George said in a release. The virus was confirmed in tests carried out at the Virology Lab of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, she said, adding the health of all those infected is satisfactory at present.Kerala, which is already grappling with an increased spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), saw the outbreak of the Zika virus on July 8 when 14 people were found to be infected. These included a 24-year-old pregnant woman from Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram. Later, she gave birth and both the mother and the baby were stable, Hindustan Times reported.Five cases of the deadly virus were reported on Saturday, while two more were found to be infected on Friday. Earlier, health minister Veena George on Friday held a meeting with state revenue minister K Rajan on July 16 and the two decided to work together to prevent the spread of Zika virus along with other communicable diseases.With a view to ensure that Kerala’s medical infrastructure, which is dealing with a rising number of Covid-19 cases, is not overburdened, the state ministers decided to formulate district-wise action plans at the earliest in order to prevent further spread of the Zika Virus.Meanwhile, the state’s Covid-19 positivity rate crossed 11 per cent on Monday after 9,931 new infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 3,170,868. Fifty-eight more people succumbed to the viral disease in the said period, taking the toll to 15,408.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-2-more-cases-of-zika-virus-tally-climbs-to-37-101626708520602.html
19-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC to enter national politics on July 21 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.TMC to enter nat'l politics on July 21, Mamata govt in Delhi next: Madan MitraThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) will expand its base and enter national politics through virtual events on July 21, a special day in the Bengal ruling camp’s calendar, said party leader Madan Mitra. Read MoreHad great respect for Stan Swamy’s work, says high court at his ‘bail hearing’The Bombay High Court said it had dealt with the medical bail applications of Elgar Parishad accused including Stan Swamy, Varavara Rao and Hany Babu on humane considerations by acceding to their request to be transferred to private hospitals of their choice despite vehement opposition from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and state prison authorities. Read MoreVaccine trials for kids: 2nd dose of Covaxin to be administered next weekHyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited may next week administer second dose of its anti-Covid shot, Covaxin, to children in the age group of 2-6 as part of its vaccination trials for kids. Read More‘If you want to win T20 World Cup, you need players like them’: Harbhajan lauds Shaw, Kishan's batting against SLVeteran Indian off-spinner Harbhajan Singh has lavished praise on young batsmen Ishan Kishan and Prithvi Shaw for their powerful knocks, helping Team India win the first ODI against Sri Lanka by 7 wickets on Sunday. Read MorePinch 2 teaser: Salman Khan reacts as fan demands money back, says ‘paisa nahi churaya...’Arbaaz Khan is set to return with the new season of his chat show, Pinch, and his first guest is Salman Khan. Read MoreKatrina Kaif rocks the cutest brunch outfit in ₹7k floral crop top, shortsIt is no secret that floral prints are a forever favourite of the fashion lovers universally and since crop tops are a raging trend, Katrina Kaif clubbed both to sizzle the monsoon style and give a trendy look. Read MoreMumbai rain: Cop helps injured dad and his daughter reach safety. Watch videoMumbai has been battered by heavy rain which has caused water logging in several areas. Read MoreBoats on Thane streets; landslide near Mumbai; Gurugram roads flooded after rainRain lashed parts of Maharashtra, Delhi-NCR on Monday. The downpour caused waterlogging at several places. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-to-enter-national-politics-on-july-21-and-all-the-latest-news-101626707256579.html
19-07-2021||India||Over 81% people in Ahmedabad have Covid-19 antibodies, serological survey finds||A serological survey of around 5,000 people from across Ahmedabad in Gujarat has shown that 81.63% of the people had developed antibodies against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The survey also showed that people who had received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine had higher levels of seropositivity than those who are yet to be immunised against the disease.The seropositivity survey to study the presence of antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, was conducted by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), news agency PTI reported. It was conducted between May 28 and June 3, when the second wave of infections was subsiding, the report showed.As many as 5,001 samples were collected for the study and out of these, 32 samples were not considered citing various results. The results of the study were available for 4,969 samples that included 2,354 males and 2,615 females, Dr Bhavin Solanki, AMC medical officer of health, said, according to PTI. “We carry out sero-surveillance studies at regular intervals to detect antibodies. Overall, 80 per cent seropositivity has been detected in the general population of Ahmedabad. Those who took both the doses had high levels of seropositivity as compared to those who took none,” he added.Also read | Covid-19 antibodies last 9 months after infection, claims studyAs many as 4,056 samples contained antibodies against Covid-19 with 81.63% seropositivity. “A total of 1,938 males demonstrated the presence of antibodies, giving the positivity of 82.33%, while 2,118 females, which comes to 80.99%, had antibodies. Thus, the seropositivity is higher among males as compared to females,” PTI reported, citing the report by the AMC. This also included over 80% of the samples that possessed the antibodies on account of previous infections or the vaccination or both.Meanwhile, 2,887 people in the survey were not infected with Covid-19 in the past and were not vaccinated and 2,216 people among them had antibodies which accounts for 76.76%. On the contrary, 158 people were infected with Covid-19 in the past and also had taken two doses of the vaccine and 154 people among them had antibodies, the report further highlighted. Also, antibodies were found in 164 samples out of 173, who had Covid-19 earlier and had taken one dose of the vaccine.Among people who were vaccinated, those with previous infections had more antibodies than those that were never infected and those who had taken two doses of the vaccine had higher seropositivity than those with only one dose.“A majority of the vaccinated population in our sample were vaccinated with Covishield vaccine. Although there are very few who were vaccinated with Covaxin in our sample, people with Covaxin have slightly higher seropositivity as compared to Covishield,” PTI quoted from the survey. However, the report also highlighted that the available data is “insufficient” to comment on the status of herd immunity for the entire city. It further said that vaccination is needed for complete control over the pandemic situation.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-81-people-in-ahmedabad-have-covid-19-antibodies-serological-survey-finds-101626707621460.html
19-07-2021||India||TMC to enter nat'l politics on July 21, Mamata govt in Delhi next: Madan Mitra||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) will expand its base and enter national politics through virtual events on July 21, a special day in the Bengal ruling camp’s calendar, said party leader Madan Mitra. He further said Trinamool supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will form the next government in Delhi in 2024.Mitra, a legislator from Kamarhati, said the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election will be a deciding factor in the next general election, adding that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would not be able to hold on to its seat in the country’s most populous state.“On July 21, giant screens will come up in Tripura, Assam, Odisha, Bihar, Punjab, UP and Delhi. In 2024, there will be a Mamata Banerjee government in Delhi,” the former state transport minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mitra said the main event will happen in Delhi at the Constitution Club where Banerjee will virtually address the gathering from Kolkata. "The TMC will invite opposition leaders on July 21 which the party celebrates as Martyr's Day and which was organised virtually last year," he added. “This will be a step towards 'Delhi Chalo'. We have won Bengal again and the people outside the state have seen that Banerjee is the only person who can give a competition to the BJP,” he added."This time the slogan will be 'Modi Bharat Choro'. In UP elections, BJP will suffer a huge loss and it will be a deciding factor for 2024 whether or not the BJP will retain power," Mitra said.The Trinamool Congress observes July 21 to commemorate the police firing at a rally in 1993 in Kolkata organised by the Youth Congress under Banerjee’s leadership in which 13 people lost their lives.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-to-enter-nat-l-politics-on-july-21-mamata-govt-in-delhi-next-madan-mitra-101626705769907.html
19-07-2021||India||‘Aap chronology samajhiye…’: Amit Shah questions timing of Pegasus report||Referring to the reports of India using Israeli software Pegasus to hack phones of journalists, activists and ministers, Union home minister Amit Shah questioned the timing of such selective leaks. Hsaid it was done by global disrupters with the obstructors based in India.“People have often associated this phrase with me in a lighter vein but today I want to seriously say that the timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions… aap chronology samajhiye (understand the chronology) This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations that do not like India to progress. Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress. People of India are very good at understanding this chronology and connection,” Amit Shah said in a statement.Also Read| Illegal surveillance not possible: Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Pegasus Project“In what seemed like a perfect cue, late last evening we saw a report which has been amplified by a few sections with only one aim - to do whatever is possible and humiliate India at the world stage, peddle the same old narratives about our nation and derail India’s development trajectory,” he said.Reacting to opposition parties not allowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi to introduce his new cabinet colleagues in Parliament on Monday, Shah said that there are forces that aren’t able to digest India’s progress, but “disruptors and obstructers will not be able to derail India’s development trajectory through their conspiracies”.Asserting that the monsoon session of Parliament will bear new fruits of progress, Shah added, “The people of India have high hopes from the current Monsoon session. Key bills for the welfare of farmers, youngsters, women and the backward sections of society are lined up for debate and discussion.”Also Read| ‘Govt committed to right to privacy’: India’s response over Pegasus hackOn obstructing PM in introducing his new cabinet, Shah said, “…there are forces unable to digest this. They also want to derail national progress. This merits the question - to whose tune are these people dancing? Who wants to keep showing India in poor light? What pleasure do they get to time and again show India in a bad light?”Also Watch| Indian govt reacts to phone hacking report: Minister says bid to malign democracy | Pegasus row﻿Shah also targeted Congress and said that the party has “good past experience in trampling over democracy and with their own house not in order, they are now trying to derail anything progressive that comes up in Parliament.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-chronology-samajhiye-amit-shah-questions-timing-of-pegasus-leaks-101626705508460.html
19-07-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine trials for kids: 2nd dose of Covaxin to be administered next week, report says||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited may next week administer second dose of its anti-Covid shot, Covaxin, to children in the age group of 2-6 as part of its vaccination trials for kids, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan has reported citing an India Today report.Also Read | 'Taking all steps to safeguard...': Centre on children affected by Covid-19According to the report, which quoted officials of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), second dose of Covaxin has already been administered to children in the age group of 6-12. In view of an anticipated third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, vaccination trials on children have been underway in the country.Also Read | Need more data to begin Covid-19 vaccination for children at large: ICMR DGVaccine trials for kids are conducted by dividing them into different categories on the basis of their age, with 175 participants from each age group included. Once every participant has been injected with a second dose, an interim report is expected by the end of August. On the basis of this interim trial report, a decision will be taken if the vaccine is safe to be used on children.The expected timeline by which the interim report is likely to arrive is nearly in line with an earlier observation made by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, who said in June that Covaxin is likely to be approved for children in September.Also Read | Covaxin likely to be approved for children by Sept: Dr Randeep Guleria Covaxin, along with Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila's three-dose shot, ZyCov-D, are two vaccines which, experts believe, will be cleared for children in the near future. While Covaxin is already being used in the nationwide vaccination drive, Zydus Cadila on July 1 applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of its vaccine candidate for those aged 12 and above.Also Read | Zydus Cadila seeks DCGI nod for emergency use of its DNA vaccine for 12+ ageGovernment officials, however, have repeatedly said "more data" is required before an anti-coronavirus vaccine can be made available for children.Also Read | When would Zydus Cadila's anti-Covid vaccine be available for children? 'Need more data,' says Dr VK PaulCurrently, all Indian citizens above the age of 18 are eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19. A total of 406,481,493 vaccine doses have been administered since the beginning of the vaccination drive on January 16, according to Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-trials-for-kids-2nd-dose-of-covaxin-to-be-administered-next-week-report-says-101626700777298.html
19-07-2021||India||Tourists can't be stopped: Himachal CM Jairam Thakur amid third Covid wave fears||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur said on Monday it was not right to stop tourists in the hill state as the industry has been badly hit due to the coronavirus pandemic. He said all required steps were being taken and crowded places were being regulated to contain the spread of the viral disease.Thakur’s comments came amid concerns being raised by the Central government over tourists flouting coronavirus protocol at several places. Several experts have urged caution as fears of a third wave of the deadly virus loomed large on the country. The CM had said on Saturday the government wanted tourists to visit Himachal Pradesh, but they would have to follow norms. Earlier this month, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said that visuals from tourist spots of people mingling without adhering to protocols are a "serious cause of concern", and asserted that lowering of guard cannot be accepted at present.“You cannot stop tourists from entering the state. Tourism industry has been the worst affected in the aftermath of Covid-19. Hence, it is not right to stop these activities. What can be done is being done and crowded places are being regulated,” the Himachal CM was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Thakur, who held a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, said the latter sought details about the state’s developmental project. Modi also appreciated the hill state’s vaccine management efforts against the pandemic, the CM said. “I also apprised him of more vaccine requirement, so that the state does even better,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourists-can-t-stopped-himachal-cm-jairam-thakur-amid-third-covid-wave-fears-101626701819808.html
19-07-2021||India||Centre has provided at least 419 million Covid vaccine doses to states, UTs||The Centre has provided at least 419 million Covid vaccine doses across the country by now, as per the health ministry records on Sunday, July 18. Meanwhile, Delhi recorded no new deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday, the first time since March 2 that the pandemic did not claim a life in the national Capital.Delhi also cancelled the Kanwar Yatra, days after Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh called off the religious pilgrimage due to Covid-19 concerns.Also Read | Covid-19 antibodies last 9 months after infection, claims studyAs on Sunday, 8am, 419,968,590 doses had been provided to the states and Union Territories. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 394,297,344 doses. As many as 25,671,246 balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs and private hospitals. Another 1,575,140 doses are in the pipeline.Meanwhile, India on Monday recorded 38,164 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s cumulative tally to 31,144,229, according to an 8am update by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). With 38,660 fresh recoveries and 499 fatalities in the same period, the total number of recovered persons and the death toll has reached 30,308,456 and 414,108, respectively. The recovery rate of Covid-19 now stands at 97.31%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-provided-at-least-419-million-covid-vaccine-doses-to-states-uts-101626700829344.html
19-07-2021||India||Wet spell to continue as IMD predicts heavy rains across north, west regions||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday predicted widespread rainfall over the next two days along the western coast with isolated heavy rainfall in the Konkan region, Goa, Ghat areas and central Maharashtra. The present spell of heavy to very heavy downpour will also continue till July 20 over the western Himalayan region -- Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand -- and adjoining northwest India, comprising Punjab, Haryana, east Rajasthan, western Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh.Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Jammu division, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana till Tuesday. The IMD predicted moderate downpour at most places with isolated intense spells across the national capital of Delhi during the next 24 hours.This is because the western end of the monsoon trough continued to run in its normal position and may gradually shift northwards from Tuesday. Subsequently, a low pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal around July 23.The weather body also warned of moderate to severe lightning strikes at isolated places of Uttar Pradesh, north MP and east Rajasthan during the next 24 hours.Widespread downpour has been witnessed over the past few days across the country with cloudbursts and flooding leading to loss of lives and property in some states and disrupting normal life at other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wet-spell-to-continue-as-imd-predicts-heavy-rains-across-north-west-regions-101626698409846.html
19-07-2021||India||50 medical students test positive for Covid at Thrissur medical college hospital||At least 50 students of the Thrissur medical college hospital in Kerala tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday impacting the normal work of the hospital, said district medical authorities.More than 100 other students who came in contact with the infected have been asked to quarantine. Among the infected, 40 are MBBS students and 10 post-graduate students. Later students’ hostels were shut down.A test drive was carried out at the college after an employee of a coffee house situated on the premises of the hospital died a couple of days ago due to Covid-19 complications. The coffee house was later closed and 13 of its workers also tested positive. Hospital authorities said most of the infected students had received both doses of vaccine and the majority of them are asymptomatic.Most of the students were working in Covid wards and their sudden infection affected some of the wards, said a senior doctor who did not want to be named. “We started an inquiry about how the hospital has turned into a major cluster of the virus. The health department has also sought a report from the hospital,” she said.The country’s first Covid-19 case was reported from Thrissur in 2020 January in a China-returned medical student. She was admitted to Thrissur medical college hospital for almost a month. Last week, she again tested positive and is undergoing quarantine at her home. “We suspect the presence of a strong Delta variant in some pockets of the district. Samples of some of the infected were sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for more studies,” she said.A pandemic hotspot, the state has been reporting at least one-third of total cases of the country for almost a month. On Sunday, it reported 13,956 cases with a test positivity rate of 10.69 % and its active caseload also crossed 1.25 lakh, according to statistics released by the state health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-medical-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-thrissur-medical-college-hospital-101626697647515.html
19-07-2021||India||'Taking all steps to safeguard...': Centre on children affected by Covid-19||The Ministry of Woman and Child Development on Monday informed the Delhi high court it is taking all steps to safeguard the best interest of children affected by the coronavirus pandemic, adding it has written to states and Union territories (UTs) seeking immediate rehabilitation of the orphaned children.The ministry was responding to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Jeetender Gupta, a advocated on record in the Supreme Court. In his PIL, Gupta sought directions to authorities to provide the interim custody of orphaned children to their nearest relatives, or child care homes, while protecting their identity."D.O. letter dated 30.04.2021 by secretary, MWCD was sent to chief secretaries with request to district magistrates in all the districts to ensure immediate action of rehabilitation of children orphaned due to Covid-19. Information about the child may be shared with child helpline 1098," the ministry mentioned in its affidavit in the high court.It further stated children under distress are mandated care and protection under the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act, 2015, which, it said, has to be implemented by states and UTs. "Child Protection Services, a centrally-sponsored scheme, is already being implemented to provide financial support to states and UTs for delivering services under the JJ Act," the affidavit said.The ministry also mentioned national initiative "SAMVAD," which stands for "Support, Advocacy and Mental Health interventions for children in Vulnerable Circumstances and Distress," as well as a 24x7 number for emergency outreach, as steps taken by it to support the psychosocial and mental health of children impacted by the pandemic. It also said states and UTs were asked to issue public notices in local languages over issues requiring lawful course of action in case of orphaned children.In May, prime minister Narendra Modi announced children, who lost both parents due to Covid-19, will be supported under the "PM Cares for Children" scheme. Under this initiative, such children will receive a monthly stipend upon turning 18, and a fund of ₹10 lakh when they are 23.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taking-all-steps-to-safeguard-centre-on-children-affected-by-covid19-101626693331135.html
19-07-2021||India||Opposition calls MoS home affairs Bangladeshi, BJP counters with CAA citizenship||Amid adjournments and protests, the Opposition on Monday raised a point of order against the minister of state of home affairs Nisith Pramanik in Rajya Sabha, claiming that he is a Bangladeshi, and consequently, a foreign national in power. The deputy chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh Narayan Singh repeatedly negated raising such issues under the points of order. Points of order are raised to enforce rules of procedures or such articles in the constitution to regulate the business of the house.“A minister of states of home affairs is reportedly a Bangladeshi,” said Trinamool Congress leader Sukhendu Shekhar Roy. Former leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge also tried to raise the issue, finally resulting in another adjournment of the House till 3pm. This was the third time that Rajya Sabha was adjourned on Monday.The first session was adjourned after the obituary readings as a mark of respect for departed MPs Raghunath Mohapatra and Rajeev Satav, while the second session witnessed sloganeering by the Opposition, due to which newly inducted ministers could not be introduced. Also Read | Parliament: PM’s introduction of new ministers in Cabinet interrupted by OppositionThe recent shuffle in the union Cabinet has seen the inclusion of several new faces, one of them Pramanik. He is the youngest MoS of home affairs, as well as youth affairs and sports minister to be appointed in the union council of ministers.Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora had previously urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inquire into the nationality of the newly appointed union minister.Bharatiya Janata Party general secretary Sayantan Basu earlier countered the opposition campaign against the young minister. “Nisith Pramanik came to India as a refugee from Bangladesh, like millions of other people. The Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) has been passed. It offers citizenship to refugees from Bangladesh. Why are these questions being raised?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-adjourned-again-mos-of-home-affairs-called-bangladeshi-101626696387532.html
19-07-2021||India||UK, US, EU accuse Chinese state-backed actors of targeting servers worldwide||The UK, the US and the European Union (EU) on Monday accused Chinese state-backed actors of hacking more than 250,000 computer networks around the world via Microsoft Exchange servers.Britain said it was joining like-minded partners to confirm that the Chinese state-backed actors were “responsible for gaining access to computer networks around the world”.The UK Foreign Office said in a statement: “The attacks took place in early 2021, affecting over a quarter of a million servers worldwide.”Britain also attributed China’s ministry of state security (MSS) or the civilian intelligence agency of being behind hacker groups known to cyber security experts as Advanced Persistent Threat 40 (APT40) and Advanced Persistent Threat 31 (APT31).Also Read | Women at risk, from streets to cyberspaceBoth APT40 and APT31 have been described by experts as actors backed by or having a nexus with the Chinese state that specialise in targeting crucial technologies or intellectual property theft.The EU said in a statement that the targeting of Microsoft Exchange servers undermined the security of thousands of networks worldwide, including in member states and EU institutions. “It allowed access to a significant number of hackers that have continued to exploit the compromise to date,” the statement added.The EU further said it detected malicious cyber activities linked to APT40 and APT31 that were “conducted from the territory of China” and targeted government institutions and political organisations in member states and key European industries for intellectual property theft and espionage.US secretary of state Antony Blinken said that “countries around the world are holding the People’s Republic of China (PRC) accountable for its pattern of irresponsible, disruptive, and destabilising behaviour in cyberspace. The MSS, he added, has “fostered an ecosystem of criminal contract hackers who carry out both state-sponsored activities and cybercrime for their own financial gain”.Blinken said the US and its partners had “formally confirmed that cyber actors affiliated with the MSS exploited vulnerabilities in Microsoft Exchange Server in a massive cyber espionage operation”.“As evidenced by the indictment of three MSS officers and one of their contract hackers unsealed by the Department of Justice [on Monday], the US will impose consequences on PRC malicious cyber actors for their irresponsible behaviour in cyberspace,” Blinken added.UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab described the cyber attacks by Chinese state-backed groups as a “reckless but familiar pattern of behaviour”. He added, “The Chinese Government must end this systematic cyber sabotage and can expect to be held account if it does not.”The attack was highly likely to enable large-scale espionage, including acquiring personally identifiable information and intellectual property, the Foreign Office said.At the time of the attack, the UK provided advice and recommended actions to those affected and Microsoft said that 92% of customers had patched against the vulnerability by the end of March.“The Chinese government has ignored repeated calls to end its reckless campaign, instead allowing its state-backed actors to increase the scale of their attacks and act recklessly when caught,” the Foreign Office statement said.The UK said its coordinated action with partners is part of the world community’s efforts to “urge the Chinese government to take responsibility for its actions and respect the democratic institutions, personal data and commercial interests of those with whom it seeks to partner”.“The UK is calling on China to reaffirm the commitment made to the UK in 2015 and as part of the G20 not to conduct or support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property of trade secrets,” it added.The UK’s National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) issued specific advice to more than 70 affected organisations in Britain to enable them to mitigate the effects of the hacking.In 2018, the UK government and its allies revealed that elements of the China’s ministry of state security were responsible for one of the most significant and widespread cyber intrusions stealing trade secrets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-us-eu-accuse-chinese-state-backed-hacker-groups-of-targeting-servers-worldwide-101626695907328.html
19-07-2021||India||Widespread, intense rainfall activity to continue over NW India till Wednesday||Widespread and heavy rains lashed several parts of northwest India and the Western Himalayan region on Monday.This is mainly because of the western end of the monsoon trough running over parts of northwest India and two cyclonic circulations causing convective activity over the region. Satellite images show dense cloud cover over northwest India. Heavy and widespread rain over the region is likely to continue till Wednesday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The west coast is also receiving intense rainfall mainly because of an offshore trough (area of low pressure) stretching from Maharashtra to Karnataka coast.Between Sunday and Monday, weather stations that recorded over 7cm rain are: Uran- 45cm; Thane- 28cm; Ulhasnagar- 20cm; Sanpada -24.8cm; Matheran-27 cm; Mormugao and Harnai-19 cm each; Panjim and Ratnagiri-15 each; and Bulsar and Mahabaleshwar-10 each cm all in Maharashtra. In Delhi, Mungespur -10cm, Najafgarh -9cm, Safdarjung -7cm, and Palam -10cm.“The western end of the monsoon trough is passing close to Delhi. There are also two cyclonic circulations, one over southwest Uttar Pradesh and another over north Pakistan. The combination of these features is bringing widespread and continuous rains here over NW India. Both radar and satellite images are showing convective activity and dense cloud cover over the region stretching from Punjab to north Madhya Pradesh. It’s an intense patch,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.“There is very strong wind convergence along the west coast and an offshore trough is also affecting the region bringing heavy rains,” she added.The western end of monsoon trough is running close to its normal position and is likely to shift gradually northwards from July 20 when more rains also expected along the Himalayan foothills, scientists said. Its eastern end is lying north of its normal position and is likely to continue there for the next two days and shift southwards thereafter.A low pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal around July 23. An offshore trough at mean sea level is running from Maharashtra coast to Karnataka coast. It is likely to persist the next 3-4 days.Present spell of heavy to very heavy rainfall activity is very likely to continue till July 20 with widespread rainfall and very heavy falls very likely over western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining northwest India (Punjab, Haryana, East Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh).Isolated extremely heavy rain is very likely over Jammu division, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana on July 19 and heavy to very heavy rainfall on July 20 over the same areas.Moderate rainfall at most places with isolated intense spells is very likely over Delhi during the next 24 hours.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely to continue over west coast and adjoining inland areas during the next 4-5 days. Isolated extremely heavy falls (over 20cm) are also very likely over Konkan, Goa and adjoining ghat areas of madhya Maharashtra till July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-intense-rainfall-activity-to-continue-over-nw-india-till-wednesday-101626695847617.html
19-07-2021||India||Af min ‘concerned’ at Pak charge of Indian hand in envoy daughter’s abduction||Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar on Monday expressed concern at Pakistan interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed’s claim that India’s spy agency was involved in the abduction of the Afghan envoy’s daughter in Islamabad, saying such “unprofessional remarks” could affect bilateral relations. Atmar conveyed his country’s concerns to his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi during a phone conversation. The call was arranged at the Pakistani side’s request after the Afghan government decided on Sunday to recall its ambassador and senior diplomats from Islamabad over the kidnapping of the envoy’s daughter. Selsela Alikhil, the 26-year-old daughter of Afghan ambassador Najibullah Alikhil, was abducted, held for almost five hours and assaulted by unidentified men in Islamabad on Friday. Afghan first vice president Amrullah Saleh said on Sunday the incident had “wounded the psyche of our nation”. Also Read | Afghanistan recalls diplomats from Pakistan after kidnapping of envoy’s daughterA statement in Dari from the Afghan foreign ministry said Atmar spoke with Qureshi “on the ongoing investigation into the abduction of the daughter of Afghanistan’s ambassador to Islamabad, expressing his deep concern over the remarks made by Pakistan’s interior minister”. Atmar said such “unprofessional remarks and premature judgments will severely damage bilateral relations and the credibility of ongoing investigation that has not yet been completed”, according to the statement. In an interview with a Pakistani TV news channel on Sunday, Ahmed had claimed that the Afghan ambassador’s daughter “was not kidnapped” and had gone from Islamabad to Rawalpindi of her own will. He further claimed RAW, India’s external intelligence agency, was involved in the incident as part of a “conspiracy to slander Pakistan”. “The main problem is that they aren’t saying why she went to Rawalpindi,” Ahmed said, speaking in Urdu. He claimed Pakistani security agencies had CCTV footage of the envoy’s daughter travelling to Rawalpindi and that they had established she had used her phone at the time she was abducted. “We have presented the situation to the nation and we are being dishonoured before the world, on social media we are being given a bad name...This is all being done according to a plan. There is a conspiracy to slander Pakistan and RAW is involved,” Ahmed claimed. The Afghan foreign ministry’s statement said Atmar told Qureshi that Afghanistan is ready to cooperate with the Pakistan government in the investigation into the abduction to “apprehend and prosecute the perpetrators of this crime and to ensure the security of Afghan political missions and diplomats”. An Afghan delegation is scheduled to visit Pakistan, and further steps regarding the return of the Afghan ambassador and diplomats will be taken in light of the delegation’s findings. The downturn in Afghanistan-Pakistan relations came days after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani accused Pakistan of not taking action to prevent the “influx of over 10,000 jihadi fighters” in the past month, and not delivering on repeated promises to influence the Taliban to join negotiations to find a peaceful settlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/af-min-concerned-at-pak-charge-of-indian-hand-in-envoy-daughter-s-abduction-101626694289001.html
19-07-2021||India||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi appointed deputy leader of Rajya Sabha||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday announced the appointment of Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi as the deputy leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha. Naqvi takes over from Piyush Goyal who has been elevated as the leader of the house in the Upper House.A former minister of state for parliamentary affairs minister, Naqvi is well versed in Parliamentary affairs. He is also known for his cordial relations across party lines. “At parliamentary affairs ministry, he had a good working relation with various political parties. He knows how to engage with the opposition, especially when there are tricky issues before the house,” said a BJP leader requesting anonymity.Naqvi’s appointment comes at a time when the government is facing questions from the Opposition on a bunch of issues notably price rise, the response to the Covid-19 situation and the preparation for the anticipated third wave of the pandemic. On Monday, both Houses of Parliament were disputed by the opposition that raised slogans even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi rose to introduce the newly inducted ministers as per tradition.“Both Goyal and Naqvi have their job cut out for them. They will have to handle the opposition in the Upper House and ensure that the house proceedings are conducted smoothly to allow the passage of bills,” said the BJP leader quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-appointed-deputy-leader-of-rajya-sabha-101626693568349.html
19-07-2021||India||Illegal surveillance not possible: Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Pegasus Project||Union minister for electronics and information technology (MeitY) Ashwini Vaishnaw on Monday said that reports suggesting India used Israeli spyware Pegasus to hack phones of journalists, activists and ministers were nothing but an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”.Vaishnaw, who was making his first speech in Parliament as the new MeitY minister, said the “highly sensational story” has made several “over the top allegations” but there is “no substance behind them”.“It is not a coincidence that the reports have been published a day before the monsoon session of Parliament,” he said. “In the past, similar allegations were made [about the use of Pegasus] on WhatsApp but there is no factual basis to these and have been categorically denied.”Also Read | Cyber attack: At least nine rights activists targetedIndia is among the countries that used Israeli company NSO Group’s Pegasus phone hacking software to potentially target politicians, journalists and activists, an international collaborative investigation involving 17 media organisations including The Guardian, The Washington Post, and Die Zeit said. India’s news website The Wire was one of the 17.Also Read | ‘Aap chronology samajhiye…’: Amit Shah questions timing of Pegasus leaksThe first part of the multi-part investigation, released late on Sunday night, said that 38 Indian journalists (according to The Guardian), including those from mainstream publications (three current Hindustan Times journalists are named, as is one from sister publication Mint), and websites, apart from freelancers were targeted. The 38 are among 180 journalists the report said were targeted worldwide, including the editor of the Financial Times Roula Khalaf, and journalists from the Wall Street Journal, CNN, New York Times, and Le Monte.The investigation was based on a data leak of around 50,000 numbers obtained by Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories, a non-profit. To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. Amnesty International subsequently forensically investigated 67 of these phones, and found 23 hacked and 14 showing signs of attempted penetration.The Wire reported that 10 of the phones forensically examined in India showed they had either been hacked or showed signs of an attempted hacking.NSO Group, in a response to Forbidden Stories and its media partners, said the interpretations from the leaked dataset were misleading. “The alleged amount of ‘leaked data of more than 50,000 phone numbers,’ cannot be a list of numbers targeted by governments using Pegasus,” it said, and added that it “does not have insight into the specific intelligence activities of its customers”.Vaishnaw added that there were inconsistencies in the report. “One report clearly states that the presence of a number on NSO’s list does not mean it is under surveillance,” he said. “The consortium has accessed a leaked database of 40,000 numbers. The presence of the number does not indicate whether there was an attempted hack, or a successful one,” he said.Citing NSO’s statement calling the report misleading, the minister said, “The response also states that the names of the countries using Pegasus is incorrect.”Highlighting the Telegraph Act and Information Technology Act, he said, “No form of illegal surveillance is possible with the kind of checks and balances instituted by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-surveillance-not-possible-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-on-pegasus-project-101626693447152.html
19-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi, PM Deuba agree to enhance India-Nepal cooperation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi, PM Deuba agree to enhance India-Nepal cooperationPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Nepal’s new Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba on Monday agreed to enhance bilateral cooperation and strengthen coordination in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreDelta variant ‘primarily responsible’ for Covid-19 second wave, says govt expertThe Delta variant (or B.1.617.2 strain) of the coronavirus was “primarily responsible” for the second wave of Covid-19 in India, Dr NK Arora, co-chair of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said. Read moreInd vs SL 2nd ODI: India eye 9th consecutive series win over Sri Lanka to continue dominationDuring the 1st ODI between India and Sri Lanka at Colombo on Sunday, commentators were having a discussion about the head-to-head record between the two teams. Read more'Salman Khan giving relationship advice is like me giving advice on how to be a star': Arbaaz KhanArbaaz Khan had a self-deprecating answer to a question during an interview, where he played Most Likely To. Arbaaz was asked who in his family is the most likely to 'give the worst relationship advice'. Read moreSuzuki to launch its first electric vehicle in India by 2025: ReportsJapanese carmaker Suzuki Motor Corp is likely to enter the electric vehicle market in India by 2025. Read moreVarun Dhawan’s pull-ups video will inspire you to crush your fitness goalsSeizing the opportunity for strengthening his back, shoulders and arms, Bollywood hunk Varun Dhawan was seen engaging in a robust workout session while pulling up bare-chested to shoot for an advertorial. Read moreAnand Mahindra’s profound Monday motivation share may make you thinkSeveral inspiring quotes can make one take control of their lives in a positive way. This share by business tycoon Anand Mahindra is all about one such positive quote. Read moreLok Sabha: PM Modi's statement on new ministers disrupted by OppositionPrime Minister Narendra Modi tried to give formal introduction of new ministers in his Cabinet. However, his statement was disrupted by protesting members of the Opposition parties. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-pm-deuba-agree-to-enhance-india-nepal-cooperation-and-all-the-latest-news-101626692716706.html
19-07-2021||India||Lightning strikes in India see 34% rise than previous year, finds CSE study||Between April 2020 and March this year, India witnessed 18.5 million lightning strikes, marking a significant 34% increase in 13.8 million bolts from the blue in a similar period the previous year, a study by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) and Down to Earth found.Laying stress on the trend that the number and frequency of lightning strikes have increased globally, the environment think-tank attempted to find out their link with climate change and unchecked urbanisation.As many as 1,697 people were killed after they were struck by lightning between March last year and April this year. Experts are of the view that the increase in incidents of lightning strikes are owing to climate change.“There is growing scientific evidence that climate change may be sparking more lightning across the world. Rapid urbanisation and population growth have guaranteed an intensification of human exposure to lightning hazards,” says Down To Earth managing editor Richard Mahapatra.ALSO READ | Climate crisis reason behind increase in lightning strikesIn recent months states such as West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Puducherry have seen a sudden spurt in incidents of lightning strikes. Punjab has seen an exponential 331% annual rise in such incidents while in Bihar — where 401 people lost their lives to lightning strikes during the year — recodes a 168% rise.National Disaster Management Authority listed thunderstorms accompanied by lightning strikes (usually in the pre-monsoon and monsoon months) are the single-largest killers among natural disasters in India.A study conducted by California University in 2015 projected that a rise in average global temperatures by 1ºC would increase the frequency of lightning by at least 12%.A soon-to-be-published paper in the journal Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics also cautioned that the frequency of lightning strikes in India are expected to increase by 10% to 25% every year and could grow by 50% by the turn of the century.Experts have found that a foreboding dimension of the rise in incidents of lightning strikes is their link to growing forest fires. “Scientists from the Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University in Srinagar, and the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, have studied the concentration of cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) in different weather conditions in the central Himalayan region. They have found a five-time higher concentration of CCN in the atmosphere during forest fires as against during rains. In May 2021, researchers in Australia linked excess CCN to the increased number of lightning strikes during the 2019-20 Australia forest fires,” says Kiran Pandey, programme director of CSE’s environmental resources unit.However, India has made some progress to mitigate the adverse effects of lightning strikes. The rise in fatalities prompted the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to start lightning forecasts from April 1, 2019. Lightning India Resilient Campaign (LRIC), a joint initiative of several bodies such as Climate Resilient Observing-Systems Promotion Council (CROPC), National Disaster Management Authority, IMD, Union ministry of earth sciences and others aims to reduce the number of deaths due to lightning strikes to less than 1,200 a year by 2022.A senior reporter with Down to Earth, Akshit Sangomla said the LRIC campaign helped bring down lightning-related deaths by more than 60% within two years of its launch. “Dedicated efforts by governments of states like Andhra Pradesh and Odisha have led to a 70% reduction in fatalities,” Sangomla added.CSE’ Kiran Pandey said the recorded incidents of lightning revealed that the seasonality of bolt is different each state, and laid stress that the lightning risk management programme is customised for each state according to their seasonality, frequency of occurrence and intensity.“States should undertake lightning micro-zonation for the regions inside their boundaries, depending on their geography, to handle the disaster and death risks better. These are LRIC’s recommendations and they make a lot of sense,” says Pandey.ALSO READ | Lightning strikes in north India: All you need to know about phenomenonMahapatra was of the view that even though fatalities from lightning strikes cannot be reduced to zero, their numbers can be decreased.He spoke on the need to create general awareness about universal safe practices, such as staying indoors for up to 30 minutes after the last flash if the time between a lightning flash and thunder is less than 30 seconds. “The next steps would involve making use of the evolving science and technology on the subject and decentralising predictions and risk management,” Mahapatra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-strikes-in-india-see-34-rise-than-previous-year-finds-cse-study-101626691375033.html
19-07-2021||India||Covid-19: AIIMS doctor urges people to be careful for next 1 to 2 years||A leading health expert said on Monday that people should be careful for the next one to two years, and do not give a chance to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to explode again. The advise of Dr Neeraj Nischal, professor at medicine department of AIIMS, came as India heads towards the festival season.He also said that ripples of the second wave can still be seen."Idea of festivals is to share happiness, not Covid. For next 1-2 years, till the pandemic is not under control, we shouldn't become part of reason for causing the pandemic to explode again," Dr Nischal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The warning comes a day after health experts cautioned people to maintain Covid appropriate behaviour for the next 125 crucial days to minimise the effect of the infection.Alerts have been extended from overcrowded public places to religious gatherings which experts say can emerge as epicentres, if not restricted.Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul said that country has not reached the stage of herd immunity yet, but added that it does not want to acquire herd immunity through infections either.A similar warning was issued by other experts, like Dr Arvind Kumar, Director and Head of Department, Paediatrics, Fortis Hospital. He said that the second wave "spread like wildfire" in the country because people did not follow Covid appropriate behaviour. "It caused a lot of morbidity and mortality," he said.To avoid the maximum impact of the wave, the experts are repeatedly advising to maintain a social distance of six feet at public places, avoid crowded places, always wear a mask in public places among other Covid appropriate behaviour.During the second wave, the country witnessed an unprecedented surge in death toll and caseload. The health experts are predicting that a third wave could strike between late August and early September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-aiims-doctor-urges-people-to-be-careful-for-next-1-to-2-years-101626690721935.html
19-07-2021||India||PM Modi, PM Deuba agree to enhance India-Nepal cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Nepal’s new Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba on Monday agreed to enhance bilateral cooperation and strengthen coordination in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. PM Modi spoke on the phone with Deuba a day after he comfortably won a vote of confidence in Nepal’s reinstated Parliament with the backing of his Nepali Congress party and other parties. Modi conveyed his congratulations and best wishes to Deuba on being appointed the prime minister and for winning the confidence vote. “Recalling the unique and millenia-old people-to-people linkages that underpin the special friendship between India and Nepal, the leaders agreed to work together to enhance bilateral cooperation in all areas,” the external affairs ministry said in a readout of the conversation. “They discussed, in particular, ways to strengthen cooperation and coordination in the context of ongoing effort against the Covid-19 pandemic,” it said. In a tweet, Modi said he and Deuba “will work together to further enhance the wide-ranging cooperation between India and Nepal, including in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic”. Deuba secured 165 votes in the vote in the 271-member House of Representatives or Lower House on Sunday evening. A total of 83 MPs, mostly supporters of CPN-UML chair and outgoing premier KP Sharma Oli, voted against Deuba. The vote of confidence put paid to desperate efforts by Oli to cling on to power after serious differences emerged within the government, especially between Oli and his rival Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”. On July 12, Nepal’s Supreme Court reinstated the House of Representatives that was dissolved by Oli on May 21. A day later, Deuba was appointed prime minister for the fifth time in line with an order from the Supreme Court. Under the provisions of Nepal’s Constitution, Deuba had to seek a vote of confidence within 30 days of his appointment. Nepal’s political leaders had accused President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Oli of subverting the Constitution through their actions. Deuba is expected to have a tenure of about a year and a half, and repairing ties with India after a border row during Oli’s term will be among his priorities. Nepal is also looking to India to resume supplies of Covid-19 vaccines that have already been paid for. The supply of one million doses of Covishield ordered by Nepal has been held since April, when India stopped exports as part of part of efforts to deal with a second wave of Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pm-deuba-agree-to-enhance-india-nepal-cooperation-101626690567007.html
19-07-2021||India||Delta variant ‘primarily responsible’ for Covid-19 second wave, says govt expert||The Delta variant (or B.1.617.2 strain) of the coronavirus was “primarily responsible” for the second wave of Covid-19 in India, Dr NK Arora, co-chair of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said on Monday. He further said that the vaccines currently in use for the immunisation were effective against the variant, citing studies by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“B.1.617.2, a variant of Covid-19 is known as the Delta variant. It was first identified in October 2020 in India, and was primarily responsible for the second wave in the country, today accounting for over 80 per cent of new Covid-19 cases. It emerged in Maharashtra and travelled northwards along the western states of the country before entering the central and the eastern states,” Dr Arora said.Also read | Vaccines reduce hospitalisation, death risk due to Covid: StudyCurrently, the variant has spread to more than 80 countries across the world, including the US, the UK and Singapore, and is around 40 per cent to 60 per cent more transmissible than the Alpha variant, Dr Arora further said.“However, it is difficult to say that disease due to delta variant is more severe. The age profile and the deaths during the second wave in India were quite similar to that seen during first wave,” he added.The health expert said that the vaccines that are currently used for the immunisation program in India are effective against the variant.He also warned about a possibile emergence of a new variant of coronavirus. “The cases may go up if a new, more infectious variant comes. In other words, next wave will be driven by a virus variant to which significant proportion of population is susceptible,” Dr Arora said.Dr Arora also said that vaccination and following Covid appropriate behaviour were needed to manage the pandemic and also to control and delay future waves of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-variant-primarily-responsible-for-covid-19-second-wave-says-govt-expert-101626689924076.html
19-07-2021||India||Assam declares total curfew in 5 districts with high Covid positivity rate||As many as five districts have been declared as total containment zones in Assam owing to their high coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positivity rate, an official notification issued by the State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) stated on Monday. These districts include Jorhat, Golaghat, Sonitpur, Biswanath, and Lakhimpur. There will be a complete curfew in these districts on July 20 from 5am onwards and will continue till further orders.Goalpara and Morigaon districts have been identified as those showing moderate Covid-19 positivity rate. Meanwhile, 27 districts have been marked as showing improvement in declining positivity rate. Dhubri, Chirang, Udalguri, Barpeta, Sivasagar, Baksa, Kamrup, Darrang, and Dibrugarh are some of the districts where the positivity rate has dipped. According to the notification, regions with moderate and declining positivity rates have been permitted certain curfew relaxations.The notification has been issued in view of the upcoming Bakrid celebration. Assam health minister Keshab Mahanta said that the government will ramp Covid-19 testing in the state by starting the process at railway stations and airports, news agency ANI reported.What’s not allowed in total containment zones?1. There will be a complete curfew round the clock in the five districts that have been declared as containment zones.2. All workplaces, business or commercial establishments, shops selling groceries, fruits and vegetables, restaurants, dhabas, and showrooms dealing with cold storage, among others, will be shut till further orders.3. There will be complete ban on private and public transport4. Public gatherings, including for wedding and funeral ceremonies, will also be banned.What’s allowed in total containment zones?Only movement of goods has been permitted in the five districts.What’s allowed in other districts?1. Districts with moderate Covid-19 positivity rate will have a curfew between 1pm and 5am, while those showing declining positivity rate will have a curfew between 5pm and 5am.2. All workplaces, business or commercial establishments, restaurants, dhabas, and showrooms of cold storage, among others can remain open till 12 noon in districts with moderate positivity, and up to 4pm in districts showing improvement.3. Public transportation will be permitted but authorities must mandatorily follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and seating inside the vehicles.4. A maximum of 10 persons will be allowed in marriage and funeral events.What rules are applicable throughout the state?1. According to the official notification, all inter-district passenger transport services and movement of people to and from other districts have been prohibited.2. On the occasion of Bakrid, only five people will be allowed inside the mosque at a time, including the religious head.3. Wearing face masks at all times is mandatory.4. The notification also stated that the state excise department will take strict action against illegal production and sale of country liquor in all districts irrespective of their Covid-19 positivity status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-declares-total-curfew-in-5-districts-with-high-covid-positivity-rate-101626689404517.html
19-07-2021||India||Celebrate Eid-ul-Adha at home, say Covid guidelines in Assam||The Assam government has asked people to celebrate Eid-ul-Adha festival, which falls this Wednesday, at home this year. “All persons to celebrate Eid from their homes. Religious rituals e.g; Namaaz at mosque is allowed with not more than five persons including the religious head,” said the new Covid-19 guidelines issued by Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua on Monday. As per the new guidelines, which will become applicable from 5am on Tuesday, five of Assam’s 33 districts -- Golaghat, Jorhat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur and Biswanath -- will continue to be under a total lockdown. Restrictions have been eased in Goalpara and Morigaon districts which will now have a daily curfew from 1pm to 5pm. All other districts in the state will continue to have 12-hour daily curfew from 5pm to 5am. All shops, business establishments, offices etc. will have to close one hour ahead of the curfew timings. “The situation of Covid-19 in the state has been comprehensively reviewed and [it was] observed that, though few districts have shown improvement in the positivity rate, the number of active cases and positivity rate is still high in some districts,” the order read. Also Read | ‘Marks for cash’ scam busted in Assam; 2 arrestedGovernment employees who have taken at least one dose of Covid vaccine will have to attend office except in containment zones. Employees who have not taken vaccine will have to attend office as and when their services are required. Organisations and employees providing emergency services will continue to operate without restrictions. Pregnant women employees and or women who have children below 5 years of age will be allowed to work from home. Persons with disabilities shall be exempted from attending duties. Odd-even formula for private vehicles will continue in urban areas and the ban on inter-district movement will also remain. There would be a ban on public and private transport in districts under total lockdown. In other districts, they will be allowed to operate while following Covid appropriate behaviour. All religious places will continue to remain closed for devotees. In districts not under total lockdown, the number of attendees of marriages and funerals has been capped at 10. On Sunday, Assam recorded 1,329 new cases and 15 deaths. The test positivity rate, which refers to the proportion of tests returning positive to the total number of tests conducted for a particular infection, stood at 1.86%. The state has over 16,000 active cases at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/celebrate-eid-ul-adha-at-home-say-covid-guidelines-in-assam-101626689187147.html
19-07-2021||India||Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to be deputy leader of House in Rajya Sabha||Union minister of minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi was on Monday appointed as the deputy leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha. Naqvi will be succeeding Union minister of commerce Piyush Goyal, who has now taken over as the leader of House in the Rajya Sabha.Naqvi, 63, was elected to Rajya Sabha in 2016 and is known for his vast knowledge of parliamentary affairs. He had been a student leader and was jailed in 1975 during the Emergency. In 2014, Naqvi was made the minister of state for parliamentary affairs and minority affairs during the first term of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government.His appointment as the deputy leader of the Rajya Sabha came on the first day of the monsoon session of Parliament. The session will go on till August 13.The first day of the session was mostly chaotic as opposition parties hit out at the central government over several issues including rise in prices, farm laws and the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In the Rajya Sabha, which was adjourned multiple times during the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was unable to introduce his newly inducted ministers as opposition parties started raising slogans against rising fuel prices in the country.Condemning this code of conduct in Parliament, PM Modi questioned the mentality of opposition of not allowing him to introduce women, Dalit and OBC MPs who have been made ministers, adding some opposition leaders did not want to hear the names of the ministers and give them the due respect.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-to-be-deputy-leader-of-house-in-rajya-sabha-101626686048235.html
19-07-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to new Nepal PM Sher Bahadur Deuba on better ties, Covid battle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday he congratulated his Nepal counterpart Sher Bahadur Deuba on winning the vote of confidence in the country’s parliament. Modi said the two leaders would work together to enhance cooperation between India and Nepal, including the ongoing fight against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.Taking to Twitter, Modi wrote, “Spoke with Nepal PM Sher Bahadur Deuba to convey my congratulations and best wishes. We will work together to further enhance the wide-ranging cooperation between India and Nepal, including in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.”Later, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), in a statement, said, the PMs of India and Nepal agreed to work together to enhance bilateral cooperation in all areas. "They discussed, in particular, ways to strengthen cooperation and coordination in the context of ongoing effort against the Covid-19 pandemic," the MEA said.Modi had immediately congratulated Deuba after he won a vote of confidence in the reinstated House of Representatives on Sunday night. In a tweet Modi said, "Congratulations Prime Minister @DeubaSherbdr and best wishes for a successful tenure. I look forward to working with you to further enhance our unique partnership in all sectors, and strengthen our deep-rooted people-to-people ties."Soon after, Deuba said he was looking forward to working closely with Modi to strengthen the relations between the two neighbours and people-to-people contacts. The 75-year-old president of the Nepali Congress won a trust vote in the reinstated lower House of Representatives and comfortably won it, averting a general election in the Himalayan nation amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.Also read | After brief delay, Sher Bahadur Deuba takes oath as Nepal’s PM for fifth timeDeuba, who was appointed as the prime minister as per the Article 76(5) of the Constitution on July 12 following Supreme Court's intervention, secured 165 votes in the 275-member House on Sunday.Sunday's outcome of the trust vote paved the way for Deuba to remain in office for the next one-and-a-half years until a fresh parliamentary election is held.Previously, Deuba had served at the helm on four occasions; first from 1995 to 1997, then from 2001 to 2002, again from 2004 to 2005, and from 2017 to 2018.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-new-nepal-pm-sher-bahadur-deuba-on-better-ties-covid-battle-101626686350162.html
19-07-2021||India||'Under house arrest', claims Revanth Reddy who accused TRS govt of corruption||The chief of Telangana unit of the Congress party has claimed that he has been put under house arrest by the state government. A Revanth Reddy said that police was deployed near his house on Monday because he planned to highlight corruption in the Kokapet land auction held on July 15."I was ready to go to Parliament but state government deployed police to place me under house arrest. It happened because state government sold some properties, over 50 acre of land, to some of their relatives, party leaders and IAS officers at undervalue," Reddy was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Reddy, Congress Lok Sabha member from Malkajgiri, had alleged that there were irregularities to the tune of ₹1,000 crore in the e-auction of lands in Kokapet."I had warned the state government that I'll give complaint to PM, home minister and CBI Director in Delhi over this and raise the issue in Parliament. If we raise voices against state government's loot, they book us, arrest us and place us under house arrest. We'll fight against it," he further said.Reddy said he will keep not be scared and keep raising the issue of corruption in K Chandrashekhar Rao government."Fearing I will take up the Kokapet lands sale scam in the parliament,Police at the instance of CM and DGP prevented me from attending the parliament session.This is violation of my parliamentary privileges as an MP. No matter what @inctelangana will bring truth to light," Reddy said on Twitter.Fearing I will take up the Kokapet lands sale scam in the parliament,Police at the instance of CM and DGP prevented me from attending the parliament session.This is violation of my parliamentary privileges as an MPNo matter what @inctelangana will bring truth to light pic.twitter.com/dmH7uVIcBTHe also urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to intervene and restore the parliamentary privileges of a member of parliament.The Telangana Congress had planned dharna at Kokapet on Monday over the land auctions. The police said that they were placed under house arrest to maintain law and order, according to news agency PTI.The ruling TRS has rejected the allegations made by Revanth Reddy and said the process was transparent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-house-arrest-claims-revanth-reddy-who-accused-trs-govt-of-corruption-101626681884077.html
19-07-2021||India||Cadbury responds to row over beef in chocolates, says India products 100% veg||Cadbury has issued a clarification after a screenshot claiming that the company uses gelatin in some of their products went viral on social media over the weekend, asking consumers to verify facts before sharing them.“The screenshot shared in the Tweet is not related to Mondelez/Cadbury products manufactured in India. All the products manufactured and sold in India are 100% vegetarian. The green dot on the wrapper signifies that,” Cadbury said on Sunday.Cadbury also said negative posts can hurt its image. “As you can well imagine, negative posts like these, damages consumer confidence in our well-respected and loved brands. We request our consumers to please verify facts related to our products before sharing them further.”The clarification by the British multinational company, which is owned by Mondelez International, came after hundreds of users on Twitter called for a boycott of Cadbury products. Their boycott call came after a screenshot from a website saying that if a product contains gelatine as an ingredient, that means it was derived from beef, was shared widely on social media.This pic is circulating round the tweeter,for au(now)But,@DairyMilkIn is this done same here in India by providing beef (that's halal certified) to vegetarians? pic.twitter.com/R5lDbKOKRV“Only #boycottcadbury Won't do. Must be penalize for playing with religious beliefs and law of the country (displaying green dot on wrapers) inspite of animal source is added ,” one Twitter user said.“@DairyMilkIn can you clarify the emulsifiers used in the products are plant based or animal based with proof. Because @fssaiindia clarified in RTI that they don't have any method to check whether emulsifiers are vegetarian or not,” another user tweeted.“Is this true @CadburyUK? If yes, Cadbury deserves to be sued for forcing Hindus to consume halaal certified beef products. Our ancestors & Gurus sacrificed their lives but didn’t accept eating beef. But post “independence” rulers have allowed our Dharma to be violated with impunity,” Delhi-based academic and rights activist Madhu Purnima Kishwar also tweeted.As more and more people shared the screenshot and commented on the issue, Cadbury Dairy Milk tweeted its clarification and responded to Twitter users. Some users even pointed out that the screenshot being shared is that of Cadbury Australia’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cadbury-responds-to-row-over-beef-in-chocolates-says-products-in-india-100-veg-101626681527411.html
19-07-2021||India||'Jittega Punjab': Navjot Sidhu says his journey has just begun||A day after being named as Congress' Punjab unit chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu vowed to bring power back in the hands of people. The former cricketer-turned-politician said he is eyeing to fulfill the 'Jittega Punjab' mission for Congress."Today, to work further for the same dream & strengthen the invincible fort of @INCIndia, Punjab. I am grateful to Hon’ble Congress President Sonia Gandhi Ji, Shri@RahulGandhi Ji & Smt @priyankagandhi Ji for bestowing their faith in me & giving me this pivotal responsibility," Sidhu tweeted from his official account."Will work along every member of Congress family in Punjab to fulfil the mission of #JittegaPunjab as a humble Congress worker to Give Power of the People Back to the People through the #PunjabModel & High Command’s 18 Point Agenda ... My Journey has just begun !!," the new Congress chief in Punjab said in subsequent tweet.To share prosperity, privilege & freedom not just among a few but among all, My father a Congress worker left a royal household & joined freedom struggle, was sentenced to death for his patriotic work reprieved by King’s Amnesty became DCC President, MLA, MLC & Advocate General. pic.twitter.com/fTv0eNlNytShortly after his elevation to the key position in the poll-bound state on Sunday, Sidhu visited Gurudwara Shri Dukhniwaran Sahib in Patiala and offered prayers. After weeks of bitter infighting, Sidhu was declared as Punjab Congress chief by party president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday evening.Also read | 'No one is upset': Congress MLA on Sidhu's appointment as Punjab unit chiefAfter offering prayers at the Gurudwara with his supporters and few party members, he later reached his residence in Patiala.The Congress party is pinning its hopes on Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Sidhu together for winning the 2022 assembly elections.Party members have welcomed the Congress' move to hand over the Punjab unit to Sidhu and said it is a thoughtful move. They also claimed that no one is upset with the decision and everything will be all right."The high command must have taken a thoughtful decision. He is young and was an active parliamentarian. He has the zeal to work so we welcome it," Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said, reported news agency ANI. Kharge was appointed as one of the three members by the Congress high command to resolve the crisis in Punjab.Sidhu was appointed the Punjab Congress chief after rounds of hectic parleys between Congress high command, Amarinder Singh and the Amritsar MLA. Earlier this month, Sidhu came to the national capital and met Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi as the infighting played out with visible cracks in the Punjab unit. Sidhu, who is critical of party leader and Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, accused him of colluding with the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Congress’s arch-rival in Punjab.Congress chief Sonia Gandhi formed a three-member committee to resolve the rift. In its report on June 10, the panel suggested that Sidhu be suitably accommodated in the state unit.Sidhu had expressed his desire to be the state unit chief. But the chief minister, the biggest vote-catcher for the party in the poll-bound state, is averse to the idea. Differences between the two led to Sidhu’s resignation from the state Cabinet in July 2019.In their last seen episode of contention, former Punjab minister Sidhu on May 21 challenged CM Singh to prove that he had met any leader of another party for switching sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jittega-punjab-navjot-sidhu-says-his-journey-has-just-begun-101626677145105.html
19-07-2021||India||Parliament: PM’s introduction of new ministers in Cabinet interrupted by Opposition||On the first day of Parliament’s monsoon session, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi stood up to introduce the new ministers inducted into the Cabinet after the recent reshuffle, the Opposition began raising slogans on the rising prices of fuel.The Opposition’s sloganeering continued while speaker Om Birla appealed for silence and to let “customary” introduction of the ministers take place.The Prime Minister said that instead of a hue and cry, he had expected that the ministers would be honoured with claps. “But it seems that Dalits, women… OBCs of the country becoming ministers does not go down well with many people sitting here in Parliament, and that is why they are not even allowing their introduction...” Modi said, adding that these newly inducted ministers be considered “introduced”.Also Read | Two bills to be introduced in LS today; RS to discuss Marine aids billFollowing this, Birla continued with his appeals to the Opposition to let the Prime Minister speak, but to no avail. He then requested the PM to put the introductory document on the union ministers and ministers of state on the table.Meanwhile, Congress deputy leader and MP from Assam’s Kaliabor constituency Gaurav Gogoi said that the Prime Minister prioritised the Cabinet reshuffle over the problems faced by Indians. “The PM believes that his decision to reshuffle the Cabinet is more important than the economic burden he has imposed on the millions of the Indian citizens,” Gogoi said, adding, “The Congress stands with the people of India.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “Healthy traditions in the House have been set by following conventions. I have been in the house for the last 24 years and have not seen such an incident where the PM could not introduce his council of ministers, even if it is one minister. It is sad, unfortunate and unhealthy.”However, in 2004, then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh could not introduce the ministers in his Cabinet in the Parliament—the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) protested the inclusion of late Mohammed Taslimuddin, and Lalu Prasad Yadav in the council of ministers.Congress MP Manickam Tagore also said there was a second incident in 2013 wherein former Prime Minister Singh wasn’t allowed to introduce his ministers in the House. “So, the BJP cannot say that this has never happened before,” said Tagore.Similar scenes were also witnessed in Rajya Sabha when the Prime Minister tried to introduce the new council of ministers in the House. The new BJP leader of Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal called it an “unfortunate” situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-pm-s-introduction-of-new-ministers-in-cabinet-interrupted-by-opposition-101626680785940.html
19-07-2021||India||Heavy rain blocks tunnel in Goa disrupting Konkan railway traffic||Torrential rains led to the blockage of a rail tunnel on the Konkan Railway route in Goa, disrupting rail traffic between Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra and beyond. The clearing of the tunnel could take more than 24-hours, officials said. The disruption occurred on Monday morning after a tunnel at Carambolim, around 15-kilometres east from the state capital Panaji, developed a “leak” causing mud and slush from above to flow inside, officials said. “Traffic on Konkan Railway route is interrupted due to continuous heavy rain and ingress of water/slush in Old Goa Tunnel between Karmali and Thivim stations in... Karwar region on 19/07/2021,” the Konkan Railway said in a statement. Several trains including the Hazrat Nizamuddin Ernakulam daily special, the Amritsar Junction Kochuveli weekly special, the Ernakulam Junction- Lokmanya Tilak Duronto Bi-Weekly special, the Kochuveli-Porbandar Weekly special and the Ernakulam Junction-Ajmer Junction weekly special, all originating on July 18, have been diverted via Panvel-Pune route.Other trains will see their passengers transported via road to bypass the blockage. These include the Mumbai-Madgaon KonkanKanya express, the Mumbai-Madgaon Mandovi Daily special, the Hazrat Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Central Rajdhani bi-weekly.Goa has witnessed torrential rains over the last seven days with the meteorological department issuing a red alert. Parts of Goa recorded 18 cm of rain in the last 24 hours with the region--where the tunnel partially caved in-- receiving 16 cm rain over the past 24 hours. Several roads, fields and farms in Goa are submerged and many houses have been damaged. However, no loss of life has yet been reported. The weather department has forecast “extremely heavy rainfall-- exceeding 20cm in 24 hrs-- at one or two places in Goa. A red alert has been in place in the state since Sunday and continues on Monday considering the impact of continued active monsoon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-blocks-tunnel-in-goa-disrupting-konkan-railway-traffic-101626680485989.html
19-07-2021||India||'Over 40 crore Indians are now Baahubali': PM Modi on Covid-19 vaccine coverage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that people who have taken a shot of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine have become Baahubali' in the fight against the disease. He was briefing mediapersons outside Parliament, just before the beginning of the monsoon session."The vaccine is given in 'baahu' (arms), those who take the jab become 'Baahubali'. Over 40 crore people have become 'Baahubali' in the fight against Covid. It is being taken forward. The pandemic has gripped the entire world. So we want meaningful discussions in Parliament over it," the Prime Minister said.Watch the video here:PM Modi also said that he will meet all the members of Parliament at 4pm on Tuesday to apprise them about the Covid-19 situation in the country.The Prime Minister's remark on Covid-19 vaccines came as the number of vaccine doses administered under the nationwide vaccination drive reached 40,64,81,493.The ministry also said that the country's recovery rate has increased to 97.32 per cent.It also said that 2,60,12,352 unutilised vaccine doses are still available with states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered.The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and union territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain.As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid vaccines free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-40-crore-indians-are-now-baahubali-pm-modi-on-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-101626678376439.html
19-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to vaccinate residents of pilgrim towns||Tamil Nadu government has decided to vaccinate the residents of pilgrim towns in the state, reported Tamil newspaper Dina Thanthi on Monday. Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian announced the government’s decision while he was inaugurating the vaccination camp at Little Mount in Chennai, a Christian pilgrim centre in the city famous for its shrine Our Lady of Good Health and the cave where St Thomas, the apostle lived.Tamil Nadu has no dearth of pilgrim centres belonging to all religions in districts such as Rameswaram, Tiruvannamalai, Madurai, Tiruchendur and Palani, and Christian pilgrimage sites like Velankanni, Poondi and Islamic centres like Nagore. Thousands of pilgrims from every corner of the country visit these pilgrimage towns every year.Subramanian said that the Tamil Nadu government is conducting special vaccine drives for pregnant women, nursing mothers, traders, corporate workers, and differently abled at present. As the next step, the government has decided to vaccinate all the residents of pilgrim towns as well as tourist spots in the state.The district collectors of Ramanathapuram, Tiruvannamalai, Nagapattinam have been instructed to vaccinate the residents of Rameswaram, Tiruvannamalai, Velankanni and Nagore pilgrim towns by July end, the minister said. The focus will be on all the pilgrimage centres and tourist spots, he mentioned.  Subramanian also ruled out the prevalence of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 in the state. He also informed that the 43 inmates of Children Home in Kariampatti in Kanchipuram district found to be Covid-19 positive were treated at the District Hospital and Covid centre at Ezhichur. All of them were cured and returned to the Children Home. The state government is also keen to vaccinate children below five years against pneumonia with pneumococcal vaccine. The vaccination drive for pneumonia commenced at Poonamallee last week. All the children below five years in the state will be vaccinated against pneumonia, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-vaccinate-residents-of-pilgrim-towns-101626678134612.html
19-07-2021||India||Two bills to be introduced in LS today; RS to discuss Marine aids bill||Three bills are slotted for day 1 of monsoon session of Parliament today, according to the agenda of the House.The government plans to introduce the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha. The Rajya Sabha is expected to discuss the Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021 today.The Factoring Regulation (Amend) Bill, 2020 was introduced in Lok Sabha on September 24, 2020. It seeks to liberalise the Factor Regulation Act of 2011 by widening the scope of entities that can engage in factoring business. Key changes include modifying the definitions of receivables, assignment, and factoring business. Also Read | Monsoon session of Parliament to begin from today; 29 bills on agendaThe National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship & Management Bill, 2019, was introduced by Harsimrat Kaur Badal, then minister of food processing industries. It seeks to declare two institutes, National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management at Kundli, and the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology at Thanjavur as institutions of national importance. The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021 revokes the Lighthouse Act, 1927, which provides maintenance and control of lighthouses. Introduced on March 15, 2020 in Lok Sabha, it sets the framework for the development, maintenance, and management of aids to navigation in India. The bill qualifies the Centre to appoint a Central Advisory Committee (CAC) which constitutes persons representing the interests affected by the bill, as well as members with special knowledge of the sector.The bill also authorises the Government to designate any aid under its control as a Heritage Lighthouse. According to the ministry of parliamentary affairs, during the 19 sittings of the session, 31 government business items, including 29 Bills, and two financial items will be taken up. Six bills will be brought to replace the ordinances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-bills-to-be-introduced-in-ls-today-rs-to-discuss-marine-aids-bill-101626677543108.html
19-07-2021||India||Jaishankar firm on LAC resolution at Dushanbe with Wang Yi, economic ties later||India is still awaiting the dates for the 12th round of senior military commanders meeting in East Ladakh even as external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi stood their ground at the July 14 Dushanbe meeting.According to officials, while Chinese state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi wanted India to revive economic ties and normalize relations citing the Pangong Tso disengagement, EAM Jaishankar made it amply clear that the road to normalisation of bilateral ties goes through East Ladakh. Jaishankar stood his ground at the meeting and wanted China to complete the disengagement process and resolve all outstanding border issues along the 1597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh.Also read | 'Should set aside LAC standoff to revive ties': ChinaAlthough the disengagement from the north and south banks of Pangong Tso is complete, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) has not restored the April 2020 status quo from both Gogra and Hot Springs posts. The other issue that is hanging fire is the restoration of full patrolling rights to the Indian Army in Depsang Bulge as the PLA has virtually blocked the ingress route in this sensitive area which saw heavy fighting in the 1962 war. Even today both the armies deployed on either side of the LAC with support elements of tanks, rockets and artillery. Jaishankar stood firm that normalisation of ties could only happen after the resolution of the East Ladakh LAC contentious issues and put the ball in Chinese court as the May 2020 flare-up was due to aggression of the PLA in Pangong Tso, Galwan, Gogra and Hot Springs. The unilateral change of status quo on the LAC was in utter contempt of the 1993 and 1996 agreements for maintaining peace and tranquillity on the border.Also read | On the border, China isn’t listeningHowever, the Chinese foreign minister Wang indicated that Beijing wanted the parallel diplomacy of the 1980s to be exercised, where the LAC issue would be put on the back burner for local commanders to resolve while the bilateral ties were restored to pre-2020 days with economic ties taking priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-firm-on-lac-resolution-at-dushanbe-with-wang-yi-economic-ties-later-101626675939660.html
19-07-2021||India||Monsoon session: 56 obituaries listed in Parliament business today||The monsoon session of Parliament began today with 56 obituaries of deceased lawmakers listed in the business of both the Houses. This is among the highest number of listed obituaries in any session of Parliament , according to a senior Lok Sabha official.The list comprises names of 40 former Lok Sabha members of Parliament and 16 Rajya Sabha members, including its sitting members Rajeev Satav and Ragunath Mohapatra.“The number of obituaries listed are mostly of those who were ex-members and not sitting members of the Parliament. Therefore, it will not be affecting the business of the houses,” Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member, P Chidambaram said.Also Read | Monsoon session of Parliament to begin from today; 29 bills on agenda“People may not have reported the deaths of members due to the (prolonged) Covid (situation) in the country. For example, there are members from 7th Lok Sabha, 8th Lok Sabha who might have passed away. Now, whenever the session is held, the numbers get accumulated,” he said.In Lok Sabha, the obituaries are mostly of former MPs such as former PM AB Vajpayee’s niece Karuna Shukla. The Upper House adjourned for an hour on Monday as two sitting Rajya Sabha MPs died since the last session. Covid-19 pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March last year, forcing curtailed budget and monsoon sessions last year and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-56-obituaries-listed-in-parliament-business-today-101626676042973.html
19-07-2021||India||Monsoon session: PM says ready with answers, offers to speak on Covid tomorrow||The monsoon session of Parliament began on Monday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling for a meaningful discussion on Covid-19. Briefing media outside Parliament, the PM said House members should raise hard questions, but in a peaceful atmosphere without pandemonium.“I hope all of you have been vaccinated at least once. With a shot in your arm, you have become a Bahubali. That is the only way to fight Corona,” he said.Pointing out that nearly 400 million people [40 crore] in the country have also become Bahubali [by taking the vaccine shot], the PM said he would meet the floor leaders at 4pm on Tuesday to apprise them of the pandemic situation in the country. “It can be discussed in Parliament too...the government is ready with answers for the people,” he said.Also Read | Monsoon session of Parliament to begin from today; 29 bills on agendaAccording to two leaders, the Opposition had sought a proper parliamentary debate on the subject.The monsoon session comes against the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic that saw an acute oxygen crisis in large parts of the country and is likely to see the Opposition confront the government over issues such as pandemic management, farmers’ protest, and fuel price hike.In an all-party meeting on Sunday, PM Modi urged 31 political parties that “there should be meaningful discussion in both the Houses” and reminded them it’s “the responsibility of all to create such a conducive environment”. “Took part in the all-party meeting before the start of Parliament’s Monsoon Session. We look forward to a productive session where all issues can be debated as well as discussed in a constructive manner,” he tweeted later.The session will end on August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-pm-says-govt-ready-with-answers-offers-to-speak-on-covid-101626674362844.html
19-07-2021||India||Bride, groom flee own wedding as Odisha cops raid venue for Covid rule violation||A bride and groom in Odisha’s Balasore district fled from their wedding on Sunday evening after police raided the venue over violation of Covid containment guidelines.Police officials said acting on a tip-off, a team from Soro police station raided a wedding ceremony underway at Hotel Mangala Nilayam at NH-16 near Chhapulia chowk on Sunday evening with more than 200 attendees.Inspector Madhumita Mohanty said the groom from West Bengal was in town to marry a local girl in violation of Covid guidelines set by the Odisha government. As soon as the police team reached the spot, the bride and groom fled the venue.“We collected ₹3,000 from the hotel owner and ₹5,000 from the groom’s family for violation of Covid guidelines. Though the organisers had taken permission for the marriage, they were penalised for inviting more people than prescribed,” said the inspector. As per the Covid guidelines, not more than 25 persons are allowed to attend a marriage function.Early this month, police in Cuttack city had imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on organisers of a marriage function for flouting Covid guidelines.The Covid situation in Odisha continued to remain grim with 2000-2200 cases reported daily on an average and total casualties going past the 5,000 mark on Saturday. The government believes that the fresh infections in the state were mostly driven by hidden cases.“There were many symptomatic individuals too who did not opt for Covid test, spreading infection in the process. The spread can be contained by identifying and isolating the hidden asymptomatic cases,” said Dr Bijay Mohapatra, director of health services. He said the state government had begun integrated surveillance for three months, which had led to detection of more than 1 lakh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bride-groom-flee-own-wedding-as-odisha-cops-raid-venue-for-covid-rule-violation-101626673883381.html
19-07-2021||India||'No one is upset': Congress MLA on Sidhu's appointment as Punjab unit chief||Congress leaders have said that party president Sonia Gandhi's decision to name Navjot Sidhu as the chief of party's Punjab unit is a thoughtful one. They also claimed that no one is upset with the decision and everything will be all right."The high command must have taken a thoughtful decision. He is young and was an active parliamentarian. He has the zeal to work so we welcome it," Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He was one of the three members deputed by the Congress high command to resolve the crisis in Punjab.Punjab Congress MLA Nirmal Singh Shutrana, who met Sidhu after his appointment on Sunday, said there everything will be fine now."What the high command decided is 100% right. No one is upset, everything will be alright," Shutrana was quoted as saying by ANI. He added that chief minister Captain Amarinder Shingh "should have congratulated" Sidhu on his appointment.Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Ashwani Kumar has already called Sidhu an asset for the party and said they all will work together with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to win 2022 Punjab assembly elections.Also Read: Flurry of activities end with elevation of SidhuThe announcement came after months of bickering and hectic political activities in Punjab, which saw both Sidhu and Singh attacking each other. The chief minister and his camp were against the elevation of Sidhu, who quit as a minister in state government in 2019.Sidhu was appointed the Punjab Congress chief after rounds of meetings between Congress high command, Amarinder Singh and the Amritsar MLA.Meanwhile, Harish Singh Rawat, another member of the Congress committee to end the infighting in Punjab unit, said that Singh will remain the chief ministerial face of the party for next year's elections since his governance has earned praise from the people of the state and also because "Punjabis don't want to experiment with their political leadership."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-should-have-congratulated-sidhu-punjab-congress-mla-101626670914989.html
19-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin to meet President Kovind in Delhi today||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin will be meeting President Ramnath Kovind in Delhi on Monday, which the government termed “courtesy call”. A senior Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader, not wishing to be named, said that the President is likely to be invited to unveil a portrait of Stalin’s late father and five-time Tamil Nadu chief minister M Karunanidhi in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. Stalin reached Delhi on Sunday. This is his second visit to the national capital after taking charge as chief minister of the souther state on May 7. He met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 17 and submitted a list of 25 demands, which included the release of the seven prisoners convicted in the 1991 Rajiv Gandhi assassination case.Also Read | In Tamil Nadu, murmurs of state bifurcation provoke a backlashStalin is also likely to take this issue up with the President, to whom he had also written a letter in May requesting him to remit the sentence and expedite the release of the seven persons imprisoned for over three decades. Stalin has permitted a two-month long parole for one of the convicts, AG Perarivalan, on medical grounds. All regional parties in Tamil Nadu support the release of the prisoners, who are currently serving a life sentence. In 2018, the Tamil Nadu Cabinet passed a unanimous resolution for the release of all seven prisoners in the case; the resolution was sent to Governor Banwarilal Purohit for his assent. During a case hearing in the Supreme Court on Perarivalan’s remission, an affidavit submitted noted that Purohit was awaiting a report of the multi-disciplinary monitoring agency of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to make his decision. But in subsequent hearings, the CBI clarified that there is no connection between the remission of the sentence and investigation. The apex court also termed the governor’s delay as “extraordinary”. However, in February this year, Purohit refrained from taking a call on the matter and said that the President was the competent authority to make this decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-to-meet-president-kovind-in-delhi-today-101626672323037.html
19-07-2021||India||Rains in Jammu and Kashmir bring relief after hottest day of season||After witnessing the hottest day of the year so far on Sunday, Jammu and Kashmir received monsoon rains on Monday, bringing relief from temperatures above 30 degrees Celsius in the past few days. On Sunday, the maximum temperatures in summer capital Srinagar and winter capital of Jammu were recorded at 35 degree Celsius and 36 degrees Celsius respectively- highest so far this summer. “After the hottest day of the season so far, a blissful early morning shower in J&K. Expect more monsoon showers till 21st, very heavy at times. No flood expected but good chances of flash floods, water logging and landslides etc. No harm in staying alert,” said Sonam Lotus, director of the regional meteorological department. The weather office has predicted moderate to very heavy rains for two more days with the likelihood of it affecting preparations for upcoming festival of Eid-ul-Azha, to be celebrated in Jammu and Kashmir from Wednesday, with thousands of people buying sacrificial animals.The weather office has asked people living at higher reaches to remain cautious while tourists and trekkers have been advised to avoid camps on mountains or riversides owing to chances of flash floods.The weather department has issued warnings to divisional commissioners of the Jammu and Kashmir divisions citing the two wind systems from north Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal that are most likely to interact from July 18 to 21.The system is most likely to cause lightning and thunder along with widespread rains at most places in Jammu, mainly in Pirpanjal Range and also in many places of Kashmir division from July 19 to 21.“We may be celebrating Eid amid the rains, though the temperatures are expected to plunge by 5-6 degrees,” said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir.The precipitation will increase the risk of flash floods in Jammu and Kashmir to high, particularly in upper reaches.The weather office said there may be temporary disruption of traffic mainly on Jammu- Srinagar highway, Srinagar-Leh highway, Doda- Kishtawar road and Mughal road from 19th to 21st July 2021.“There are chances of landslides and shooting stones at vulnerable places and water logging and minor floods over low lying areas. Suspension of agricultural and horticultural operations during the above period is advised,” Mir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-in-jammu-and-kashmir-bring-relief-after-hottest-day-of-season-101626669322999.html
19-07-2021||India||7 killed, several injured after buses collide in Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh||Seven people died and several others were injured after two buses collided in the Sambhal district of Uttar Pradesh on Monday.The incident took place near Chandausi on Agra-Moradabad National Highway in the early hours of Monday.According to Police, the victims were returning from a wedding ceremony on a bus. The accident took place when the bus suddenly broke down. Its deflated tyre was being changed, during which another running bus rammed into it.The injured were shifted to Sambhal District Hospital. After the incident, police and administrative officials also reached the hospital."Seven people died. Eight injured persons were shifted to the hospital. All the victims were residents of Chapra in Sambhal. They were returning from a wedding ceremony. The accident took place when one of the buses was changing its deflated tyre and the other bus hit it. A case has been registered. An investigation probe is underway," said Chakresh Mishra, Superintendent of Police, Sambhal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-killed-several-injured-after-buses-collide-in-sambhal-in-uttar-pradesh-101626667357897.html
19-07-2021||India||India records 38,164 fresh Covid-19 cases; 499 deaths reported||India recorded 38,164 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s cumulative tally to 31,144,229, according to an 8am update by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Monday. With 38,660 fresh recoveries and 499 fatalities in the same period, the total number of recovered persons and the death toll have reached 30,308,456 and 414,108, respectively. The recovery rate of Covid-19 now stands at 97.31 per cent.The active cases witnessed a drop by 995 from Sunday’s figures and now stand at 421,665– constituting 1.36 per cent of the overall caseload, the health ministry’s morning update showed.After Sunday’s figures, the active case count stood at 422,660.Monday’s daily caseload is an improvement as it’s 2,993 less than Sunday’s figures when 41,157 infections were logged. The death toll has also seen a dip of 19 as opposed to Sunday’s numbers when 518 lost their lives due to the virus.As many as 1,463,593 samples were tested for coronavirus disease in the span of 24 hours, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A total of 445,422,256 samples have been tested in the country since the pandemic started, ICMR data showed on Monday.As the probability of the third wave of coronavirus pandemic remains, six states have lately been showing a spike in cases. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently held a meeting with the chief ministers of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Maharashtra. “Increasing numbers in Kerala and Maharashtra are a cause of grave worry,” PM Modi said at the meeting.PM Modi also highlighted that similar trends were noticed in the country from January to February before the arrival of the second wave. He asked the six states to adopt proactive measures to combat the virus spread and follow the ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate’ approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-38-164-fresh-covid-19-cases-499-deaths-reported-101626665416062.html
19-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Heavy rain lash northwest India and Himalayan region and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rain, thunderstorms lash northwest India and Himalayan regionHeavy rainfall lashed many parts of the Western Himalayan region, most parts of northwest India and parts of northeast India Monday morning, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read more.Top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander killed in encounter in J&K’s ShopianA top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander who deserted the ranks of Jammu and Kashmir Police about four years ago was among the two terrorists killed in an overnight encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, police said. Two local terrorists were killed in Srinagar two days ago in a similar operation. Read more.Opposition turns down offer of separate briefing on Covid by PM ModiSeveral opposition parties, including the Congress, the Trinamool Congress and the Samajwadi Party, rejected the central government’s offer of an exclusive meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Parliament complex to brief the floor leaders on India’s Covid-19 management, and asserted that the issue deserved a debate in the House. Read more.Govt: 18 out of 60 adverse events related to vaccineUnion health ministry’s latest analysis of 60 cases of adverse events following immunization shows that 18 of these were related to the vaccines, the government said in a report, which added that the only case that was of a fatality was not connected to the vaccines. Read more.Cinema halls, colleges set to reopen in Karnataka todayThe Karnataka government on Sunday announced further relaxation to the lockdown rules in the state from Monday. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said the relaxations were made since there is gradual improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the state. In the new set of relaxations, the government has allowed theatres and higher education institutes to reopen while the duration of the night curfew has been reduced by an hour. Read more.Peachy Priyanka Chopra is both glam and adorable in Nick Jonas' birthday post, see hereActor-singer Nick Jonas on Sunday wished his wife, actor Priyanka Chopra, a happy birthday. Priyanka turned 39 on July 18, and Nick shared pictures of her wearing sarees. Read more.Kartik Aaryan's post-workout pics show he trains hard at gym, Varun Dhawan is impressedActor Kartik Aaryan took to Instagram recently to share post-workout pictures with his trainer, and they will inspire you to hit the grind. The actor gave us the perfect dose of fitness motivation with the photos that show how hard he was working out at the gym. Read more.Olympic medallist Vijender Singh previews the Tokyo GamesOlympic medallist Vijender Singh speaks to Sharda Ugra, Senior sports journalist and Rudraneil Sengupta, Sports editor, Hindustan Times on his Olympic experience and the Indian boxing contingent at Tokyo. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-heavy-rain-lash-northwest-india-and-himalayan-region-101626663684568.html
19-07-2021||India||Heavy rain, thunderstorms lash northwest India and Himalayan region||Heavy rainfall lashed many parts of the Western Himalayan region, most parts of northwest India and parts of northeast India Monday morning, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Recent Satellite Imagery shows Intense/ very intense convection over parts of Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana Chandigarh and Delhi, northwest Madhya Pradesh, northeast Rajasthan, north Konkan, Bihar, Sub Himalayan west Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram & Tripura and neighbouring areas. It leads to the possibility of moderate to intense spell(s) of rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning during the next 2-3 hours,” IMD warned at 5.30 am on Monday.The weather department added that such intense spells of rain is likely to cause slippery roads and traffic disruption on roads; damage plantation, horticulture and standing crops; partial damage to vulnerable structures due to strong winds and partial damage to kutcha houses/walls and huts.It also recommended that people should avoid staying in vulnerable structures; stay indoors, close windows and doors and avoid travel if possible; do not take shelter under trees; do not lie on concrete floors and do not lean against concrete walls etc.Rainfall is very likely to increase with widespread and heavy rain likely over the Western Himalayan region and most parts of northwest India from Sunday to Wednesday, IMD had said on Sunday.Heavy rain is likely in Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand and adjoining northwest India including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and north Madhya Pradesh from July 18 to 21 and a decrease will take place thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall (over 20 cm) is likely over Uttarakhand on Sunday and Monday and over northwest Uttar Pradesh on Monday. Moderate to heavy rainfall at isolated places is also very likely over Delhi and Chandigarh on Sunday and Monday, IMD bulletin said.The western end of monsoon trough is running close to its normal position and is likely to shift northward from Sunday evening onwards. The eastern end is lying north of its normal position and is likely to continue there during next 2-3 days and shift southwards thereafter.“Due to the formation of two low pressure systems, one over Bay of Bengal and another over northeast Arabian Sea, the monsoon trough had shifted south from its normal position. After these systems weakened the eastern end of the trough has already shifted northwards and the western end will also start moving north now bringing a lot of rain over parts of north India for the next 2 to 3 days,” explained K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-thunderstorms-lash-northwest-india-and-himalayan-region-101626662722456.html
19-07-2021||India||Top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian||A top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander who deserted the ranks of Jammu and Kashmir Police about four years ago was among the two terrorists killed in an overnight encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, police said. He was involved in killing of four cops in 2018 in south Kashmir’s Zanipora village, they added.“He was very instrumental in planning and executing terror attacks on security establishments, civilian killings and misleading the gullible youth by motivating them to join terrorist folds. He was also involved in killing of four police personnel at minority guard Zainapora in 2018, killing of two non-local drivers in Chittrigam Shopian in 2019. Moreover, on his behest two youth namely Asif Lone, resident of Khudwani Kulgam and Ab Rashid Thoker, resident of Hussanpora Arwani, also joined the terror network,” the spokesman said.Kashmir police chief (IGP) Vijay Kumar said that Ishfaq Dar alias Abu Akram was one of the top LeT terrorists active in the region since 2017 and was neutralised in the joint operation by the police, army and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).The joint operation was launched on Sunday at Check Sadiq Khan area of Shopian after the security forces got a tipoff about the presence of terrorists there.IGP Vijay Kumar said that Ishfaq Dar was a former Jammu and Kashmir cop who deserted the ranks in 2017 after serving for about 5 years before joining a terror group. He posted his picture with a gun on social media to announce the switch.The second killed terrorist was identified as Majid Iqbal, who turned into a terrorist only this year. Both were residents of Shopian.Police spokesman said the two terrorists were involved in various incidents and Ishfaq was a listed terrorist. He added that two AK-47 rifles and eight magazines were recovered from the site of encounter.On Friday, two terrorists believed to be involved in the killings of policemen and civilians in Srinagar were neutralised by security forces at Alamdar Colony in Danmar area of Srinagar.IG Kumar said that 82 terrorists including some top commanders have been killed in Kashmir since January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-lashkar-e-taiba-commander-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian-101626661342547.html
19-07-2021||India||RSS and BJP leaders hold coordination meet in UP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held a six-hour coordination meeting with top functionaries of its ideologue Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in Lucknow on Sunday, ahead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.“Having decided to go into the 2022 UP polls with Yogi Adityanath as the face, the RSS is anxious to ensure that the party goes into the elections as one unit and not as divided factions talking in different voices,” a party leader familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The meeting comprised party’s general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his two deputies Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, RSS joint secretary Arun Kumar and state BJP chief Swatantra Dev, among others. Soon after the meeting, Maurya tweeted: “We have to serve the Covid hit and ensure lotus blooms with 300 plus seats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-and-bjp-leaders-hold-coordination-meet-in-up-101626656394971.html
19-07-2021||India||Mayawati plans Brahmin outreach before polls||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections slated to be held next year, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)chief Mayawati announced on Sunday that the party will launch a campaign to reach out to Brahmin voters in the state.“A campaign, led by BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, will be started from Ayodhya on July 23 to awaken the Brahmin community once again... After forming the government, the BSP will take care of their ( Brahmins’) dignity and protect their interests,” said the BSP chief while addressing a press conference.Mayawati’s Brahmin outreach was considered as one of the key factors for her win in the 2007 state assembly election.She attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the state, accusing it of “harassing and exploiting the community” after winning the 2017 assembly polls with the help of their votes.“The BJP formed the government with the support of the Brahmins but instead of working for the welfare of the community, it committed atrocities on them. They were being harassed and exploited and were repenting their support to the BJP.”She further praised the Dalit community for not “falling in the trap” of the BJP and other rival parties. The BJP organised ‘khichadi’ feast of their leaders with the members of the Dalit community, as well as a rath yatra to win the support of the Dalits during the 2017 assembly elections. “I am proud of the Dalit community’s support who did not deviate, remained united, and voted for the BSP,” she said.BJP state unit spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi hit back, saying, “From 2007 to 2012, the BSP government indulged in the policy of appeasement. The upper castes were sidelined and now when the elections are knocking on the door, BSP chief Mayawati has started to woo Brahmins again. The Brahmins know that BJP worked for their welfare and dignity. In the 2022 polls, they would again support the BJP.”Congress party spokesperson, Naseemuddin Siddiqui said, “Due to shrinking support base, the BSP chief Mayawati is panicking, she is indulging in the politics of caste, the Congress believes in working for the welfare of all the caste and communities in Uttar Pradesh as well as in the other states.”Samajwadi Party state unit spokesperson, Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said, “The SP respected all communities and castes. Mayawati’s attack on the opposition showed her undeclared alliance with the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-plans-brahmin-outreach-before-polls-101626656082980.html
19-07-2021||India||Monsoon session of Parliament to begin from today; 29 bills on agenda||The monsoon session of Parliament will begin from Monday as the government has readied a big legislative agenda with the opposition looking to corner the Centre over a number of issues, including alleged mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic and farmers' agitation.On Saturday, vice president and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu held a meeting of leaders of various parties in the upper house of Parliament to discuss the agenda of this year's monsoon session. Naidu appealed for a productive session."A dysfunctional Parliament adds to the prevailing gloom and hence, all sections of the House should ensure a smooth and productive session as it offers an opportunity to address the concerns of the people affected by Covid-19," Naidu sai as per ANI report.During the meeting, Union minister of parliamentary affairs Prahlad Joshi informed that the Centre has identified 29 bills including six ordinances replacing bills and two items of financial business for the session.The monsoon session of Parliament 2021 will conclude on August 13.PM Modi invites 'health discussion'On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an all-party meeting in which he told the leaders that the government is ready for a "healthy and meaningful discussion" on various issues in Parliament.An official statement said that the Prime Minister told the floor leaders that according to the country's traditions of a healthy democracy, issues concerning the people should be raised amicably and the government should be allowed to respond to these discussions.PM Modi also told the members of Parliament that people's representatives truly know the ground-level situation, hence their participation in these discussions enriches the decision-making process.Opposition's plan to corner govtMallikarjun Kharge, leader of the opposition, said on Sunday that they have proposed to discuss various issues like inflation, poverty and the Covid-19 crisis in the house in front of Venkaiah Naidu. Kharge also added that Venakaih Naidu has given a nod to the opportunity to discuss the issues.Several opposition parties are also planning to move adjournment notices in both houses of Parliament on Monday over farmers' issues, Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) leader NK Premachandran said on Sunday after an all-party meeting of opposition, attended by leaders of the Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Communist Party of India-Marxist(CPI-M), Communist Party of India (CPI), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), RSP, Shiv Sena and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-of-parliament-to-begin-from-today-29-bills-on-agenda-101626655962996.html
19-07-2021||India||Opposition turns down offer of separate briefing on Covid by PM Modi||Several opposition parties, including the Congress, the Trinamool Congress and the Samajwadi Party, rejected the central government’s offer of an exclusive meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Parliament complex to brief the floor leaders on India’s Covid-19 management, and asserted that the issue deserved a debate in the House.“MPs do not want fancy PowerPoint presentations on #COVID19 from the PM or this Government in some conference room. #Parliament is in session. Come to the FLOOR OF THE HOUSE,” TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O Brien tweeted, indicating rejection of the offer.Management of the Covid-19 pandemic and India’s vaccination strategy have been at the centre of a raging debate between the Narendra Modi-led government and the Opposition, with the latter calling the vaccination policy “faulty” and its distribution plan “opaque”. The Opposition has also accused the central government of not sending enough doses to non-BJP governed states. The government managers, however, rejected the charges and hailed the domestically produced vaccines as major achievements.A senior Opposition leader, who did not wish to be named, said, “Any briefing on the Covid management would affect the prospects of a full debate. The Parliament is meeting after the second wave. It must debate the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-turns-down-offer-of-separate-briefing-on-covid-by-pm-modi-101626655830520.html
19-07-2021||India||Govt: 18 out of 60 adverse events related to vaccine||Union health ministry’s latest analysis of 60 cases of adverse events following immunization shows that 18 of these were related to the vaccines, the government said in a report, which added that the only case that was of a fatality was not connected to the vaccines.These cases, which are of serious and severe side effects, pertain to those randomly selected between January 16, 2021 and March 19, 2021; and by March 19, A total of nearly 41 million (4,11,55,978) vaccine doses were administered in the country.All other severe and serious adverse reaction cases recovered, according to the report, which said that the fatality was coincidental – such cases are when a cause of death other than the vaccine is established upon investigation. Most of the side effects, the report added, were related to anxiety following vaccination – which does not directly implicate the product.“55 out of 60 cases for which Causality assessment has been done found to have consistent causal association to vaccination, Of these, 36 were anxiety related reactions and 18 were vaccine product related reactions and one was classified as both -- vaccine product related and anxiety related reaction. Five cases have been found to have inconsistent causal association to vaccination (coincidental - not linked to vaccination) of which one was a death case,” said the ministry’s AEFI report.The result of the causality assessment for these 60 cases was completed on May 27, 2021, after a thorough review, deliberation and approval by the national AEFI committee.“The data is thoroughly analysed by experts as part of India’s AEFI surveillance system. The percentage of adverse reaction as compared to the total doses administered is minuscule, and there is absolutely no cause for concern,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-18-out-of-60-adverse-events-related-to-vaccine-101626647286024.html
19-07-2021||India||Foreigner who attacked Bengaluru cops held||Bengaluru: Bengaluru police on Saturday arrested a 36-year-old foreign national, who attacked two policemen on patrolling duty on Maragondanahalli in the last week of June. The arrested man, identified as Asiedu Morgan, was absconding since the attack and was finally arrested by the police from sector 3, in Noida, Uttar Pradesh. According to a statement from the police, Morgan, along with his four friends, was caught creating a ruckus in the KR Puram area on the night of June 23 and their neighbours informed the police. When the police team arrived at the location, he picked up an argument with the policemen and in a fit rage, hit their motorcycle with his car. The personnel had to jump out of the bike to escape the attack, the police said in the statement. A senior police officer in the know of the developments said that the attack in Maragondanahalli influenced the police’s decision to conduct raids across the city to identify foreigners overstaying in the city. During these raids, five homes were searched by a team of six ACPs, 20 police inspectors and over 100 police constables, read a statement from the CCB. Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Thursday conducted raids across the city and 38 foreigners were detained for not having valid documents while seven were detained on charges of overstaying. “The officials also found marijuana and 90 ecstasy pills from two foreigners. They have been arrested,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). Bengaluru police had announced that it will book house owners if tenants were found involved in narcotics cases. The top brass of the city police had issued directions to all police stations after several instances were reported of landlords not verifying documents of foreign nationals before renting out their property. “In many cases, this is done with the knowledge that they were staying illegally, to get more rent,” said a senior CCB official. As many as 70 foreign nationals were arrested in 2020 under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS), in comparison to 44 in 2018 and 38 in 2019. The number of arrested persons in 2020 under the NDPS Act increased by 200% last year. According to the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO), Bengaluru, more than 800 foreigners are overstaying in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreigner-who-attacked-bengaluru-cops-held-101626638240867.html
19-07-2021||India||IMD red alert for 3 Karnataka districts till July 20||Bengaluru: Several parts of the coastal region of Karnataka continued to receive sporadic rains on Sunday after which many roads and residential areas in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, and other districts were left waterlogged. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday had said that Karnataka’s coastal, northern interior and southern interior regions will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall, . According to a statement from the Bengaluru office of the IMD on Saturday, a red alert has been sounded for Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada districts till 8.30 am on July 20, after which an orange alert will be in place till July 23. Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu districts have been put on orange alert. Three districts on the eastern side of the state - Chitradurga, Ballari, and Davanagere – have been put on yellow alert for three days starting July 19. The southwest monsoon has been active in the northern interior Karnataka region. Gokarna received 11cm of rain followed by Agumbe at 10cm on Saturday.. The monsoon has already left a trail of destruction on the coast and Malnad area of the state. Two people have died in flood-related issues in Kodagu last week. A huge landslide that occurred at the Kulashekar-Thokur section of the Southern Railway cut off the traffic between Mangaluru and Roha on the Konkan Railway route for three days. Palakkad division authorities have stated that the line has since been cleared and the first train to arrive today was Marusagar Express to Mangaluru Junction passing the portion of the track that was affected by the landslide. Incessant rains lashing the state have filled 18 reservoirs, including the major ones such as Krishnarajasagar in Mandya, Kodasalli, and Supa in Uttara Kannada district, Harangi in Kodagu, Linganamakki in Shivamogga. All these reservoirs have seen copious inflow. Bhatkal town in Uttara Kannada district on Sunday experienced inundation following the flooding of the Choutini River. This is the first time that Bhatkal has experienced flooding in the last decade. In Honnavar, three villages have been flooded due to a swollen Gundibala river. The river has inundated farmlands and water has entered the houses in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-red-alert-for-3-karnataka-districts-till-july-20-101626638120794.html
19-07-2021||India||Cinema halls, colleges set to reopen in Karnataka today||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Sunday announced further relaxation to the lockdown rules in the state from Monday. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said the relaxations were made since there is gradual improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the state. In the new set of relaxations, the government has allowed theatres and higher education institutes to reopen while the duration of the night curfew has been reduced by an hour. “The Covid-19 situation in the state has again been reviewed and it has been observed that a number of active cases as well as case positivity rate have been consistently declining. The health experts have suggested opening up few more activities with focused public health measures and strict adherence to Covid 19 appropriate behaviour,” read the government order.These decisions were made after a meeting chaired by the chief minister along with top ministers and bureaucrats on Sunday morning. Karnataka had gone for full lockdown starting April 28, which are being relaxed in multiple phases.The new relaxations would be applicable for the entire state, except Kodagu district and it will come into effect from 6 am on Monday. As per the new guidelines, the night curfew will be imposed from 10 pm to 5 am in the state as against the existing timing of 9 pm to 5 am . The new timings will allow restaurants and pubs, which had reopened during the last relaxation, to remain open till 10 pm. The government has also allowed the reopening of cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, rangamandiras, auditoriums and similar places of entertainment. However, they will be allowed to operate at only 50% seating capacity and strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the concerned departments. Karnataka on July 8 had ordered a complete waiver of property tax on single-screen theatres for financial year 2021-22, after the Karnataka State Film Exhibitors Association (KSFEA) submitted a detailed memorandum to Yediyurappa, citing the problems faced by the industry during the lockdown. In the third main change, the government has allowed the reopening of colleges and institutions pertaining to the Department of Higher Education from July 26. “Only students, teaching and non-teaching or other staff who have taken at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine will be permitted to attend the colleges/institutions. Attendance of students will be optional,” read the government order. It also added that all skill development training including long term technical courses are permitted while strictly adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. Even in these institutes only students, teaching and non-teaching staff, who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine will be permitted to attend the institutions. Earlier on Friday, the state government had allowed the reopening of medical, dental colleges and allied healthcare academic institutions. “It has been decided to allow the reopening of all medical, dental, AYUSH and other allied healthcare educational institutions in the state with immediate effect,” Karnataka health minister K. Sudhakar had tweeted. On Friday, the government had also announced the commencement of training for doctors and paramedics across the state to tackle the potential third wave of Covid-19. “The state health department will conduct training sessions for doctors and paramedical staff in district hospitals across the state for preparing them to fight the pandemic’s possible third wave,” the health minister told reporters on Friday. The state government also hired about 4,000 doctors and ramped up the healthcare infrastructure during the pandemic’s second wave to contain the virus. “Measures are being taken as recommended by the expert committee headed by noted cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty to minimise the impact of the third wave on people. As our state shares borders with Kerala and Maharashtra, where positive cases continue to remain high, safety measures have been taken to prevent the infection from spreading in the districts,” Sudhakar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cinema-halls-colleges-set-to-reopen-in-karnataka-today-101626637880843.html
19-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa’s call for key meet fans speculation||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s call for a legislative party meeting on July 26 has fuelled fresh speculations within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over his possible resignation even though the 78-year-old on Saturday clarified that there was no change of guard in the state.While a section of party leaders claimed that his replacement is imminent, others believe that a Cabinet reshuffle is likely on the cards and may take place during the meeting next week. “As far as we are concerned, the legislative party meeting is about a possible Cabinet shuffle and not a change of guard,” a party legislator from Bengaluru said, wishing not to be named.However, a legislator associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), a faction of the BJP, said there are clear indications that Yediyurappa will be handing over the charge. “You can’t expect the party of Yediyurappa ji to reveal the details of the meetings with the Prime Minister to the media. But the fact is that there is a consensus between the party leadership and Yediyurappa to do what is required for the long-term success of the party. You will know the details soon,” the legislator said, preferring anonymity.The chief minister met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday during his two-day visit to the national capital. On reports suggesting his removal, he told reporters: “No, not at all... There is no truth in the rumours.” He added that “not a single word” was discussed on the issue by him or central party leaders. The chief minister also met BJP chief J P Nadda and said he was asked to strengthen the party ahead of the 2023 elections. He added that he would return to Delhi to discuss various developmental issues early next month.Meanwhile, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar claimed that several MLAs and workers belonging to the Lingayat community are ready to join the Congress. Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi Airport on Saturday, Shivakumar said former ministers M B Patil and Eshwar Khandre among others have already begun discussions in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappas-call-for-key-meet-fans-speculation-101626637460821.html
19-07-2021||India||‘G23’ dissenters back in Congress' House rejig||In a major rejig ahead of the monsoon session of Parliament that is scheduled to begin on Monday, the Congress has reconstituted and expanded its parliamentary groups in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, bringing in senior faces such as former Union ministers P Chidambaram, Manish Tewari and Ambika Soni, and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh.The announcement came on Sunday by way of a letter by party president Sonia Gandhi. In that she wrote that the reshuffle has been done for the effective functioning of the party in both houses of Parliament. “These groups will meet daily during the session and can meet during the inter-session periods as well where Parliament issues are concerned,” the Congress president wrote.After two curtailed sessions, there is expectation that the monsoon session will be a full one, and there is every indication that it will be stormy too, with the opposition likely to corner the government on the economy, the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and vaccinations, job losses and the contentious farm laws.The letter has also ended speculation about the role of West Bengal MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who, it was thought, will be replaced by either Shashi Tharoor or Manish Tewari.The letter states that Chowdhury will continue as the leader of the party in the Lok Sabha, but Tharoor and Tewari will be in the group too, which only underlines that Sonia Gandhi wants more heads in the party’s parliamentary decision-making process.The Lok Sabha group will also have Assam MP Gaurav Gogoi (deputy leader), K Suresh (chief whip), Ravneet Singh Bittu and Manickam Tagore (both whips).The Rajya Sabha hierarchy, which earlier had Mallikarjun Kharge as the leader of the opposition, Anand Sharma (deputy leader) and Jairam Ramesh (chief whip), will now include Chidambaram, Soni and Singh—the three senior leaders with years of experience in Parliament as well as party.The groups will have various roles. Mustering numbers, coordinating with various political parties, and deciding on key floor issues such as support for a bill or the extent of cooperation with the government.It will also decide which issue needs to be raised and how the Congress will manoeuvre on issues raised by other parties.Only last week, Congress had entrusted Kharge with the responsibility of coordination with other parties in Parliament. He is expected to play the key role in Parliament as lack of opposition unity has proved to be an advantage for the ruling dispensation in passing key bills such as on Triple Talaq, bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir as Union territories, and the scrapping of Article 370.With the inclusion of senior, more accessible leaders, the party hopes to mend fissures within the opposition camp with a few regional parties trying to go it all alone in the forthcoming state elections and the 2024 general elections.The Congress already has two panels — the parliamentary strategy group headed by Gandhi to look into the larger issues relating to parliamentary functioning, and a smaller group headed by P Chidambaram to carefully scrutinise all government bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g23-dissenters-back-in-congress-house-rejig-101626636511521.html
19-07-2021||India||IMA slams move to ease curbs in Kerala for Eid||The Kerala government’s decision to ease restrictions for Eid al-zuha celebrations even as Covid-19 cases continued to surge in the state has triggered sharp reactions from medical bodies and experts, with the Indian Medical Association terming it “unwarranted and inappropriate” at a time of a medical emergency and threatening to move court.“The IMA is pained to see amid the rise of cases and seropositivity, the Kerala government has issued an order to ease out lockdown followed in the state on the pretext of religious gatherings of Bakrid. It is unwarranted and inappropriate at this time of medical emergency,” said the statement released by the apex doctors’ organisation.It further warned the government of approaching the court, if the relaxations were not withdrawn immediately.Kerala on Sunday recorded 13,956 fresh cases said the data released by the state health ministry. The active caseload in the state has crossed 125,000.On Saturday, as the state reported 16,148 new cases –the highest single-day increase in infections in over a month -- chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan declared that lockdown restrictions in the state would be relaxed for three days starting Sunday in view of Eid celebrations on July 21.At least 40 people will be allowed in places of worship and there will be special relaxation from June 18-20 – shops and business establishments can be opened till 8pm.Besides concessions for Bakrid, certain activities like film shooting and relaxations for places of worship were announced on Saturday by the CM, who added that restrictions were also needed to overcome the serious situation that Kerala was facing.The CM said on Saturday that the curbs, including lockdowns, no matter how limited, were causing huge economic and social problems and therefore certain concessions were being allowed after evaluating the course of the Covid-19 infection daily.The issue has also sparked a fierce debate online and drawn comparisons to the cancellation of the kanwar yatra by Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“When many northern states like J&K, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand have stopped, with a constructive sense of public safety, the traditional and popular pilgrimage Yatras, it is unfortunate that the learned state of Kerala had taken these retrograde decisions,” the IMA statement added.The test positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive for Covid-19 – remains the highest among India’s populous states.On Sunday, the positivity rate in the state was 10.69%. While the second wave of the outbreak has been receding in most regions in the country over the past two months, Kerala has been witnessing rising infections over the past four weeks, data shows.The seven-day average of daily infections in the state, which had dropped to 11,357 for the week ended June 27, has now again climbed to 13,409 cases a day in the past week, data shows.“It is a fact cases are high in Kerala. We expected this. The second phase started very late in the state and peaking is very slow due to our effective intervention,” said health minister Veena George, adding that there is no need to panic over the rising number of infections.(With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-slams-kerala-for-easing-covid-curbs-for-eid-101626637280790.html
19-07-2021||India||Chhattisgarh orders probe into three cases against suspended IPS officer||The Chhattisgarh government has ordered probes into three cases against suspended Indian Police Service (IPS) officer GP Singh, who was booked for sedition last week, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday. The probes will be carried out by three senior IPS officers of Chhattisgarh police, as per orders (copies of which have been seen by HT) issued by director general of policeD MAwasthi on July 14 and 15. On July 8, Singh was suspended by the state government after the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Economic Offence Wing (EOW) raided his premises in connection with a disproportionate assets case. On July 9, he was booked for sedition after documents “promoting enmity” and “conspiracy against the government” were seized during the raids. As per the first order, a probe has been ordered on a complaint of one Duralabh Agarwal of Raipur, who alleged that the suspended IPS officer, who was investigating a case of police atrocity against his father and uncle in 2013, hushed-up the case. The complaint in this regard was registered with the Chhattisgarh DGP and others on July 12 and will be probed by senior IPS officer Ashok Juneja. Another probe was ordered on a complaint of Manjit Kaur Bal, a resident of Raipur who accused Singh of helping one criminal, Kamalkant Tiwari, by forging documents and also giving him protection. The complaint in this regard was also filed with the DGP on July 12 and will be investigated by inspector general of police (IGP), Raipur, Anand Chhabra, as per the issued order. The third case to be investigated by IGP, Durg range, Vivekanand Sinhna, pertains to a complaint in which one Gaynendra Yadav of Rajnandgaon alleged that Singh had ‘misappropriated’ the money which was recovered from Maoist leader Pahad Singh, when he was posted as the IG Durg Range in 2018. It is worth mentioning here that several searches were conducted at around 15 locations linked to Singh, an additional director general-rank officer, between July 1 and 3. Investigators have claimed to have discovered documents related to movable and immovable assets worth over ₹10 crore during the raids. An ACB statement on July 3 said the documents seized during searches at Singh’s premises suggested that he had allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and indulged in a “massive exchange of money”. “Singh also allegedly tried to commit money laundering by investing in shell companies,” the statement said. Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, served as additional director general of ACB and EOW before he was transferred to the state police academy in June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-orders-probe-into-three-cases-against-suspended-ips-officer-101626637100773.html
19-07-2021||India||Sidhu named Punjab Congress chief with 4 working presidents||The Congress appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of its Punjab unit on Sunday after days of intense tussle in the state where the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh resisted the elevation.The party also announced the appointment of four working presidents, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, which paves the way for a significant revamp of the organisational setup disbanded by the Congress president in January, 2020. The state is scheduled to go to polls early next year.“Congress president has appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect,” according to a statement by the All India Congress Committee. “The party appreciates the contributions of outgoing PCC president Sunil Jakhar,”it added.The announcement came at the end of a day full of hectic political activity that saw the factions led by Singh and Sidhu holding meetings with supporters to consolidate their positions. The incumbent Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar called a meeting of party legislators and district unit chiefs on Monday to draw up a resolution for a solution but the meeting was called off following the formal announcement.According to a person aware of the developments, it is not clear whether the announcement addresses the factionalism and some in the party fear the rift may widen as Singh continues to be upset with Sidhu, who has attacked the chief minister on several occasions.Congress leaders aware of discussions on Saturday indicated that a compromise formula had been worked out but it included a public apology that Singh sought from Sidhu for his attacks. Till late Sunday, there was no apology that was made. Singh had told Congress leader Harish Rawat, who was in Chandigarh to inform him about the changes, that any decision of the Congress president would be acceptable to him, but refused to meet Sidhu till he tendered the apology.The day began with Sidhu visiting several districts and reaching out to MLAs in Patiala, Khanna and Jalandhar to demonstrate the support he was shoring up. Earlier on Saturday, he met nearly 30 party leaders, including Jakhar in Panchkula and sought his support and guidance.A former cricketer-turned-politician, Sidhu, a four-time MP, joined the Congress from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the 2017 state assembly polls. He was inducted into the state cabinet but shared an uneasy relation with the CM, which eventually culminated in him quitting after Singh shuffled his portfolio in 2019.The CM had opposed his elevation, citing his lack of seniority in the Congress and community equations as both are Jat Sikhs and belong to Patiala. The appointment of the working presidents is seen to have aimed at addressing some of these objections.Earlier on Sunday in Delhi, nine Congress leaders from the state held a meeting and decided to back the CM and sought a meeting with party president Sonia Gandhi to push their case, said people aware of the developments. The Congress MPs met at the residence of Partap Singh Bajwa, who had earlier met with the CM for dinner at his farmhouse in Mohali on Saturday. They had differences earlier over the Rajya Sabha MP questioning the CM’s decisions, especially the power purchase agreements, rather publicly but have now buried the hatchet.Barring Ambika Soni and Amar Singh, all the other Punjab MPs were present at the meeting in Bajwa’s residence, including Amarinder Singh’s MP wife, Preneet Kaur. Bajwa later took to Twitter to share images of the meeting. “Discussion with @INCIndia Rajya Sabha & Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab to devise a strategy on farmers’ issues in upcoming monsoon session of the Parliament,” Bajwa tweeted.Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo, who attended the meeting, said there are a lot of things going on in the state. “We have informed the Congress president and sought time from her for a discussion on Punjab Congress affairs and other burning issues,” he said.Dullo said they are not opposed to anyone but want the party to maintain caste and religious balance. Apart from the MPs, 10 Punjab MLAs, including three AAP legislators who switched to the Congress last month, also issued a joint statement in CM’s support, urging the Congress leadership not to let him down as “because of his unrelenting efforts, the party stands well entrenched in Punjab”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-named-punjab-congress-chief-amid-infighting-101626636980796.html
19-07-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu appointed Congress Punjab unit chief amid rift with CM||The Congress appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of its Punjab unit on Sunday after days of intense tussle in the state where the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh resisted the elevation. The party also announced the appointment of four working presidents, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, which paves the way for a significant revamp of the organisational set-up disbanded by the Congress president in January 2020. The state is scheduled to go to the polls early next year. “Congress president has appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect,” according to a statement by the All India Congress Committee. “The party appreciates the contributions of outgoing PCC president Sunil Jakhar,” it added.The announcement came at the end of a day full of hectic political activity that saw the factions led by Singh and Sidhu holding meetings with supporters to consolidate their positions. The incumbent Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar called a meeting of party legislators and district unit chiefs on Monday to draw up a resolution for a solution but the meeting was called off following the formal announcement. According to a person aware of the developments, it is not clear whether the announcement addresses the factionalism and some in the party fear the rift may widen as Singh continues to be upset with Sidhu, who has attacked the chief minister on several occasions.Congress leaders aware of discussions on Saturday indicated that a compromise formula had been worked out but it included a public apology that Singh sought from Sidhu for his attacks. Till late Sunday, there was no apology that was made.Singh had told Congress leader Harish Rawat, who was in Chandigarh to inform him about the changes, that any decision of the Congress president would be acceptable to him, but refused to meet Sidhu till he tendered the apology. The day began with Sidhu meeting nearly 30 party leaders. Earlier on Saturday, he visited several districts and reached out to MLAs in Patiala, Khanna and Jalandhar to demonstrate the support he was shoring up. He had also met Jakhar in Panchkula and sought his support and guidance. A former cricketer-turned-politician, Sidhu, a four-time MP, joined the Congress from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the 2017 state assembly polls. He was inducted into the state cabinet but shared an uneasy relation with the CM, which eventually culminated in him quitting after Singh shuffled his portfolio in 2019. The CM had opposed his elevation, citing his lack of seniority in the Congress and community equations as both are Jat Sikhs and belong to Patiala. The appointment of the working presidents is seen to have aimed at addressing some of these objections. Earlier on Sunday in Delhi, 11 Congress leaders from the state held a meeting and decided to back the CM and sought a meeting with party president Sonia Gandhi to push their case, said people aware of the developments. The Congress MPs met at the residence of Partap Singh Bajwa, who had earlier met with the CM for dinner at his farmhouse in Mohali on Saturday. They had differences earlier over the Rajya Sabha MP questioning the CM’s decisions, especially the power purchase agreements, rather publicly but have now buried the hatchet.Barring Ambika Soni and Amar Singh, all the other Punjab MPs were present at the meeting in Bajwa’s residence, including Amarinder Singh’s MP wife, Preneet Kaur. Bajwa later took to microblogging platform Twitter to share images of the meeting. “Discussion with @INCIndia Rajya Sabha & Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab to devise a strategy on farmers’ issues in upcoming monsoon session of the Parliament,” Bajwa tweeted, without mentioning the issue of dissidence in the Punjab Congress. Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo, who attended the meeting, said there are a lot of things going on in the state. “We have informed the Congress president and sought time from her for a discussion on Punjab Congress affairs and other burning issues. I spoke to her and have sent a letter to her today, saying that if the party wants to retain power, a Dalit should head the state unit,” he said. Dullo said they are not opposed to anyone but want the party to maintain caste and religious balance. Apart from the MPs, 10 Punjab MLAs, including three AAP legislators who switched to the Congress last month, also issued a joint statement in CM’s support, urging the Congress leadership not to let him down as “because of his unrelenting efforts, the party stands well entrenched in Punjab”. In a statement released on behalf of the MLAs by Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who is among the three crossover legislators but is still not a member of the Congress Legislature Party, Sidhu was described as a celebrity and an asset but who, by condemning and criticising his own party and government in public, has only created a “rift in the cadres and weakened it”. Other MLAs who endorsed the statement were Harminder Singh Gill, Kuldeep Vaid, Fatehjang Bajwa, Gurpreet Singh GP, Balwinder Laddi, Santokh Bhalaipur, Joginder Pal, Jagdev Kamalu and Pirmal Singh. They also supported Amarinder Singh’s decision not to meet Sidhu until he publicly tenders apology for his “derogatory” tweets against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-appointed-congress-punjab-unit-chief-amid-rift-with-cm-101626635002898.html
19-07-2021||India||Over 1,800 news portals shared compliance details: Govt officials||More than 1,800 digital news websites have shared details of their compliance with the new social media and intermediary guidelines, ministry officials familiar with the matter said, even as the government reached out only to 1,200 such digital publications.“The response has been overwhelming,” the official said. “Regional digital news media websites are grateful that they are being recognised. More and more are alerting the ministry regarding their compliance every day,” this person addedThe official said this will enable the government to create a repository of all digital news media platforms. The compliance, however, does not amount as a certification with the central government, the official clarified. “All 40 over the top platforms, including Netflix, Hotstar, Amazon Prime Video, have also complied with the guidelines,” the official said.The ministry is working on extending certain benefits, such as a Press Information Bureau accreditation for reporters, cameramen, videographers, to enable them with better first-hand information and access including participation in official press conferences and interactions.These are currently available only to traditional media (print and TV).The new intermediary and digital media guidelines require platforms to appoint officers, grievance redressal officers in case of OTT and digital news media platforms, institute a three-tier mechanism for grievance redressal with an inter-ministerial committee at its apex, and give the I&B ministry takedown powers over the content circulated online.The rules, which were notified in February, have been challenged in the court by several digital news media outfits, including LiveLaw and TheWire.While there is no requirement for the digital news media publishers to be registered with the ministry, information pertaining to their grievance redressal officer in India, self-regulating body of which the publisher is a member, and the details of the editor were sought by the ministry on May 26. Similar information has been sought from the video streaming services, with details of the content manager in place of the editor.The News Broadcasters Federation, which consists of 78 news channels in 14 languages, representing broadcasters from 25 States, said that they have complied with the rules.In a notification dated June 10, the ministry said digital arms of traditional media houses would not be exempt from furnishing the details under the new rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-800-news-portals-shared-compliance-details-govt-officials-101626634703328.html
19-07-2021||India||SC to examine if a ‘stranger’ can challenge validity of marriage||The Supreme Court will look into the legal principle that only a wife or a husband can challenge a marriage, and determine if the validity of a wedlock can be contested by a ‘stranger’.Judicial precedents hold that only the husband or the wife can maintain a challenge to a wedlock under the Family Courts Act. A bench of top court justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian have now admitted a matter to examine this after the daughter of a deceased man sought to invalidate her father’s second marriage with a woman.The daughter has contended that her stepmother was not a divorcee and was already married to someone else when she married her father in 2003. Therefore, she contends, her father’s second marriage was invalid.The case involved provisions of the Family Courts Act and some decisions of high courts on the point of locus standi (legal standing) of individuals who can question the validity of a marriage.The legal conundrum reached the Supreme Court from a judgment of the Bombay high court in March this year, allowing the daughter to proceed with her petition before a family court for a declaration that the second marriage of her father was null and void since her stepmother was already married.The father, who was Hindu and a businessman, died in 2015. A year later, the daughter, 66, filed a petition claiming that her stepmother, who was a Muslim belonging to Dawoodi Bohra section, was not validly divorced from her previous husband.In July 2019, the family court refused to entertain the daughter’s petition after the stepmother referred to the judgments to show that the former was a stranger and could not legally have a say in the validity of the relationship. The family court further noted that since the daughter had not asked for invalidation of the marriage in any of her previous cases before the civil courts and the Bombay high court, she could not be permitted to press her petition now.The daughter challenged this order before the HC, which overturned the family court’s order in May this year. The HC referred to a sub-clause under Section 7 of the Family Courts Act to hold that a family court can entertain a petition against validity of a marriage even if the proceedings have not been initiated by either the husband or the wife.The HC added that a child cannot be said to be a ‘stranger’ in a situation like this when her father had passed away and she claimed to have come across certain proofs to show that the second marriage of her father was untenable.Rajasthan HC, by a judgment in 2014, has also indicated that petitions by a third party will not be maintainable before the family courts when it pertains to the marriage of a couple. The Supreme Court has issued a notice to the daughter and will hear the matter in detail on August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-examine-if-a-stranger-can-challenge-validity-of-marriage-101626634701243.html
19-07-2021||India||Maya plans Brahmin outreach before polls||Lucknow: Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections slated to be held next year, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)chief Mayawati on Sunday announced that the party will launch a campaign to reach out to Brahmin voters in the state.Addressing a press conference here, the BSP chief said “A campaign, led by BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, will be started from Ayodhya on July 23 to awaken the Brahmin community once again... After forming the government, the BSP will take care of their ( Brahmins’) dignity and protect their interests.” Mayawati’s Brahmin outreach was considered as one of the key factors for her win in the 2007 state assembly election.She attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party state government and said that the party “harassed and exploited the community” after winning the 2017 assembly polls with the help of their votes.“The BJP formed the government with the support of the Brahmins but instead of working for the welfare of the community, it committed atrocities on them. They were being harassed and exploited and were repenting their support to the BJP ,” she said. She further praised the Dalit community for not “falling in the trap” of the BJP and other rival parties. The BJP organised ‘khichadi’ feast of their leaders with the members of the Dalit community, as well as a rath yatra to win the support of the Dalits during the 2017 assembly elections. “I am proud of the Dalit community’s support who did not deviate, remained united, and voted for the BSP,” she said. Responding to BSP chief’s barb, BJP state unit spokesperson, Rakesh Tripathi said, “From 2007 to 2012, the BSP government indulged in the policy of appeasement. The upper castes were sidelined and now when the elections are knocking on the door, BSP chief Mayawati has started to woo Brahmins again. The Brahmins know that BJP worked for their welfare and dignity. In the 2022 assembly elections, they would again support the BJP.” Congress party spokesperson, Naseemuddin Siddiqui said, “Due to shrinking support base, the BSP chief Mayawati is panicking, she is indulging in the politics of caste, the Congress believes in working for the welfare of all the caste and communities in Uttar Pradesh as well as in the other states.”Samajwadi Party state unit spokesperson, Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said, “The SP respected all communities and castes. Mayawati’s attack on the opposition showed her undeclared alliance with the BJP.”Expressing solidarity with the farmers, Mayawati said that the BSP MPs would raise their voice in support of the farmers and demand withdrawal of the three farm laws in the monsoon session of the Parliament commencing from July 19.“The indifferent attitude of the Centre towards farmers protesting against the three farm laws is extremely sad. It is necessary that pressure is put on the Centre in Parliament,” she said.The party MPs had been directed to raise public issues, including hike in the price of essential commodities, unemployment and slowdown in Covid vaccination, she said. (with imputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maya-plans-brahmin-outreach-before-polls-101626634640694.html
19-07-2021||India||‘India among nations that hacked phones’: Global media investigation||India is among the countries that used Israeli company NSO Group’s Pegasus phone hacking software to potentially target politicians, journalists and activists, an international collaborative investigation involving 17 media organisations including The Guardian, The Washington Post, and Die Zeit said. India’s news website The Wire was one of the 17.‘Govt committed to right to privacy’: India’s response over Pegasus hackThe first part of the multi-part investigation, released late on Sunday night, said that 38 Indian journalists (according to The Guardian), including those from mainstream publications (three current Hindustan Times journalists are named, as is one from sister publication Mint), and websites, apart from freelancers were targeted. The 38 are among 180 journalists the report said were targeted worldwide, including the editor of the Financial Times Roula Khalaf, and journalists from the Wall Street Journal, CNN, New York Times, and Le Monte.In its response published by The Guardian, the Indian government termed the investigation a “fishing expedition” , that there is “no concrete basis out truth associated with the claim that there was government surveillance on specific people”, and referred to a 2019 controversy surrounding Pegasus when a vulnerability in WhatsApp was used to deliver the malware to at least 20 Indian citizens, including journalists, lawyers and activists.“Government of India’s response to a right to information application about the use of Pegasus has been prominently reported by media and is in itself sufficient to counter any malicious claims about the alleged association between the government of India and Pegasus,” India said in its response.“It is important to note that government agencies have a well-established protocol for interception, which includes sanction and supervision from highly ranked officials in central and state governments, for clear stated reasons only in national interest,” it added.The investigation was based on a data leak of around 50,000 numbers obtained by Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories, a non-profit. To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. Amnesty International subsequently forensically investigated 67 of these phones, and found 23 hacked and 14 showing signs of attempted penetration.Also read | ‘Aap chronology samajhiye…’: Amit Shah questions timing of Pegasus leaksThe Wire reported that 10 of the phones forensically examined in India showed they had either been hacked or signs of an attempted hacking.NSO Group, in a response to Forbidden Stories and its media partners, said the interpretations from the leaked dataset were misleading. “The alleged amount of ‘leaked data of more than 50,000 phone numbers,’ cannot be a list of numbers targeted by governments using Pegasus,” it said, and added that it “does not have insight into the specific intelligence activities of its customers”.The Wire also said that three leaders of opposition parties in India, two ministers, many business people, and one constitutional authority were among those targeted. These names are expected to emerge over the next few days in subsequent installments of the investigation. The website also said relatives of activists accused in the Elgar Parishad case were also targeted.Pegasus makes it possible for those using the software to intercept all communications on their targets’ device, including stored files as well as messages. The malware also allows for the device’s microphone and camera to be turned on, and its location logs accessed.According to the Guardian report, the list of governments believed to be NSO customers, and who entered the numbers that were part of the leaked database are: Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Morocco, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Hungary, India, and the UAE.Watch | Indian govt reacts to phone hacking report: Minister says bid to malign democracyThe report is likely to see some heated exchanges in India’s Parliament, set to convene on Monday for the monsoon session, especially once names of the opposition politicians are released.On Sunday, in anticipation of the release — there was buzz that an investigative report of this nature was being published — several opposition parties met. Later on Sunday, after the names of the journalists targeted came out one opposition leader said “we will wait to see what data is available on political leaders,” before deciding a course of action.“GoI has denied resorting to unauthorised surveillance. The question this raises is, if Pegasus is only sold to governments, which other govts (China/Pak?) are using it to snoop on prominent Indian citizens? Shouldn’t the authorities call for an independent investigation?” said Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in a tweet on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-among-nations-that-hacked-phones-global-media-investigation-101626634581835.html
19-07-2021||NA||Breaking News: Navjot Singh Sidhu appointed as Punjab Congress president with immediate effect||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.India on Sunday recorded 41,157 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the country's cumulative tally to 31,106,065, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.Farmer leaders are scheduled to meet Delhi police on Sunday to discuss their proposed protest to Parliament, said a member of the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).Follow all the updates here:PM Modi congratulates Nepal PM Deuba after he wins confidence voteCongratulations Prime Minister @DeubaSherbdr and best wishes for a successful tenure. I look forward to working with you to further enhance our unique partnership in all sectors, and strengthen our deep-rooted people-to-people ties.Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated newly-appointed Nepal PM Sher Bahadur Deuba for winning the vote of confidence.Nepal PM Deuba wins vote of confidenceNepal PM Sher Bahadur Deuba has won the vote of confidence with 163 votes in the 275-member House of Representatives.Sidhu appointed as Punjab Congress presidentCongress president Sonia Gandhi has appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect.Admission process in Central universities may continue as per past practice: UGCUniversity Grants Commission said that the admission process in Central universities during the academic session 2021-22 may continue as per past practice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) may be implemented from Academic Session 2022-23, it added.DDMA cancels Kanwar Yatra in Delhi due to Covid-19Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has cancelled the organisation of the Kanwar Yatra in Delhi in view of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reported news agency ANI.Thackeray to chair high-level meeting on Mumbai situation following heavy rainsMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is set to chair a high-level meeting of officials through video conference at 6pm today, in view of the situation following heavy rains in Mumbai, said the chief minister's office.Mumbai mayor hospitalised due to chest painMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar has been admitted to a hospital due to chest pain, BMC mayor's office said on Sunday.Haryana extends Covid restrictions till July 26The Haryana government has extended Covid restrictions till July 26, with further relaxations on the operational period for restaurants and gyms. Restaurants and bars will now be allowed to open from 10 am to 11pm with 50% of the seating capacity while adhering to Covid protocols, starting Monday.PM Modi arrives at Parliament House for NDA floor leaders' meetPrime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh, and other leaders arrived at Parliament House for the NDA floor leaders' meet ahead of the Monsoon session.IMA calls Kerala govt decision to ease Covid restrictions during Bakrid 'unwarranted'The Indian Medical Association has urged the Kerala government to withdraw the order to ease restrictions for mass gathering during Bakrid, calling it "unwarranted and inappropriate" at the time of medical emergency.PM Modi praises retired army officer for supporting destitute animals amid Covid-19Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Sunday, wrote a letter to Pramila Singh, a Major from the Indian Army a resident of Kota, Rajasthan who retired as a Major from the Indian Army, praising her for kindness and service towards destitute animals.Incumbent state chief Sunil Jakhar calls a meeting of MLAs and DCC presidentsPunjab Congress revamp: Incumbent state chief Sunil Jakhar calls a meeting of MLAs and DCC presidents to “pass a resolution expressing faith in the Congress high command and that its decision will be acceptable to all"13 killed in Kenya fuel tanker explosionA fuel tanker exploded in western Kenya while people were siphoning fuel from it, killing 13 people, police said Sunday.PM Modi chairs an all-party meeting at ParliamentPM Narendra Modi chairs an all-party meeting at Parliament, a day before the commencement of the Monsoon session.UK PM to self-isolate when not working, after Covid caseUK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will undertake "only essential government business" in the week ahead after he was designated a close contact of a person infected with Covid, Downing Street said Sunday.Merkel to visit flood zone as western Europe death toll tops 180Chancellor Angela Merkel is to visit flood-ravaged areas in Germany on Sunday to survey the damage and meet survivors, after days of extreme downpours in western Europe left at least 183 people dead and dozens missing.Alliance with other parties cannot be ruled out for UP Assembly polls: Priyanka GandhiAlliance with other parties cannot be ruled out for Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. We are open-minded: Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.TMC workers protest against fuel price hike in KolkataCentral govt should change its anti-people policies. The protest will continue in and outside Bengal, says TMC General Secretary Kunal Ghosh.UK PM Johnson was in contact with Covid carrierBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his finance minister Rishi Sunak have been contacted by NHS test and trace as contacts of someone who has tested positive for Covid, Downing Street said on Sunday.We will take the decision to shift the people who are living in a dangerous situation: Nawab MalikWe will take the decision to shift the people who are living in a dangerous situation to permanent settlements immediately. BMC will investigate this incident: Maharashtra Cabinet Minister and Anushakti Nagar MLA Nawab Malik on Chembur wall collapse incident in which 17 people died.Navjot Singh Sidhu reaches residence of MLA MadanlalCongress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu reaches residence of MLA Madanlal with six party MLAs including state minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in Patiala, amid efforts by the party leadership to end the infighting in Punjab Congress.Divers join search for 14 people in flooded tunnel in ChinaDivers have been dispatched in the search for 14 workers missing since water flooded a tunnel under construction in southern China three days ago, authorities said Sunday.Uddhav Thackeray has expressed grief over the deaths in accidents at Chembur and VikhroliMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has expressed grief over the deaths in accidents at Chembur and Vikhroli due to torrential rains and announced that the government would pay ₹5 lakh each to the heirs of the deceased & free treatment would be given to the injured: CMO.ED conducts raids at 2 properties of Anil DeshmukhMaharashtra: Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducts raids at two properties of former State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur, in connection with an alleged corruption case.Aditya Thackeray reaches the site where a wall collapse has claimed the lives of 17 peopleMaharashtra Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray reaches the site where a wall collapse has claimed the lives of 17 people in Mumbai's Chembur.463 new Covid-19 cases push Mizoram's tally to 27,153Mizoram's Covid-19 tally surged to 27,153 on Sunday as 463 more people including 117 children tested positive for the infection, a health department official said.From August, I will camp in Uttar Pradesh: Priyanka GandhiFrom August, I will camp in Uttar Pradesh. We are strengthening our organisation in villages. We are also trying to persuade unhappy workers. Former MPs and MLAs are welcome to fight elections: Congress General Secretary and UP Incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.President Kovind condoles loss of lives in Mumbai mishapsPresident Ram Nath Kovind condoled the loss of lives in wall collapse incidents in Mumbai's Vikhroli and Chembur area on Sunday."Deeply saddened by the news of many casualties due to heavy rains in Chembur and Vikhroli, Mumbai. I express my condolences to the bereaved families and wish them all success in the relief and rescue work," he said in an official statement.Nepal's newly-appointed PM Sher Bahadur Deuba to face vote of confidence todayNepal's newly appointed Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba is set to face the floor test in Parliament on Sunday after holding a discussion with his party insiders.Ministers reach Parliament for all-party meetingDefence Minister Rajnath Singh, Commerce & Industries Minister Piyush Goyal, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, TMC MP Derek O'Brien, DMK's Tiruchi Siva reach Parliament for an all-party meeting, a day before commencement of the Monsoon session of Parliament.First batch of Indian contingent reaches Tokyo after rousing send-offThe first batch of India's 88-strong Olympic-bound contingent reached here on Sunday morning to participate in the Covid-hit Tokyo Games, beginning on July 23.South Korean IOC member tests positive for Covid-19 in TokyoA South Korean member of the International Olympic Committee has tested positive for Covid-19 at the Tokyo Olympics, the IOC said on Sunday.All Punjab Congress Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha MPs to meet at Pratap Singh Bajwa's residence todayAll Punjab Congress Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha MPs to meet at Pratap Singh Bajwa's residence today, reports news agency ANI.We have invited all (Congress) MPs from Punjab for a meeting to devise a strategy on farmers' issue & to discuss some issues related to the Congress party, says MP Pratap Singh Bajwa in Delhi.PMO announces ex-gratia to next of kin who died due to wall collapse in MumbaiSaddened by the loss of lives due to wall collapses in Chembur and Vikhroli in Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that those who are injured have a speedy recovery. Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to wall collapses in Mumbai. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those injured: PM Modi.India reports 41,157 fresh Covid-19 cases, 518 deathsIndia on Sunday reported 41,157 fresh Covid-19 cases and 518 deaths in last 24 hours.418 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 12 more deathsith the addition of 418 new cases of coronavirus, the infection count in Maharashtra's Thane district has gone up to 5,40,294, an official said on Sunday. Besides these new cases reported on Saturday, the virus also claimed the lives of 12 more people, pushing the death toll in the district to 10,904.2 athletes test Covid-19 positive in Olympic VillageTwo athletes have become the first to test positive for the coronavirus in the Tokyo Olympic Village, officials said on Sunday, as concerns remain high just days before the Games open.Two people shot outside Washington baseball stadium, 'no ongoing threat': PoliceTwo people were shot outside a baseball stadium in the US capital Saturday, police said, adding there was "no ongoing threat."3 people killed, 2 injured as houses collapsed due to landslide in Mumbai's Vikhroli areaThree people reported dead and two injured as 4-5 houses collapsed due to landslide in Vikhroli area due to heavy rainfall overnight. The incident was reported at around 2.40am.11 killed after a wall collapsed on some shanties in Chembur's Bharat Nagar11 people killed after a wall collapse on some shanties in Chembur's Bharat Nagar area due to a landslide, says National Disaster Response Force (NDRF)Rescue operation is underway.7 dead, 2 injured after wall collapses in Mumbai's Vashi Naka area, says BMC7 people were declared dead and two were reported injured as a retaining wall in Vashi Naka area of Mahul collapsed, according to BMC's disaster management cell. The incident was reported at around 6.30 am, and the retaining wall of a house collapsed due to a tree fall.Magnitude 5.4 earthquake strikes southern PhilippinesAn earthquake of magnitude 5.4 struck the southern Philippine province of Davao Oriental early on Sunday, the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology said.Thailand reports daily record of 11,397 new coronavirus casesThailand on Sunday reported a record 11,397 new coronavirus cases, the third consecutive day that the Southeast Asian country has registered record numbers.Nelson Mandela International Day 2021Nelson Mandela International Day, also known as Mandela Day, is observed every year on July 18 to mark the birth anniversary of the former South African president.India administers 400 million coronavirus vaccine shotsIndia on Saturday crossed 400-million mark in the number of coronavirus vaccine doses administered across the country so far.2 dead, 7 injured in separate shootings in PortlandTwo people died and multiple people were injured, some critically, in four different early morning shootings on Saturday in Portland, Oregon, a city that has seen gun violence and associated homicide rates soar in the past six months.Farmers may meet police today over march to ParliamentAhead of their proposed July 22 march to Parliament, farmer leaders are scheduled to meet Delhi police on Sunday to discuss the protest, said a member of the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – an umbrella body of more than 40 farmer groups – which is spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-18-2021-101626564772161.html
19-07-2021||India||Want to protect your Aadhaar biometrics from misuse? Here are 2 ways to lock it||Aadhaar card is one of the most vital documents that any Indian has, and lately, the central government has made it mandatory to link the same with several other personal identification documents such as passport, driving license, and others. The importance of Aadhaar card lies in the fact that it comprises biometric details, apart from demographic ones, which involves an individual’s fingerprints, photo identity, and even iris details. Therefore, it is even more significant to safeguard these unique details, especially if one’s Aadhaar card gets misplaced and falls into the wrong hands.The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has addressed this issue in their latest tweets, and have even rendered a solution for users to avoid such a fate. As per the UIDAI, the 12-digit Aadhaar number can be locked and instead a 16-digit virtual ID (VID) number – also known as ‘Masked Aadhaar’ can be used for all kinds of identification purposes. The VID is “valid and accepted widely,” the UIDAI said in a Twitter post on Thursday. For this, one needs to download the e-Aadhaar card.Once the user has received the VID, the next step is to lock the Aadhaar biometrics. The UIDAI in another Twitter post on Friday stated that the locking and unlocking of Aadhaar biometrics can be done in two ways – either by visiting the official website of UIDAI or by using the ‘mAadhaar’ mobile application. This, according to UIDAI, will prevent “misuse” of one’s biometric information by anyone.How to lock Aadhaar biometrics via the UIDAI website?Step 1: Visit the UIDAI website at uidai.gov.in.Step 2: Under ‘My Aadhaar’ category, look for ‘Aadhaar Services’, and click on ‘Lock/Unlock Biometrics’.Step 3: In the required field, enter the 12-digit Aadhaar number (UID). After that, enter your full name as per the Aadhaar card, and also enter the pincode details.Step 4: Enter the security code as reflected on the screen to proceed further.Step 5: Click on ‘Send OTP’ that will help you get the one-time password in your registered mobile number.Step 6: Once the OTP comes in, enter the same along with a password of your choice.Step 7: Click the check box beside ‘Enable Biometric Locking’ and then hit the ‘enable’ button again. This will lock your Aadhaar card biometrics.How to lock Aadhaar biometrics via mobile SMS?Step 1: Users need to send an SMS to 1947 to request an OTP on their registered mobile number. The SMS should be written as GETOTP and the last four or eight digits of the Aadhaar number – for example, GETOTPXXXX or GETOTPXXXXXXXX.Step 2: Once the user sends this message, UIDAI will send the individual a 6-digit OTP via SMS.Step 3: After receiving the OTP, the user needs to send yet another message using the OTP. The message needs to be written as LOCKUID along with the last four or eight digits of the Aadhaar number, and the 6-digit OTP – for example, LOCKUIDXXXXOTP or LOCKUIDXXXXXXXXOTPStep 4: A confirmation message will then be delivered on the registered mobile number of the user, citing that the Aadhaar biometrics have been locked.The unlocking process via SMS consists of the same steps. However, in all the steps, instead of the digits of the Aadhaar number, the last six or 10 digits of the VID number will be required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-protect-your-aadhaar-biometrics-from-misuse-here-are-2-ways-to-lock-it-101626513910005.html
19-07-2021||India||Vaccines reduce hospitalisation, death risk due to Covid: Study||Fewer hopsitalisations (9.8%) and deaths (0.4%) were reported in people who experienced breakthrough Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, mostly caused by the Alpha variant in north India and the Delta variant elsewhere, after two doses of vaccine, highlighting the fact that vaccination does reduce hospital admission and mortality, according to a pre-print study.The nationwide study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) during the peak of the second wave between April and June, is likely the largest and first nation-wide study of post-vaccination breakthrough infections from India with 677 clinical samples.The subjects had received wither Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin or Serum Institute of India’s version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Covishield.Also Read | ‘3rd wave can be bigger than second if...’: What Randeep Guleria said““During March to June 2021, India has experienced a deadly second wave of Covid-19 with an increased number of post-vaccination breakthrough infections reported across the country. To understand the possible reason of these breakthroughs, we collected 677 clinical samples (throat swab/ nasal swabs) of individuals who had received two doses (n=592) and one dose (n=85) of vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin,) and tested positive for Covid-19, from 17 states/Union Territories of country,” said the paper.The subjects were telephonically interviewed and clinical data was analysed. Out of 677 cases included in this study, 593 contracted Covid after both doses, and 84, after one dose.A total of 482 cases (71%) were symptomatic with one or more symptoms, while 29% were asymptomatic. Fever (69%) was the most consistent presentation followed by body ache including headache and nausea (56%), cough (45%), sore throat (37%), loss of smell and taste (22%), diarrhoea (6%), breathlessness (6%) and ocular irritation and redness (1%).“This study indicated that majority of the clinical cases in the breakthrough were infected with the Delta variant and only 9.8% cases required hospitalisation while fatality was observed in only 0.4% cases. This clearly suggests that the vaccination does provide reduction in hospital admission and mortality,” finds the study.The aim of conducting the study was to allay fears regarding vaccination with growing questions of the protection offered by vaccines following the emergence of variants of concern and reduced real world effectiveness of certain candidate vaccines against these variants.The Indian Council of Medical Research -Department of Health Research (ICMR-DHR) utilised the network of Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDLs) to track breakthrough infections .“It was observed that southern, western, eastern and north-western regions of India predominantly reported breakthrough infections from mainly Delta and then Kappa variant of SARS-CoV-2. The northern and central regions reported such infections due to Alpha, Delta and Kappa variants; however, cases due to Alpha variant predominated in the northern region. The overall majority (86.09%) of the breakthrough infections were caused by the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) of SARS-CoV-2 in different regions of India except in the northern region where the Alpha variant predominated,” the study added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-reduce-hospitalisation-death-due-to-covid-icmr-study-101626415992531.html
19-07-2021||India||Based on a ground survey in Punjab, Congress devises a compromise formula||Amid the ongoing power tussle in Punjab, the Congress conducted a ground survey to gauge the mood of the people in the state ahead of the assembly election next year, party functionaries aware of the development said. It covered both the functioning of the state government and organisational issues.The survey, conducted in three rounds last month to cover party workers and common people, has come at a time there is intense speculation about former cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu’s possible role in the Congress, with a section of the party claiming that he could be the next chief of Punjab Congress.While the party leaders are tight-lipped about the results of the survey, two functionaries said that it showed Sidhu enjoys some support, especially among the young voters and party workers. “He is no pushover,” said a party leader refusing to be identified.The Congress is all set to fight elections under the leadership of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the party’s most prominent and popular face in the poll-bound state. But the survey, according to the two functionaries, also indicated that a section of the party has some misgivings — arising from the belief that bureaucrats have been empowered at the cost of politicians, that promises made in the run up to the 2017 elections have not been met, and that the chief minister is soft on the Shiromani Akali Dal’s Badals.Punjab, the only north Indian state ruled by the Congress, goes to polls early next year. Earlier, it looked like the party had an upper hand in the state after the Akali Dal left the National Democratic Alliance over its differences with the Bharatiya Janata Party over the three farm laws that triggered massive resentment among farmers. But the internal squabbles, the lingering tension between Singh and Sidhu might cast a shadow over the party’s prospects, say analysts.The Congress, however, is hopeful of finding an amicable solution after Sidhu met both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra while Singh came to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi Sidhu is believed to be in Delhi today (July 16) to meet with Sonia Gandhi. An announcement resolving the Punjab crisis is expected later in the day.Another party leader said on condition of anonymity that the Punjab survey is not extraordinary as the party’s data analytics team conducts regular surveys in different states. A similar ground survey was conducted in Maharashtra before Nana Patole was made its state unit chief.Surveys are now being conducted in Goa, West Bengal and Uttarakhand, while those in Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have finished recently, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/based-on-a-ground-survey-in-punjab-congress-devises-a-compromise-formula-101626414072679.html
19-07-2021||India||The sedition story: Complicated history of Sec 124A||Proceedings in the Supreme Court and the contentious arrests of activists and journalists have once again brought the law of sedition into the spotlight.The colonial era law, which many say is used to quell protests and to quieten criticism against the government, carries a maximum punishment of life imprisonment and the police can arrest individuals without a warrant.The law has been amended after Independence, but only to make it more stringent. As many as three benches in the Supreme Court have recently underscored the need to review Section 124A (sedition) in the Indian Penal Code (IPC), making it pertinent to examine how the penal law has evolved since the pre-Independence era and the interpretations rendered to it by the constitutional courts in the country.History of sedition law in IndiaIndia’s sedition law has an interesting past. IPC was brought into force in colonial India in 1860 but had no section concerning sedition. It was introduced in 1870 on the grounds that it was dropped from the original IPC draft by mistake. The UK, incidentally, would repeal the law in Britain only in 2009 (with effect from early 2010).Under Section 124A of IPC, the offence of sedition is committed when any person by words or otherwise brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government established by law.Three explanations added to the provision prescribe that while “disaffection” shall include disloyalty and all feelings of enmity, comments without exciting or attempting to excite hatred, contempt or disaffection, will not constitute an offence.Sedition is a cognisable, non-bailable and non-compoundable offence under the law, entailing life imprisonment as maximum punishment, with or without a fine.Use of sedition in the British RajThe penal provision came in handy to muzzle nationalist voices and demands for freedom. The long list of India’s national heroes who figured as accused in cases of sedition includes Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and Jawaharlal Nehru.Bal Gangadhar Tilak was the first person to be convicted of sedition in colonial India. The British government brought the charge alleging articles carried in Tilak’s Marathi newspaper Kesari would encourage people to foil the government’s efforts at curbing the plague epidemic in India. In 1897, Tilak was punished by the Bombay high court for sedition under Section 124A and was sentenced to 18 months in prison. Tilak was held guilty by a jury composed of nine members, with the six white jurors voting against Tilak, and three Indian jurors voting in his favour. Later, Section 124A was given different interpretations by the Federal Court, which began functioning in 1937, and the Privy Council that was the highest court of appeal based in London.In Niharendu Dutt Majumdar Vs King Emperor, 1942, the Federal Court held that “public disorder or the reasonable anticipation or likelihood of public disorder is the gist of the offence.” But this proposition was overturned by the Privy Council in King Emperor Vs Sadashiv Narayan Bhalerao, 1947.The Privy Council lent credence to the law laid down in Tilak’s case and ruled that incitement to violence was not a pre-requisite for the crime of sedition and that excitement of feelings of enmity to the government was sufficient to establish guilt under Section 124A.Sedition law after IndependenceAfter Independence, “sedition” was dropped from the Constitution in 1948 after discussions of the Constituent Assembly. KM Munshi moved an amendment to remove the word “sedition” that was included in the draft Constitution as a ground to impose restrictions on constitutional freedom of speech and expression. The word “sedition” thus disappeared from the Constitution when it was adopted on November 26, 1949, and Article 19(1)(a) gave absolute freedom of speech and expression. However, Section 124A continued to stay in the IPC.In 1951, Jawaharlal Nehru brought in the first amendment of the Constitution to limit the freedom under Article 19(1)(a) and enacted Article 19(2) to empower the State put curbs in the form of “reasonable restrictions” on right to free speech.It was the Indira Gandhi government that made Section 124A a cognisable offence for the first time in India’s history. In the new Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, which came into force in 1974 and repealed the colonial-era 1898 Code of Criminal Procedure, sedition was made a cognisable offence authorising the police to make arrests without a warrant.Case lawsThe validity of sedition law was tested for the first time in independent India by the then Punjab high court in 1951 in Tara Singh Gopi Chand Vs The State. The high court held that Section 124A was indisputably a restriction on the freedom of speech and expression, and invalidated the provision on the basis that it was in contravention of the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression under Article 19 of the Constitution of India. It was this judgment that prompted the Jawaharlal Nehru government to introduce new grounds on which the right to freedom of speech and expression could be reasonably restricted.But in 1954, the Patna high court, in Debi Soren & Ors Vs The State, upheld the validity of Section 124A, holding that the law does not violate Article 19. Four years on, the Allahabad high court declared Section 124A void in the case of Ram Nandan Vs State, and held that the government must be ready to face a strong opposition apart from popular approval or disapproval.The conundrum arising from various views of the high courts was finally settled by the Supreme Court by its judgment in Kedar Nath case in 1962, which is considered the most authoritative judgment of the Supreme Court on the interpretation of the sedition law. A Constitution bench upheld the validity of the sedition law under IPC, holding that the purpose of the crime of sedition was to prevent the government established by law from being subverted because “the continued existence of the Government established by law is an essential condition of the stability of the State”.At the same time, the five-judge bench defined the scope of Section 124A. It held that Section 124A only penalised words that reveal an intent or tendency to disturb law and order or that seem to incite violence. The Supreme Court underlined that the presence of a pernicious tendency to incite violence is a pre-condition to invoke the sedition clause and that the penal provision cannot be used to stifle free speech. This definition has been taken as precedent for all matters pertaining to Section 124A ever since.Post-Constitution bench judgment on seditionIn Balwant Singh & Anr Vs State of Punjab, 1995, the Supreme Court dropped sedition charges against two men who raised slogans in favour of an independent Sikh majority State outside a cinema hall in the aftermath of the assassination of former PM Indira Gandhi. The court ruled in favour of the accused, pointing out that acts did not amount to sedition since the slogans did not lead to any disturbance, and was not likely to incite any violence in the minds of the target audience.By two judgments in 2011, the Supreme Court unambiguously stated yet again that only speech that amounts to “incitement to imminent lawless action” can be criminalised. In Indra Das Vs State of Assam and Arup Bhuyan Vs State of Assam, the apex court also held that mere membership of a banned organisation cannot incriminate a person unless he is proved to have resorted to acts of violence or incited people to imminent violence. The Union government has, however, sought review of these judgments on the aspect of membership of banned organisations.The Law Commission of India, in its consultation paper on sedition, published in August 2018, also observed that while retaining the offence of sedition was essential to protect national integrity, it should not be used as a tool to curb free speech.Sedition cases up in India but convictions dipAccording to the data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), uploaded on its website, cases of sedition and under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act showed a rise in 2019, but only 3% of the sedition cases resulted in convictions.The year 2019 saw a 25% increase in the number of sedition cases and a 41% increase in arrests over the previous year. A total of 93 cases of sedition were reported in 2019, with 96 arrests and charge sheets filed in 76 cases, as against 70 cases, 56 arrests and 27 charge sheets the previous year.The ministry of home affairs, in a written reply in February, informed the Rajya Sabha that out of the 96 people arrested for sedition in 2019, only two were convicted for the crime, while 29 were acquitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-sedition-story-complicated-history-of-sec-124a-101626370928612.html
