20-07-2021||India||Covaxin output to increase to 58mn doses per month, RS told||Bharat Biotech aims to increase the production capacity of Covaxin, its anti Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, to 58 million (5.8 crore) from the existing 25 (2.5 crore) million doses per month, replied minister of state (health), Bharati Pravin Pawar in parliament on Tuesday.The figures fall short of what the government announced earlier as part of Covaxin production scale up.On April 16, the ministry of science and technology in a statement announced that it would help double the production capacity of India’s first make-in-India Covid-19 vaccine by May-June, 2021, from the existing 10 million doses per month, and with a target set of helping produce nearly 100 million doses per month by September 2021.“As part of Bharat Biotech’s expansion plan for Covaxin production, they added their facilities in Ankleshwar in Gujarat and Bengaluru, apart from their already functional Hyderabad facility that is producing Covaxin. The Ankleshwar plant is moving towards vaccine production as per the original schedule; but the Bengaluru facility faced some difficulties in operationalisation that led to the lag in Covaxin supplies. The production fell slightly behind of what was initially expected but now, we have been told, that the glitches have been sorted. These are unforeseen circumstances that crop up while executing such highly technical projects that involve tackling live viruses. But now they are on track,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, during Union health ministry’s Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday. He added that the vaccine supplies were in the process of being ramped up, and till such time that happens, states need to plan their drive accordingly.“The supply if vaccines and the implementation of vaccination drive is an inter-related process; the state governments are informed in advance about the amount of vaccine that will be available in the coming two weeks. All states are expected to plan their drive accordingly. Sometimes there can crop up issues in coordination, as there could be slight variation in the volume of batches released by the central drugs laboratory in Kasauli that we get to know in real-time,” he added.Pawar, while replying to a question in Rajya Sabha on Covid-19 vaccine supplies, also said that as communicated by the manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII) will also increase monthly Covishield vaccine production capacity from the current 110 million (11 crore) doses per month to at least 120 million (12 crore) doses per month.From January, 2021, to July 16, 2021, 360 million (36.01 crore) doses of Covishield have been supplied by SII, 54.5 million (5.45 crore) doses of Covaxin have been supplied by Bharat Biotech for the National Covid Vaccination Programme.Also, a total of 3.3 million doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V (3 million first component and 0.3 million second component) have been imported till July 14 this year.Giving details of the MoU between Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech for Covaxin, Pawar said that it’s a non-exclusive license granted to commercialize the product within 2 year period.“Royalty obligations- 5% on net sales, to be remitted on half yearly basis. Intellectual property (IP) to be jointly owned by ICMR and Bharat Biotech International Ltd (BBIL),” Pawar replied.“ICMR agreed to hand-over the strain to BBIL due to the following reasons: - BBIL had a validated BSL-3 facility ready for use… Other companies with interest in SARS-CoV-2 vaccine development like Serum Institute of India were not interested in developing indigenous vaccine. Other companies like Cadila, Biological E did not have a validated BSL-3 facility available…,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-output-to-increase-to-58mn-doses-per-month-rs-told-101626804936682.html
20-07-2021||India||Modi asks BJP MPs to counter Oppn on Covid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to ensure that they were quick to counter the Opposition’s allegations over the government’s Covid-19 response and the availability of vaccines, saying that the Congress was in a “coma” and was unable to digest that the BJP came to power.Addressing a meeting of the BJP parliamentary party, the Prime Minister said everyone should be prepared for a likely third wave of the pandemic and ensure more boots of the ground. A party leader said the PM asked the MPs to ensure that the vaccination drive in their respective constituencies was carried out without glitches.“Since vaccination will be key in preventing infections, the PM said that not only should the MPs ensure that vaccine hesitancy is addressed, but also debunk any false claims made by the Opposition about the lack of vaccines,” the BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.Sharing details of the meeting, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the PM expressed concern about the attitude of the Opposition, especially the Congress, which, he said, still believed that only it had the right to be in power. Modi said the Congress was in a “coma” and unable to digest the BJP coming to power, the first leader quoted above said on condition of anonymity.“Especially the Congress thinks power is their right and they work according to this mindset. PM wants discussions in Parliament to be fruitful; the Congress is showing most irresponsible behaviour by disrupting the Houses,” Joshi said.Also Read | PM briefs floor leaders on Covid management, 6 parties skip meetingThe principal opposition party has criticised the government for alleged its lack of preparedness for the second wave of the pandemic, which overwhelmed the health care infrastructure in the country. The opposition parties also demanded a statement from the government in Parliament on the issue. On Tuesday, while participating in a discussion on the Covid-19 situation, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said that so far, only 5.33% of the total population had received two doses of the vaccine.At Tuesday’s meet, the Prime Minister said the government was willing to hold discussions in both Houses of Parliament, but the Opposition was displaying an irresponsible behaviour. He said that the Covid-19 crisis was not a political but a humanitarian issue and the government ensured no one went hungry, another leader said, asking not to be named.Such a pandemic has been witnessed by the world after almost 100 years; last time, in such a situation, people faced a severe food shortage, but this time the government ensured that no one slept hungry, Joshi said, quoting the PM.Another leader said the PM told his colleagues that the Opposition has not been able to raise issues based on “logic and facts” and has therefore opted for disrupting Parliament.The PM said that in Delhi, nearly 20% of frontline workers were still not vaccinated against Covid-19, the second leader said. He told his party colleagues that a deliberate attempt was being made to create a negative atmosphere in the country.Responding to the PM’s jibe, Congress said all these statements made by the PM are actually intended to “divert the attention” of people from the real issues including Pegasus spyware where the “right to privacy of citizens and also the national security” has been compromised.Shama Mohammad, spokesperson of the Congress party said, “ The government was trying to keep everyone in delusion by avoiding the issues that need an immediate discussion in the parliament.” She added that the government has neither denied nor accepted to have used the Pegasus spyware. “If they have not used it, then some other country’s government is snooping on us as Pegasus can only be used by the vetted governments,” she added.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-asks-bjp-mps-to-counter-oppn-on-covid-101626804695501.html
20-07-2021||India||Compensation for journalist: SC seeks Manipur govt’s response||The Supreme Court on Tuesday noted the “serious matter” of loss of liberty and sought the Manipur government’s response on a petition seeking compensation for a journalist who was detained for over two months under the stringent National Security Act (NSA) after an objectionable Facebook post. The direction comes a day after top court cited the fundamental right to life and ordered the immediate release of Leichombam Erendro, saying “we can’t keep this person in custody even for a day”. Erendro -- who was detained in May this year after he put up a Facebook post criticising state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders over their responses to Covid-19 -- was released from the Central Jail at Sajiwa in Imphal East district on Monday evening. On Tuesday, the bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah described the issue as a “serious matter” and observed that the journalist “lost his liberty since May”. The court gave the state government two weeks to respond to the plea filed by the journalist’s father L Raghumani Singh. “It is a serious matter. Someone has lost liberty since May,” the court said. Appearing for petitioner, advocate Shadan Farasat said compensation has been sought as five cases have been lodged against Erendro by the state since 2018, and not a single charge sheet has been filed in any of the cases. “The responsibility has to be fixed,” Farasat said. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Manipur government, told the bench that the journalist had been released from detention and the case under the National Security Act 1980 revoked after the court’s order on Monday. He said the state did not defend the plea for release of the journalist, and the matter should be allowed to rest at that. The petitioner should “adopt a pragmatic approach” in acknowledging that the relief has been granted, he added. “This is a gesture the state has shown immediately. The matter should rest here. We will have to justify our order on merits. This could have been avoided (by petitioner) by adopting a little pragmatic approach,” the solicitor general said.To this, the bench said that it is the petitioner’s choice to seek relief from the court. It gave the Manipur government two weeks to file a response and posted the matter for hearing next on August 6. The bench said, “We issue notice on the compensation aspect and you (Mehta) can file a reply on this aspect”.Leichombam was booked under the NSA over his Facebook post on the death of S Tikendra Singh, a retired professor and Manipur BJP chief. “The cure for Corona is not cow dung & cow urine. The cure is science & common sense. Professor ji RIP,” Leichombam wrote. On May 13, Leichombam was arrested from his house on a complaint by Usham Deben Singh, vice-president of Manipur BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compensation-for-journalist-sc-seeks-manipur-govt-s-response-101626804278323.html
20-07-2021||India||‘Sorry state of affairs’: SC pulls up Kerala over Eid relaxations||The Supreme Court on Tuesday rebuked the Kerala government for relaxing Covid-19 restrictions imposed in the state ahead of the Eid al-Adha festival, saying the state’s decision to give in to pressure by businesses to allow the relaxations reflects a “sorry state of affairs”.The bench of justices RF Nariman and BR Gavai, which had given an ultimatum to the Uttar Pradesh government to reverse its stand on permitting the kanwar yatra, did not issue a similar direction to Kerala since the three-day relaxation ended on Tuesday. But the bench put the Kerala government on notice, warning that the court will take action against those responsible if a surge in cases is reported.“If, as a result of the July 17, 2021 notification, any untoward spread in the Covid-19 disease takes place, any member of the public may bring this to the notice of this court, after which this court will take necessary action against those who are responsible,” said the bench.Kerala is currently the Indian state with the worst outbreak of the disease.On average, it has been adding 13,962 new infections daily for the last seven days – more than any other state in the country. In view of the upcoming Eid celebrations, the state government on July 17 allowed all shops to open in areas with 15% or less positivity rate for three days (July 18-20) and for a single day (July 19) in areas with TPR above 15%. Experts believe positivity rate -- an indicator of the spread of an outbreak within a population -- over 5% is cause for concern. Eid is to be celebrated between July 21 and July 23. The state’s announcement prompted Delhi resident PKD Nambiar to approach the Supreme Court against the relaxations and complain that it amounted to playing with the lives of people.Kerala chief secretary VP Joy, responding to a notice from the top court on Monday, defended the decision to ease restrictions, and cited expert advice and pressure from market associations.“To give in to pressure groups so that the citizenry of India is laid bare to a nationwide pandemic discloses a sorry state of affairs… This affidavit discloses a sorry state of affairs and does not in any real manner safeguard the Right to Life and Health guaranteed to all the citizens of India under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the bench said.“Pressure groups of all kinds, religious or otherwise, cannot in any manner interfere with the most precious fundamental right of all the citizens of India,” the top court said.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for Nambiar, said it was shocking that the government had gone ahead to open up markets just to please traders for political reasons.CPI(M) leader A Vijayaraghavan said the government will go by the top court’s directive.The court also made a pointed reference to the relaxation granted in areas, which were reporting TPR of more than 15%, underlining that stringent restrictions were imposed in such areas (classified as Category D) by the state government on even opening of shops for essential items.The July 17 notification, however, allowed all shops in Category D areas to remain open for the entire day on Monday. Public were cautioned that “as far as possible” persons visiting shops may have one dose of vaccine and follow strict Covid-19 protocols.The bench observed: “Homilies such as “as far as possible” and assurances from traders without anything more, do not inspire any confidence in the people of India or this court. The relaxation for one day to a category D area was wholly uncalled for.”The court told Kerala to pay heed to its constitutional duty to protect life and health of citizens under Article 21 and Article 144, the provision by which all civil and judicial authorities in the country have to act in aid of the Supreme Court.At 126,396 cases, Kerala has the highest number of active cases in the country and it alone accounts for a third of all such cases. This is the second state to be pulled up by the top court in recent days. The Supreme Court last week took cognisance (on its own) of reports that the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to allow the kanwar yatra despite concerns that the pilgrimage could trigger a spate of Covid-19 infections. The court gave UP government a deadline to reconsider its decision and said the “yatra cannot go on – 100%”. Subsequently, the BJP-led UP government announced that the yatra has been called off by the kanwar sangh (pilgrim associations). The top court closed the matter on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sorry-state-of-affairs-sc-pulls-up-kerala-over-eid-relaxations-101626804156183.html
20-07-2021||India||Red Fort to remain shut from morning of July 21 till Independence Day: ASI||The Red Fort in Delhi will remain shut for the public from the morning of July 21 (Wednesday) until the Independence Day celebrations come to an end on August 15, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) said in its order on Tuesday.“In exercise of the powers conferred under Rule 6 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Rules, 1959, the Director General, Archaeological Survey of India hereby direct that there shall be no entry inside the Red Fort from the morning of 21st July, 2021 to the 15th August 2021 till the Independence Day Celebration is over,” the ASI said in its order.The Red Fort usually remains shut for the public for a period of seven days before the Independence Day, news agency PTI said citing unnamed officials. However, the fort would remain closed for the public for an extended period this year as the ASI has directed.Also read | Sarojini Nagar Market in Delhi remains closed to protest SDM orderThe Prime Minister of India hoists the Tricolour and addresses the public from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi every year during the Independence Day as part of the celebrations.The Delhi police had recommended the closure of the fort beginning July 15, citing the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation and security reasons, PTI further reported. The police made the suggestions in a letter earlier on July 12.On Republic Day, this year, a tractor rally by farmers protesting against the three central farm laws had turned violent and many protesters had occupied the Red Fort, deviating from their initially agreed upon route. Some of them were even seen unfurling their flags from the ramparts of the fort. Several cases were registered following the incidents of violence on the fort’s premises. The protesters had also entered Delhi city by breaking police barricades.The farmers will hold 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi from July 22 after the Delhi Police denied permission to go to Parlaiment where the Monsoon session is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-fort-to-remain-shut-from-morning-of-july-21-till-independence-day-asi-101626803453042.html
20-07-2021||India||Not just lack of oxygen, but want of sensitivity and truth too: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday hit out at the Centre for stating that no state or Union territory reported Covid-19 deaths due to shortage of oxygen. “It wasn't just the lack of oxygen but also a severe lack of sensitivity and truth. It was then, still is today,” Gandhi wrote on Twitter.The Narendra Modi government informed the Rajya Sabha during the ongoing Monsoon session of Parliament that there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave and it peaked at nearly 9,000 MT, much higher in comparison to 3,095 MT needed in the first wave. The Centre stepped in to facilitate equitable distribution among the states, it said.Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply that "however, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states and UTs,"."Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs,” Pawar further said.Also Read: 'Harsh Vardhan made a scapegoat': Kharge targets Centre over Covid-19The government was replying to a query if a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave. Shantanu Sen of the Trinamool Congress said people dying on the streets due to a shortage of oxygen in the 21st Century is a “matter of shame”."Lancet, the oldest medical journal, WHO, Supreme Court and several high courts and even countries like Brazil, Canada and the UK have categorically criticised the Covid fighting policy of India. What can be a more shameful incident for us," he said.The Shiv Sena also hit out at the government for the "inept handling" of the pandemic. Sena MP Sanjay Raut criticised the government for sending vaccines abroad. However, parties like Biju Janata Dal (BJD) took a more diplomatic approach cautioning against the “politicisation” of the pandemic. "We cannot politicise this handling of the pandemic because no one is wiser. The relationship between the Centre and states and the cooperation is of paramount importance," Amar Patnaik of BJD said in the Upper House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-lack-of-oxygen-but-want-of-sensitivity-and-truth-too-rahul-gandhi-101626802060158.html
20-07-2021||India||Nagaland’s NDPP welcomes opposition NPF offer to form all-party govt||KOHIMA: Nagaland’s main opposition party, Naga People’s Front (NPF), has offered to join Neiphiu Rio-led People’s Democratic Alliance (PDA) to form an all-party government to pursue an early settlement on the vexed Naga political issue, party leaders said on Monday. NPF legislature party spokesperson Imkong L Imchen said the NPF legislators passed a resolution endorsing the concept of an opposition-less government in Nagaland at a marathon meeting on Monday evening. “We have passed a resolution and endorsed it to the chief minister for necessary consideration, in the interest of the Naga political solution,” Imchen said. He said political parties in the state were on the same page on resolving the Naga issue, for which the government of India and different Naga armed groups were engaged in political dialogue.Although Nagaland’s lawmakers are not directly involved in the peace talks, elected members over the years have held that they will play a facilitating role in the settlement of the issue.The senior NPF legislator said with the peace talks reaching a crucial stage, the party felt it was essential for lawmakers to come together in a common platform, transcending their respective political party lines.While the ruling PDA is yet to make any official statement on the move by the NPF, Imchen said the NPF is expecting a positive response.The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and two independent MLAs, who comprise the PDA, are yet to discuss the NPF proposal, officials of the coalition said. But NDPP, the major PDA partner, has already welcomed the move calling for unity amongst the members of the 13th Nagaland Legislative Assembly.NDPP spokesperson Merentoshi R Jamir confirmed that the party leaders decided to welcome the NPF’s proposal at an emergency meeting on Tuesday but decided that since the party is part of a coalition, it will consult coalition partner BJP before taking the matter forward.Nagaland BJP leaders and party ministers were not available for comment.The only other time when Nagaland didn’t have an opposition party was in 2015 during the third tenure of the NPF-led Democratic Alliance of Nagaland (DAN) when the opposition’s Congress MLAs joined the government and subsequently merged their party with the NPF.This time, NPF MLAs insisted that they will not merge their party. “We are talking about an all-party government, a coalition, where we will maintain our respective party ideologies,” says a senior NPF legislator.Recently, the Nagaland government notified the formation of a parliamentary committee comprising the state assembly’s 60 lawmakers and two Nagaland MPs. This panel, led by chief minister Rio, deputy chief minister Y Patton and opposition leader TR Zeliang, was stated to act as facilitators in the ongoing peace talks between the Centre and Naga armed groups.At its first meeting on July 9, the committee committed that the elected members were prepared to “pave the way” when an inclusive, honourable and acceptable solution is arrived at.The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) entered into a ceasefire agreement with the government of India in 1997 and the two have been holding political dialogue since then. A conglomeration of seven Naga national political groups (NNPGs) also started talking with the Centre in 2017.The Centre had signed a “framework agreement” with NSCN (IM) in 2015, and an “agreed position” with the NNPGs in 2017. However, the NSCN (IM)’s demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution has been a delaying factor in signing a final deal on the Naga peace process. The talks were suspended in April due to the prevailing Covid-19 related situation and are yet to be resumed.Chief minister Rio and opposition leader TR Zeliang will hold meetings with leaders of the NNPGs and NSCN (I-M) over the next two days, leaders from the two parties said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagalands-ndpp-welcomes-opposition-npf-offer-to-form-all-party-govt-101626800976033.html
20-07-2021||India||'Amarinder won't meet Sidhu until he publicly apologises for personal attacks'||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will not meet newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu until he publicly apologised for the personal derogatory social media attacks against him, the CM’s media advisor said on Tuesday. The CM’s advisor, Raveen Thukral, said reports of Sidhu seeking time to meet the chief minister are totally false and the latter’s stance on the matter remains unchanged.Thukral’s statement that he put out on Twitter came hours after Punjab minister Brahm Mohindra dismissed reports of any personal meeting with Sidhu till he resolved his issues with the chief minister. Mohindra said the party high-command's decision to appoint Sidhu as the state Congress chief is welcome, but Singh is the leader of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) and he is duty-bound to follow him.The first such statements that came from Singh’s camp ever since Sidhu’s elevation reveal that the months-long crisis in the Punjab Congress is yet to come to an end ahead of the Assembly election slated to be held next year. Last week, Singh is said to have informed All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Harish Rawat, who is also in-charge of Punjab, that he will not meet Sidhu until he tendered an apology for his "derogatory" tweets against him.Earlier in the day, Sidhu went to Amritsar where he received a rousing welcome from his supporters and Congress workers. However, the cricketer-turned-politician was shown black flags by protesting farmers on his arrival at Bhagat Singh Marg in Ludhiana's Nawanshahr.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-won-t-meet-sidhu-until-he-publicly-apologises-for-personal-attacks-101626800257655.html
20-07-2021||India||House panel calls Home ministry, MeitY and DoT over Pegasus reports||The parliamentary committee on information technology, led by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, is expected to take up reports of snooping on politicians, journalists and others with Israeli-made spyware Pegasus at its July 28 meeting, a person familiar with the matter said.The panel will hear from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of Home Affairs and the Department of Telecommunications regarding the alleged hacking of phones. “Evidence of the representatives of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Communications (Department of Telecommunications) on the subject ‘Citizens’ data security and privacy’,” said the notification of the panel, accessed by Hindustan Times. “GoI has denied resorting to unauthorised surveillance. The question this raises is, if #Pegasus is only sold to governments, which other govts (China/Pak?) are using it to snoop on prominent Indian citizens? Shouldn’t the authorities call for an independent investigation,” panel chair Tharoor tweeted on July 18. This is not the first time the panel has taken up the issue of the Israeli spyware. In 2019, after WhatsApp’s vulnerabilities surfaced, the panel heard from the respective departments regarding the issue.Also read: ‘Have details of Abhishek Banerjee’s phone calls’ - Suvendu amid Pegasus rowThe software, which is made by Israel-based NSO Group, said it only supplies to government clients. On Monday, reports revealed that aside from 38 journalists, former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi, two of his aides, political strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Union minister Prahlad Patel were also allegedly hacked. The list also included 11 members of the friends and family, along with the number of the woman who accused former Chief Justice of India Rajan Gogoi of sexual harassment. The investigation by the consortium of media houses also named public health experts Gagandeep Kang and M Hari Menon and diplomats from at least five countries as potential targets of Pegasus software manufactured by Israeli firm NSO Group. Also on the list were the woman who accused then CJI Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment in 2019 and her relatives, election strategist Prashant Kishor, and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee.Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who defended the government in Parliament hours before being named a potential hacking target, and Jal Shakti minister of state Prahlad Singh Patel were the high-profile government names.The consortium published on Sunday that 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide, including Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, and reporters from The Wall Street Journal, CNN, The New York Times, and Le Monde.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government denied any involvement. The opposition, however, has called for a probe into the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-calls-home-ministry-meity-and-dot-over-pegasus-reports-101626800197274.html
20-07-2021||India||'Not a matter of politics': PM Modi to floor leaders in interaction on Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday apprised floor leaders of both houses of Parliament about the current trajectory of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, the government said in a press release, adding that PM Modi thanked all the leaders for participating in the meeting and giving "very practical inputs.""The pandemic should not be a matter of politics and is a matter of concern for the entire humanity. Mankind hasn't seen such a pandemic in the last 100 years," the release quoted Prime Minister Modi as saying. It further stated that the Prime Minister also spoke about the efforts being made to ensure that every district across the country has at least one oxygen plant.He also briefed the leaders about the increasing pace of India's Covid-19 vaccination program, the release further noted. "The first 10 crore doses took around 85 days, while the previous 10 crore doses have taken only 24 days," PM Modi said, also expressing concern for a "significant" number of healthcare and frontline workers who, he said, have not been vaccinated even after more than six months of the commencement of the nationwide vaccination drive.PM Modi, the release stated, also stressed on the need to stay vigilant looking at the current pandemic situation in various countries.The release also noted that leaders across parties, including former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, thanked and lauded PM Modi for his efforts during the pandemic. "They also highlighted the situation in various states, as well as the vaccination drive in their respective states," the release said.The briefing also saw Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan give a detailed presentation on the issue. "Only eight states have more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases with the majority of the caseload being in Kerala and Maharashtra. Only five states have a positivity rate of more than 5%," Bhushan said, according to the release.Additionally, the health secretary informed the leaders that Prime Minister Modi held 20 meetings with the chief ministers, while the Union health ministry had 29 interactions with states. He added that the Union cabinet secretary briefed chief secretaries 34 times while 166 central teams were deployed to assist 33 states and Union territories in managing Covid-19.In the last 24 hours, India registered 30,093 new Covid-19 cases and 374 related deaths, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard on Tuesday. This was the country's lowest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases in 125 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-matter-of-politics-pm-modi-to-floor-leaders-in-interaction-on-covid19-101626796984713.html
20-07-2021||India||‘International conspiracy to defame India’: Assam CM on Pegasus row||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday termed the Pegasus Project report as a well-designed international conspiracy to defame India’s democracy and also to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Addressing journalists on the sidelines of the ongoing assembly session, Sarma accused Amnesty International, which collaborated with several international news organizations in revealing details of alleged phone surveillance, of encouraging Left-wing terrorism in India and demanded its ban. “At a time when India effectively controlled the second wave of Covid-19, it was expected that Parliament will take stock of the situation and make recommendations on how to control the third wave or discuss on the road ahead to revive the economy,” said Sarma. “But on the eve of the parliament session, a news story about phone-tapping called Pegasus Project was broken. A database of phone numbers of some people was released and it was mentioned that potentially those phones could have been hacked,” he added. The CM stated that no forensic examination was done to verify whether these phones were hacked. He asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, whose name also appeared in the list, to file an FIR and hand over his handset to the police for forensic examination. Terming the release of the database as a conspiracy to weaken India, Sarma questioned the role of Amnesty International, a partner in the project. “We all know the role of Amnesty. They are all along encouraging Left-wing terrorism in India. They are working overnight to defame India and we know about their credibility. I want to caution Amnesty against creating disturbance within the country and defame India’s democracy. I demand that their activities should be immediately banned within India,” he said. “This is a well-designed international conspiracy to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Indian parliamentary system and is also a deliberate attempt to create dissatisfaction among the people. The people of India are with the PM and believe in him. These international conspiracies will fail and we will not allow them to succeed,” added Sarma. Condemning the release of the database, the CM said that everyone involved in it should be examined and brought under the law because the phone numbers of those allegedly put under surveillance by using the Israeli software Pegasus were released without any evidence. Sarma said that there is a proper system of phone tapping or telephonic surveillance in India. He accused the opposition parties of creating a disturbance in Parliament even after the Central government categorically stated that nothing is being done to affect the privacy of citizens. “Opposition parties, mainly Congress, are creating a ruckus inside Parliament. But what is their record (on this issue)? In 2013, in a reply to an RTI query, the then UPA government had admitted that they are doing surveillance of over 5,000 phones and 500 email accounts,” he said. “Congress government in Rajasthan has been criticised by court for infringing upon people’s privacy. Congress’s own track record is within radar and their integrity and respect for privacy are under question. Today, the same party is accusing others of doing something in which they have got a doctorate degree,” Sarma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-conspiracy-to-defame-india-assam-cm-on-pegasus-row-101626796355634.html
20-07-2021||India||No Covid doses available, Mumbai halts vaccination drive for Wednesday||The Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai said no vaccination session against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease will be held in Mumbai on Wednesday due to the non-availability of doses.On Tuesday, only 58 of the 309 vaccination centres run by the government and civic body due to the same reason.The development came on a day Maharashtra crossed the four-crore mark in administering vaccines to beneficiaries. The feat was accomplished in less than a month's time due to an increase in stock, officials said. Maharashtra hit the three-crore mark on June 26, while the number of doses administered had crossed the 2-crore mark on May 13.Maharashtra has frequently reported a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines doses ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced universal adult vaccination against the viral infection.Even as Maharashtra remains the state with the highest number of vaccinated people, its health minister Rajesh Tope had last week informed the Assembly that stocks were depleting that led to many of the districts halting the inoculation drive on days after they ran out of supplies.Mumbai recorded 351 new cases in the last 24 hours, while 525 patients recovered during the same period taking the overall recovery rate to 97 per cent. At present, the total number of active cases in the country’s financial capital stands at 6,161.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-covid-doses-available-mumbai-halts-vaccination-drive-on-wednesday-101626795296439.html
20-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Study suggests India's excess Covid-19 deaths could be 4.9 million and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India's excess deaths during Covid-19 pandemic up to 4.9 million: StudyIndia’s excess deaths during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic could be as high as 4.9 million, according to a new study, suggesting that millions more may have lost their lives than the official death toll. Read more'Once India starts considering...': ICMR chief says 'wise' to reopen primary schools firstICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday backed reopening of schools whenever it is possible to do so, adding that several Scandinavian countries did not close their schools during any of the waves of Covid-19. Read moreTokyo's heart missing from OlympicsIt was a rough landing at Haneda airport, but the view from the plane was an antidote: the early rays of the sun advancing over the unmistakable silhouette of Mt Fuji and bouncing off the clear blue waters of Tokyo Bay. Read moreAngad Bedi says Neha Dhupia's second pregnancy 'not easy on her': 'It’s a different experience'Angad Bedi has said that Neha Dhupia's second pregnancy hasn't been 'easy on her'. The actor-couple recently announced that they are expecting their second child. Neha and Angad are already parents to a daughter, Mehr. Read moreAvita Cosmos 2-in-1 notebook review: A lightweight device in every wayThe Avita Cosmos 2-in-1 convertible notebook is one such affordable laptop – we’ve spent a week with the device and here are our thoughts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-study-suggests-india-s-excess-covid-19-deaths-could-be-4-9-million-and-all-the-latest-news-101626794418693.html
20-07-2021||India||Supreme Court reserves verdict on plea about 2020 Bihar Assembly elections||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on a contempt petition filed against the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) and prominent political parties who were in the fray in Bihar legislative assembly polls last year, for failing to declare and publicise criminal antecedents of their electoral candidates. "We reserve the order," the top court bench headed by Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman said.The plea was filed by Brajesh Singh, a Nalanda-based lawyer, who sought initiation of contempt proceedings against CEC Sunil Arora, Bihar’s Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) HR Srinivas, KC Tyagi of the ruling Janata Dal (United), Jagdanand Singh of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Abdul Khalik of the Loktantrik Janata Party (LJP), Randeep Singh Surjewala of Indian National Congress (INC) and BL Santhosh of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The petition accused these political parties of not complying with a direction issued last year on February 13 by the apex court to publicise details of criminal antecedents of candidates in widely circulated newspapers, social media platforms, and their respective websites. “Our orders have to be followed with," a bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman and also comprising Justice B R Gavai said.Singh’s contempt petition stated that most political parties published details of criminal cases against their candidates in newspapers with low circulation instead of leading dailies in Bihar. Alleging that this amounted to contempt of the court orders, which required publicity to be done through widely circulated newspapers.Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and CPI(M), tendered an "unconditional apology" during the course of the hearing today for failing to follow through.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reserves-verdict-on-plea-about-2020-bihar-assembly-elections-101626794401884.html
20-07-2021||India||Be pragmatic, says Manipur to Erendro’s compensation plea in Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Manipur activist Leichombam Erendro’s father on Tuesday asked the Supreme Court to order compensation for the activist who spent over two months in jail over a Facebook post.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah, which ordered Leichombam Erendro’s immediate release on Monday, has sought the written response of the Manipur government to the plea for compensation.During Tuesday’s court hearing, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for Manipur, told the Supreme Court that Erendro was released from detention on Monday and the case filed against him under the stringent National Security Act was revoked.Things should be allowed to rest at that, and the petitioner should follow a pragmatic approach in acknowledging that the relief has been granted, Tushar Mehta said.The bench said it was the petitioner’s choice to seek relief from the court and gave the state two weeks to file its response. The next hearing is scheduled on August 6.Appearing for Erendro’s father L Raghumani Singh, advocate Shadan Farasat told the top court that five cases were lodged against his son since 2017 and the state hadn’t filed a charge sheet in a single case.The bench said it was a “serious matter” that Erendro had “lost his liberty since May”.Leichombam Erendro was arrested on May 13 this year for his Facebook post which said that cow dung and urine is not a cure for coronavirus disease as its cure is by science and common sense. The post followed the death of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Tikendra Singh. He was arrested after local BJP leaders filed a complaint against the social media post.In the petition, Erendro’s father said his son’s statement was made in the context of the death of the president of the Manipur BJP due to Covid-19, “as a criticism of the unscientific position taken and misinformation being spread by several BJP politicians regarding cow urine and cow dung being effective in preventing/treating Covid-19”. He said the post was deleted soon after being posted on May 13.“The present case is a shocking instance of misuse of preventive detention law to stifle completely innocuous speech that is fully constitutionally protected and was made in public interest,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-pragmatic-says-manipur-on-erendro-s-compensation-plea-for-3-months-in-jail-101626794075392.html
20-07-2021||India||Flood-hit primary health centre in Kerala turns into high-tech hospital||A primary health centre in Kerala’s Malappuram district, which was destroyed during the 2018 floods, got a fresh lease of life under the ‘Rebuild Kerala’ initiative. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will be inaugurating the elevated hospital on July 24, officials said. The primary health centre was catering to thousands of poor patients and its destruction was in the news then. Later, UAE-based VPS Health Care group, owned by NRI businessman Dr Shamseer Vayalil, promised to rebuild it. Built at the cost of ₹10 crore, the new hospital and laboratory will be equipped with all modern facilities, said district medical officer NK Sakeena, adding that it will cater to at least 2 lakh patients in a year.The hospital, which is built in a remote village in Vazhakkad, was designed by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras and students of the School of Architecture and Planning of Thrissur Engineering College. The technology used in the hospital’s construction is Glass Fibre Reinforced Gypsum panel, also known as Rapidwall, which can withstand natural calamities easily, said people at VPS Health Care.“It has all modern facilities. Experts from many fields rubbed shoulders with local people to set up such an initiative,” said VPS Health Care chairman Shamseer Vayalil. The hospital has an advanced laboratory, modern imaging department, oxygen beds, concentrators and stabilization unit to attend to those suffering from oxygen saturation, said the group in a statement.What makes it different is that it is being made of eco-friendly technology eliminating the usual brick and cement structure with an aesthetically pleasing design, the statement added.Three years ago, floods ravaged many parts of Kerala claiming 500 lives, it was often dubbed as the flood of the century. After the disaster, the government showcased an initiative called ‘Rebuild Kerala,’ to piece together the state’s damaged infrastructure and livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floodhit-primary-health-centre-in-kerala-turns-into-high-tech-hospital-101626793655676.html
20-07-2021||India||Indian Railways to roll out over 800 new 'economy' AC 3-tier coaches soon||The Indian Railways will soon roll out 806 new air-conditioned three-tier "economy" coaches this fiscal to offer the "cheapest and best AC travel in the world," news agency PTI reported on Tuesday, quoting railway officials. Economical in nature, these coaches will have a fare ranging between that of AC three-tier coaches and non-AC sleeper class coaches, the officials further said."By the end of 2021, or in 2022, we will 806 AC three-tier economy class coaches. All our coach factories will work simultaneously to manufacture these coaches. The Railways is getting future-ready and will ensure that all passengers get better travelling experience than ever before," a railway official said.The coaches, conceptualised by the Rail Coach Factory (RCF), will be rolled out from the Railways' three coach-making factories: RCF, Kapurthala; Integrated Coach Factory (ICF), Chennai; and the Modern Coach Factory (MCF), Rai Bareilly. The new coaches will have an increased passenger strength as the number of berths in each coach has been increased to 83 from the current 72.Some major highlights of these brand new "economy" AC three-tier coaches are as follows:(1.) Improved and modular design of seats and berth with foldable snack tables in both longitudinal and transverse bays;(2.) Individual AC vents for each berth, along with one wider toilet door and one for specially abled, in each coach;(3.) Individual reading points and mobile charging points for each berth in addition to the standard socket;(4.) An improved design for ladder for accessing the upper and middle berths, along with an increased headroom for both the berths;(5.) Indian and western-style lavatories, as well public address and passenger information systems have been installed;(6.) Improving fire safety by ensuring compliance with EN45545-2HL3, the global benchmark for materials.Currently, 25 such coaches, are in operation: 10, seven, five and three in the Western Railway, North Central Railway, North Western Railway and Northern Railway, respectively. The New Delhi Duronto, Jaipur Duronto, Dehradun-Prayagraj and Prayagraj-Raj Dehradun Express, Jaipur-Chennai Central Express Jaipur-Coimbatore Express and Lichchavi Express are some trains which are equipped with these new AC coaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-roll-out-over-800-new-economy-ac-3-tier-coaches-soon-101626789088310.html
20-07-2021||India||Lingayat mutts, leaders rally behind Yediyurappa amid speculations of his removal||Heads of various mutts in Bengaluru met Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday amid speculations of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) replacing him as the CM, HT has learnt. The political and religious leaders of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which comprises 16 per cent of the state’s population and the largest vote base for the BJP, promised their support to Yediyurappa following the meeting. The Lingayat community is back in the focus with speculations of replacing Yediyurappa. The chief minister has been the face of the Lingayat community in the party and has enjoyed large electoral support from its members.Several of the mutt leaders who attended the meeting have warned the BJP against any move to dislodge the 78-year-old leader. Veera Someshwara Shivacharya Swami said any move to replace Yediyurappa will have huge consequences for the BJP.“Friction is common in politics, let anyone say anything, but we have confidence that BS Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister and complete the term. If there are any shortcomings in this, it will have big consequences for the party,” he said. Muruga mutt seer Sri Shivamurthy Sharanaru held a press conference in Chitradurga district on Tuesday in support of Yediyurappa. “Yediyurappa may belong to the Lingayat caste and religion. But he is a leader for all. He is a mass leader who treats everyone equally. He has worked for the development of people of all castes and religions equally. That is why it is important that he continues as the CM of the state,’’ the seer said “Yediyurappa is a grassroots level leader. He has built the party from the scratch. He should not be disturbed. We are here to support him and express solidarity with him. The party will suffer if he is removed,’’ the Muruga mutt seer added. On Monday, senior Lingayat leader in the Congress party and the former minister MP Patil said the Lingayat community would be upset if the BJP high command removed Yediyurappa from the post. “Surely, the Lingayats will be displeased with the BJP’s central leaders if they remove the Lingayat leader BS Yediyurappa from the post of the chief minister,” Patil tweeted.Another Congress leader and president of All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha (the largest group within the Lingayat community) Shamanuru Shivashankarappa, who met the chief minister on Monday, said the latter should continue with the post.Shivashankarappa, who met Yediyurappa at his residence for over an hour, told media that the Veerashaiva community was with Yediyurappa and any efforts to dislodge him would not go down well with the community.“If they dislodge Yediyurappa, the BJP will suffer what happened when Nijalingappa and Veerendra Patil were removed. The BJP must think about this history before venturing into any adventures. It is BB Shivappa and BS Yediyurappa who toiled hard and built this party. If they remove him, they will be ruined,” he had said.As the speculations continue, Yediyurappa has called the legislative party meeting on July 26. This decision comes after he returned to the state after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi last week.On his return, he had told the media that the central leadership has asked him to continue. “The central leaders have asked me to continue as the chief minister and strengthen the party. It is our duty to follow their instructions from time to time. There is no question of leadership change,” Yediyurappa told reporters on his return from Delhi.However, since returning to Karnataka, Yediyurappa has not issued any statements denying the rumours of his replacement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lingayat-mutts-leaders-rally-behind-yediyurappa-amid-speculations-of-his-removal-101626791195545.html
20-07-2021||India||'Once India starts considering...': ICMR chief says 'wise' to reopen primary schools first||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) DG Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday backed reopening of schools whenever it is possible to do so, adding that several Scandinavian countries did not close their schools during any of the waves of the coronavirus pandemic.“Once India starts considering, it’ll be wise to open primary schools first before opening secondary schools All the support staff, whether it be school bus drivers, teachers and other staff members in the schools need to need to be vaccinated,” Dr Bhargava said at a press conference, according to news agency ANI.Once India starts considering, it'll be wise to open primary schools first before opening secondary schools. All the support staff whether it be school bus drivers, teachers & other staff in the school need to be vaccinated: ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava on the opening of schools pic.twitter.com/ueD72hGhkyHowever, he called for primary schools to be reopened first, followed by secondary schools. This, the senior scientist explained, is because “children can handle viral infections better than adults.”. Dr Bhargava further said, “Children have an antibody exposure similar to those in adults. Some Scandinavian countries didn’t shut their primary schools in any of the Covid-19 waves.”Also Read | 'Taking all steps to safeguard...': Centre on children affected by Covid-19With schools across the country shut almost continuously since March 2020 when the first Covid-19 induced lockdown came into effect, parents have expressed concern at a possible loss of a second straight academic year. However, recently, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, too, called for schools to be reopened, further saying that vaccinating children “can play an important role in that.”Also Read | When can kids go back to school?: AIIMS director has an answerCurrently, all Indian citizens above the age of 18 are eligible for a shot against Covid-19. However, in recent days, anticipating a potential third Covid-19 wave, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has initiated trials for kids. Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila has sought emergency use authorisation (EUA) for its vaccine candidate for everyone above the age of 12. Dr Guleria has previously given a likely timeline of September for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine, Covaxin, which is already being used in the nationwide inoculation drive, to be approved for children as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-india-starts-considering-icmr-chief-says-wise-to-reopen-primary-schools-first-101626787297266.html
20-07-2021||India||Kerala minister Saseendran in trouble for ‘trying to settle harassment case’||Kerala minister A K Saseendran is in trouble again after an audiotape of his purported conversation with the father of a woman, who has levelled sexual harassment charges against a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), surfaced. The minister is purportedly heard advising the father to settle the issue somehow. The minister admitted he talked to the father, but he said when he came to know that harassment charges were involved, he stopped the conversation abruptly. But the father alleged that the minister called him several times and forced him to withdraw the complaint and settle the issue amicably. Saseendran was in 2017 forced to resign after his obscene conversation with a woman journalist surfaced. He was reinduced as a minister after the journalist withdrew her complaint. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have sought the minister’s resignation saying he violated the oath of office by now forcing a sexual harassment victim to withdraw her complaint. But the minister defended his action saying he called up the father since both (accused and complainant) were members of the NCP and he wanted to know about the issue. He claimed that he backed out after he came to know harassment charges were also involved. Also Read | ‘Alarming,’ says SC on Kerala’s decision to open markets despite Covid surgePolice said the woman filed a police complaint on June 28 in which she alleged that NCP state executive member G Padmakaran caught hold of her hand and tried to molest her inside the hotel of the accused in March. She said he wanted to know why she joined the BJP when everyone else in her family belonged to the NCP. She alleged that he caught hold of her hand suddenly saying if she joined BJP for money, he could have given it. The woman said initially she did not have the courage to take up the matter but when the accused started making abusive comments on social media, she decided to file the police complaint. In the audio, the father purportedly mentions the NCP leader’s behaviour towards his daughter. At this point, the minister is heard saying “settle it in a good manner.” The father was heard again saying his daughter is in the BJP, not in the NCP now. He was also heard asking the minister how can he settle such issues amicably? Later both, the woman and her father claimed that they were pressurised to withdraw the complaint. Saseendran denied the allegations. “Since both belong to the NCP, I made an inquiry. I never pressurised either the father or daughter,” he said. Ruling Communist Party of Indian (Marxist) acting secretary A Vijayarghavan said he was unaware of the issue and will react only after studying it. . The Congress sought Saseendran’s resignation. “He has no right to continue in power,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. Youth Congress leader Veena Nair met Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and sough Saseendran’s removal. BJP state president K Surendran said, “He (Saseendran) has violated his oath of office forcing the victim to withdraw a sexual harassment case.”NCP state president P C Chacko dismissed all charges against the minister and said he was only trying to ascertain facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-saseendran-in-trouble-for-trying-to-settle-harassment-case-101626788075276.html
20-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Seroprevalence in fully immunised people higher than unvaccinated ones, says ICMR||The seroprevalence in people who were fully immunised with two doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was found to be higher than those who had received only one dose of the vaccine and those who are yet to receive even one dose, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday.“In unvaccinated the prevalence was 62.3% and with one dose of vaccine it was 81% and if they had received both the doses it was 89.8%,” ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bharghava told reporters during a press briefing by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday evening.The data from the ICMR was shared following the fourth national sero survey for Covid-19 to estimate the prevalence for antibodies against the Covid-19 disease. The survey was conducted between the last weeks of June and the first week of July, according to ICMR.Also read | Fourth serosurvey finds 67.6% have antibodies, 40 crore Indians still vulnerableIn contrast with the previous three such surveys done, the fourth one included children between six and 17 years of age, said ICMR chief, adding that 28,975 people of the general population were considered for the survey. The survey was conducted across the same 70 districts in 21 states, in which first three rounds were carried out.Among the 20,276 adults considered for the survey, 12,607 were not vaccinated and 2,631 people were fully vaccinated. Meanwhile, 5,038 people had taken one dose of the vaccine.As far as the healthcare workers (HCW) are concerned, 7,252 were considered for the study of whom, 10.5 per cent didn’t receive a vaccine and 76.1 per cent had received both doses. Also, 13.4 per cent had reported taking a single dose of the vaccine.“The way forward is that we need to ensure full vaccination of all healthcare workers as soon as possible. We need to accelerate vaccination coverage in vulnerable population groups,” Dr Bharghava said during the briefing.Member of Niti Aayog Dr VK Paul, who was also present at the briefing, said that the second wave of infections in the country due to the Delta variant of Covid-19 and the vaccination coverage has helped in the rise of seropositivity. He further said that the ICMR data also showed that the vaccine is adding to the sero prevalence among the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-seroprevalence-in-fully-immunised-people-higher-than-unvaccinated-ones-says-icmr-101626787680366.html
20-07-2021||India||IMA president urges Kerala govt to rethink ‘controversial’ Covid-19 lockdown policy||The Indian Medical Association on Tuesday said that inflow of international tourists and interstate movement were the main reasons behind the rise in Covid-19 infections in Kerala and Maharashtra. The president of the medical body Dr JA Jayalal also noted that the mortality rate in Kerala, however, is much less than the national average.“Kerala and Maharashtra are receiving more international tourists and there is [a] lot of interstate movement. It is a major reason for [the] rise in Covid-19 cases. Despite the rise in cases in Kerala, mortality rate is much less than the national average,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Jayalal as saying, earlier on Tuesday.On Monday, 9,931 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kerala as the total confirmed cases reached 3,170,868, a bulletin from the state health department showed. In the 24-hour-period 58 people succumbed to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 15,408. The state currently has over 120,000 active cases (121,708 exactly).Also read | Sorry state of affairs: Supreme Court on relaxation in Covid-19 curbs in KeralaThe IMA president also said that the Kerala government should rethink its “controversial” lockdown policy. “The way in which they adopted the lockdown is very controversial. They are giving intermittent lockdowns for two days. There are somewhere 15k to 16k people getting infected daily and the economy also depends upon when a patient gets infected. The family of the person who gets infected is indisposed for two to three weeks. They cannot go to their jobs, they are isolated and the best way is to prevent this from happening,” ANI quoted Dr Jayalal as saying.“We are definitely not saying that the entire lockdown has to be enforced. But if a policy of two days of lockdown is undertaken and the rest of the days are free, a rush is natural. Instead of that, you can evenly distribute it and ensure people are wearing the mask,” he further said.Earlier on Sunday, the IMA had released a statement urging Kerala to withdraw its order easing the lockdown in the state for Bakri Eid. It said the relaxation was “unwanted and inappropriate” during the time of medical emergency. “The government is considering the situation and they are in discussion with the officials and other stakeholders. The case is coming up in the Supreme Court. We are waiting for the response on this issue,” Dr Jayalal said.The Supreme Court on Tuesday warned of actions if Covid-19 infections in Kerala spread due to the relaxations in lockdown. “Kerala government buckling under pressure from traders to open up shops for Bakrid in high Covid-19 infection areas shows the sorry state of affairs and failure to protect life and health,” ANI quoted the bench headed by Justice Rohinton F Nariman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-president-urges-kerala-govt-to-rethink-controversial-covid-19-lockdown-policy-101626786377554.html
20-07-2021||India||India's excess deaths during Covid-19 pandemic up to 4.9 million: Study||India’s excess deaths during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic could be as high as 4.9 million, according to a new study, suggesting that millions more may have lost their lives to the deadly virus than the official death toll. The report by Central for Global Development, a Washington-based think tank, used three different data sources from the start of the pandemic through June 2021 to estimate excess mortality during the period. However, the study doesn’t ascribe all excess deaths to Covid-19.The first estimate was from extrapolation of the state-level civil registration data from seven states - Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. It suggested that the excess deaths could be around 3.4 million. The study, however, acknowledged the issues with the extrapolation of data from seven states to an all-India estimate, saying it was possible that the Covid mortality in the “rest of India is different from the seven states.”The second estimate was based on combining Covid-19 seroprevalence data and international estimates of the age-specific mortality rate. It implied the excess death toll was around 4 million - 1.5 million and 2.4 million during the two Covid waves respectively. The authors noted that even though the data from the second wave of infections encompassed three months compared to 11 months for the first one, the death toll was significantly greater given the higher rate of infections.Read | India did not see 5-7 times excess Covid-19 deaths. Govt explains whyThe third data source showed the worst-case scenario with up to 4.9 million excess deaths. The estimate was based on the survey data of the Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS) conducted by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). The survey constitutes information gathered from interviewing roughly 177,000 households every four months. The CPHS has been recording the data since 2014 and according to the study, it is the “only survey data collecting death information for all of India for the entire pandemic period.”“True deaths are likely to be in the several millions not hundreds of thousands, making this arguably India’s worst human tragedy since partition and independence,” the report, co-authored by India's former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, said.India’s official Covid-19 death toll is around 414,000, the third-highest in the world, but the study suggests a huge undercount. A report by The New York Times had earlier claimed that the most conservative estimate puts India’s Covid-19 deaths at 600,000 and several times higher in the worst-case scenario. But those estimates were dismissed by the government.“For every country, it's important to capture excess mortality - only way to prepare the health system for future shocks & to prevent further deaths. It's also why we need to invest in strong civil registration & vital statistics, so policies can be adjusted based on real data,” Soumya Swaminathan, the chief scientist of the World Health Organization, said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-excess-deaths-during-covid-19-pandemic-up-to-4-9-million-study-101626785505459.html
20-07-2021||India||‘Alarming,’ says SC on Kerala’s decision to open markets despite Covid surge||The Supreme Court on Tuesday pulled up Kerala for allowing markets to open for an entire day on Monday ahead of the Bakrid festival that falls on Wednesday, despite the surge in Covid-19 cases.The state government’s decision of July 17 to enable all shops to open in areas with 15% or less test positivity rate (TPR) for three days (July 18-20) and for a single day (July 19) in areas with TPR above 15% was challenged before the Supreme Court in an application filed by Delhi resident PKD Nambiar. The state filed an affidavit justifying its decision to open the markets citing expert advice and pressure from market associations. The TPR is the percentage of coronavirus tests turning positive.The bench of Justices RF Nariman and BR Gavai was shocked to note how the state gave in to pressure from trader groups and risked the lives and health of citizens of India. “To give in to pressure groups so that the citizenry of India is laid bare to a nationwide pandemic discloses a sorry state of affairs….This affidavit discloses a sorry state of affairs and does not in any real manner safeguard the Right to Life and Health guaranteed to all the citizens of India under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.”Kerala has been reporting high figures of Covid cases ever since the state came under lockdown three months ago. The average TPR in the state went up to 11.08% on Monday, the highest in 17 days. The application argued by senior advocate Vikas Singh submitted that by granting this relaxation, the state government was playing with the lives of the citizens of India. The court also warned the state that “if as a result of the July 17, 2021 notification, any untoward spread in the Covid-19 disease takes place, any member of the public may bring this to the notice of this court, after which this court will take necessary action against those who are responsible.”The bench noted in its order that prior to July 17, the state was divided into four categories based on TPR. The most critical spread areas with TPR above 15% were classified under Category D. In these areas, stringent restrictions were imposed even on opening of essential items shops. The notification allowed all shops in Category D to remain open for all of Monday. Also Read | Supreme Court refuses to postpone CLAT 2021 scheduled to be held on July 23The bench observed, “Homilies such as “as far as possible” and assurances from traders without anything more, do not inspire any confidence in the people of India or this Court. The relaxation for one day to a Category D area was wholly uncalled for.”The affidavit by Kerala Chief Secretary VP Joy stated that the Crisis Management Group, in consultation with the chairman of the expert group of medical officers, considered the plea of traders and allowed exemption to Category D areas. In Category B and C areas, with TPR between 5-10% and 10-15%, three days’ exemption was given for all shops to function. Prior to the notification, only a certain category of essential goods shops was allowed to remain open in these areas.The court directed Kerala to pay heed to its constitutional duty to protect life and health of citizens under Article 21 and Article 144, the provision by which all civil and judicial authorities in the country have to act in aid of the Supreme Court.An almost similar order was passed by the same bench on Monday which took suo motu cognizance of the Kanwar Yatra taken out by Uttar Pradesh. The application against Kerala government’s decision to relax lockdown restrictions was filed in this case. Last week, the court told UP government that religious sentiments should be subservient to the fundamental right to life of citizens. Neighbouring Uttarakhand and Delhi had already cancelled permission for the Yatra while UP had permitted symbolic processions.Following the SC’s stern approach, Kanwar Sanghs decided to postpone the Yatra for this year. Subsequently, the court closed the suo motu proceedings on Monday and told authorities to ensure “untoward incidents which directly affect the lives of the public” or face prompt and stern action from Court. The Kerala government was also asked to follow this direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alarming-says-sc-on-kerala-s-decision-to-open-markets-despite-covid-surge-101626785855006.html
20-07-2021||India||Kharge criticises PM Modi over his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic||Mallikarjun Kharge, the leader of the opposition in Rajya Sabha, on Tuesday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and said he “never takes the blame and always finds a scapegoat”.“Not only he failed, but he also made former health minister Harsh Vardhan take all the blame. The Prime Minister never accepts his faults, never takes the blame. He always finds a scapegoat, and in this case (Covid-19), it was the health minister,” Kharge said in Rajya Sabha during a debate on Covid management.Vardhan was among the 12 ministers who were dropped from Modi’s council of ministers on July 7.Kharge said Modi appealed to people to clang utensils and light up candles during the pandemic. “People trusted him and did all of it. He did not fulfil his promises but disappointed them. Modiji, people of this country believed in you, but in return all you gave them was a betrayal. Why did you betray them, Modiji? Why did you break their trust?”Also Read | PM Modi asks BJP MP’s to counter Opposition claims of poor Covid prepKharge said he and other Congress leaders including Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi wrote letters to Modi with suggestions to improve the Covid-19 situation in the country. He added Modi did not respond to any of the letters and suggestions. Kharge said people lost their loved ones and employment because of the government’s mismanagement of the crisis. He also blamed the government for inflation and nose-diving economy while asking it to take responsibility. “(Covid-19) lockdown was announced overnight, just like (the 2016) demonetisation. The government did not prepare for it. There were no trains for people to go back home. The livelihood of people was impacted. The government should be held accountable.”Kharge said the government did not show any concern over the plight of migrants. “They are responsible for all the migrant lives that the country lost. It is the result of their short-sightedness.” Kharge accused the government of underreporting Covid deaths. “I pay tributes to Covid warriors including doctors and paramedics. I salute people who helped others (by arranging)...oxygen... I also want to salute plasma donors, who came out in support.”The second wave of the pandemic overwhelmed the country’s medical infrastructure and triggered a shortage of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kharge-criticises-pm-modi-over-his-handling-of-the-covid-19-pandemic-101626785735185.html
20-07-2021||India||India capable of meeting domestic Covid-19 vaccination demand, says Hardeep Puri||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri told Parliament on Tuesday that India was the first nation to block flight from China when the country revealed the origins of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in December 2019. The former Union minister for civil aviation, who has since the Cabinet reshuffle, earlier this month, assumed the charge of petroleum and natural gas ministry was speaking at the Rajya Sabha.Taking an indirect dig at the opposition parties the Union minister said India imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25, 2020, as a measure to check the spread of the virus. "On one hand we are told lockdown is too severe & at the same time you want to have the cake & eat it too," news agency ANI posted on Twitter quoting the minister.Puri hailed India as one leading manufacturers of vaccines against Covid-19 and said the Centre would be able to meet the domestic demand of the immunisation drive. "As of yesterday (Monday), we had administered 42 crore doses," the minister told the Upper House.India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage touched 41,13,55,665 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-capable-of-meeting-domestic-covid-19-vaccination-demand-says-hardeep-puri-101626781184005.html
20-07-2021||India||Afghan army chief’s India visit an opportunity to assess security situation||Afghan army chief Gen Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai’s visit to India next week will provide an opportunity to the two sides to hold consultations on the security situation in Afghanistan against the backdrop of a campaign by the Taliban to capture territory.The visit, though scheduled several months ago, comes at a time when Afghan forces are engaged in fierce fighting to take back districts and key centres captured by the Taliban in a campaign that has coincided with the speedy drawdown of US and NATO forces.Ahmadzai’s visit during July 27-30 is expected to provide an opportunity to the two sides to assess the security situation in Afghanistan and to look at ways to enhance military cooperation in areas such as training, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Tuesday.Also Read | Pak-Taliban upbeat, but the Afghan battle has just begunThe Afghan side is not expected to raise issues such as military support during the visit, the people said.Besides holding talks with his Indian counterpart, Gen MM Naravane, Ahmadzai is also expected to meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and other top security officials, the people added.India plays a key role in training Afghan military personnel – some 300 cadets are currently training in the country – and Ahmadzai is expected to travel to Pune to meet some of the cadets. Pune is home to the National Defence Academy and several other military training facilities.India is also playing a role in the medical treatment of injured Afghan military personnel, with a number of them being treated in hospitals across the country.Ahmadzai was appointed last month as part of a shake-up of the higher echelons of Afghanistan’s security set-up, during which President Ashraf Ghani also replaced his defence and interior ministers as part of efforts to sharpen the fight against the Taliban. Casualties among Afghan forces have mounted in recent weeks as spread to 28 of the 34 provinces in the country.In an interview with Tolo News channel after his appointment, Ahmadzai acknowledged shortcomings in protecting remote districts and pledged his priority is to safeguard major cities, border towns and highways from the Taliban. He added the Taliban want to cut supply routes before launching offensives on districts and cities.For India, a key security concern is the presence in Afghanistan of more than 7,000 Pakistani terrorists from groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. These fighters are fighting alongside the Taliban in many areas.After years of sticking to a policy of only providing non-lethal support to the Afghan military, India provided four Mi-35 attack helicopters to Afghanistan in 2015-16 and four more Mi-35s, which were refurbished by Belarus under a tripartite agreement, in 2019. India also provided three Cheetah light helicopters to Afghanistan in 2016 and had pledged almost $3 billion for reconstruction and development projects.The Afghan army chief will also visit India at a time when Afghanistan’s relations with Pakistan have come under fresh strains, especially after the Afghan envoy’s daughter was briefly abducted and assaulted by unidentified men in Islamabad last week. Afghanistan recalled the ambassador and senior diplomats from Pakistan after the incident.Ghani also criticised Pakistan recently for not preventing the “influx of over 10,000 jihadi fighters from Pakistan and other places in the last month” and pushing the Taliban to join peace talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-army-chief-s-visit-to-india-opportunity-to-assess-security-situation-101626784835197.html
20-07-2021||India||Royal Navy personnel on UK carrier shares family bond with Indian military||One Royal Navy personnel serving on the UK’s largest warship – the aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, which recently sailed into the Indian Ocean with its strike task group – shares a unique bond with India that exemplifies the “living bridge” between the two countries.Jagjeet Singh Grewal, a leading engineering technician serving aboard the fifth generation aircraft carrier, has a long family history in the Indian military. Members of his extended family have served in both the British and Indian armed forces over the decades.A Leading Engineering Technician serving in the @RoyalNavy and on-board #CSG21 in the Indian Ocean, Jagjeet Singh Grewal is proud to be part of a family that has served both the British army and Indian Air Force - 🇬🇧🇮🇳 #LivingBridge pic.twitter.com/zYZoOwUsa7“My grandfather and grandfather-in-law served alongside the British Army in World War 2 and received a Mention-in-Dispatches, Burma Star, Africa Star, War Medal and Defence Medal,” he said, referring to decorations and medals given by Britain.“My father served in the Indian Air Force, and currently my wife’s brother and uncle are serving in the Indian Navy,” he added.The UK carrier strike group recently entered the Indian Ocean as part of the country’s most ambitious naval deployment for two decades, and will soon conduct joint exercises with the Indian Navy as part of Britain’s efforts to enhance its profile in the Indo-Pacific.Grewal works in the marine engineering department and is responsible for maintaining aviation fuel to the highest standard. He also maintains fuelling pumps on the flight deck of the HMS Queen Elizabeth so that F-35B jets, Merlin helicopters and other aircraft can operate to their optimum capacity.“I am focused on doing my job to the highest standards, but it is good to know I am maintaining my family links while working with the Indian military,” Grewal said.As the UK carrier strike group currently sails in the Indian Ocean, engaging with allies on its 26,000-nautical mile maiden deployment, Grewal feels a special delight in being part of the crew and training in waters near his ancestral home.Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson have referred to “living bridge” of people, ideas, arts and culture between the two countries, and especially the role of Indian-origin people in the UK. This includes an Indian diaspora of more than 1.5 million people in the UK, with contributions to Britain’s politics, business, academia, medicine and arts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/royal-navy-personnel-on-uk-carrier-shares-family-bond-with-indian-military-101626784654846.html
20-07-2021||India||‘Only 47% of total UDAN routes currently operational: Icra||The second wave of Covid-19 has not only led to operational losses for airlines and airports but has also impacted future developments in the aviation sector. According to ratings agency ICRA, the target of operationalising 100 airports under ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik’ (UDAN) will see a delay of two years from 2024 to 2026 due to the impact of the pandemic.The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) launched the UDAN scheme in 2016 as a Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS) to enhance regional connectivity. However, as per the ICRA, only 47% of total routes and 39% of airports (unserved and underserved) have been operationalised under UDAN as of May 31, 2021.The number of new RCS routes which started operations increased at a healthy pace and stood at 102 in the financial year (FY) 2019 and 120 routes in FY2020. They, however, declined to 77 new routes in FY2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. ICRA said that during FY2018 – FY2021, Rs. 3,350 crores have been incurred by the central government towards the UDAN scheme and the budgeted outlay for FY2022 is ₹1,130 crores.Moreover, the slow progress of UDAN implementation is not only attributable to delayed upgradation of infrastructure at some of the RCS airports, delays in securing necessary regulatory approvals, low demand on few routes awarded, but also to the adverse and unpredictable weather conditions that lead to inconsistent operations and also resulted in the closure of operations by airlines in a few cases.“The second wave of the pandemic, which started from mid-March 2021 will further impact the UDAN scheme going forward with aviation being one of the worst-hit infrastructure sectors,” said Shubham Jain, SVP and group head, corporate ratings, ICRA.The civil aviation ministry set a target of operationalising 100 unserved and underserved airports and starting at least 1,000 RCS routes by 2024. Of this, 52 unserved and underserved airports and 357 routes are operationalised as of May 31, 2021. To improve the RCS network and achieve its target by 2024, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) launched UDAN 4.1 as a special bidding round under UDAN 4.0 in March 2021 to award 392 routes.“The award and implementation of UDAN 4.1 may get delayed significantly due to the second wave of the pandemic in India and its effect on the Indian aviation industry. We expect the target of operationalising 100 airports under UDAN by 2026, with a delay of two years,” Jain said.He added, “The weak credit profile of domestic airlines is expected to have an impact on the existing routes under the UDAN scheme, particularly for smaller airlines given the stretched liquidity position, low utilisation in some of the routes and will also impact future bidding of routes under the scheme.”Moreover, there has been a significant impact on the financial health of airline operators due to the Covid-19 pandemic.According to ICRA’s estimates, Indian airlines will report a significant net loss of approximately 210 billion in FY 2021 and an estimated net loss of ₹127 billion in FY2022, with the industry debt level increasing to around Rs. 500 billion in FY2022.“While some airlines have sufficient liquidity and/or financial support from a strong parentage, which will help them sustain over the near term, there are other airlines, which are already in financial stress. Until the cash inflows improve, the airlines will require funding support to meet their expenses,” ICRA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-47-of-total-udan-routes-currently-operational-2nd-wave-to-cause-further-delay-icra-101626784595879.html
20-07-2021||India||Ghaziabad assault case: Karnataka HC to pronounce order on Twitter India MD's plea on July 22||The Karnataka high court on Tuesday deferred its verdict to Thursday on a petition filed by Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari challenging notice issued to him by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with a video of an alleged hate crime which went viral on social media in June, according to news agency ANI. Last Tuesday, it had deferred the judgement to July 20.Karnataka High Court to deliver its verdict on Thursday on a petition filed by Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari, challenging a summon notice sent by UP Police asking him in connection with a case registered for uploading & circulating a video on TwitterEarlier, on June 24, the court granted interim protection to Maheshwari, directing that no coercive action be taken against him. The UP Police challenged this order in the Supreme Court on June 29; however, anticipating this move, Maheshwari had already filed a caveat in the top court a day before, urging it to hears his side as well.Also Read | UP Police move SC against Karnataka HC relief to Twitter India MDPreviously, he had submitted in the Karnataka high court that he is ready to appear before the UP Police but only on the condition that he won’t be arrested. Also, while the police want Maheshwari to appear before them in person, he is willing to give a statement only via video conferencing.Also Read | Ready to appear over no-arrest guarantee: Twitter head to Karnataka HCThe controversy pertains to an assault on an elderly Muslim man in Loni in Ghaziabad in the northern state, on June 5. The 72-year-old was allegedly forced to chant “Jai Siya Ram” by the six accused, who also forcibly chopped the man’s beard. However, the police later said that there was no religious angle to the incident, adding that the victim was, in fact, beaten up over a personal dispute.Also Read | Loni case: Police arrest man accused of filming assaultThe UP Police filed an FIR against nine entities, including Twitter, Twitter India, Congress leaders and journalists for wrongly giving a communal colour to the incident, without checking the facts. Twitter, the FIR claimed, “did nothing to prevent the video from going viral.” It then sent a legal notice to Maheshwari to appear before them for questioning, and sent a second notice seeking “account details” of those who posted and “promoted the video.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-assault-case-karnataka-hc-defers-order-on-twitter-india-md-s-plea-to-july-22-101626783501920.html
20-07-2021||India||India reported over 45,000 black fungus cases so far, says Mandaviya in RS||As many as 45,432 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus have been reported by states and Union territories (UTs) across India as of July 15, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Of the 45,432 cases, 21,085 people are currently receiving treatment and a total of 4,252 have succumbed to the condition, Mandaviya said in the written reply.He further stated that a large majority of the black fungus patients, constituting 84.4 per cent, had a history of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Among the most common presentations of mucormycosis are Rhinocerebral (77.6 per cent), Cutaneous (4.3 per cent), and Pulmonary (3 per cent).Mandaviya pointed out that mucormycosis and other fungal infections are most typically noted as an opportunistic infection. These are detected in individuals with low-level immunity such as those suffering from cancer, diabetes or as a side effect of prolonged or irrational use of certain drugs like steroids for management Covid-19 and other disorders.The health minister said that although mucormycosis is not a novel disease, its true incidence during the second wave of Covid-19 was unknown as at the time it wasn’t a notifiable disease. Following this, the health ministry had urged all states and UTs to declare the disease as a notifiable one under the Epidemic Disease Act to derive an objective analysis of the same.Precisely, mucormycosis is a fungal infection that targets people with medical health problems, and cuts down their abilities to combat environmental pathogens. According to a Twitter post shared by former Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, the symptoms of the disease include fever, pain or redness around nose or eyes, coughing, headache and altered mental status, among others.Mandaviya’s written reply noted that in early June, the health ministry, after discourse with the National Task Force on Covid-19, intimated a detailed advisory on managing and treating Covid associated mucomycosis (CAM).When asked whether the central government has taken cognisance of the shortage of Amphotericin-B injections supply, which are used for the treatment of mucormycosis, the minister said that both first and second line drugs for managing the disease are currently available in ample numbers in Indian markets.Furthermore, Mandaviya said that treatment of mucormycosis and all other fungal infections are provided free-of-cost in all central government hospitals and autonomous institutions under the Union health ministry.This development comes after doctors in Rajasthan recently showed concern over rising cases of mucormycosis among children in the state. In the previous two months, five children were affected with mucormycosis, and of them, one died within only two days of hospitalisation. Meanwhile, the state has reported more than 3,000 cases of mucormycosis and 167 related fatalities in the last four months.Last week, government data revealed that Delhi had 952 active cases of mucormycosis till July 6 – which is more than the number of active cases of Covid-19 in the national capital at the time. According to the data, till July 6, the city’s overall tally of mucormycosis stood at 1,656.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reported-over-45-000-black-fungus-cases-so-far-says-mandaviya-in-rs-101626781531292.html
20-07-2021||India||Fourth serosurvey finds 67.6% have antibodies, 40 crore Indians still vulnerable||The fourth round of national serosurvey that was conducted in 70 districts in June-July revealed that a third of the population did not have antibodies against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, meaning about 40 crore Indians were still vulnerable to the virus.The director general of Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Balram Bhargava, said on Tuesday the latest national serosurvey included children between six and 17 years of age and it was found that two-third of the general population, i.e., above the age of six years had SARS-CoV-2 infection.He said while the overall seroprevalence was 67.6 per cent in the entire population, in the six-nine year age group, it was 57.2 per cent and among 10-17-year-olds, it was 61.6 per cent. In the age group of 18-44 years, it was 66.7 per cent and in 45-60 years, it was 77.6 per cent.He said there was no difference in seroprevalence in men and women and rural and urban areas. "Among those who have not received any vaccine against the virus, the seroprevalence was 62.3 per cent, while those with one dose of the jab, it was 81 per cent. In those who received both the doses, it was 89.8 per cent," Dr Bhargava was quoted as saying in ANI.As part of the survey, 7,252 healthcare workers were studied. "Ten per cent of these workers had not taken the vaccine, while the overall seroprevalence among them was 85.2 per cent," he said.Dr Bhargava said implications of fourth serosurvey clearly showed that there was a ray of hope, but no room for complacency. "We must maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour and community engagement. National level serosurvey is not a substitute of state/district-level serosurveys," he added.Regarding opening of schools, the top doctor said antibody exposure also similar in children as among adults. "We know clearly that children can handle viral infections much better than adults. Some Scandinavian countries did not shut their primary schools in any Covid waves," he said.Once India starts considering opening schools, Dr Bhargava said it will be wise to open primary ones first before opening secondary schools. "All the support staff whether it be school bus drivers, teachers and other staff in the school need to be vaccinated," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-cr-indians-don-t-have-covid-anti-bodies-vulnerable-reveals-4th-serosurvey-101626779228818.html
20-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra, arrested in porn films case, sent to police custody till July 23||A Mumbai court on Tuesday sent businessman Raj Kundra, arrested in a case related to alleged creation of pornographic films, to police custody till July 23. Kundra, the husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai Police late on Monday along with 11 other people.The case involves alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps.Also Read: What we know about the case against Raj KundraThe crime branch of the Mumbai Police claimed before the Esplanade Court that Kundra was making financial gains through this illegal business by taking subscription fees from the users of these apps. They also said that there are several WhatsApp chats that revealed Kundra (45) was involved in the financial dealings of the app and its contents.Watch: What police said on case against Raj KundraKundra has been named as the key conspirator by the police in the case and booked under sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides relevant sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.The police also claimed that three women have come forward with complaints in the case, saying they were "forced to act in pornographic movies", adding that the accused took advantage of struggling models, actors and other workers.Also Read: Raj Kundra's old tweets go viral after his arrestKundra's lawyer Aabad Ponda and advocate Subhash Jadhav opposed the police's plea for remand and said the investigation into the case can be carried out without custodial interrogation. Ponda argued that the police ought to have issued summons to Kundra first and recorded his statement, instead of arresting him directly in the case that was registered in February this year.Another person, identified as Ryan Thorpe, was arrested on Tuesday. He was working on a senior position with an app firm, the police said.This is the second case that Kundra faces in connection with alleged creation of pornographic content. He had applied for anticipatory bail last month in connection with a case registered earlier by the Maharashtra cyber police in 2020. In that case also, the cyber police had registered an FIR against various platforms, which, they alleged, were involved in showcasing pornographic content. The sessions court is yet to hear the anticipatory bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-arrested-in-porn-films-case-sent-to-police-custody-till-july-23-101626780172887.html
20-07-2021||India||Asia Development Bank downgrades India’s economic growth projection to 10% for 2021-22 fiscal year||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Tuesday downgraded India’s economic growth projection for the 2021-22 fiscal year to 10% from the 11% projected in April this year. The projections were made on the Asian Development Outlook report released for July.In the report, the ADB further said that the economic projection for the financial year 2022 has been upgraded to 7.5% from the previous 7%. “The projection for FY 2022, by which time much of India’s population is expected to be vaccinated, is upgraded from 7.0% to 7.5% as economic activity normalizes,” the report showed.According to the ADB report, the country’s GDP growth recovered to 1.6% during the last quarter of the 2020 fiscal year, which narrowed the contraction to 7.3% while it was expected to be at 8%. “Then a second wave of the pandemic induced many state governments to impose strict containment measures. New COVID-19 cases daily peaked at more than 400,000 in early May, then fell to a little over 40,000 in early July,” the report showed. It also said that the early indicators showed economic activity to resume quickly once the restrictions measures in place are eased.Also read | ‘Tapering second wave, aggressive vaccination brightened near term prospects'﻿As far as inflation outlook is concerned, ADB said that it raised India’s inflation forecast by 0.3% for the current year while it remained unchanged for FY 2022. “This Supplement raises the inflation forecast for India in FY2021 by 0.3 percentage points to 5.5% while keeping the forecast for FY2022 at 4.8%,” the report said.Meanwhile, the GDP growth forecast for the whole sub region of South Asia has been downgraded in the ADB report to 8.9% from the 9.5% projected in the previous report. However, as is the case with India, the projections have been upgraded to 7% for 2022 from the previous 6.6%.“The economic outlook for South Asia is dampened by new waves of COVID-19 hitting the subregion from March to June 2021. The adverse economic impact of these new waves is expected to be limited, with businesses and consumers better able to adapt to the pandemic and containment measures now than they were a year ago,” the report said.ADB said that while recoveries continued to gain momentum in “developing Asia,” recent Covid-19 outbreaks, driven in part by the advent of new variants, dragged the growth in several economies. Developing Asia refers to 46 members of the ADB. The GDP growth projection for the current year has been slightly revised down from 7.3% in April 2021 to 7.2% currently. The projection for 2022 is also slightly upgraded from 5.3% to 5.4%, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asia-development-bank-downgrades-india-s-economic-growth-projection-to-10-for-2021-22-fiscal-year-101626778545289.html
20-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Suvendu Adhikari's comment on Abhishek Banerjees stirs row and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Have details of Abhishek Banerjee’s calls made to police: Suvendu amid Pegasus rowA video clip in which BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, can be purportedly heard saying that he has records of all the phone calls made from the office of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee has created a stir in Bengal. Read moreSarojini Nagar Market in Delhi remains closed to protest SDM orderThe traders in Delhi's Sarojini Nagar market kept the shutters of their shops down on Tuesday to protest against a government order that directed closure of the export market. Read moreMithali Raj back at No 1 spot in ICC ODI rankings for battersThis is the ninth time Mithali has reached the number one spot among batters since first occupying the spot more than 16 years ago. Read morePoonam Pandey reacts to Raj Kundra’s arrest, says ‘can’t imagine what Shilpa Shetty must be going through’Actor Poonam Pandey reacted to businessman Raj Kundra’s arrest in a case related to the production and streaming of porn films, and said that her ‘heart goes out to’ his wife, actor Shilpa Shetty, and their two children. Read moreHero Glamour Xtec launched: India's most affordable bike with turn-by-turn NavHero MotoCorp on Tuesday has announced the launch of its Glamour Xtec motorcycle. The Hero Glamour Xtec is available in two different options - drum variant and disc variant. Read moreClip showing toddler’s first rodeo is too delightful to miss. WatchThere won’t be many who can deny that clips featuring toddlers doing some activities are the source of pure delight and joy. Even if you have some doubts, then let this Reddit video change your mind. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-suvendu-adhikari-s-comment-on-abhishek-banerjees-stirs-row-and-all-the-latest-news-101626778151357.html
20-07-2021||India||Prevented 14 young men from joining militant ranks: J&K Police||J&K Police on Tuesday claimed to have prevented 14 young men from joining militant ranks in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district in the past couple of months. Police said the men, aged between 18 and 22 years, were in touch with militants through social media and had to be counselled. “Preliminary investigation revealed that 14 young men were in touch with local militants over social media and were also being lured by Pakistan-based militants to get recruited in terror outfits,” said a police official.Also Read | Rainfall continues in J&K; could reduce from tomorrowSSP Anantnag Imtiyaz Hussain advised people to take care of their wards and keep an eye on their activity. “Parents should come forward and report any such activity of their wards so that they are mainstreamed through counselling by experts. The young men were counselled by Anantnag Police in the presence of their parents,” he said while sending the men back with their parents.This is not the first time that young men were rescued by police before they could join militancy. Last month, three young men were arrested from Uri along with a local guide who was planning to help them cross the Line of Control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prevented-14-young-men-from-joining-militant-ranks-jkpolice-101626779554645.html
20-07-2021||India||BJP leader Khushbu Sundar's Twitter account hacked, all tweets deleted||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Khushbu Sundar's Twitter account has been hacked and the actor-turned-politician said she would file a complaint with the Tamil Nadu police regarding the matter. The profile name of the account has been changed to ‘Briann’, while the cover image has also been altered. All her tweets have also been either deleted or hacked.This is the second time that Sundar’s account on the micro-blogging site has been compromised. In April 2020, she had sought her fans’ help via another social media app, Instagram, when a similar incident happened and she was unable to change the password in the last 48 hou.On Tuesday, Sundar said she would meet Tamil Nadu DGP C Sylendra Babu and register her complaint.The politician, who had switched over from the Congress ahead of the Tamil Nadu Assembly election, said she hoped the hacker would not use her tweets to spread hate, incite violence or attack someone. “Since all the tweets are deleted or archived by this hacker, I hope it does not spread hate, incite violence, or personally attack someone. Also, it should not be used for any anti-national activity, Sundar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Hitting out at the microblogging site, Sundar said, Twitter needs to get its acts right and fast, adding somewhere there is a lack of security. "I do not want my account to incite violence or hate. I need my Twitter followers back. I need all of my tweets back. That is my transparency," she said."Hackers have changed my email ID. I have not been able to access my account since Friday. My biggest worry was if somebody has been misusing it. There were two-three messages from the account, one of them said 'Free India', which is not me. My DP & name were changed," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khushbu-sundar-s-twitter-account-hacked-all-tweets-deleted-101626778274534.html
20-07-2021||India||'Harsh Vardhan made a scapegoat': Kharge targets Centre over Covid-19||Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not “fulfilling his promise” and claimed that Harsh Vardhan, who resigned as Union health minister ahead of cabinet reshuffle earlier this month, was made a scapegoat.“PM Modi appealed to people to clang utensils, light candles. People trusted him and did all of it. He didn't fulfill his promise but disappointed them. Instead of taking its blame, he made the health minister a scapegoat,” the Congress' leader of party in Rajya Sabha said in the Upper House.The Congress leader also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders for flouting Covid-protocol while campaigning for assembly elections in states in April this year. “Government asked people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. But what were they doing, during the elections in different states? You are breaking your own rules. They should be given credit for flouting Covid norms,” he added.Kharge made a direct comparison between the coronavirus lockdown and demonetisation, insisting that both were imposed overnight and the government was unprepared for it. "Lockdown was announced overnight, just like demonetisation. The government did not prepare for it. There were no trains for people to go back home. The livelihood of people was impacted. Government should be held accountable,"Kharge also paid his tributes to Covid warriors and thanked individuals who came to others aid during the second wave.“I pay tribute to Covid warriors including doctors and paramedics. I salute people who helped others by running 'oxygen langer' in Delhi during the second wave of Covid-19. I also want to salute plasma donors, who came out in support,” he added.Rajya Sabha’s monsoon session proceedings were adjourned three times amid uproar by YSR Congress members demanding special status for Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-made-a-scapegoat-kharge-targets-centre-over-covid19-101626776021795.html
20-07-2021||India||Parties scramble for support of Brahmins ahead of 2022 polls in Uttar Pradesh||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati’s announcement of a series of Brahmin meets from July 23 has triggered a scramble for seeking the support of the community ahead of the 2022 polls in Uttar Pradesh.Opposition parties have highlighted alleged atrocities on Brahmins, who are believed to account for around 11% of the state’s population, in the run-up to the elections. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sought to counter this by having leaders from the community talk about initiatives undertaken for it.The BSP, which formed the government on its own in the state in 2007 with support from Brahmins, has rushed Nakul Dubey to Ayodhya to oversee arrangements for the party’s first Brahmin meet on Friday.“Ram...belongs to all,” said Dubey when asked about the choice of Ayodhya, where the Ram Temple is being built in place of the demolished Babri Mosque, for the first Brahmin meet.Congress leader Aradhana Mishra said her party is the only one to have given Brahmin chief ministers to Uttar Pradesh. She wondered if any political party would declare a Brahmin as the chief ministerial candidate.Bhagwan Parshuram Trust, an organisation backed by Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Abhishek Mishra, has begun the construction of Parshuram temples in each district of Uttar Pradesh. Parshuram, a Brahmin saint, is believed to have been an incarnation of Lord Vishnu.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath last year criticised the Opposition over its ploy to project Parshuram as a Brahmin, saying both “Ram and Parshuram were incarnations of Lord Vishnu.”Also Read | Liquid lessons: What can we learn from the world’s oldest water?Abhishek Mishra said some of the temples have already come up, where priests are conducting rituals. “Once temples are constructed in all the districts, we plan to build 108 feet statue of Lord Parshuram.” He said in 1993, the SP government declared a holiday on Parshuram’s birthday.BJP leader Sunil Bharala too has announced Brahmin meets under the aegis of his the Rashtriya Parshuram Parishad.Adityanath, a Kshatriya, will lead the BJP in the polls. Akhilesh Yadav, an Other Backward Class (OBC) leader, is the SP’s face, and Mayawati, a Dalit, that of the BSP.Kshatriyas account for about 9% of the population while OBCs are the single largest voting bloc (50%). Dalits and Muslims comprise 20% and 19% of the state’s population.In the 2017 polls, the Congress initially projected former Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit, a Brahmin, as the party’s face before it forged an alliance with the SP.Aradhana Mishra insisted the Congress does not believe in caste politics. “It is not in our DNA, but we would like to know which other political party, apart from the Congress, has given Brahmin chief ministers.”The late ND Tiwari, a Brahmin, headed the last Congress government in Uttar Pradesh in 1989.Also Read | Cyber crime cell of Lucknow police nabs five for posing as bank officialsMayawati last year announced the BSP will set up hospitals in the name of Lord Parshuram if the party is voted to power.Aslam Raini, who was among the seven BSP lawmakers to be suspended for the party last year, questioned Mayawati’s strategy. “There was a time when Brahmin leaders like Brajesh Pathak were with Mayawati. Now, she does not have any support of Brahmins who are backing the SP now,” said Raini.Pathak, who is among nine Brahmin ministers in the state government, was the first convenor of BSP’s Brahmin Sabha set up in 2004.In 2017, when BJP won 312 seats in a 403-member House, 58 Brahmin lawmakers won on the party’s tickets. The number is more than the strength of SP (47), BSP (19), and Congress (seven) in the assembly.Prime Minister Narendra Modi inducted Ajay Kumar Mishra, a Brahmin from Uttar Pradesh, in his council of ministers this month. Adityanath too is expected to induct Brahmin Jitin Prasada in his ministry.Prasada in 2020 floated Brahmin Chetna Parishad to highlight alleged atrocities on Brahmins under Adityanath’s rule. He has since defected to the BJP from Congress.Umesh Dwivedi, a BJP lawmaker, said they plan to introduce a host of measures for Brahmins. “...fund education of children from poor Brahmin families, help community members fight cases registered against them,” he said. Dwivedi’s Akhil Bhartiya Brahmothan Mahasabha will back the initiatives.BJP Member of Parliament Harish Dwivedi called Mayawati attempts to reach out to the Brahmins a futile effort. “Brahmins are with the BJP and 2022 (elections) would prove that again.”Political observer Irshad Ilmi said among upper castes, Brahmins appear to be a top priority for all parties. “I would not be surprised if the community gets sizeable tickets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-parties-focus-on-brahmins-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-polls-101626775654692.html
20-07-2021||India||Assam builds youth team to help 'control' population in Muslim-dominated areas||Assam is readying a ‘team’ of youth who would visit the lower parts of the state to create ‘awareness’ on measures to control population and supply contraceptives after chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday termed population explosion as the “root cause of economic disparities and poverty among minority Muslims” in the state.Speaking at the state assembly, Sarma said around 1,000 youths from the riverine sand bars of lower Assam would be roped in to fight what he called “population explosion”. They would also be tasked with supplying contraceptives among the community members in the region.“We are also planning to create a separate workforce of ASHA workers who shall be responsible for creating awareness about birth control and also supply contraceptives,” news agency ANI reported quoting Sarma as saying at the assembly.The Assam chief minister drew parallels between the population growth of two primary religious communities in the state to say, "if population growth among Hindus in Assam was 10% from 2001 to 2011, it was 29% among Muslims."BJP-ruled states such as Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Lakshadweep have been mulling to bring population control policies that would limit government benefits to people with more than children. Lakshadweep wants to bring legislation that would bar any person with more than two children from contesting panchayat polls or even make them ineligible from becoming a member of the village council.However, veteran Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Jairam Ramesh had last week questioned the rationale behind the move and called the motive "purely political and communal."Sarma, meanwhile, brushed aside the criticism of the Congress and called for delinking on delinking of the population issue from politics.The Assam chief minister stressed that the drop in population growth among the Hindus in the state led to an improvement in their lifestyle and education level while "with a 29% growth rate, the Muslims are currently in a state of crisis."He said he sought the cooperation of the opposition Congress and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in fighting population explosion for the prosperity of all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-builds-youth-team-to-help-control-population-in-muslim-dominated-areas-101626773789531.html
20-07-2021||India||Tejashwi may be elevated as RJD acting national prez; restructuring likely||Even as the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has launched a campaign to protest fuel hike and galloping inflation, a change of guard in the party’s organization seems to be on cards with the leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav likely to be made the acting national president of the party, HT has learnt.The speculation of Tejashwi taking a bigger role in the party in the coming days has gained currency with the 31-year-old Yadav scion and state president Jagdanand Singh camping in New Delhi where they have met ailing RJD chief Lalu Prasad.It is said Singh, a close aide of Lalu and a party strategist, has mooted the idea of elevating Tejashwi to a new role as a precursor to take the mantle of RJD’s national presidentship in view of the frail health of the RJD chief. Lalu Yadav is recuperating at his eldest daughter Misa Bharti’s residence in New Delhi for the past several months. The RJD chief was released on bail in multiple fodder scam cases in April.On 22 November 2017, a month before RJD chief Lalu Prasad was incarcerated in fodder scam cases on 23 December 2017, it was Singh who proposed Tejashwi’s name as the party’s chief ministerial candidate – a move seen as propping the young Yadav scion as a number 2 in the party during the RJD’s chief absence from mainstream politics and preempt internal squabbling over leadership.The gamble has paid off with Tejashwi emerging as a youth face in the party in the last many years and throwing a stellar performance in the 2020 assembly polls in which RJD won 75 seats on its own.Meanwhile, Singh sounded ambiguous on the speculations that discussions were going on to elevate Tejashwi as the acting national president of the party. He said he had called on the ailing RJD chief to enquire about his health and other party related affairs.People privy to the development said Singh is also camping in New Delhi in connection with a legal case filed in the Supreme Court related to non-disclosure of criminal cases by several party MLAs in the last assembly polls.“I do not know from where these reports of Tejashwi becoming acting national president is coming. But if something happens, you all will know,” Singh said on Tuesday, on phone. His assertion suggests that a possible restructuring in the party’s top organizational hierarchy may happen.Party’s top leaders said elevating Tejashwi as acting national president would not be difficult as such powers are vested on the RJD national president, as per the party’s constitution.“Though there is no such post as acting national president in the party’s constitution, the RJD national president can do it by exercising his powers. But any such decision would have to be approved by the national executive,” said senior RJD leader and former MLA, Bhola Yadav. Yadav. He, however, said he was not in the know of any move by the party to create a post for Tejashwi.Incidentally, there are also speculations that there could be a reshuffle in the state party unit with Singh, who has been holding the post since 2019 November, likely to make an exit and be replaced with a senior party leader. There are murmurs in the party that Singh is feeling uncomfortable in holding the post of the state president following the recent attacks against him by Lalu’s elder son and Hassanpur MLA Tej Pratap Yadav.“It is true, Singh is not feeling comfortable after recent attacks against him by Tej Pratap. His Delhi visit and meeting with the RJD chief could be related to that also,” said another senior RJD leader. People familiar with the matter said former MP Alok Mehta and few other leaders were in reckoning to be appointed as RJD state president in coming months.On the foundation day event on July 5, Tej Pratap had taken a dig at the veteran party leader by addressing him as “Jagnandand Uncle” and saying the latter seems to be always angry with him. A few days later, reports of Singh tendering his papers surfaced in the media though it was denied by both Singh and Tej Pratap.People familiar wit the matter in the party said a formal announcement of Tejashwi’s possible elevation as the acting national president could be made in the coming weeks after the ailing RJD chief returns to Patna.Meanwhile, BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand on Tuesday said the possibility of Tejashwi becoming the working national president has gone on predictable lines portraying how the RJD believes in ‘family rule’ and dynastic politics.“RJD is a party run by a single family. It does not have an idealistic base and its politics is only to patronize one family of Lalu and Rabri. Tejashwi taking up the mantle in the coming days only reflects how RJD believes in dynastic politics like the Congress. But Tejashwi’s elevation is injustice to his elder siblings, Misa Bharti and Tej Pratap, who have a rightful claim on the RJD chief’s legacy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejashwi-might-be-elevated-as-rjd-s-acting-national-president-state-unit-restructuring-likely-101626774755556.html
20-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha witnesses repeated adjournments||Rajya Sabha proceedings were on Tuesday adjourned for the third time amid uproar by YSR Congress members demanding special status for Andhra Pradesh.When the Upper House reconvened at 1 PM after two adjournments, YSR Congress members led by V Vijaysai Reddy trooped in the well shouting slogans, "We want justice. We want special status to Andhra Pradesh."Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh asked protesting members several times to go back to their seats and allow the debate on the Covid-19 pandemic. Leader of the House Piyush Goyal appealed to the protesting members to allow discussion on the important issue that has affected the entire humanity.  "I would like to appeal to allow the House to discuss this very important subject that is affecting the whole world today. Entire country is watching us, watching this debate on Covid. Request you to discuss this important matter," he said.Goyal also asked YSR Congress members to share their experience in tackling the pandemic and "give us guidance so that others can also benefit from your experience."However, the protesting members did not yield to the Deputy Chairman's request to keep the House in order and continued shouting standing in the Well.Meanwhile, the Deputy Chairman asked Leader of Opposition Party Mallikarjun Kharge to initiate the debate.Amid the commotion, Kharge said, "House is not in order. How can I speak?"Later, the Deputy Chair called other members. Since Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe was not there, Swapan Das Gupta (nominated) spoke amid the commotion.As slogan shouting continued, the chair adjourned the House for 15 minutes.Earlier, the House proceedings were adjourned twice over various issues including the Pegasus snooping row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-witnesses-repeated-adjournments-101626772494215.html
20-07-2021||India||BJP to remember violence victims as Mamata plans national role on Martyrs' Day||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s West Bengal unit will pay tribute to victims of post-poll violence on Wednesday and observe dharnas across the state and in Delhi’s Rajghat. BJP MLA Samik Bhattacharya said functionaries will observe 'Shaheed Shraddhanjali' and raise the slogan ‘Aakranto Manush, Biponno Gonotontro' (Persecuted Citizens, Endangered Democracy) with cutouts of deceased party workers from Bengal.The ruling Trinamool Congress is also planning a mega national-level event on July 21 (Wednesday), a special day in the party calendar that is annually observed as Martyrs’ Day. TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to virtually address a number of gatherings, including one in Delhi, as she plans to expand the party’s base and take the national stage.According to news agency ANI, Bhattacharya said a booth worker of the BJP was killed in Raiganj North Dinajpur and a flag of the Trinamool Congress was placed in his mouth. “They want to create fear in people's minds. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's margin is increasing in every election. India's people will vote against instability (in the next election),” the BJP leader was quoted as saying.“In the last six months, 162 BJP workers have been murdered. Tomorrow, under BJP Bengal president Dilip Ghosh, all parliament members will stage a dharna. The NHRC (National Human Rights Commission) report is the tip of an iceberg. In several places, BJP workers were forced to hold TMC flags,” he added.A seven-member NHRC team has been probing the violence that has been allegedly unleashed by the ruling camp in Bengal against workers belonging to opposition parties, mainly those from the BJP, ever since the Trinamool Congress made a clean sweep in the recently concluded Assembly election.The NHRC committee has told the Calcutta High Courtthat a large number of complaints have been received from six districts of the state, while only three per cent of the total accused are currently in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-remember-violence-victims-as-mamata-plans-national-role-on-martyrs-day-101626774049964.html
20-07-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses to postpone CLAT 2021 scheduled to be held on July 23||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to postpone the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2021 scheduled to be held on July 23. The court was hearing a petition filed by NGO Justice for All.The petitioners had urged the top court to defer the CLAT examination till the Covid-19 situation normalises, or devise an alternate, secure method of conducting the entrance exam.But the bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose refused to entertain the petition. The court directed that all the safety measures have to be strictly followed and the authorities concerned should not insist on the issue that students taking examination must have taken vaccination."You should not come at the last moment. There are around 80,000 students taking up the CLAT Examinations, 2021," Justice Rao told the petitioners.The admit card for CLAT 2021 was released on Wednesday last week (July 14) by The Consortium of National Law Universities (NLUs). Except the Northeast states, the admit cards are available for all othet students.The CLAT exam is scheduled to be held from 2pm to 4pm on July 23.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the consortium of NLUs has increased the number of test centres this year. The last date to fill online application form for CLAT 2021 was June 15.The exam is held to select candidates for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes in 22 NLUs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-postpone-clat-2021-scheduled-to-be-held-on-july-23-101626773620071.html
20-07-2021||India||Hyderabad businessman offers ₹1 crore gold sword to Tirupati Balaji Temple||A Hyderabad-based businessman offered a sword that cost ₹1 crore to Lord Venkateswara at the Tirumala Tirupati Balaji Temple in Andhra Pradesh on Monday, news agency PTI reported. The sword weighs about 5kg, and constitutes two kg of gold and three kg of silver, the report added citing an official of the temple.The additional executive officer of Tirumala-Tirupati Devasthanom (TTD), A Venkata Dharma Reddy, received the sword known as Suryakataari, a combat weapon, the official further told PTI.The businessman, along with his wife, reportedly handed over the sword to the temple officials on Monday. However, they exhibited the sword in front of the media at the Collective Guest House in Tirumala on Sunday. The man, who is a devotee of Lord Venkateswara, reportedly planned to offer the sword last year itself, but the plan was ruined owing to the ongoing coronavirus crisis.The sword was made by specialist jewellers from Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore, and took nearly six months to get ready.This is not the first time such an expensive gold sword has been offered to Lord Venkateswara. In 2018, a noted textile trader and a devotee from Tamil Nadu’s Teni, Thanga Dorai, had offered a similar sword to the temple officials. The gold sword reportedly comprised an estimated six kg of gold, and was worth ₹1.75 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-businessman-offers-rs-1-crore-gold-sword-to-tirupati-balaji-temple-101626771655298.html
20-07-2021||India||Bengal makes negative RT-PCR report mandatory for those coming to state||The West Bengal government on Tuesday made it mandatory for all travellers coming to the state to carry a negative RT-PCR report to show that they are free of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Those who have been fully vaccinated will be required to carry a vaccination certificate to be produced at the time of boarding, the state government order said.The decision will be implemented with immediate effect, West Bengal home secretary BP Gopalika informed in a formal letter to civil aviation secretary PS Kharola.According to the rules, the RT-PCR test must be conducted within 72 hours of the departure of the flight.The decision was announced as the medics in the country issued a warning of the inevitable third wave of the pandemic and multiple mutations raging in the country.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 caseload of West Bengal was pushed to 1,518,847 after 666 people tested positive for the viral disease over the last 24 hours. The death toll crossed the 18,000-mark to reach 18,011 after 12 fatalities.There was no Covid-19 death in the city while three fatalities each were reported in Darjeeling and Paschim Medinipur on Monday, according to the state health department figures.It also mentioned that more than 1,000 people were recovered from Covid-19 which improved the discharge rate to 97.97 per cent. So far, 1,488,077 people have recovered from the disease in West Bengal.At present, there are 12,759 active cases in the state, the data also showed. Since Sunday, 40,391 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state taking the total number of such tests to 1,51,78,563.On the vaccination front, the state has inoculated as many as 3,18,805 people until Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-makes-negative-rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-those-coming-to-state-101626771497063.html
20-07-2021||India||Shripad Naik assumes responsibility as Minister of State for Tourism||Following the Union cabinet reshuffle, five-time North Goa MP and Union Minister Shripad Naik on Tuesday took charge as Minister of State (MoS) for the Ministry of Tourism.In the recent Cabinet reshuffle, he has been given new portfolios, including Minister of State for tourism and port, shipping and waterways.For the past seven years, Naik was Minister of State with independent charge of the Ayush ministry.He was the first Ayush minister after the portfolio was formed in 2014 under the Narendra Modi-led government. In 2019, he was also appointed as minister of state for defence.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 7 effected a major reshuffle and expansion of his ministry bringing Mansukh Mandaviya as Health Minister, Kiren Rijiju as Law Minister, Dharmendra Pradhan as Education Minister, and Jyotiratidya Scindia as Civil Aviation Minister.The exercise carried out over two years after the BJP-led government came to office in its second term and amid the ongoing battle against Covid-19, saw some ministers being dropped and the induction of 15 cabinet ministers and several ministers of state. Seven ministers of state were elevated to cabinet rank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shripad-naik-assumes-responsibility-as-minister-of-state-for-tourism-101626765112395.html
20-07-2021||India||Siddaramaiah in Delhi to meet Gandhis; denies rift with DK Shivakumar over leadership role||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah, who was in Delhi to meet the top leadership of the party amid the speculations of power tussle ahead of the state assembly elections in the southern state, is likely to meet Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday, multiple news agencies reported. The former Karnataka chief minister also sought a meeting with Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, however, it is yet to be confirmed."I am in Delhi because Rahul Gandhi wanted to meet me by 4 o'clock today. I am meeting him. This is what KC Venugopal told me. I don't know what subject matter he is going to discuss," ANI quoted the senior leader as saying.Siddaramaiah denied speculation of any rift between him and the party's Karnataka unit chief DK Shivakumar. "We are together. We are building the party together... there's no rift in Karnataka Congress," he was further quoted as saying.Siddaramaiah stressed Congress is fighting against the "corruption" of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state and asserted that it would return to power after the assembly elections, slated for 2023.Siddaramaiah's visit to the national capital is significant as it comes in the backdrop of several Congress MLAs openly backing him as the next chief ministerial face of the party. They include Chickpet MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan and Kampli MLA JN Ganesh.Another section of the party wants Shivakumar to take up the leadership role if Congress secures a majority in Karnataka in the 2023 elections.Tuesday's meeting is likely to see discussions around the appointment of office-bearers and strategies for the assembly elections, news agency PTI reported citing those familiar with the development.Shivakumar would visit Delhi on July 26.AICC national general secretary and the party's Karnataka in-charge, Randeep Singh Surjewala, is also expected to visit the southern state and hold meetings with existing office-bearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-in-delhi-to-meet-gandhis-denies-rift-with-dk-shivakumar-over-leadership-role-101626767382596.html
20-07-2021||India||Sidhu shown black flags by farmers protesting against farm laws in Punjab||The newly appointed Congress chief of Punjab unit Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday was shown black flags in Ludhiana by farmers protesting against three farm laws enacted by the Centre, news agency ANI reported. Sidhu had reached Bhagat Singh Marg in Ludhiana where a farmers organisation was protesting against farm laws."The protesters wanted to question Sidhu. The Congress leaders were on the other side and wanted to avoid clashes. No lathicharge was done," Avtar Singh, SHO Banga was quoted as saying by ANI.Sidhu was on Sunday appointed the president of the Punjab Congress. A day later, he visited Gurudwara Shri Dukhniwaran Sahib in Patiala and offered prayers. After weeks of bitter infighting, Sidhu was declared as Punjab Congress chief on Sunday evening.After offering prayers at the Gurudwara with his supporters and few party members, he later reached his residence in Patiala.The Congress party is pinning its hopes on Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Sidhu together for winning the 2022 assembly elections.Party members have welcomed the Congress' move to hand over the Punjab unit to Sidhu and said it is a thoughtful move. They also claimed that no one is upset with the decision and everything will be all right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-shown-black-flags-by-farmers-protesting-against-farm-laws-in-punjab-101626766118764.html
20-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over fuel price hike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over fuel price hikeCongress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the government on Tuesday morning over the increase in fuel taxes, asking whether the government is a “moneylender from old Bollywood movies. Read MorePak-Taliban upbeat, but the Afghan battle has just begunAt the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers' meet in Tajikistan and connectivity conference in neighbouring Uzbekistan past week, it was quite evident that rapidly changing events in Afghanistan had taken top priority in the global diplomatic circuit. Read More'Politicians watching porn': Raj Kundra's old tweets go viral after his arrestRaj Kundra's nine-year-old tweets are being shared widely on Twitter after the businessman and actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband was arrested for being a "key conspirator" in a case relating to the production of pornography. Read More'Hopefully we do it again for MS': Suresh Raina wants CSK to win IPL 2021 trophy for DhoniChennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni was not at his best in Indian Premier League 2020 in the UAE. Read MoreSushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti reacts as fan claims Ankita Lokhande is ‘using’ his name for her PRLate actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti responded to allegations of actor Ankita Lokhande ‘using’ him to stay in the news. Sushant and Ankita, who worked together in the show Pavitra Rishta, were in a six-year relationship that ended in 2016. Read MoreOla electric scooter’s colour option details emerge ahead of launchOla’s upcoming electric scooter is all set to be launched in the Indian market by the end of this July. The scooter has been officially teased on several occasions as Ola is trying to hype up things before the scooter’s official launch. Read MoreMouni Roy sets Dubai on fire in sheer lacey deep neck top, black pants | WatchChannelling her inner diva to leave the fashion police gasping, Naagin star Mouni Roy dropped the hottest reel video on Instagram that set the Internet on fire. Read MoreiPad, TV, snacks- This Chennai autowala has it all in his vehicle. Read his inspiring storyWhere there’s a will, there’s a way- Chennai’s Anna Durai has aptly proved this saying with his hard work and undying spirit to prove himself as an entrepreneur. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre-over-fuel-price-hike-101626765713557.html
20-07-2021||India||BJP chief Nadda likely to get room once allotted to Vajpayee in Parliament||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda is expected to get room number four on Parliament building’s ground floor that was allocated in 2004 to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee as the chairperson of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), people aware of the matter said.Also Read | PM Modi asks BJP MPs to counter Opposition claims of poor Covid prepVajpayee was given the room after he stepped down as the Prime Minister when the BJP lost the 2004 national polls. But he did not eventually occupy it. LK Advani used the room later as the NDA chairperson. On Tuesday, two of the three nameplates of Vajpayee and Advani outside the room were removed.“The room was initially with the JDU (Janata Dal-United)... an ally of the BJP. When Vajpayee was no longer Prime Minister, the room was converted to the NDA chairperson’s room,” said a person aware of the details.Vajpayee passed away in August 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-likely-to-get-room-once-allotted-to-vajpayee-in-parliament-101626765993817.html
20-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over fuel price hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the government on Tuesday morning over the increase in fuel taxes, asking whether the government is a “moneylender from old Bollywood movies.The Congress MP from Wayanad, Kerala, tweeted in Hindi, “On one hand, we are instigating the public to take loans, on the other hand, we are earning indiscriminately from tax collection. Is it the government or the greedy moneylender of old Hindi films?”. He also used the hashtag #TaxExtortion.He tagged his tweet with a news report which claimed that the government increased excise duty on petroleum products by 88%, resulting in ₹3.35 lakh crore in the government’s treasury.Gandhi’s attack comes a day after minister of state in finance ministry Pankaj Choudhary informed the Parliament on Monday that ₹1.01 lakh crore was collected from excise duty on petrol in FY21, ₹2.33 lakh crore was collected from diesel and ₹1,195 crore from natural gas.Also Read | Govt took several initiatives to provide employment: Labour ministryThe Centre earned ₹3.36 lakh crore via central excise duty collected on petroleum, diesel and natural gas during the financial year 2020-21, as compared to ₹2.03 lakh crore in FY20.The Centre had last year hiked the excise duty on petrol from ₹19.98 per litre to ₹32.9 to recoup the gain arising from international oil prices plunging to a multi-year low as the demand tanked due to the pandemic. The excise duty on diesel was raised to ₹31.8 from ₹15.83 per litre.The minister of state also said that the Centre collected ₹94. 18 crore as excise duty on petrol and diesel during April-June 2021. The average share of central excise duty on petroleum products from 2017-18 to 2020-21 in gross revenue collected by the union was 12%.Between April 1 and July 13, while petrol prices have been hiked 39 times, diesel prices have been hiked 36 times. The prices of petrol and diesel have crossed ₹100 per litre mark in many states including New Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab and Ladakh, leading to protests by Opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre-over-fuel-price-hike-101626765214364.html
20-07-2021||India||On Sheila Dikshit's second death anniversary, leaders remember the Congress veteran||Tributes poured in for former chief minister of Delhi Sheila Dikshit on Tuesday as the day marked the second death anniversary of the Congress veteran. Taking to Twitter to pay their respect, the Congress referred to Dikshit as an "architect of modern Delhi" and credited her for making the national capital a "world-class city.""Today, we pay tribute to Sheila Dikshit, the longest-serving CM of Delhi and the longest-serving female CM of any state," the party also said.Arvind Kejriwal, the current chief minister of the national capital, also paid his tribute to the late leader. "Tributes to former Chief Minister of Delhi Smt. Sheila Dikshit ji on her death anniversary," Kejriwal wrote on the micro-blogging site.Remembering Dikshit, Pawan Khera, national spokesperson of the Congress party, said, "I still keep discussing my dilemmas with you, seeking guidance. I can still hear your voice. I still get my answers. They call it the inner voice. You are missed."The three-time chief minister of the national capital, Sheila Dikshit is credited with transforming Delhi into a modern, contemporary city. She passed away in 2019 after a cardiac arrest at the age of 81 years old.It was Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that contributed to ending Dikshit’s resign as chief minister in 2013, when her Congress government fell under the weight of anti-incumbency against the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government at the Centre and her own administration amid a raft of corruption allegations, including in the organisation of the 2010 Commonwealth Games.Before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Dikshit was named the Delhi Congress president, a post she held until her death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-sheila-dikshit-s-2nd-death-anniversary-leaders-remember-the-cong-veteran-101626761473788.html
20-07-2021||India||Sorry state of affairs: Supreme Court on relaxation in Covid-19 curbs in Kerala||The Supreme Court on Tuesday pulled up Kerala government for relaxing Covid-19 restriction in the state for Bakrid.The court said the state government's decision to allow shops to open for a complete day on July 19 in areas where positivity rate exceeded 15 per cent shows the "sorry state of affairs".Calling it an alarming situation, the bench of justices RF Nariman and BR Gavai said that pressure groups of any kind, religious or otherwise, cannot in any manner interfere with the most precious right of life and health of citizens of India."We direct Kerala to give heed to Article 21 read with Article 144 of the Constitution of India and follow our orders given in the Kanwar Yatra case," the bench said. The court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to reconsider its decisionThe Supreme Court did not set aside the state government's decision to provide relaxation in Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, but allowed people to approach the court if, as a result of the decision, any untoward spread of the Covid-19 disease takes place.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced the concessions at a press conference on July 17 and said that in view of Bakrid (Eid-ul-Adha) on July 21, textiles, footwear shops, jewellery, fancy stores, shops selling home appliances and electronic items, all types of repairing shops and shops selling essential items shall be allowed to open on July 18-20 from 7am to 8pm in category A, B and C areas.The Supreme Court's observations came on a petition filed by Delhi-based P K D Nambiar who sought a stay on the Kerala government's decision. The petitioner said that Kerala is among the states having a high positivity rate.Meanwhile, Kerala on Monday logged 9,931 fresh Covid-19 cases, which pushed the infection caseload to 31,70,868. The number of people who have succumbed to the virus rose to 15,408 with 58 more deaths, a state government release said.Malappuram accounted for the most number of cases (1615), folowed by Kozhikode (1022), Thrissur (996), Ernakulam (921), Palakkad (846) and Kollam (802).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sorry-state-of-affairs-supreme-court-on-relaxation-in-covid-19-curbs-in-kerala-101626761391209.html
20-07-2021||India||In Tamil Nadu, 1.8 million people fined in 101 days for not wearing masks||Tamil Nadu police have booked 1.8 million people and collected a fine of ₹200 from each of them in 101 days, reported Tamil newspaper Hindu Tamil. Between April 8 and July 17, as many as 18,07,651 people were caught by the police for not wearing masks in public places and booked under the epidemic diseases act.In addition to that, the police also lodg another 88,836 cases for violating social distancing norms. Most of these cases were slapped on shopkeepers and people assembling in public places and not keeping the physical distance of one metre.With experts warning of a third wave of the pandemic in the country soon, they have received strict instructions from higher authorities in the department to strictly impose Covid-19 norms and penalise the violators, police officials said.Tamil Nadu reported 1,971 new Covid-19 cases and 2,885 discharges on Monday. The active cases in the state are 27,282 and 28 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Monday. Tamil Nadu started witnessing its caseload rising in the last week of March when the second wave struck the country. The caseload peaked in May with 20,000 plus cases per day, and the state government announced a total lockdown from May 24. The lockdown is reviewed and extended with more relaxation.The state invoked the epidemics diseases act during the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic and mandated Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks and social distancing. The violators were caught and penalised under the act.Once the cases started increasing in March this year, police tightened their grip on violators of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. According to police officials, the norms were tightened on April 8 and they started booking people for not wearing the masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-tamil-nadu-1-8-million-people-fined-in-101-days-for-not-wearing-masks-101626760357226.html
20-07-2021||India||PM Modi asks BJP MP’s to counter Opposition claims of poor Covid prep||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to ensure that they are quick to counter the Opposition’s allegations of the government’s lackluster Covid response and the availability of vaccines in the country.Addressing a parliamentary party meeting, the PM said the party leaders should be prepared to face the anticipated third wave of the pandemic and ensure more boots on the ground. A party leader said the PM asked the MPs to ensure that the vaccination drive in their respective constituencies is carried out without glitches. The PM also attacked the Opposition by pointing out that in Delhi alone, nearly 20% frontline workers are not vaccinated so far. He also told his party colleagues that a deliberate attempt is being made to crate a negative atmosphere in the country. Also Read | Vaishnaw expected to speak in Rajya Sabha today about Pegasus ProjectThe PM is learnt to have targeted the Congress by commenting that it has not been able to come out of the coma of how the BJP has come this far. The opposition has been slamming the government for its lack of preparedness for the second wave of the pandemic. They have also demanded a statement in Parliament on the issue. PM Modi is likely to address the floor of both the Houses on the pandemic at 6pm on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-asks-bjp-mp-s-to-counter-opposition-claims-of-poor-covid-prep-101626759573692.html
20-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 410 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 410 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, July 19. India will also receive 7.5 million doses of US pharma major Moderna’s vaccine as part of the Covid-19 Vaccine Global Access (COVAX) programme.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Monday, 411,355,665 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,777,697 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 2,238,900 were given the first dose while 148,075 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 127,370,809 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 5,058,284 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Canada extends ban on passenger flights from India till Aug 21 over Covid-19Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.India recorded its lowest daily Covid-19 cases in over four months on Tuesday as it registered 30,093 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, the Union ministry of health and family welfare data showed.The last time India’s Covid-19 tally was below 30,000-mark was on March 16 when the country saw 28,903 fresh cases.The country also saw 374 deaths due to viral contagion in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths in the country to 414,482. This is also the lowest death count India has seen after over three months as the last time the country witnessed deaths below 400 was on March 30 when 354 fatalities were recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-410-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101626759093588.html
20-07-2021||India||'Politicians watching porn': Raj Kundra's old tweets go viral after his arrest||Raj Kundra's nine-year-old tweets are being shared widely on Twitter after the businessman and actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband was arrested for being a "key conspirator" in a case relating to the production of pornography. In two tweets from 2012, Raj Kundra tweeted about prostitution and pornography."Ok so here go's Porn Vs Prostitution. Why is it legal to pay someone for sex on camera? How is one different to the other??" he tweeted on March 29, 2012.Kundra's other tweet on the issue came in May. "India: Actors are playing cricket, Cricketers are playing politics, Politicians are watching porn and Porn stars are becoming actors....!" he posted on May 3, 2012.Several Twitter users shared the screenshots of Kundra's tweet as they questioned the businessman's stance.So #RajKundra will debate this with @MumbaiPolice now ... 😬 pic.twitter.com/4YhupmokaKRaj Kundra was arrested by the Mumbai Police late on Monday in connection with a case related to the alleged "creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps", Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said in a statement. "We’ve arrested Mr Raj Kundra in this case on 19/7/21 as he appears to be the key conspirator of this. We have sufficient evidences regarding this," Nagrale said.Also read | Raj Kundra arrested for allegedly making porn: What we know so farThe case was registered on February 4 at the Malwani police station and a first information report (FIR) was registered against Kundra after a woman approached the police and made certain allegations in her complaint."On that basis, the FIR was registered and the case transferred to the Crime Branch. Earlier also, we had registered cases related to pornography in which an actress and some other persons were made accused," an official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI said."We will conduct a probe into the case against Raj Kundra and find out if there is any link between this and pornography cases which we had registered earlier," the official said.Kundra was booked for cheating and in connection with obscene and indecent advertisements and displays, other sections of the information technology act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politicians-watching-porn-raj-kundra-s-old-tweets-go-viral-after-his-arrest-101626758285081.html
20-07-2021||India||'Congress still not out of coma': PM Modi at BJP parliamentary party meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday told the members of Parliament of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to counter the lies being spread by the opposition about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country. He was speaking at the BJP parliamentary party meeting.The Prime Minister said that a deliberate attempt is being made to create a negative atmosphere. Targeting the opposition Congress, PM Modi said, "It has not been able to come out of the coma (that) we have come this far. Congress' behaviour is unfortunate, they are not able to digest the fact that we have reached this far and that there is no shortage of vaccine. Even in Delhi, 20% of the frontline workers have not been vaccinated."The Congress and other opposition parties have been attacking the government, accusing it of mishandling the Covid-19 pandemic.The Prime Minister also asked the MPs to be prepared "with more boots on the ground" for the third wave of the pandemic, which according to experts will strike in August-September.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan will address floor leaders of political parties on Covid-19 today in the presence of PM Modi, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. Bhushan is also expected to show presentations on the pandemic and how it was managed, the people cited above added.The meeting is scheduled for 6pm on Tuesday.Opposition MPs on Monday disrupted the proceeding of both houses of Parliament and sought to raise various issues including price rise and farmers' agitation.PM Modi was also prevented from introducing his newly appointed ministers in Parliament, after which he accused the opposition of being unable to “digest” the fact that “a large number of new ministers are women, Dalits, tribals and those from Other Backward Classes”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-still-not-out-of-coma-pm-modi-at-bjp-all-mp-meeting-at-parliament-101626758205656.html
20-07-2021||India||TMC plans sit-in at Parliament over alleged phone hacking||Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmakers plan a sit-in against the alleged phone hacking of journalists, activists, opposition leaders, and ministers near the Gandhi statue at Parliament before it convenes on Tuesday.Abhishek Banerjee, a TMC lawmaker, and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, and Prashant Kishore, who worked for the party as an election strategist, have been named among those who may have been targeted by Israeli phone hacking software, an international investigative consortium reported on Monday. The report sparked a political storm on the first day of the monsoon session.TMC Member of Parliament Saugata Roy called the alleged snooping “shameful” and reflective of the authoritarian attitude of the Union government.Also Read | Vaishnaw expected to speak in Rajya Sabha today about Pegasus ProjectHis party’s youth wing has called for state-wide protests against it on Tuesday.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government has denied any involvement.On Monday, TMC lawmakers Derek O’Brien, Kalyan Bandyopadhyay, Arpita Ghosh, Nadimul Haque, Shantanu Sen, and Abir Ranjan Biswas protested against the rising fuel prices. The six arrived on bicycles for the first day of the Monsoon Session and raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Members of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) protested outside Parliament against the farm laws. “Why is the government not listening to farmers?” asked SAD leader Harsimrat Singh Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcplans-sit-in-at-parliament-over-alleged-phone-hacking-101626758674112.html
20-07-2021||India||Ashadhi Ekadashi: PM Modi prays to Lord Vitthal for good health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted the pepople of the country on the occasion of Ashadhi Ekadashi. The day marks the culmination of a pilgrimage called called 'wari' that devotees undertake from across Maharashtra on foot to reach Pandharpur in Solapur district, which houses a famous temple dedicated to Lord Vitthal and Goddess Rukmini.The Prime Minister prayed to Lord Vitthal to bless the people with abundance."On the auspicious occasion of Ashadhi Ekadashi, my greetings to everyone. On this special day, we pray to Lord Vitthal to bless us with abundance of happiness and good health. The Varkari movement represents the finest of our traditions and emphasises on harmony and equality," PM Modi said in his tweet.On the auspicious occasion of Ashadhi Ekadashi, my greetings to everyone. On this special day, we pray to Lord Vitthal to bless us with abundance of happiness and good health. The Varkari movement represents the finest of our traditions and emphasises on harmony and equality.The Ashadhi Ekadashi is a prominent festival of the Warkari community, who worship Lord Vitthal, the presiding deity of Pandharpur and believed to be an incarnation of Lord Krishna. The Warkaris are mostly settled in Maharashtra.Keeping with the tradition, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray performed the 'maha puja' at Lord Vitthal's temple early on Tuesday in Pandharpur. He prayed to the God for an end to the Covid-19 crisis and good health of everyone in the state.Thackeray performed the puja with his wife Rashmi Thackeray at 2.30 am.Warkari couple Keshav Kolte and Indubai Kolte got the opportunity to perform the rituals alongside the Thackerays. As per the tradition, a warkari couple is chosen every year to perform the official puja with the chief minister.A pilgrimage is also undertaken on foot to mark the day, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has not allowed it this year. Instead, the 10 palanquins carrying the footprints (padukas) of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram and other revered saints reached Wakhri, a village close to Pandharpur, from Pune on board 20 buses.The padukas will be taken to the respective mutt of the saints on foot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashadhi-ekadashi-pm-modi-prays-to-lord-vitthal-for-good-health-101626756341170.html
20-07-2021||India||Vaishnaw expected to speak in Rajya Sabha today about Pegasus Project||Union electronics and information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw is expected to speak in Rajya Sabha about the Pegasus hacking controversy, according to the agenda of Parliament for the second day of the Monsoon Session on Tuesday.Vaishnaw and another Union minister were among prominent people potentially targeted by Israeli phone hacking software, an international investigative consortium reported on Monday. The report sparked a political storm on the first day of the monsoon session.Vaishnaw on Monday rejected the reports suggesting India used the spyware Pegasus to infiltrate phones of journalists, activists, opposition leaders, and ministers. He called them nothing but an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”.Vaishnaw, who was making his first speech as the minister in Parliament, said that the “highly sensational story” has made several “over the top allegations” but there is “no substance behind them”.Click here for LIVE updates of the monsoon session“It is not a coincidence that the reports have been published a day before the Monsoon Session of Parliament,” said Vaishnaw, who was just minutes later named as one of the ministers who may have been targeted.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government has denied any involvement.Union home minister Amit Shah is also scheduled to move a motion for naming a member of the Committee of Parliament on Official Language. The Committee reviews the advancement of Hindi for official purposes.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present statements related to supplementary demands, demands for excess grants, and for consideration and passage of the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020.Two other bills presented on Monday, the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021, and the Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021 will also be taken up.Reports of the Public Accounts Committee, which audits revenues and expenditure of the government, will also be presented in Parliament.Rajya Sabha will begin the day with an obituary reference for Ramadhar Kashyap from Chhattisgarh.Sloganeering and protests by the Opposition prompted repeated adjournments of the parliamentary proceedings on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaishnaw-expected-to-speak-in-rajya-sabha-today-about-pegasus-project-101626756573282.html
20-07-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms in Delhi-NCR for next 2 hours; ITO, Lodhi road affected. Full list here||Delhi will receive light to moderate rainfall on Tuesday accompanied by thunderstorms, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted. Adjoining areas of Delhi like Gurugram, Faridabad, Hindon Air Force Station, Noida, Ghaziabad and those in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will also witness thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain in the next two hours, IMD said."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of many places of Delhi ( Punjabi Bagh, Rajauri Garden, Patel Nagar, Red fort, ITO, President House, India Gate, Delhi Cantt, Lodi Road, Safdarjung, R K Puram," IMD tweeted.The moderate rains are likely to continue through the rest of the day, IMD officials told HT. However, from Tuesday onward, the temperatures are likely to rise by a few degrees.“Light rainfall is likely on Tuesday as well. However, the activity will slow down thereafter and may pick up again on July 23-24,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.In what was termed as an 'early monsoon' prediction, rains reached Delhi on July 13 - the longest such delay in recent history. It was earlier predicted to reach Delhi by the end of June.However, even after moderate showers on the first two days of its onset, the city got only “traces” of rainfall, despite predictions of light rain and thundershowers, and an “orange alert” that was issued for the weekend.However, Delhi covered the deficit on Monday after heavy showers lashed the city throughout the day. The Capital covered the rainfall deficit of nearly 51% recorded till Saturday ending the heatwave spell it was reeling under.Delhi and NCR received incessant rainfall on Monday morning, resulting in waterlogging affecting vehicular movement in Gurugram, Noida and Delhi. Severe waterlogging was also reported in Gurugram's Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) due to heavy rainfall, while vehicles were seen partially submerged in water in Sector 10.The early morning showers that continued throughout the day led to roads being inundated, the Delhi Police said. While traffic was diverted at several places, some areas were barricaded because of a portion of the road caving in.There are around 150 waterlogging-prone stretches across the city, of which civic authorities consider five crucial — Minto Bridge, Pul Prahladpur, Zakhira, Moolchand and Peeragarhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-in-delhi-ncr-for-next-2-hours-ito-lodhi-road-affected-full-list-here-101626749842071.html
20-07-2021||India||Canada extends ban on passenger flights from India till Aug 21 over Covid-19||Canada on Monday announced that it is extending the ban on incoming passenger flights from India for another month due to the Delta variant of Covid-19.The ban, which was imposed on April 22 when India was witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, was set to expire on July 21, but will now remain in place until August 21, Global News Ca reported.It is for the fourth time that the ban has been extended.Transport Minister Omar Alghabra told reporters during a news conference that the reason for the extension was due to the Delta variant, which is considered the dominant strain of Covid-19 worldwide."While progress is being made, the situation in India is still very serious," he said. "The decision is based on the advice received from the Public Health Agency of Canada, and will best protect Canadians from an increased introduction of the Delta variant, which is prevalent in India."The Canadian government on Monday announced that fully vaccinated American citizens and permanent residents who want to come to Canada for non-essential reasons can do so starting on August 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-extends-ban-on-passenger-flights-from-india-till-aug-21-over-covid19-101626754646227.html
20-07-2021||India||Govt took several initiatives to provide employment: Labour ministry||On the first day of Parliament’s monsoon session, the ministry of labour and employment on Monday said that the “government has taken a number of initiatives for promoting employment generation in the country” in recent years. The response was to a question posed by member of Parliament Kunwar Danish Ali where he asked the labour minister to reveal “the reasons for the decline in employment avenues” during the last few years “despite the increase in growth rate.” Ali had also asked for statistics on job losses for the last five years and the steps taken by the government to increase employment.Answering Ali, newly appointed labour minister Bhupendra Yadav listed the government’s employment initiatives including Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana (ABRY), and said that the government is encouraging various projects involving “substantial investment” and is focussed on “public expenditure on schemes” like Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and more.Also Read | Uproar in Rajya Sabha over new minister’s nationality, govt slams Oppn claims“ABRY scheme (is) being implemented through EPFO (Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation). (It) seeks to reduce the financial burden of the employers and encourages them to hire more workers,” Yadav told Ali.He added that under ABRY, the government has been providing 12% of employees’ share of wages and employers’ share of contribution for two years for new employees whose monthly wage is less than ₹15,000/- per month.He added that the new employees under the scheme include those who lost their jobs during Covid-19 and didn’t join in any EPF-covered establishment up to September 30 last year.Listing another scheme Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Protsahan Yojana (PMRPY), the minister said that the government is paying the “employer’s contribution i.e. 12% for a period of three years to the new employees earning up to ₹15,000 through EPFO.”However, this would largely not include people who lost their jobs due to Covid as the terminal date stated by the minister is “March 31, 2019.”Besides this, Yadav listed two more schemes which include PM Street Vendor’s Aatmanirbhar Nidhi (SVANidhi) Scheme and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY), saying that the government has been helping “businesses resume” after “Covid period” through collateral-free loans loan up to ₹10,000 through the former and ₹10 lakh through the latter.Yadav did not give fresh data; he quoted data from “Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS)” conducted by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation (MOSPI) in 2019.Yadav said that from 2017 to 2019, the “estimated the unemployment rate for the persons aged 15 years and above on usual status (principal status + subsidiary status) basis in the country is 6.0% and 5.8%, respectively.”The principal status here means employment accounting for the majority of worker’s time over the year and subsidiary status is activity other than the principal activity undertaken on a short-term basis.Besides listing employment initiatives, Yadav also said that “flagship programmes” like Digital India, Swachh Bharat Mission, Smart City Mission, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, Housing for All, Infrastructure development and Industrial corridors also “have the potential to generate productive employment opportunities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-took-several-initiatives-to-provide-employment-labour-ministry-101626754173196.html
20-07-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally dips after 125 days with 30,093 fresh cases, 374 deaths recorded||India recorded its lowest daily Covid-19 cases in over four months on Tuesday as it registered 30,093 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, the Union ministry of health and family welfare data showed. The last time India's Covid-19 tally was below 30,000-mark was on March 16 when the country saw 28,903 fresh cases.The country also saw 374 deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 414,482. This is also the lowest death count India has seen after over three months. India witnessed deaths below 400 on March 30 when 354 fatalities were recorded.Active cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours dipped sharply by 15,535, bringing the current infections in the country down to 406,130, the health ministry data showed. These account for 1.35% of the total infections reported in the country.At least 45,254 people recovered from the infectious disease in the last 24 hours, taking India's recovery rate to 97.32%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-dips-after-125-days-with-30-093-fresh-cases-374-deaths-recorded-101626752293212.html
20-07-2021||India||Goa govt signs MoU with Mineral Corp to take stock of iron ore||The Goa government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Mineral Exploration Corporation Ltd (MECL), a Union government-owned public sector undertaking, to build an inventory of Goa’s minerals -- mainly iron ore. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is currently on a two-day visit to New Delhi, oversaw the signing of the agreement along with Union minister of coal and mines Pralhad Joshi on Monday. The MoU will help the government assess its mineral resources and establish its mineral inventory. The MoU is seen as a step towards the government restarting mining through its own state-run corporation after the Supreme Court ruled that if mining is to restart, fresh leases will have to be allotted, which now involves an auction. In March this year, while presenting the state budget, Sawant announced that the state government would set up its own mining corporation in a bid to break the logjam that has resulted in shuttering of state’s mining industry since 2018. The inventory would also help the Goa government explore the possibility of opening fresh leases and having them auctioned in a bid to bypass the legacy leases that are stuck in a legal quagmire. Goa’s several mining related cases are pending before the Supreme Court, most notably a plea challenging the Central government’s Mines and Minerals Development Act converting Goa’s mining concessions granted by the Portuguese into leases as well as a plea to retrospectively grant 50-year validity to mining leases till 2037, which the mining companies claim they are eligible for.Meanwhile, during his Delhi visit Sawant also called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and invited him to inaugurate the historic Aguada Fort that has been beautified under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme. He also met home minister Amit Shah, Union minister of tribal affairs Arjun Munda, minister for environment, forest and climate change Bhupendra Yadav, and Ashwini Vaishnaw, minister of information technology among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-signs-mou-with-mineral-corp-to-take-stock-of-iron-ore-101626752314412.html
20-07-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Health secy Rajesh Bhushan to address floor leaders on Covid and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to address floor leaders on Covid-19 situationThe Union health secretary will address floor leaders of political parties on Covid-19 on Tuesday in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. Read more.Assam doctor infected with two Covid variantsA woman doctor in Assam was infected with two different variants of Sars-Cov-2 virus at the same time, tests at regional medical research centre (RMRC) in Dibrugarh of Indian Council for Medical Research has shown. Read more.Pak blames Indian spies for abduction of Afghan envoy's daughter, Kabul respondsA serious crime in Pakistan has led to a major international face-off. Days after Afghan ambassador to Pakistan claimed that his daughter was kidnapped and assaulted in Islamabad, a Pakistani minister said that there was no abduction, and it was all a conspiracy by Indian agency R&AW to defame the nation. Watch here.Watch: Car gets stuck as road caves in after heavy rain, pulled out using craneHeavy rainfall caused a street to cave in on Monday in Delhi. A car got stuck in the hole in Delhi’s Dwarka area after downpour. The car was pulled out using a crane and no injuries were reported. Watch here.US eases travel advisory for India, urges citizens to reconsider travellingThe US has upgraded its travel advisory for India and urged citizens to reconsider travelling to the country in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The travel advisory has been lowered from the highest Level 4 to Level 3. The Level 4 restriction bans any travel from the specified country and the Level 3 restriction urges people to reconsider travel. Read more.Raj Kundra arrested for allegedly making porn: What we know so farRaj Kundra, businessman and husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, has been arrested by the Mumbai Police along with 11 other people for their alleged involvement in creating pornographic films and publishing them through apps, police said. Read more.Priyanka Chopra thanks Nick Jonas, shares pics of her quiet birthday celebrations as she soaks up the sun by a poolActor Priyanka Chopra has thanked her husband Nick Jonas and everyone else for their wishes on her birthday. The actor had a quiet birthday in London where she is shooting for her upcoming projects. Read more.Ind vs Sri Lanka 2nd ODI: India eye win to surpass Australia & Pakistan, create world recordIndia started the three-match ODI series against Sri Lanka with a thumping 7-wicket win at the Premadasa Stadium in Colombo. The victory was India's 92nd in ODIs against the island nation and it's a rivalry that the 'Men in Blue' have dominated over the past decade and a half. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-health-secretary-rajesh-bhushan-to-address-floor-leaders-101626750237860.html
20-07-2021||India||Schools should be reopened in staggered way, suggests AIIMS director||Schools in the country, mostly shut since March last year as the coronavirus pandemic spread, should be reopened in areas that have fewer coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria has said. "I am a proponent of opening up schools in a staggered way for districts that are seeing less virus circulation. It [reopening of schools] can be planned for places having positivity rates below 5 per cent," Dr Guleria told India Today in an interview on Monday.Guleria, a member of India's Task Force on Covid-19, told India Today that these districts should explore the option of bringing children back to schools on alternate days and look for other ways of a staggered reopening. He also said that if surveillance hints at the spread of Covid-19 cases, they can immediately close schools again.Also read | Covid-19 antibodies last at least nine months after infection, here's how"The reason is not just a normal life for our kids, but also the importance of schooling in the overall development of a child should be looked at," Guleria said.The top doctor said many children in India have developed natural immunity against Covid-19 and have been exposed to the coronavirus. Schools have been shut for a long period of time and the limited access has affected children adversely, he added.Authorities can ensure protocols such as wearing masks, social distancing and proper ventilation to reopen schools.Also read | Vaccine trials for kids: 2nd dose of Covaxin to be administered next weekGuleria also pointed to the digital divide as classes are being mostly held offline and many students do not have access to an internet connection. "Covid-19 has reaffirmed the need to bridge the gaps in Internet access. The digital divide exists across borders, fields, and generations, impacting virtually every aspect of life," he was quoted as saying.In June, Guleria said that authorities should work aggressively on strategies so that schools can be reopened. “I personally feel that we should aggressively work on opening schools because it has really affected the young generation in terms of knowledge and especially the marginalised ones who can't go for online classes," Guleria was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.India’s cumulative tally of Covid-19 now stands at 31,144,229 and 414,108 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The number of Covid-19 cases has been coming down after a peak in April and May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-should-be-reopened-in-staggered-way-suggests-aiims-director-101626749103176.html
20-07-2021||India||Intense wet spell over NW India likely to continue today||It continued to rain in many parts of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Delhi on Tuesday. Widespread rain is likely to affect northwest India till Wednesday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Heavy rain lashed several parts of northwest India and the western Himalayan region on Monday. Delhi, too, had a wet day, with the IMD predicting moderate to intense showers in the capital in the next 24 hours as well. IMD said the weather conditions in the aforementioned regions will continue to remain the same until Wednesday. This was mainly because of the western end of the monsoon trough running over parts of northwest India and two cyclonic circulations causing convective activity over the region. Satellite images showed dense cloud cover over northwest India. Also Read | IMD forecasts heavy rains in Mumbai today, tomorrow; local train services normalThe west coast of the country is also receiving intense rain, mainly because of an offshore trough (area of low pressure) stretching from Maharashtra to the Karnataka coast, IMD said. Between Sunday and Monday, weather stations in Maharashtra that recorded over 7cm rainfall were: Uran-45cm; Thane-28cm; Ulhasnagar-20cm; Sanpada-24.8cm; Matheran-27cm; Mormugao and Harnai-19cm each; Panjim and Ratnagiri-15cm each; and Bulsar and Mahabaleshwar-10cm each. In Delhi, too, Mungespur -10cm, Najafgarh-9cm, Safdarjung-7cm, and Palam-10cm recorded over 7cm rainfall in the corresponding period. “The western end of the monsoon trough is passing close to Delhi. There are also two cyclonic circulations, one over southwest Uttar Pradesh and another over north Pakistan. The combination of these features is bringing widespread and continuous rain over NW India. Both radar and satellite images are showing convective activity and dense cloud cover over the region stretching from Punjab to north Madhya Pradesh. It’s an intense patch,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. “There is very strong wind convergence along the west coast and an offshore trough is also affecting the region bringing heavy rains,” she added. The western end of the monsoon trough is running close to its normal position and is likely to shift gradually northwards from July 20 when more rain is expected along the Himalayan foothills, scientists said. Its eastern end is lying north of its normal position and is likely to continue there for the next two days and shift southwards thereafter. A low pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal around July 23. An offshore trough at mean sea level is running from the Maharashtra coast to the Karnataka coast. It is likely to persist for the next 3-4 days. The current spell of heavy to very heavy rain is likely to continue till July 20 with widespread and very heavy rain very likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining northwest India (Punjab, Haryana, east Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intense-wet-spell-over-nw-india-likely-to-continue-today-101626749913205.html
20-07-2021||NA||Highlights: Health minister speaks in Rajya Sabha on Covid-19 situation||A day after a stormy start, Parliament proceedings in the ongoing monsoon session on Tuesday witnessed high-voltage protests over the Pegasus hacking reports with the Opposition training guns at the government. Alongside, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to counter the Opposition’s allegations of the government’s lackluster Covid response and the availability of vaccines in the country.The first day of Parliament's monsoon session saw ruckus over the targetting of prominent leaders, journalists, politicians via Israeli phone hacking software, reported by an international investigative consortium.At least 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide, including Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, and reporters from the Wall Street Journal, CNN, New York Times, and Le Monde.While the government has denied the reports of hacking, opposition leaders have sought the resignation of Union home minister Amit Shah, saying he should immediately resign as he "does not deserve" to occupy the position he holds.Follow all the updates here:'Didn't tell anyone to show less number of deaths'Centre compiles and publishes the data sent in by state governments. Our work is to publish that data, and nothing else. We haven't told anyone to show less numbers of deaths or less positive cases. There's no reason for that. PM had said the same in meetings with CMs: Mansukh MandaviyaMany states have 10-15 lakh vaccine doses, says health ministerWhen there's need to work together & implementation has to be done by the states, at that time we never said that this state failed or that state didn't do this. I don't want to do politics but many states have 10-15 lakh doses of vaccines with them, I have data: Union health minister MandaviyaAll of us should decide we won't let a third wave hit country: Health minister"When we speak of the third wave, the 130 crore people should make a collective decision that we won't let a third wave hit our country. Our resolution and PM Modi's guidance can save us from a third wave," says Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Rajya Sabha.No reports of concealing of deaths by states/UTs: MoS (Health)There are no reports of concealing of death by the states/UTs. However, some of the states based on the reconciliation of mortality data have revised their figures: MoS (Health) Bharati Pravin Pawar in Rajya SabhaHealth secretary to brief Parliament floor leaders on Covid-19 at 6pmUnion health secretary to brief Parliament floor leaders on Covid-19 at 6pm; Congress, Akali Dal to skip briefing.Why are you hiding data on Covid deaths, Sanjay Raut questions govtWhy is the government hiding the data. Tell us, how many people have lost their lives due to Covid. Reports say more deaths than government's official figures: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in Rajya SabhaSAD to boycott PM Modi's briefing on Covid-19: Sukhbir BadalToday, Shiromani Akali Dal will boycott PM Modi's briefing on Covid-19. It will be attended only after he calls a meeting to discuss farm issues: Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD PresidentLok Sabha adjourned till July 22Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till Thursday.BJD MPs meet Piyush Goyal to discuss functioning of RSBJD MPs and Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal hold discussions regarding the proceedings of the House during #MonsoonSession of the Parliament. pic.twitter.com/TCXePUtQq8BJD MPs and Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal hold discussions regarding the proceedings of the House during Monsoon Session of the Parliament.Rajya Sabha witnesses repeated adjournmentsRajya Sabha proceedings were on Tuesday adjourned for the third time amid uproar by YSR Congress members demanding special status for Andhra Pradesh.When the Upper House reconvened at 1 PM after two adjournments, YSR Congress members led by V Vijaysai Reddy trooped in the well shouting slogans, "We want justice. We want special status to Andhra PradeshSalute people who ran 'oxygen langar' in Delhi: Mallikarjun KhargeI pay tribute to Covid-19 warriors including doctors andparamedics. I salute people who helped others by running 'oxygen langer' in Delhi during second wave of Covid-19. I also want to salute plasma donors, who came out in support: Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition in Rajya SabhaRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for 15 minutes amid uproar by YSR Congress over demand for special status to Andhra PradeshRajya Sabha adjourned till 1pmOpposition to decide on attending PM Modi meetOpposition parties to meet at 2pm to decide on attending PM brief on Covid-19 today.House adjourned amid opposition uproarLok Sabha has been adjourned till 2 pm amid the uproar by the Opposition. While the upper house of Parliament, Rajya Sabha was adjourned till 12pm.BJP holds meeting with all MPs in ParliamentThe ruling-BJP on Tuesday called for a meeting with all MPs in the parliament. The meeting went on briefly and ended around 10:30am.Will raise Pegasus in Parliament today: KhargeLeader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said the issue of hacking in the Pegasus controversy will be raised today in the Parliament. "We will raise this (Pegasus) issue... Nobody is obstructing nation's development, it's them (BJP) who have obstructed it. They have earned lakhs and crores of money by imposing cess, hiking fuel price, wasting money on projects."Conduct 'presentation on Covid-19 and vaccination' in House: CPI (M) to GovtAmid the ongoing Monsoon Session of the Parliament, Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP and floor leader Elaram Kareem on Monday wrote a letter to Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi, demanding the government to conduct a "presentation on Covid-19 and vaccination" in the presence of all floor leaders of political parties and MPs.Shripad Naik takes charge as Minister of State for Ministry of TourismPM Modi, Amit Shah reach ParliamentPM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah arrive at Parliament on the second day of the monsoon session.Congress to discuss Pegasus ProjectCongress Lok Sabha members to meet at Congress Parliamentary Party ffice today at 10.30 am to chalk out the floor strategy on the issue of 'Pegasus Project' media reports, reports ANI.Congress MP gives Adjournment motion notice over PegasusCongress MP Manickam Tagore has given Adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha on 'Pegasus Project' media report issue.AAP MP Sanjay Singh gives Zero Hour noticeAAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh has given Zero Hour notice in Rajya Sabha on 'Pegasus Project' media reportHealth secretary Rajesh Bhushan to address floor leaders on Covid-19 situationThe Union health secretary will address floor leaders of political parties on Covid-19 on Tuesday in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-live-updates-pm-modi-govt-to-brief-opposition-on-covid-19-on-day-2-101626747232620.html
20-07-2021||India||Assam doctor infected with two Covid variants||A woman doctor in Assam was infected with two different variants of Sars-Cov-2 virus at the same time, tests at regional medical research centre (RMRC) in Dibrugarh of Indian Council for Medical Research has shown.Despite being fully vaccinated, the doctor got infected by both the Alpha and Delta variants of the virus a month after taking the second dose. She had mild symptoms and recovered without hospitalisation.“A double infection happens when two variants infect one person simultaneously or within a very short period of time. It occurs when someone gets infected with one variant, but gets re-infected with another variant within 2-3 days of the first infection and before antibodies could develop,” said Dr B J Borkakoty, senior scientist at RMRC. He said that during the initial phase of the second wave in Assam around February-March this year, most Covid-19 cases were due to the Alpha variant. Then after the assembly elections in April, cases of Delta variant infections started to emerge.The RMRC lab detected the double infection in the doctor in early May.The woman’s husband, also a doctor, was infected by the Alpha variant.“While it is very common to get cases of infection with lineage A and reinfection with lineage B, there have also been quite a few cases seen of infection with lineage A + B,” Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, CSIR-IGIB in Delhi, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-doctor-infected-with-two-covid-variants-101626749136771.html
20-07-2021||India||Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to address floor leaders on Covid-19 situation||The Union health secretary will address floor leaders of political parties on Covid-19 on Tuesday in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.The health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, will address the leaders at 6pm, and is also expected to show presentations on the pandemic and how it was managed, people added.At an all-party meeting on Sunday, opposition parties had objected to the government’s offer for a joint address by Modi to all floor leaders in a building in the Parliament complex.“#Parliament. Constructive Opposition prevails. At all-party meet Parliamentary Affairs Minister announced ‘PM would make presentation on #COVID19 in a conference room’. We insisted any statement by PM must be inside Parliament. Now been informed HEALTH SECRETARY TO ADDRESS MEET in ‘august presence of PM’. Ok,” O’ Brien tweeted on Monday. “Dear Prime Minister, Sir...We so want to hear you in both Houses. Tell us about key issues #COVID19 #PriceHike #FarmersProtest #economy #federalism and more...,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secretary-to-address-floor-leaders-on-covid-101626748294165.html
20-07-2021||India||US eases travel advisory for India, urges citizens to reconsider travelling||The US has upgraded its travel advisory for India and urged citizens to reconsider travelling to the country in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The travel advisory has been lowered from the highest Level 4 to Level 3. The Level 4 restriction bans any travel from the specified country and the Level 3 restriction urges people to reconsider travel.The US state department issued a statement easing travel on Monday and said that the advisory encouraging travel to India comes in the wake of acknowledgement of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the region.Pointing at the high number of Covid-19 cases in India, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Level 3 travel health notice for India. "Your risk of contracting Covid-19 and developing severe symptoms may be lower if you are fully vaccinated with an FDA authorised vaccine. Before planning any international travel, please review the CDC's specific recommendations for vaccinated and unvaccinated travelers," CDC said.The US, the advisory said, has limited ability to provide emergency services to its citizens in rural areas from eastern Maharashtra and northern Telangana through western West Bengal as US government employees must obtain special authorisation to travel to these areas.The advisory has also asked people to reconsider travel to India due to Covid-19 and exercise increased caution due to crime and terrorism. Review your personal security plans, and remain alert to your surroundings, the advisory read.The United States issued the Level 4 category advisory for India in May this year, which barred people from travelling to the country. The advisory came in the wake of the deadly second wave of coronavirus pandemic that gripped India as it reported more than 400,000 Covid-19 cases during that period. The pandemic, driven by the highly transmissible Delta variant, overwhelmed hospitals and medical infrastructure as people scrambled to search for medicines, beds and oxygen cylinders to save their family members and acquaintances.The US has also eased travel recommendations on Pakistan from Level 4 to Level 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-eases-travel-advisory-for-india-urges-citizens-to-reconsider-travelling-101626743422166.html
20-07-2021||India||Eid al-Adha celebrations to be subdued, states ban public gatherings||Millions of Muslims around the world are celebrating Eid al-Adha this week, a festival of sacrifice also known as Bakrid, which marks the end of the annual Hajj pilgrimage.Depending on the country the celebrations and dates for Eid al-Adha vary. In the Muslim majority countries, Eid al-Adha is a three-day festival, but in India, it is usually observed for one day. This year it will be celebrated on July 21 in the country. Whereas, in Saudi Arabia, the celebrations for Eid al-Adha will begin a day earlier on July 20.However, Eid al-Adha celebrations are expected to be subdued in the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Many state governments have imposed a number of restrictions in view of the rise in daily cases of Covid-19 and the imminent threat of the third wave.In most states, including Maharashtra, mass congregational prayers are prohibited in mosques due to Covid restrictions. But people in cities that have already opened the places of worship like Delhi, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Kolkata, can gather at their local mosques in limited numbers.Andhra PradeshIn an official advisory for the Eid al-Adha, the state government has asked the residents to avoid large congregations. Prayers shall not be performed in Eidgah or at open places, the government also stated in the release. The state government has allowed prayer in mosques but the occupancy shall now exceed 50 per cent and strict adherence to the social distancing and face mask norms is mandatory.The government has also advised devotees to carry their own prayer mat to the mosque. Imams and khateebs have been requested to make the Eid khutbah (sermons) short.Uttar PradeshIn Uttar Pradesh, the government has banned the slaughter of cows, camels on the occasion of Bakrid. Apart from this gathering of more than 50 people at a place has also been prohibited. The government has also banned the sacrifice of animals in public places.AssamIn the official guidelines, the state government has advised all to celebrate Eid al-Adha at their homes. Namaz at Mosque is allowed with only 5 persons maximum including the religious head. The Assam government has also banned public congregations.KeralaIn a contentious order, the Kerala government relaxed Covid-19 lockdown restrictions from July 18 to 20 for the holy festival. Shops selling clothes, footwear, electronics, jewellery, etc, have been permitted to stay open.However, this has been challenged by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the matter has reached the Supreme Court. On Tuesday, the top court will hear an application against the Kerala government.Why is it celebrated?The holy festival of Eid al-Adha is celebrated on the 10th day of Dhu al-Hijjah, the 12th month of the Islamic or lunar calendar. According to Quran, the holy book of Islam, it is celebrated in commemoration of Prophet Abraham's faithfulness to god after he was tested to sacrifice his son. During the celebrations, Muslims practice the act of udhiya or qurbani, which involves a sacrifice and distributing the meat to the needy and to family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-al-adha-celebrations-to-be-subdued-states-ban-public-gatherings-101626745524023.html
20-07-2021||India||Actor Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra arrested for making porn: What we know so far||Raj Kundra, businessman and husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, has been arrested by the Mumbai Police along with 11 other people for their alleged involvement in creating pornographic films and publishing them through apps, police said.The 45-year-old Raj Kundra has been called the key conspirator and was arrested by the Mumbai Police's crime branch late on Monday. Kundra has been booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology Act.Raj Kundra has been booked under sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays) of IPC besides relevant sections of the IT act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.Also read: Actress Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra arrested in porn film creation caseKundra appeared before the property cell of Mumbai Police's Crime Branch on Monday and was later arrested in the case. He was taken for medical examination at JJ Hospital early on Tuesday and then to the Mumbai Police commissioner's office.Shortly after Kundra's arrest, Mumbai Police commissioner said the force has enough evidence against the businessman and his involvement in the case as a key conspirator."There was a case registered with the Crime Branch Mumbai in Feb 2021 about the creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some Apps. We’ve arrested Mr Raj Kundra in this case on 19/7/21 as he appears to be the key conspirator of this. We have sufficient evidence regarding this," the commissioner said in a statement.The racket of making and publishing pornographic content with Kundra's involvement was first busted in February this year when a woman approached the Mumbai Police against the businessman and alleged involvement in luring young women and men on the pretext of offering roles into web series and short films. They allegedly forced them to act in a pornographic film instead.Following this, the property cell raided a bungalow in the Madh area, Malad (West) and arrested five people in the case which led to Kundra's arrest on Monday.The arrested include Rowa Khan alias Yasmeen who claimed to be a producer-director; photographer Monu Sharma, and creative director Pratibha Nalawade along with and two actors, Arish Shaikh and Bhanu Thakur.After the FIR was registered, the case was transferred to the Crime Branch. Officials said they registered a similar case previously."We will probe the Raj Kundra case and find out if there is any link between this and pornography cases which we had registered earlier," the official told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-shilpa-shetty-s-husband-raj-kundra-arrested-for-making-porn-what-we-know-so-far-101626740885697.html
20-07-2021||India||7 killed as rain wreaks havoc across states||At least seven people, including a three-year-old girl, have died in rain-related incidents since Sunday night as heavy downpour lashed several parts of India, officials said on Monday.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall in the north-western region till Wednesday, which state disaster management officials said, could possibly lead to more landslides and floods in the area.On Monday, several houses were damaged after muck swamped villages in the two hill districts of Uttarakhand — Uttarkashi and Tehri Garhwal.According to the state disaster response force (SDRF), three persons, identified as Mathura Devi (36), Ritu Devi (32) and Trishvi (3), were killed after they got trapped in the mud at Mandav village in Uttarkashi.“The village was witnessing very heavy rains since Sunday night due to which a rivulet near it began overflowing,” said inspector and media in-charge of SDRF, Lalita Negi.In Himachal, two persons were killed and two were reported missing after torrential rainfall lashed the region on Monday. Subhadra Devi (55) died on spot, while her husband Farangu Ram (57) and son Tej Singh (28) were swept away by the flood after their car fell into Ravi river during a landslide at Dunali, Chamba superintendent of police S Arul Kumar said.In another incident, one Hitesh Singh died after his car plunged into a stream at Koti bridge on Chamba-Tissa road.Hundreds of people were left stranded as the alternate route between Mandi and Kullu via Kataula remained blocked.In Jammu and Kashmir, heavy showers lashed Anantnag, Kulgam and Kathua districts. “Expect more monsoon showers till the 21st, very heavy at times. No flood is expected but there are chances of flash floods, water logging and landslides. No harm in staying alert,” director of regional meteorological department Sonam Lotus said.Flooding was also reported from several parts of Haryana on Monday, while waterlogging affected daily life Kurukshetra and Ambala.Rohtak, Jind and Bhiwani districts also witnessed heavy downpour.The incessant downpour also disrupted life along the western coastal region of Goa and Karnataka in which two persons died in a span of 24 hours. The rain also disrupted traffic on the Konkan Railway route after a tunnel at Carambolim was blocked due to water seepage.In Mumbai, public transport was impacted due to waterlogging on railway tracks. A 31-year-old man, Dhanaji Hathiyani, was injured after a tree collapsed in Mulund on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-killed-as-rain-wreaks-havoc-across-states-101626740297647.html
20-07-2021||NA||BREAKING NEWS: French President Emmanuel Macron among potential Pegasus spyware targets, NGO says||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.India's daily Covid-19 tally dipped to lowest after 125 days as it recorded 30,093 fresh cases on Tuesday. The caseload in the country now stands at 3,1174,322 and the death toll is at 414,482.Follow all the updates here:French President Emmanuel Macron among potential Pegasus spyware targetsFrench President Emmanual Macron and top members of his government were among the potential targets for the Pegasus spyware, reports AFP, citing a NGO.Antony Blinken to meet S Jaishankar on India visit this month; likely to meet PM Modi tooUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken will visit India on July 27-28. He will meet his counterpart EAM S Jaishankar and is also likely to meet PM Narendra Modi: Govt sources pic.twitter.com/IvEItM7uuQUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken will visit India on July 27 and 28 to meet with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and is also likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reports ANI citing government sources.Maharashtra reports over 6,900 new Covid-19 cases, 147 deaths in last 24 hoursWith 6,910 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra's total confirmed cases reach 6,229,596 so far. Also, the death toll climbed to 130,753 with 147 more deaths today.Mumbai reported 348 new cases and 10 deaths. So far, the city has reported 732,152 cases and 15,787 fatalities.Jeff Bezos back on earth after 10-min flight to spaceJeff Bezos and the crew members land successfully back on earth after trip to space.Jeff Bezos blasts off to space in Blue Origin's New Shepard's flightAmazon founder Jeff Bezos along with three other crew members blasted off to space in Blue Origin's New Shepard flight.DRDO transfers technology to produce 2DG Covid-19 drug to 4 more pharmaceutical companiesDRDO has transferred the technology to produce 2DG drug, which was given emergency use authorization as adjunct therapy in moderate to severe COVID-19 patients, to 4 pharma companies other than Dr Reddy's: Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers in Lok SabhaThe Union ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers in Lok Sabha said that the DRDO has transferred the technology to produce 2DG Covid-19 drug to four more pharma companies other than Dr Reddy's, reports ANI.Delhi logs 44 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 44 new #COVID19 cases, 37 recoveries and 5 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,35,609Total recoveries 14,10,005 Death toll 25,035Active cases 569 pic.twitter.com/2wdLgPaWJ7With 44 new Covid-19 infections and five fatalities in the last 24 hours, Delhi's cases tally reached 1,435,609 and the death toll climbed to 25,035.Court passes first judgment in North East Delhi riots, acquits accusedA Delhi court acquits Suresh alias Bhatura saying that the testimonies of the witnesses is completely contrary to each other.Sidhu shown black flags by farmers protesting against farm laws in PunjabThe newly appointed Congress chief of Punjab unit Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday was shown black flags in Ludhiana by farmers protesting against three farm laws enacted by the Centre, news agency ANI reported. Sidhu had reached Bhagat Singh Marg in Ludhiana where a farmers organisation was protesting against farm laws. Read MoreCongress MP DK Suresh, others cycle to the Parliament in protest against fuel price hike#WATCH | Congress MP DK Suresh and others cycle to the Parliament in protest against fuel price hike. "I am travelling via bicycle because petrol price is too much. It's difficult for common man to survive with 15-20% inflation," he says pic.twitter.com/OqfGluC6IaPak-Taliban upbeat, but the Afghan battle has just begunAt the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers' meet in Tajikistan and connectivity conference in neighbouring Uzbekistan past week, it was quite evident that rapidly changing events in Afghanistan had taken top priority in the global diplomatic circuit. Read MoreAmid leadership row, Siddaramaiah to meet Rahul Gandhi in Delhi todayI am in Delhi because Rahul Gandhi wanted to meet me by 4'o clock today. I am meeting him. This is what KC Venugopal told me. I don't know what subject matter he is going to discuss, ANI quoted Karnataka Congress leader Siddaramaiah as saying.Active cases in India declines to 406,130Active Covid-19 cases in country declines to 406,130, informs Union Health Ministry in daily bulletin.3 rockets lands in areas near Afghan presidential palaceThree rockets landed in areas near the Presidential Palace during Eid prayers. Rockets were fired from Parwan-e-Se area & landed in Bagh-e-Ali Mardan, Chaman-e-Hozori areas in Kabul's Dist 1 and Manabe Bashari area in Kabul's Dist 2, according to local media reports.India reports 30,093 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, lowest in 125 days.India on Tuesday reported 30,093 new cases of coronavirus in last 24 hours. The number is lowest in more than 120 days. The death toll was increased by 374. After this the overall caseload now stands at 31,174,322 and the death toll stands at 414,482.Manipur Congress Committee president resigns: ReportManipur Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Govindas Konthoujam has resigned from his post, news agency ANI reported. At least 8 Congress MLAs will join the BJP today, it also said.Rahul Gandhi, IT minister Vaishnaw, ex-EC in new Pegasus list, say reportsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and two sitting Union ministers were among prominent people potentially targeted by Israeli phone hacking software, an international investigative consortium reported on Monday, sparking a political storm on the first day of Parliament’s Monsoon Session. Read MoreState rolls out 1 ration card scheme in DelhiThe Delhi government on Monday issued orders for the complete roll-out of the central government’s ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ (ONORC) programme from this month. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-20-2021-101626739402366.html
20-07-2021||India||Man hacked to death inside Bengaluru bank||Bengaluru: In a suspected case of gang rivalry, a man was hacked to death inside a bank in Bengaluru’s Koramangala on Monday. This latest incident comes despite police crackdown on criminals in the city. The murder took place inside the Union bank located in Koramangala 8th block around 1.30pm. The victim has been identified as Babli, who is in late 30’s. “He had to come to bank along with his wife and daughter in the afternoon. During this time, 7-8 men, who had covered their faces, barged into the bank and attacked him,” said S Murugan, additional commissioner of police, east. According to police, the victim Babli has been declared a rowdy sheeter by Adugodi police after he was caught in murder and attempt to murder cases in the past. Police suspect that one of his rival gangs committed the murder. Murugan added that special teams have been formed to nab the attackers. The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) officials and sniffer dog squad also visited the spot to collect evidence. “They are analysing the CCTV footage installed in the bank and surrounding buildings. Though Babli is a rowdy sheeter, there were no cases against him since 2011,” the ACP said. On July 10, the city police had raided around 2,146 homes associated with rowdies, and 1,548 people were taken into detention. The raids come on the back of a series of high-profile murders in the city in the last one month. An associate of Rashid Malabari, an alleged shooter in the Dawood gang, Kareem Ali, was killed on June 22. Rekha Kadiresh, a former BJP corporator was hacked to death on June 24. A financier named Madan and another named Krishna Murthy were killed on July 3 and 4 in the limits of various police stations. However, Bengaluru police commissioner had claimed that except for one murder, all others were not gang related and there was no rise in gang related crimes in the city. “There is no rise in gang related murders in the city and the police are keeping a close watch on all the gangs. We have been continuously cracking down on these gangs,” Pant said to HT during an interview on July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-hacked-to-death-inside-bengaluru-bank-101626726749928.html
20-07-2021||India||SSLC exams begin in K’taka with all Covid precautions||Bengaluru: Students across Karnataka took the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination or Class 10 exams, which began on Monday, amid Covid concerns. As many as 876,000 candidates have registered for the SSLC examination this year. The next exam will be held on Thursday (July 22). The examination has been cut short this year due to the second wave of Covid-19 infections. On Monday, the examination for core subjects - science, social science and mathematics are being conducted. On Thursday, students will have to write three of their language papers such as Kannada, English, Hindi, Sanskrit. Several examination centres in the state set up a grand entry for students, with balloons, decorations and running lights in some places. This year, 4,885 exam centres have been set up across the state. At the request of the department of education, the transport department ran dedicated buses for SSLC students, which included buses to transport students coming from Kerala to Mangaluru. According to the SOPs (Standard Operating Procedure) released by the government, each class should only have a maximum of 12 students, one per bench, during the exam and each centre will have two rooms specifically dedicated to students who showed any Covid-19 symptoms such as fever, cough or cold. At least 58 students, who have tested positive for Covid-19 took the exams, said a communication from the department of education. According to the department, measures have been taken to ensure that students who have tested positive are allowed to write exams from a Covid care centre situated in their respective taluks.Health workers in PPEs ran nasal swab tests for students who travelled from Goa to their exam centres. Students in other places were checked for temperature and made to sanitise their hands upon entry. Scouts and guides teachers and students were seen at examination centres, helping maintain the safety protocols such as social distancing and hand sanitisation.While Covid posed the biggest concern for parents in several parts of the state, in the coastal region, which has been witnessing heavy rainfall, special services were conducted to Transport students. “In one case, boat services were provided to two students in Dakshin Kannada district… in many places, we had deployed government cars to transport students,” Karnataka education minister Suresh Kumar said. In another incident, in Kalburgi district, the road leading to a school was damaged due to heavy rains on Sunday. “In Chinamachooda village, officials worked day and night to repair the road and all students were able to attend the exam without any trouble. They have done a wonderful job,” Kumar said. In a separate incident, a fire broke out in the laboratory of a school near Ullal in Dakshina Kannada district of Karnataka on Monday. Fire service personnel rushed to the spot and extinguished the fire, police added. Talking about the incident, Kumar said that a short circuit caused the fire. “No harm was caused because of the fire incident. Our officials, fire department and senior police officers have visited the location and reported the same. Soon after all 34 students were shifted to a degree located next to the building and the examination was not interrupted,” he said. He also added that a 55-year-old man working with the police department too was among those who took the SSLC examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sslc-exams-begin-in-k-taka-with-all-covid-precautions-101626726389959.html
20-07-2021||India||Audio clip intensifies Karnataka leadership row||Bengaluru: Karnataka Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday dismissed as fake a purported audio clip in which he is heard hinting at a definite change of guard in the state. While denying any links to the tape, Kateel said he has written to chief minister B S Yediyurappa for an inquiry into the matter. In the audio clip that went viral on social media on Sunday, Kateel is allegedly heard saying: “Don’t tell anybody. The entire team of Eshwarappa, Jagadish Shettar (ministers in Karnataka government) will be removed. We are making a new team. Three names are there (for chief minister’s post) but they won’t be considered. They will be appointed from Delhi itself.” HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the audio tape. Eshwarappa, who was earlier the state BJP president, is currently the rural development and panchayat raj minister, while Shettar, a former chief minister, is the industries minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet. Reacting to the audio clip, Kateel told reporters in Mangaluru: “I am writing a letter to the chief minister urging for a complete inquiry into it. Let the truth come out through the inquiry. Several such incidents have happened in the past in politics, it is not right, let there be an inquiry… I have nothing to do with it (the tape). Let the truth come out through inquiry.”“Yediyurappa is the soul of our party, he is our unanimous leader and is senior to all of us. He has built the party to this level after several years of struggle. Also, Eshwarappa and Jagadish Shettar are like two eyes, under the guidance of such senior leaders, the party and the government will function,” he added. The purported audio clip surfaced two days after the chief minister, who is slated to complete two years in office on July 26, clarified after his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief J P Nadda that there will be no change in leadership in the state. The 78-year-old said that “not a single word” on his removal was discussed during the meetings in the national capital last week. On Monday, the chief minister held a meeting with the senior members of his cabinet at Taj West End hotels.On speculation of leadership change in the state, senior Congress leader and former minister M P Patil said the Lingayat community would be upset if the BJP high command removed Yediyurappa from the post.The chief minister is believed to be the tallest leader of the Lingayat community who firmly stood behind him in 2013. “Surely, the Lingayats will be displeased with the BJP’s central leaders if they remove the Lingayat leader B S Yediyurappa from the post of the chief minister,” Patil tweeted. Another Congress leader and president of All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha (the largest group within the Lingayat community) Shamanuru Shivashankarappa, who met the chief minister on Monday, said the latter should continue with the post. Meanwhile, Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka also dismissed speculations about a change in the state’s political leadership. “I think you are reading too much into his (Yediyurappa’s) visit to Delhi. From next month onwards, he will be visiting Delhi every month. He could not do it all these months (last six months) due to the pandemic,” he told reporters on Monday. Speaking about the legislature party meeting called by the chief minister on July 26, he said: “In my personal opinion, this (BJPLP) meeting is to celebrate two years in office and not for any leadership change per se in the state. BJP is in no way facing a leadership crisis either at the state level or at the national level. In both state and Centre, we have strong leadership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/audio-clip-intensifies-karnataka-leadership-row-101626726329891.html
20-07-2021||India||Purpose of NIA defeated if bomb cases are treated as terror offences: Madras HC||The Madras high court recently observed that the objective of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act, 2008 would be defeated if all cases involving scheduled offences were sent to special court notified under the Act.The observations were made by a full bench comprising Justices P N Prakash, V Sivagnam, R N Manjula on July 12. They were constituted to decide on questions formulated by Justice A D Jagadish Chandira given conflicting orders passed while processing bail applications for charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which is a scheduled enactment under the NIA Act.Questions such as whether an application against the order passed by the District and Sessions Judge in a matter concerning UAPA shall be numbered as a bail application or an appeal arose when Justice Chandira dismissed a bail application in December 2020 for charges under UAPA.The full bench considered the referred question and said, “In our considered opinion, the very purpose and object of the NIA Act would stand defeated if all and sundry run of the mill country bomb cases are treated as terrorist offences and sent to Special Courts/Sessions Courts for trial.”The court also noted statistics from the State Crime Records Bureau, which show in 2019, in Tamil Nadu, 139 FIRs were registered under the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, read with other IPC offences like Sections 307 and 302. Offences under the Explosive Substances Act, 1908 is a scheduled enactment under the NIA Act.“It is common knowledge that ordinary rowdy gangs have now graduated from using knives to country bombs which they find easier to carry and hurl than traditional weapons,” the court said. “Out of the 139 FIRs, only in two FIRs, the provisions of the UAPA were incorporated. If the state police were to go by the strict mandates of the NIA Act, all the 139 Station House Officers (SHOs) should have to be trained to inform the state government that the moment an FIR is registered under any of the scheduled offences of the NIA Act, our state should have to intimate the central government about the registration of such cases. Thus, the central government will be loaded with a plethora of such reports from various state governments all over the country, which they have to analyze and take a decision on a case-to-case basis as to which of the cases have to be dealt with by the NIA and which have to be left with the state police to proceed with the investigation.”The court added that sessions court, which was already overburdened with routine judicial work, would have to see the final reports of routine country bomb cases where UAPA has been invoked. “The very purpose of the NIA Act, 2008 is to expedite the trial of serious offences, enumerated in the schedule, which would be defeated if one court is jurisdictionally overloaded with several enactments conferring special jurisdiction. This is a practical issue, which, if not addressed with reasonable dispatch, would defeat the very purpose of having special courts.”Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan stated that he would bring the various issues on the matter to the attention of the law ministry and the court hoped that look into it with the seriousness it deserves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/purpose-of-nia-defeated-if-bomb-cases-are-treated-as-terror-offences-madras-hc-101626725789873.html
20-07-2021||India||Stalin rejects talks with K’taka over Mekedatu||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Monday ruled out any talks with Karnataka over the proposed construction of the Mekedatu reservoir across the Cauvery river. Stalin was in New Delhi to meet President Ram Nath Kovind and was responding to reporters when asked if he would participate in talks with Karnataka on the issue. “No scope for talks (with Karnataka). Our water resources minister (S Duraimurugan) has made that stand clear,” Stalin told reporters at the Delhi airport before returning to Chennai. “The Prime Minister has assured us. The Jal Shakti minister has also assured us (that the project will not be implemented). The issue is before the Supreme Court. We will face the issue legally,” he said. Stalin’s comments come in the backdrop of Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa writing to him on July 3 and inviting him for talks to clear apprehensions over the project. While responding to Yediyurappa’s letter, Stalin didn’t address the invitation for bilateral talks, but he registered Tamil Nadu’s strong opposition to the 9000-crore project. Successive governments in Tamil Nadu have challenged the project, stating that it would disrupt the natural flow of water from Cauvery, which originates in Karnataka and irrigates Tamil Nadu’s agrarian regions. Stalin held an all-party meeting on July 12 so that Tamil Nadu can speak in one voice as Karnataka is assertive in its plans to go ahead with the project. Tamil Nadu’s petition challenging the project in the Supreme Court in 2018 is pending. On July 16, the representatives from 13 political parties in Tamil Nadu, led by S Duraimurugan flew to Delhi to hand over a resolution to union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat urging him to not give Karnataka clearance for the project. Though the BJP is in power at the Centre and in Karnataka, the party’s unit in Tamil Nadu is siding with the state. The NDA government in Puducherry has also opposed the project. When asked if Tamil Nadu will hold talks with other lower riparian states such as Puducherry and Kerala, who have a share in Cauvery water, Stalin said that there was no necessity for it now. In his meeting with the President, Stalin denied having spoken about the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. He had written a letter to the President in May urging him to remit their life sentence and release them early. “We will face the issue legally as it is pending in the Supreme Court, and the DMK will voice for their release,” he said. Stalin was on his second visit to Delhi after taking charge as chief minister on May 7. He invited the President to attend the centenary year celebration of the Madras Legislative Council, established in 1921 under British rule. It would include unveiling a portrait of his father and five-time chief minister M Karunanidhi in the Assembly hall. Stalin also invited Kovind to lay the foundation stone for new projects that the two-month-old DMK has announced – construction of a library in Madurai, a super speciality hospital in Chennai and a memorial tower to mark 75 years of Independence on the city’s Marina Beach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-rejects-talks-with-k-taka-over-mekedatu-101626725489828.html
20-07-2021||India||SC okays dropping 5 cases over Amaravati land deals||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday put an end to criminal cases against private buyers of land at Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh, upholding the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh high court in January this year that quashed criminal cases against the purchasers.Dealing with six appeals filed by the Andhra Pradesh government against the high court judgment, a bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari said: “We are of the opinion that there is no perversity or illegality in the findings recorded by the high court while allowing the petition and quashing the FIRs and the proceedings pursuant thereto.”In March this year, the Andhra Pradesh challenged the high court order cutting short an investigation into the Amaravati land case which alleged that a group of private individuals allegedly bought plots of land because they had prior knowledge of the plan to set up the new capital in Amaravati. Without disclosing this fact, the buyers purchased land from the sellers and, thus, cheated the sellers, as the value of such lands was likely to increase manifold, the first information report (FIR) against the buyers stated.The FIR was lodged against several buyers for offences under Sections 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.The complaint was filed in September 2020, nearly six years after the transactions in 2014-15.The Andhra Pradesh government, represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Mahfooz A Nazki, argued that the investigation in the case was still on as there was possibility of establishing a case under IPC Section 418 (cheating with knowledge of wrongful loss) read with provisions under the Transfer of Property Act.The government argued that the high court should not have carried out an exercise to examine the facts of the case and incorrectly applied the concept of insider trading, a reference to the high court concluding that insider trading was an offence in the stocks and capital markets and not property deals.The apex court justified the approach of the high court to delve into facts to ascertain whether a case was made out. “What the high court has examined is as to whether the stated facts of the complaint make out any case of deception or not and thereafter has concluded that no case of constituting offences under Sections 420, 406, 409 and 120B of IPC is made out….without considering the facts of the case, the question as to whether the allegations in the FIR or complaint prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused, cannot be decided,” the two-judge bench ruledEven the concept of insider trading in property dealings has also been dealt with by the high court and found to be alien to the proceedings under IPC, being a concept related to the trading in company scripts and an offence only under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the bench added. Right to acquire property was held to be a legal and constitutional right by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-okays-dropping-cases-against-andhra-s-ex-law-officer-for-amaravati-land-deals-101626724171254.html
20-07-2021||India||Monsoon session gets off to a stormy start||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was prevented from verbally introducing his newly appointed ministers in Parliament on Monday, as opposition leaders rushed to the well in both Houses to protest rising fuel prices and other issues.Modi submitted the list of new ministers in both Houses and hit back at the Opposition, accusing them of being unable to “digest” the fact that “a large number of new ministers are women, Dalits, tribals and those from Other Backward Classes”.MPs of the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and other parties rushed to the well of the House with placards to shout slogans against price rise in fuel and demanding tax cuts on petroleum products. Some Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MPs joined the protest to demand special status for Andhra Pradesh and Trinamool Congress legislators raised both price rise and atrocities on Dalits.“What is this mentality?” he asked, and said it was for the first time he faced such a situation in the House. The Congress’s Rajya Sabha chief whip Jairam Ramesh pointed out that “in 2004, the BJP in Opposition had not allowed then PM Manmohan Singh to introduce his ministers.”The Opposition has called a meeting at 10am on Tuesday to decide whether to raise the Pegasus snooping issue the same day or later as the government has accepted their demand to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the House. “We have to see what other parties say on prioritising the Covid-19 debate over other issues,” said a senior Congress leader. Trinamool’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhay, however, added that the party will raise the snooping scandal in the House on Tuesday.As a ruckus erupted in the Upper House, leader of the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal tried to remind the Opposition about the tradition of introduction of new ministers since the time of the first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru.In the Lok Sabha, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury prevented the PM from speaking and said his party has given notices to discuss issues, including the economy and (rising) prices. As other leaders also rushed to the well, Akali leaders Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Sukhbir Badal demanded repeal of the three farm laws enacted last year.Speaker Om Birla appealed for peace. “You have been in power too. You should not lower the dignity of the House. You are breaking a good tradition. This is the largest democracy, and you are setting a bad precedent.” But the protesting MPs didn’t relent.In the Rajya Sabha, chairman Venkaiah Naidu urged parliamentarians to rise above political considerations and make effective use of the Monsoon Session for effective tackling of the anticipated third wave based on the experience so far. He said MPs cannot “afford to let the people down in their hour of pain and suffering”.“Let us be conscious of the immense responsibility cast upon all of us…We all are on test, and I hope we acquit ourselves creditably by ensuring a productive monsoon session,” he said in his opening remarks on the first day of the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-gets-off-to-a-stormy-start-101626723166667.html
20-07-2021||India||Easing of curbs for Eid by Kerala govt under SC lens||Days after the Supreme Court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to reconsider its decision to allow the kanwar yatra amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the top court on Monday asked the Kerala government to submit a reply on its move to ease curbs for Eid festivities even as the state battled a surge in infections.The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday cancelled the pilgrimage for this year, citing a decision by groups representing the pilgrims. In a brief affidavit filed in the top court on Monday, Kerala said only people who have taken at least one Covid-19 vaccine dose will be allowed to visit shops as part of the three-day relaxations announced for Bakrid celebrations in the state. Kerala chief secretary VP Joy also underlined that the relaxations depend on the positivity rate being reported from the districts and those with a positivity rate of more than 15% will only get a one-day relaxation on Bakrid (Eid-ul-Azha) on July 21.Citing the condition that people who step out for Bakrid shopping must have had at least one dose, the affidavit said 45% of Kerala’s adult population has been vaccinated with one dose while 18% of the adults have taken both doses. Kerala’s defence of the relaxations, expected to be considered by the Supreme Court on Tuesday, comes even as the state reported 9,931 new cases on Tuesday. Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) also went up to 11.08%, its highest in 17 days.A bench of justices RF Nariman and BR Gavai had earlier in the day ordered the state government to file its response to an application filed by a Delhi resident PKD Nambiar who complained that the Kerala government was “playing with the lives of citizens” by relaxing the lockdown curbs on July 18, 19 and 20.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the petitioner, said Uttar Pradesh, which reported a positivity rate of 0.02% had called off the kanwar yatra while Kerala was going ahead with the relaxations that could seriously impact citizens’ health.The bench had earlier on Monday closed its suo moto proceedings on the kanwar yatra in Uttar Pradesh after the state government told the judges that the kanwar sanghs (organisations) agreed to voluntarily defer the annual yatra. The bench, which recorded the UP’s stand on Monday, reminded authorities at all levels to be conscious of Article 144 of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/easing-of-curbs-for-eid-by-kerala-govt-under-sclens-101626723093410.html
20-07-2021||India||Supreme Court scrutiny on Kerala relaxations for Eid amid alarming Covid tally||NEW DELHI: Days after the Supreme Court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to reconsider its decision to allow the kanwar yatra amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the top court on Monday asked the Kerala government to submit a reply on its move to ease curbs for Eid festivities even as the state battled a surge in infections.The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday cancelled the pilgrimage for this year, citing a decision by groups representing the pilgrims. In a brief affidavit filed in the top court on Monday, Kerala said only people who have taken at least one Covid-19 vaccine dose will be allowed to visit shops as part of the three-day relaxations announced for Bakrid celebrations in the state. Kerala chief secretary VP Joy also underlined that the relaxations depend on the positivity rate being reported from the districts and those with a positivity rate of more than 15% will only get a one-day relaxation. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan earlier said this would be for Bakrid (Eid-ul-Azha).Citing the condition that people who step out for Bakrid shopping must have had at least one dose, the affidavit said 45% of Kerala’s adult population has been vaccinated with one dose while 18% of the adults have taken both doses. Kerala’s defence of the relaxations, expected to be considered by the Supreme Court on Tuesday, comes even as the state reported 9,931 new cases on Tuesday. Kerala’s test positivity rate (TPR) also went up to 11.08%, its highest in 17 days.A bench of justices RF Nariman and BR Gavai had earlier in the day ordered the state government to file its response to an application filed by a Delhi resident PKD Nambiar who complained that the Kerala government was “playing with the lives of citizens” by relaxing the lockdown curbs on July 18, 19 and 20.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the petitioner, said Uttar Pradesh, which reported a positivity rate of 0.02% had called off the kanwar yatra while Kerala was going ahead with the relaxations that could seriously impact citizens’ health.The bench had earlier on Monday closed its suo moto proceedings on the kanwar yatra in Uttar Pradesh after the state government told the judges that the kanwar sanghs (organisations) agreed to voluntarily defer the annual yatra. The bench, which recorded the UP’s stand on Monday, reminded authorities at all levels to be conscious of Article 144 of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-scrutiny-on-kerala-relaxations-for-eid-amid-alarming-covid-tally-101626723030331.html
20-07-2021||India||SC raps Gujarat govt for delay in fire safety audit of hospitals||The Supreme Court on Monday said that lapses by private hospitals to comply with fire safety norms and building byelaws cannot be condoned at any cost as they result in human tragedies.Hearing a suo motu petition on the issue of proper treatment for Covid-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies, a bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said, “Hospitals have become a large industry. They survive on human distress. They cannot be protected at the cost of citizens whom they are meant to subserve.”The court’s remarks came while dealing with a decision of the Gujarat government on July 8 to allow private hospitals and nursing homes in the state to comply with the ‘building use certificate’ requirement by July 2022.After eight persons were killed in a fire at Shrey hospital, a Covid hospital, in Ahmedabad and another five were killed at another Covid hospital, Uday Shivanand Hospital, in Rajkot last year, the top court in December had ordered for mandatory fire safety audit of all hospitals across the country and the appointment of a nodal officer for every Covid hospital.“Once we have directed to take action against the hospitals not compliant with the building byelaws, we cannot allow you (state) to grant them protection till 2022,” the court said while taking note of the carte blanche protection offered to hospitals/nursing homes violating guidelines in Gujarat.Senior advocate Maninder Singh appearing for the state informed the court that most hospitals had complied with the building safety and fire safety norms and what remained was compliance with regard to building use.Singh made it clear that there was no attempt on part of the state to wriggle out from its duty to comply with the court orders.The bench remarked, “The impression that goes out to the common man is that the state wants to shield persons who are committing illegalities….We were shell-shocked to see how a person who recovered from Covid and had to be discharged the next day died in a fire at a Nashik hospital. Two nurses who went to the washroom were burnt alive. These are human tragedies which have unfolded before our eyes and yet we go on extending time to these hospitals.”The bench sought the state government’s reply within a week after it found the July 8 order to be “prima facie in breach of the Supreme Court direction”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-raps-gujarat-govt-for-delay-in-fire-safety-audit-of-hospitals-101626722974465.html
20-07-2021||India||Journey has just begun, says Sidhu; no meeting with CM yet||Announcing that his journey has “just begun”, Punjab Congress’s new president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday pledged to work with every “member of the Congress family” to fulfil the “Jittega Punjab” mission, a day after being appointed to the key post after months of a bitter spat between him and chief minister Amarinder Singh.The 57-year-old cricketer-turned-politician, who had a busy day calling on leaders and ministers, thanked the Congress leadership for appointing him head of the Punjab unit, asserted he would strengthen the party’s organisation in the state.Assembly polls in the Congress-ruled state are due next year.“Today, to work further for the same dream and strengthen the invincible fort of the Congress in Punjab. I am grateful to Hon’ble Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for bestowing their faith in me and giving me this pivotal responsibility,” he said on Twitter.“Will work along every member of Congress family in Punjab to fulfil the mission of ‘JittegaPunjab’ as a humble Congress worker to give power of the people back to the people through the Punjab model and the high command’s 18-point agenda ... My journey has just begun,” Sidhu said in another tweet.Sidhu, whose appointment was announced on Sunday night, spent the entire day visiting Cabinet ministers and other senior leaders of the party in Chandigarh and Mohali, but his much-anticipated meeting with the chief minister did not materialise even though they were within a few hundred metres of each other at one point of time.The new state Congress head was with leaders at Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s house, whereas the chief minister was having a meeting with MLAs from Patiala district at his official residence. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring had indicated earlier that the two leaders would meet.Sidhu returned to Patiala after meeting dozens of party leaders in the tricity and will travel to Amritsar on Tuesday. Both sides later said there was no meeting planned or requested.Monday’s developments are a sign that the crisis is still simmering. Amarinder, who had opposed Sidhu’s appointment, is furious with the Amritsar East MLA for making “derogatory” tweets and statements against him.The chief minister told Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat, one of the three persons tasked with resolving the crisis in the Congress, that he would meet Sidhu only after a public apology from him.Till Monday night, there was no apology or response from the new appointee on this demand.Amarinder has not put out a tweet or statement to welcome the changes so far whereas the Congress’s other two chief ministers, Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh), congratulated Sidhu on Twitter.Earlier, Sidhu arrived in Chandigarh in the morning and met former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, assembly speaker Rana KP Singh, former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar. The newly-appointed state Congress chief also met Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Razia Sultana and Charanjit Singh Channi. Jakhar, Randhawa and some MLAs joined him as he went around meeting other leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-work-with-everyone-to-fulfil-punjab-missionsidhu-101626722851101.html
20-07-2021||India||Delhi HC for CBI probe into email sent from I-T portal||The Delhi high court on Monday ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe an email allegedly sent from the income tax (I-T) department’s e-filing portal to a private firm granting them an adjournment after a senior tax official denied sending the email and said it could be a forgery.The bench of justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla observed that this was not the only instance where people claimed to have received similar emails. It cannot be a coincidence that similar emails granting adjournments to assessees from the I-T’s e-filing portal were forged, the HC said. “This Court directs the Central agency, namely Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to enquire as to whether the email dated May 31, 2021 had been issued to the petitioner or not, and if so, by whom...," it said.Three C Homes Pvt Limited, a Noida-based real estate developer, moved HC against a June 1 assessment order by the I-T department, insisting that it was granted an adjournment in an online assessment on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-for-cbi-probe-into-email-sent-from-i-t-portal-101626722309486.html
20-07-2021||India||Imran Khan, diplomats, employees of US CDC on Pegasus list||New Delhi A number once used by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and those of dozens of diplomats in India from countries such as China and Iran are among potential targets selected by users of the Pegasus spyware programme, according to media reports on Monday. Paris-based Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International have gained access to a leaked list of more than 50,000 records of phone numbers that clients of the Israeli company NSO Group, the developer of Pegasus, selected for surveillance. More than 1,000 phone numbers in India were part of the list, according to 17 media outlets that examined the list. The records included at least one number once used by Prime Minister Khan and that had been selected by a NSO client for surveillance, The Washington Post and Le Monde reported. “Not surprisingly, Pakistan is the most scrutinised country,” Le Monde said in its report. “The numbers of Imran Khan and several of his ambassadors in India appear on the list as potential targets. Dozens of other Delhi-based diplomats and ambassadors are also included, from Iran, Afghanistan, China, Nepal and Saudi Arabia,” the report added, without giving details. Hari Menon, the India head of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and one more foundation employee and two employees of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention based in New Delhi were also on the list, The Washington Post reported. There was no immediate response from Indian officials or the missions of the countries named in the media reports. Khan didn’t respond to a request for comment from The Washington Post. While surveillance of phone numbers of diplomats is not unheard of around the world, the matter continues to be very sensitive. For instance, Pakistan’s security agencies have been known to tap the phones of all Indian diplomats and officials as well as those of visiting Indian journalists. Given India’s currently strained relations with China and Pakistan, closer scrutiny of the diplomats of both countries would not be surprising, experts said. However, most of the other countries named in the Le Monde report are not perceived as security concerns. NSO Group has said all its clients are sovereign governments and that all exports are cleared by the Israeli government. It has also said Pegasus has been used by some 60 intelligence and law enforcement agencies in 40 countries and insisted that the spyware, which can access all data on a mobile phone and turn it into an audio or video recorder, is for use only against terrorists and criminals. The Indian government has neither confirmed nor denied licensing Pegasus and it has denied all the news reports. However, the global investigative project has alleged Pegasus was used to target politicians, ministers, civil society and rights activists and journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-diplomats-employees-of-us-cdc-on-pegasus-list-101626722249992.html
20-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Woman who accused ex-CJI of harassment in surveillance list||The list of phones potentially targeted using Pegasus software has the name of a Supreme Court staffer who had accused former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment, according to reports.Justice Gogoi, who retired as CJI in November 2019, is currently a nominated Member of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha. The verified phone numbers on the list brought out by a global collaborative investigative project has named the staffer, her husband, and her brothers-in-law, whose phones were targeted with the spy software around April 2019, the same time when the woman staffer had levelled allegations against the former CJI, a report in The Wire said. HT could not independently verify this.In all, 11 phone numbers of the woman complainant and her family were targeted, the report said, adding that surveillance on three phone numbers belonging to the woman began days after she went public with her allegations in a sworn affidavit issued to SC judges on April 19, 2019.In her complaint, she alleged that as a junior court assistant in October 2018, while working in the office of CJI, she was sexually harassed and later told by the judge not to reveal it to anyone.The allegations were denied by CJI as “absolutely false and scurrilous” and as part of a bigger conspiracy to “destabilise the judiciary”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-who-accused-ex-cji-of-harassment-in-surveillance-list-101626722189502.html
20-07-2021||India||Congress slams BJP over Pegasus leak, calls it ‘Bharatiya Jasoos Party’||The Congress party on Monday demanded the removal of Union home minister Amit Shah and a probe into Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s role after reports suggested that the phone numbers of party leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders, Cabinet ministers and bureaucrats were listed as potential targets for snooping by a military-grade Israeli spyware.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and the party’s floor leader Adhir Ranjan Choudhury accused the government of playing with security. Surjewala dubbed the ruling BJP as the “Bharatiya Jasoos Party”, while Chowdhury said that instead of “Digital India”, PM Modi has started “Surveillance India”.Both Kharge and Chowdhury said that the party will raise the issue in Parliament and take other Opposition parties on board.Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandopadhyay told HT that his party, too, wants to raise the issue in Parliament on Tuesday.Even as the government rejected all charges and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw categorically stated that any form of illegal surveillance is not possible, Surjewala showed papers to claim the spy software maker NSO sold its products only to the government and its agencies.“Modi government has used Israeli spyware for spying on political leaders, judges, an election commissioner and even on his own ministerial colleagues. The Modi government has launched an attack on the country,” he said.“And the person responsible for it is none less than the home minister of India, Amit Shah. Of course, it could not be done without the consent and concurrence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” the Congress leader said, alleging that in May 2019, Facebook and CERT, a central agency, had alerted the government that a vulnerability has been reported in WhatsApp that can be exploited by a remote attacker.Posing questions on why “the Modi government is spying on its citizens and political leaders before and in the run-up to the 2019 general elections and thereafter”, the Congress demanded answers on “Who in government purchased and deployed the illegal spyware ? Who – the PM or HM – authorised the purchase of illegal spyware Pegasus? How many hundred or thousand crores were spent?”Demanding Shah’s removal, Surjewala said, “if government was aware of the illegal purchase and deployment of the Pegasus spyware since April-May 2019, why did it chose to stay mum?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-slams-bjp-over-pegasus-leak-calls-it-bharatiya-jasoos-party-101626722130574.html
20-07-2021||India||‘Understand chronology’: Shah links leak to Session||Union minister Amit Shah on Monday blamed reports of the Indian government allegedly using Israeli software Pegasus to potentially target the phones of journalists, activists, ministers and politicians as an operation by global “disruptors” in collusion with domestic “obstructors”, and said forces unable to digest India’s progress would “not be able to derail the development trajectory through their conspiracies”.Shah, who issued a statement hours after opposition parties did not allow Prime Minister Narendra Modi to introduce his new Cabinet colleagues in Parliament, questioned the timing of the reports on the eve of the Monsoon Session. “In what seemed like a perfect cue, late last evening we saw a report which has been amplified by a few sections with only one aim -- to do whatever is possible and humiliate India at the world stage, peddle the same old narratives about our nation and derail India’s development trajectory,” Shah said. “People have often associated this phrase with me in lighter vein but today I want to seriously say - the timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions… Aap Chronology Samajhiye! (understand the chronology). This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations which do not like India to progress. Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress. People of India are very good at understanding this chronology and connection,” he added.Asserting that Parliament session will nonetheless bear new fruits of progress, Shah said: “The people of India have high hopes from the current Monsoon Session. Key bills for the welfare of farmers, youngsters, women and the backward sections of society are lined up for debate and discussion.”He also targeted Congress, saying the party has “good past experience in trampling over democracy and with their own house not in order, they are now trying to derail anything progressive that comes up in Parliament”.An international collaborative investigation involving 17 media organisations, including The Guardian, The Washington Post, Die Zeit, and The Wire, reported on Sunday that India is among the countries where Israeli company NSO Group’s Pegasus software was used to target the phones of journalists, activists, opposition leaders and ministers for snooping. A fresh report on Monday revealed that aside from 38 journalists, the numbers of former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi, political strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Union minister Prahlad Patel were potentially selected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understand-chronology-shah-links-leak-to-session-101626722069996.html
20-07-2021||India||‘Attempt to malign democracy’: Centre slams snooping charges||Union minister for electronics and information technology (MeitY) Ashwini Vaishnaw on Monday said that reports suggesting India used Israeli spyware Pegasus to infiltrate phones of journalists, activists, Opposition leaders and ministers were nothing but an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”, with home minister Amit Shah slamming those “amplifying” the reports for “humiliating India”.Vaishnaw, who was making his first speech as the new MeitY minister in Parliament, said that the “highly sensational story” has made several “over the top allegations” but there is “no substance behind them”.His statement came barely an hour before he was named as one of the ministers who had been targeted, according to an investigation by a consortium of media houses, including The Guardian, The Washington Post, and India’s The Wire, that said phone hacking software Pegasus was used to target potentially thousands of people around the world.“It is not a coincidence that the reports have been published a day before the monsoon session of Parliament,” Vaishnaw said. “In the past, similar allegations were made about WhatsApp but there is no factual basis to these and have been categorically denied.”He also highlighted the protocols and checks and balances instituted by the government when it comes to lawful interception of data, under the Telegraph Act and the Information Technology Act. “No form of illegal surveillance is possible in India with the kind of checks and balances instituted by the government,” he said.The software, made by Israel-based NSO Group, said it only supplies to government clients. On Monday, reports said that aside from 38 journalists, former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi, two of his aides, political strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Union minister Prahlad Patel were also potential targets for phone hacking. The list also included 11 members of the friends and family along with the woman who accused former Chief Justice of India Rajan Gogoi of sexual harassment.Vaishnaw added that there were inconsistencies in the reports. “One report clearly states that the presence of a number on NSO’s list does not mean it is under surveillance,” he said.“The consortium has accessed a leaked database of 50,000 numbers. The presence of the number does not indicate whether there was an attempted hack, or a successful one,” he said.The issue has snowballed into a political slugfest between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the opposition parties. While the opposition parties are demanding a probe, and raised the issue in Parliament, the BJP has denied any link to the wrongdoing.Former IT and telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that there is “not even a shred of evidence” to link the BJP or the Union government to the entire Pegasus snooping controversy and raised questions about the timing of the story coinciding with the monsoon session of Parliament.Responding to the Congress party’s demand for an independent probe into the issue, he said, “We strongly refute, condemn the baseless and bereft of political propriety comments of the Congress party. This is a new low in the political discourse of the party that has ruled India for 50 years.”Prasad also questioned the credentials of those behind the story.“Those who broke the story themselves said that the presence of a particular number in the database does not confirm that it is infected with Pegasus,” he said, questioning the timing of the story a day before Parliament’s Monsoon Session began on Monday.He brushed aside a question on the Congress’ demands for Shah’s resignation.“With the Congress shrinking and losing, the entire row is timed to disrupt Parliament and build a baseless agenda,” he said.He also accused previous governments of snooping. “One can go on and on about Congress’ history of infringing upon people’s privacy and freedom,” he said.Claiming that there was a conspiracy to target the Modi government as India developed under the Prime Minister’s leadership, he wondered if some people had become “supari agents” (hired agents) for such “international conspiracies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attempt-to-malign-democracy-centre-slams-snooping-charges-101626722010460.html
20-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, IT minister Vaishnaw, ex-EC in new Pegasus list, say reports||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and two sitting Union ministers were among prominent people potentially targeted by Israeli phone hacking software, an international investigative consortium reported on Monday, sparking a political storm on the first day of Parliament’s Monsoon Session.China, Iran diplomats among people in list: ReportThe investigation named public health experts Gagandeep Kang and M Hari Menon and diplomats from at least five countries as potential targets of Pegasus software manufactured by Israeli firm NSO Group. Also on the list were the woman who accused then chief justice of India Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment in 2019 and her relatives, election strategist Prashant Kishor, and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee.Decoding the legality of ‘authorised’ surveillance in IndiaUnion information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw – who defended the government in Parliament hours before being named a potential hacking target – and Jal Shakti minister of state Prahlad Singh Patel were the high-profile government names.The consortium – which comprises 17 media organisations, including The Guardian, The Washington Post, Le Monde and Indian news website The Wire – published on Sunday that 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide, including Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, and reporters from the Wall Street Journal, CNN, New York Times, and Le Monde.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.The government denied any involvement.“Aap Chronology Samajhiye! [Understand the chronology] This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations which do not like India to progress. Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress,” Union home minister Amit Shah said in a statement.Vaishnaw told Parliament that the allegations were an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”. “Time tested processes in our country are well-established to ensure that unauthorised surveillance does not occur,” he said in his first speech as IT minister in the Lok Sabha.But the Opposition demanded Shah’s removal and a probe into the Prime Minister’s role. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala dubbed the ruling party Bharatiya Jasoos (spy) Party.“Modi government has used Israeli spyware for spying on political leaders, judges, an election commissioner and even on his own ministerial colleagues. The Modi government has launched an attack on the country,” he said.The Congress and TMC said they will raise the issue in Parliament on Tuesday.A highly invasive malware, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy. In some cases, it can be installed without the need to trick a user into initiating a download. In 2019, WhatsApp disclosed that 121 users from India were among those globally spied upon by unnamed entities using Pegasus.The NSO group called the investigation “full of wrong assumptions and uncorroborated theories”, and said it sold its software “solely to law enforcement and intelligence agencies of vetted governments”.The investigation is based on a data leak of around 50,000 numbers obtained by Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories, a non-profit organisation. Amnesty International subsequently forensically investigated 67 of these phones, and found 23 hacked and 14 showing signs of attempted penetration. The Wire reported that 10 of the phones forensically examined in India showed they had either been hacked or signs of an attempted hacking.Gandhi’s phones were not among those examined because he no longer had the handsets he used during the potential targeting, mid-2018 to mid-2019 in the run up to the 2019 general elections. At least nine of his acquaintances and associates – including aides Alankar Sawai and Sachin Rao – were also named as potential targets by the portal.“If your information is correct, the scale and nature of surveillance you describe goes beyond an attack on the privacy of individuals. It is an attack on the democratic foundations of our country,” Gandhi told The Wire.Lavasa, who was appointed an election commissioner in 2018, dissented on key decisions of the watchdog clearing PM Modi and Shah of flouting the poll code. He left the election commission last year to join the Asian Development Bank. He was unavailable for comment and refused to participate in the investigation.Vaishnaw, whose number listed as potential targets for surveillance between 2017 and 2019, was unavailable for comment.The numbers of Patel, who was the former minister for culture and tourism, and at least 15 of his close associates, including his private secretaries, cook and gardener, were listed as potential targets by The Wire. Patel refused to comment.Also named were Pradeep Awasthi, former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s personal secretary, and Sanjay Kachroo, who served as officer on special duty to Union minister Smriti Irani in 2014-15. Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Pravin Togadia’s number was selected for targeting in 2018, reported The Wire.Kishor was first potentially targeted in the run up to the 2019 elections and again during the recently concluded West Bengal elections, when he worked with the eventual victor Trinamool Congress. “We used to suspect snooping but never realised hacking, that too from 2017 to 2021. Although I changed my handset five times, as the evidence suggests, hacking continues,” he told news channel NDTV. A forensic examination of his current phone showed it was compromised as recently as July 14, reported the Washington Post.“Two Minutes of silence for the sore losers!” tweeted West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Three phone numbers belonging to the Supreme Court staffer who accused former CJI Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment in April 2019 were selected as potential targets, as well as numbers belonging to her husband, brothers and relatives, reported The Wire. The portal said her number was added as a potential target the same week the allegations were made public. The woman and her family refused to participate in the investigation or comment.Kang, a virologist who was helping the Kerala government deal with a Nipah outbreak in 2018, told the Washington Post that she struggled to imagine why she would be deemed a target of surveillance. “I lead a very, very boring life,” she told the newspaper.Two employees of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention based in Delhi; Menon, the India country head for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, as well as at least one other foundation employee were also part of the list, reported the Post.Le Monde reported that the numbers of Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan and several of his ambassadors in India appeared on the list as potential targets. Dozens of other Delhi-based diplomats and ambassadors, including from Iran, Afghanistan, China, Nepal and Saudi Arabia, were also targeted, the French newspaper added.Media outlets in the consortium said Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Morocco, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Hungary, India, and the United Arab Emirates accounted for most of the numbers on the list .They included several members of Arab royal families, at least 65 business executives, 85 human rights activists, 189 journalists and more than 600 politicians and government officials -- including heads of state, prime ministers and cabinet ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-it-minister-ex-ec-in-new-pegasus-list-say-reports-101626719489266.html
20-07-2021||India||‘Purpose of NIA defeated if country bomb cases are treated as terrorist offences’: Madras HC||The Madras high court recently observed that the objective of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act, 2008, would be defeated if all cases involving scheduled offences were sent to special court notified under the Act.The observations were made by a full bench comprising Justices PN Prakash, V Sivagnam, RN Manjula on July 12. They were constituted to decide on questions formulated by justice AD Jagadish Chandira in view of conflicting orders passed while processing bail applications for charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which is a scheduled enactment under the NIA Act.Questions, such as whether an application against the order passed by the District and Sessions Judge in a matter concerning the UAPA shall be numbered as a bail application or an appeal, arose when justice Chandira dismissed a bail application in December 2020 for charges under the UAPA.The full bench considered the referred question and said, “In our considered opinion, the very purpose and object of the NIA Act would stand defeated if all and sundry run of the mill country bomb cases are treated as terrorist offences and sent to Special Courts/Sessions Courts for trial.”The court also noted statistics from the State Crime Records Bureau which show that in 2019 in Tamil Nadu, 139 FIRs were registered under the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, read with other IPC offences like Sections 307 and 302. Offences under the Explosive Substances Act, 1908 is a scheduled enactment under the NIA Act.“It is common knowledge that ordinary rowdy gangs have now graduated from using knives to country bombs which they find easier to carry and hurl than traditional weapons,” the court said. “Out of 139 FIRs, only in two FIRs, the provisions of the UAPA were incorporated. If the state police were to go by the strict mandates of the NIA Act, all the 139 station house officers should have to be trained to inform the state government that the moment an FIR is registered under any of the scheduled offences of the NIA Act, our state should have to intimate the Central government about the registration of such cases. Thus, the Central government will be loaded with a plethora of such reports from various state governments all over the country which they have to analyze and take a decision on a case-to-case basis as to which of the cases have to be dealt with by the NIA and which have to be left with the state police to proceed with the investigation.”The court added that sessions courts, which were already overburdened with routine judicial work, would have to see final reports of routine country bomb cases where the UAPA has been invoked.“The very purpose of the NIA Act, 2008 is to expedite the trial of serious offences, enumerated in the schedule, which would be defeated if one Court is jurisdictionally overloaded with several enactments conferring special jurisdiction. This is a practical issue which, if not addressed with reasonable dispatch, would defeat the very purpose of having Special Courts,” the court stated.Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan stated that he would bring the various issues on the matter to the attention of the Law Ministry and the court hoped that it will look into it with the seriousness it deserves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/purpose-of-nia-defeated-if-country-bomb-cases-are-treated-as-terrorist-offences-madras-hc-101626719430641.html
20-07-2021||India||Govt eases curbs on pulses trading||The Centre on Monday relaxed limits it had imposed on how much quantities of pulses traders could store at their end, a provision invoked to cool prices of the commodity, an official statement said.Wholesalers, who could not stock more than 200 tonne, now can hold up to 500 tonne of pulses, while importers will be exempted from all curbs on stock limits but will have to continue declaring their quantities on a portal run by the consumer affairs ministry.The government on July 2 invoked the Essential Commodities Act to put curbs on the quantities of pulses traders could store. According to a revised order issued on Monday, wholesalers can stock up to 500 tonne provided there should not be more than 200 tonne of any one variety of pulses. Retailers will continue to stock no more than 5 tonne. Millers will be allowed to store quantities equivalent to an average of the last the 6 months’ national output of major pulses varieties or 50% of their annual installed capacity, whichever is higher, the new order stated.The revised stock limits are applicable on four varieties of pulses: tur, masoor, urad, and chana. They will be in force until October 21, 2021.“Considering the softening of the prices and feedback received from State Governments and various stake holders, Central Government has relaxed stock limits for Millers and wholesalers and exempted importers from the same,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-eases-curbs-on-pulses-trading-101626717389153.html
20-07-2021||India||SC orders the release of activist held under NSA||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered for the immediate release of activist Erendro Leichombam, jailed by the Manipur government under the National Security Act (NSA) since May 13 for a Facebook post on the death of the state Bharatiya Janata Party chief due to Covid-19. In that, the activist had remarked that cow dung and cow urine can’t cure the infection.“We can’t keep this person in custody even for a day. He cannot be made to stay in jail even for one night,” remarked the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and M R Shah while directing the state government to make sure Leichombam, 40, is released by 5pm on Monday.The bench turned down a request by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Manipur government and asked for a day or two to examine the matter.The court sternly refused. “No, no. We will order for his release immediately. These are all innocent statements. Mr Mehta, please ignore these statements. Let him be released today and we will hear you later,” the bench told the SG.The court recorded that any further incarceration of Leichombam will be in violation of Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. It directed that the activist be released on furnishing a personal release bond of ₹1,000 and asked the registry officials in the Supreme Court to communicate the order to the prison authorities in Manipur without any delay.“The authorities will comply with the order by 5pm today,” the bench said in its order, asking state government’s standing counsel Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar to ensure Leichombam, a 2012 graduate of the Harvard Kennedy School, walks out of jail by the evening.Earlier, representing Leichombam, advocate Shadan Farasat told the bench that this was an instance of the law of preventive detention being abused to stifle a completely innocuous statement which was not only protected by the Constitution but was also in public interest. “All I said that cow dung and cow urine aren’t cures for corona (virus),” Farasat added.The SG said in response that the case should be listed after two days so that he could look into the matter. At this, the bench said that it was not averse to listing the matter on some other day but Leichombam couldn’t be in jail for another day.Following the SC order, the Manipur activist said, “I have been targeted by the state government in the past and am sure it will happen again. But I am not afraid and will express what I think is right. I will continue to raise my voice and speak my mind.”After the court ordered for Leichombam’s release, Farasat emphasised that he would be arguing for compensation to his client for the “unlawful deprivation of his liberty”.Leichombam was booked under the NSA over his Facebook post on the death of S Tikendra Singh, a retired professor and Manipur BJP chief. “The cure for Corona is not cow dung & cow urine. The cure is science & common sense. Professor ji RIP,” Leichombam wrote.On May 13, Leichombam was arrested from his house on a complaint by Usham Deben Singh, vice-president of Manipur BJP. The complainant alleged that the post had “deliberately and wilfully insulted and outraged religious fillings and sentiments” of BJP workers and family members of the deceased.The order, dated May 17, to book Leichombam under NSA by Th Kirankumar, district magistrate, Imphal West, stated, “…I am satisfied that his activities are prejudicial to the security of the State and to the maintenance of public order.”The petition filed in court through Leichombam’s father cited the Supreme Court’s order on April 30, warning the states against any clampdown on information, saying any coercive measures for using online platforms is the “worst way” to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. It added that his detention is a reprisal for Leichombam’s criticism of the BJP leaders for advocating cow dung and cow urine as cure for Covid-19.(With inputs from Utpal Parashar from Guwahati)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-the-release-of-activist-held-under-nsa-101626717268994.html
20-07-2021||NA||Highlights: Mumbai businessman Raj Kundra arrested for producing porn films||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Actor Shilpa Shetty's husband, Raj Kundra, arrested for producing porn cinemaMumbai-based businessman Kundra was arrested for producing pornographic cinema and Mumbai Police said that they believe that Kundra was a 'key conspirator' in the operation. Delhi Cabinet to implement One Nation One Ration Card schemeDelhi Cabinet has decided to implement the One Nation One Ration Card scheme. Ration will be distributed free of cost to the PDS cardholders for July, reported ANI.Maharashtra records 6,017 fresh Covid-19 cases; Mumbai's daily tally at 403 Maharashtra recorded 6,017 new cases of coronavirus on Monday, taking the state-wide tally to 6,220,207. 66 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 127,097.Karnataka reports 1,291 new Covid-19 cases, 40 deaths Karnataka recorded 1,291 cases of coronavirus on Monday, the active caseload in the state now stands at 27,527. 40 deaths have also been reported in the last 24 hours, as per the state health bulletin.IMD issues red alert for 4 districts of Himachal PradeshIMD has issued a red alert in four districts of Himachal Pradesh - Kangra, Mandi, Bilaspur, and Sirmaur. The agency cautioned that the upcoming 24 hours are very important as rainfall will continue to increase in the state for the next 2 days, reported ANI.'Can't stop tourists from entering the state', says Himachal Pradesh CMHimachal Pradesh CM, Jairam Thakur, told news agency ANI that tourists cannot be stopped from entering as the tourism industry has been hit badly by the pandemic. "You can't stop tourists from entering the state. Tourism industry has been the worst affected (in aftermath of COVID), hence it's not right to stop these activities. What can be done and is being done is regulation at crowded places," he said.Delhi records 36 new Covid-19 cases, 58 recoveries and 3 deathsDelhi reports 36 new Covid-19 cases, the active case tally now stands at 567. 58 recoveries and 3 deaths have also been recorded in the past 24 hoursUttarakhand government puts all 13 districts on alert following heavy rain forecastUttarakhand government puts administrations in all 13 districts on alert in view of the forecast of very heavy rain the stateLok Sabha also adjourned till 11am tomorrowLok Sabha also adjourned till 11 am tomorrow pic.twitter.com/JwUGhjpsmwMukhtar Abbas Naqvi to be deputy leader of House in Rajya SabhaUnion minister of minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi to be Deputy Leader of House in Rajya Sabha, replacing Piyush Goyal, who has been elevated as the leader of the House.reported PTI.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 3pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 3 PM today. pic.twitter.com/lnuZH96bZFAssam issues new Covid-19 directive effective from 5am on July 20Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) has issued a revised & consolidated directive for both rural & urban areas which will remain in force with effect from 5 am of July 20 until further order. pic.twitter.com/Y2ZK41HY0KThe Assam state government has issued a "revised and consolidated" directive for rural and urban areas across the state until further orders, reports ANI.'Amarinder should have congratulated Sidhu': Punjab Congress MLACongress leaders have said that party president Sonia Gandhi's decision to name Navjot Sidhu as the chief of party's Punjab unit is a thoughtful one. They also claimed that no one is upset with the decision and everything will be all right. Read MorePM Modi speaks as monsoon session begins in ParliamentSpeaking at the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. https://t.co/QENuZOzQRhFactoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to be tabled in Lok Sabha todayUnion Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to move the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in Lok Sabha today.India's Covid-19 tally falls 38, 164; daily toll above 450The coronavirus tally on Monday increased by 38, 164 cases, taking the total caseload to reach 31,144,229. The death toll was increased to 414,108 after 499 fresh fatalities.Vehicles partially submerged in water due to heavy rainfall in GurugramHaryana: Vehicles partially submerged in water due to heavy rainfall in GurugramVisuals from Sector 10A pic.twitter.com/Yxw9qU2xtRTop Lashkar-e-Taiba commander killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s ShopianA top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander who deserted the ranks of Jammu and Kashmir Police about four years ago was among the two terrorists killed in an overnight encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, police said. Two local terrorists were killed in Srinagar two days ago in a similar operation. Read MoreVehicular movement in Delhi affected as heavy rains continueVehicular movement in Delhi was affected after heavy rains lashed some parts of the national capital.Monsoon session of Parliament to begin from today; 29 bills on agendaThe monsoon session of Parliament will begin from Monday as the government has readied a big legislative agenda with the opposition looking to corner the Centre over a number of issues, including alleged mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic and farmers' agitation. Read MoreBritain lifts pandemic restrictions even as experts warn of surgeThe British government on Monday lifted pandemic restrictions on daily life in England, scrapping all social distancing in a step slammed by scientists and opposition parties as a dangerous leap into the unknown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-19-2021-101626658260384.html
20-07-2021||NA||Monsoon session highlights: RS, LS adjourned; to convene at 11am Tuesday||Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were adjourned for the day as the 26-day long monsoon session of Parliament began on Monday. The two Houses will now reconvene at 11am on Tuesday.Earlier, ahead of the monsoon session, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government stated that it is ready to face any debate.The monsoon session - the second in a year where elected representatives meet in the House - will conclude on August 13. "Subject to exigencies of government business, the session is likely to conclude on August 13," a Lok Sabha release said.This is the first session of Parliament where newly elected representatives from the assembly polls in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry will be taking part.Unlike last year when the Covid-19 disease outbreak pushed the House meeting to September, the monsoon session this year is starting without any delay in July. This is the sixth session of the 17th Lok Sabha.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi likely to hold meeting with floor leaders tomorrow on Covid vaccination policy: ReportsPM Narendra Modi likely to hold a meeting with floor leaders of all parties in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha tomorrow, to discuss Covid-19 vaccination policy; presentation on Covid-19 handling to be given at the meeting: ReportsIT minister calls Pegasus report 'attempt to malign democracy'In the past, similar claims were made regarding use of Pegasus on WhatsApp. Those reports had no factual basis and were denied by all parties. Press reports of 18 July 2021 also appear to be an attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions: Ashwini Vaishnaw, IT minister, in Lok SabhaRajya Sabha, Lok Sabha adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha and Lok Sabha adjourned for the day on day 1 of the Monsoon session. The two houses will reconvene at 11am on Tuesday.Union minister Naqvi appointed deputy leader of House in Rajya SabhaUnion minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi appointed deputy leader of House in Rajya Sabha, succeeding Piyush Goyal who was elevated as the leader of the House.Lok Sabha adjourned till 3:30pmLok Sabha adjourned further till 3:30pm as Opposition MPs continue to protest in the House.Lok Sabha adjourned till 2pm amid uproarLok Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid uproar by Opposition MPs. Defence minister Rajnath Singh raised an objection against the uproar while Prime Minister Narendra Modi was introducing his Council of Ministers in the House.Rajya Sabha adjourned for an hourRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for 1 hour as mark of respect to departed sitting MPs Raghunath Mohapatra, Rajeev Satav.Parliamentarians pay tribute to late Milkha Singh, Dilip KumarPM Modi introduces his new ministers in Lok SabhaIntroducing his ministers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "I thought that there would be enthusiasm in the Parliament as so many women, Dalits, tribals have become Ministers. This time our colleagues from agricultural and rural background, OBC community, have been given berth in Council of Ministers.""Perhaps some people are not happy if country's women, OBCs, farmers' sons become Ministers. That is why they don't even allow their introduction," PM Modi said.TMC MPs cycle to reach Parliament, protest price hikePM Modi offers to speak on Covid-19 pandemic tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday offered to speak on Covid-19 pandemic tomorrow in the Parliament.Want discussion outside and within Parliament with Floor leaders: PM ModiI have urged all Floor Leaders that if they can take out some time tomorrow evening then I would like to give them all detailed information regarding the pandemic. We want discussion inside the Parliament as well with the Floor Leaders outside the Parliament: PM ModiAsk most difficult, sharpest questions in Parliament: PM ModiI would like to urge all the MPs and all the parties to ask the most difficult and sharpest questions in the Houses but should also allow the Govt to respond, in a disciplined environment. This will boost the democracy, strengthen people's trust and improve pace of development: PM ModiDiscuss pandemic on priority in Parliament: PM ModiWe want that the pandemic be discussed on priority and we get constructive suggestions from all MPs so that there comes a fresh approach in fight against Covid-19 shortcomings be corrected so that everyone moves forward together in the fight: PM Narendra Modi40 crore became 'Baahubali' by taking Covid-19 vaccine in India: PMVaccine is given in 'baahu' (arms), those who take it become 'Baahubali'. Over 40 cr people have become 'Baahubali' in the fight against Covid-19. It's being taken forward. The pandemic has gripped the entire world. So we want meaningful discussions in the Parliament over it: PM ModiPM Modi addresses Parliament, marks the start of monsoon sessionBusiness Advisory Committee meeting of Rajya Sabha to be held 4 pm todayBill on Food Technology moved in Lok SabhaUnion Food Processing Industries Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras to move The National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha today.FM to move Bill on factoring businessUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to move The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in Lok Sabha today.Opposition gives notice on inflation in ParliamentLeader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, "We have given notice on inflation, others have given on farmers' issues. We will see what is approved by the Business Advisory Committee. We will be raising the same issues."Congress KC Venugopal gives suspension notice over fuel price hikeCongress MP KC Venugopal has given a notice under rule 267 in Rajya Sabha to suspend the business and discuss the rise in price of fuel and essential commodities and demand immediate remedial measures to be taken by the GovernmentDMK MP gives suspension of business notice over Mekedatu DamDMK Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchi Siva has given suspension of business notice under rule 267 over demand to discuss Mekedatu Dam issue in the House.Congress moves adjournment motion over farm lawsCongress MP Jasbir Singh Gill has moved adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over government's farm laws, reported ANI.RJD MP Manoj Jha gives suspension of business over Covid-19 deathsRJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha has given a suspension of business notice under Rule 267 to discuss "obfuscation of data related to deaths on account of the second wave of Covid-19.Covid-19 protocols in place as House begins session todayLok Sabha speaker Om Birla said extensive arrangements have been made as per the Covid-19 protocol for the safety of the members, officials and the media.Lok Sabha session to start at 11 amLok Sabha will meet from 11 am to 1 pm and from 2 pm to 6 pm unless directed otherwise by Speaker Om Birla. Four days have been allotted for the transaction of private members business, which is taken up in the post-lunch session.29 bills on agenda as Monsoon session starts todayAccording to the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, during the 19 sittings of the session, 31 Government business items including 29 Bills and 2 financial items will be taken up. Six bills will be brought to replace the ordinances.Oppn to raise price rise, govt says ready to discuss all issuesPetrol price hike remains the top issue for most opposition parties followed by a fresh demand to repeal the controversial farm laws. The Trinamool Congress asked for enactment of the Women’s Reservation Bill. The DMK demanded a discussion on devolution of the GST, after many states claimed the Centre has not paid their dues. The TRS mentioned that PSUs should be turned profitable and should not be disinvested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-live-updates-monsoon-session-begins-today-covid-19-pandemic-price-rise-up-for-discussion-101626655481608.html
20-07-2021||India||OPEC+ ups output but fuel prices to stay high in India||The Sunday agreement of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies (together known as OPEC+) to gradually increase supplies in the market is not enough to meet the growing fuel demand of major global economies, hence it may not immediately lead to any significant reduction in domestic petrol and diesel rates, government officials and industry executives said.The move by OPEC+ is more to save the producers’ cartel, which appears to be a compromise reached between the two factions – the one that wanted to continue the squeeze for raising oil prices further and the other that pushed for raising output, they said requesting anonymity. Producers at OPEC+, particularly Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, on July 5 clashed over plans of raising output that disrupted the meeting and threatened the alliance.The meeting, which was reconvened on Sunday, agreed to boost supplies by 400,000 barrels per day every month from August till the halted output is fully restored. One of the key reasons for high domestic fuel rates in India is production curbs by the oil cartel.OPEC+, which includes Russia, on April 12 last year announced an unprecedented 9.7 million barrel per day cut in oil output, a 10th of the global output, from May 1, 2020. The move was to check the free fall in oil rates after global fuel demand slumped due to the Covid outbreak. Later, when demand rose, they did not adhere to the planned restoration of supply.Commenting on the Sunday agreement of the cartel, RS Sharma, former chairman of the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) said the squeeze by OPEC+ still continues. “The supply increase remains strong in favour of high prices,” he said.SC Sharma, an energy expert and former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said that the increase in output is insignificant compared to the growing demand.Citing the US Energy Information Administration (EIA), he said: “It is expected that global oil demand in Q3-2021 is going to rise by about 2.5% to 3% over Q2, 2021, and that would amount to about 2.5 to 3 million barrels per day.”“The announced increase of 400,000 barrels per day of oil by OPEC plus may rather help in pushing [up] oil prices due to high spurt in oil demand as also major economies like USA, EU, UK and other Asian countries have gone through substantial vaccination programs which helped increased economic activities thus resulting in a sharp increase in demand for oil,” he said.Debasish Mishra, Partner, Deloitte India, said: “This is a welcome move but the supply ramp up suggested by OPEC is inadequate as demand is coming back faster... Oil market supply situation is expected to remain tight well into 2022 and prices may continue have an upward bias, which is not very good news for India.”An oil ministry official said this is a move in the right direction as India has been asking producers to raise output. “We hope the alliance to increase supplies more to match the demand,” he said requesting anonymity.India has witnessed a record jump in petrol and diesel rates that crossed ₹100 per litre in several cities. So far, state-run fuel retailers have raised pump rates of petrol by ₹11.44 a litre and diesel by ₹9.14 since May 4. Exorbitant taxes are the other reason for high fuel rates in India. Through 2020, as global crude prices crashed below $20 a barrel, the central government had raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opec-ups-output-but-fuel-prices-to-stay-high-in-india-101626633380684.html
