21-07-2021||India||Chhattisgarh approves auction of 17 coal blocks, triggers wildlife concerns||The Chhattisgarh Cabinet has approved auctioning of 17 out of 18 coal blocks identified by the Centre in the state, triggering concerns on the impact of mining activities in wildlife-rich areas that are home to several elephants, sloth bears and leopards.Activists believe the approval was granted despite no increase in demand for coal.An official familiar with the matter said the nod for the auction was given at a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. “...Barra coal block, which is in Raigarh district, has been exempted from the auction,” the official said, asking not to be named.Agriculture minister and government spokesperson Ravindra Chaubey said Barra was exempted from the auction in view of the presence of a major human settlement in the area.Chaubey added that the decision to remove Barra coal block from the list was taken at the request of public representatives and ministers.“The activists have the right to express their views but, in this case, the Centre had asked for approval of the state government. The decision and jurisdiction are of the Union government and I believe the activists should pressure the government in Delhi,” he said.A senior official in the environment ministry said: “We can intervene only when the project proponent comes to us for forest clearance or wildlife clearance. We can also comment or study the matter if we are asked to by a court if there is a legal case involved. On the overall issue of mining in the state, we cannot intervene.”A response from the coal ministry wasn’t immediately available.As per official data, Chhattisgarh produces around 150 million tonne of coal annually and has around 58,589 million tonne of reserves. The 17 blocks, which are expected to generate around 8,000 million tonne of coal, are located in Dharamjaigarh, Sarguja, Surajpur and Koriya forest divisions.According to MSTC Limited, the enterprise which is carrying out the auctions for the Centre, a large forest area comes under the region where the blocks are located. On its website, the enterprise said the coal blocks involve between 15% to 40% of forest land. Tributaries to the Atem, Mahan, Pajhar Nadi and Kelo rivers flow through the area.Sudiep Shrivastava, an environmental lawyer, expressed concerns over the impact on the wildlife of the area. “...in some areas, even tigers are also found,” he said, adding that below 50% of the area around the blocks is forested but the landscape is crucial for wildlife.Alok Shukla, convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, an NGO, said the state government should have opposed commercial mining as Chhattisgarh is already facing consequences in the form of environmental destruction and displacements. He added that the state government will not get any special revenue because of low rates.“The auction is not for the country’s coal requirements but for corporate profits as 44 of the 70 previously allocated coal blocks (between 2015-20) are yet to start operations. New power plants are also not being established and the demand for coal is also not increasing. That is why this auction is also an exercise to eliminate Coal India (government-owned coal mining and refining corporation),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-approves-auction-of-17-coal-blocks-triggers-wildlife-concerns-101626892033706.html
21-07-2021||India||Amendment bill to increase maintenance amount to senior citizens to be taken up in parliament’s monsoon session||The Centre is expected to take up the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) bill, 2019, during the ongoing Monsoon Session of the Parliament, which began on Monday. The bill was listed as one among the 29 bills that were likely to be taken up during the session, the Union ministry of parliamentary affairs said on July 18 (Sunday), a day before the session commenced.The amendment bill was first introduced in the Lok Sabha in December 2019 but is yet to be cleared by the Parliament. The bill was intended to provide for the maintenance and welfare of parents and senior citizens ensuring their overall physical and mental wellbeing.After the two waves of Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the government expects to pass the bill in the parliament during the monsoon session to ensure the well-being of senior citizens. The bill introduces some major amendments to the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act of 2007.Here is a list of all major amendments proposed in the bill:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amendment-bill-to-increase-maintenance-amount-to-senior-citizens-to-be-taken-up-in-parliament-s-monsoon-session-101626889281292.html
21-07-2021||India||Elephant killed in firing between forest personnel and smugglers in national park||Firing between forest security personnel and timber smugglers inside the newly formed Dehing Patkai National Park in Assam has resulted in the death of an elephant, who was caught in the crossfire on Monday, officials said. According to the forest department, the incident took place in the early hours of July 19 when forest personnel intercepted a group of timber smugglers in the Basab Nala area of the park. Based on specific information, forest personnel had carried out night patrolling inside the park and came across the group of smugglers who were engaged in felling of trees. The smugglers allegedly fired at the forest team, which retaliated with counter fire. This went on for a few minutes before the smugglers reportedly escaped from the park. Since it was dark, the forest staff too returned back. Carcass of the female elephant aged around 18 years with bullet injury marks was found at the same spot the next afternoon by the forest team. They also found nine felled trees in the area. “The circumstantial evidence suggested the elephant was used for dragging of logs by the miscreants. The team further ascertained that the miscreants entered the park from Arunachal Pradesh side,” said an initial report by the forest department on the incident. An FIR on the incident has been filed at the Jeypore police station and a post-mortem of the carcass was carried out. It was found that the elephant had sustained injuries from three bullets. It is not yet clear if those bullets were fired by forest personnel or the smugglers or both. Further investigation is underway to nab the smugglers. In another development, a 71-year-old man was killed in an attack by a wild elephant in Digboi forest division on Wednesday morning. EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-killed-in-firing-between-forest-personnel-and-smugglers-in-national-park-101626889121114.html
21-07-2021||India||Maharashtra 5th state to back Centre’s claim of no deaths due to oxygen shortage||Maharashtra became the latest state to back the Centre’s claim of zero death reported due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). On Wednesday, health minister Rajesh Tope told news agency ANI that no Covid patient had died in the state due to lack of oxygen. “We filed an affidavit to this effect in the court also. We had diverted 100 per cent oxygen meant for industrial use for medical purposes,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.His remarks come after Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut earlier in the day said that the Centre is “lying” about the oxygen shortage, and that a “case should be filed against the government”.“I am speechless. What would have happened to the families of those who lost their loved ones to oxygen shortage after hearing this statement?” Raut told ANI.Interestingly, the Shiv Sena is a part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ruling dispensation in Maharashtra.With Tope’s statements, Maharashtra has joined the wagon of four other states, including Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, which have also denied Covid-19 fatalities owing to oxygen shortage as claimed by the Centre.On Tuesday, Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo told ANI that they’re an “oxygen-surplus state”. “There could have been some issues regarding management, otherwise, there is no death due to lack of oxygen,” he added.However, Deo also blamed the Centre for taking credit for “all good things” and blaming the states for “everything that is bad”.Besides Deo, Tamil Nadu health secretary J Radhakrishna, Madhya Pradesh medical education minister Vishwas Sarang, and Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey backed the Centre’s remark of no Covid-19 deaths due to lack of oxygen.On Wednesday, the health minister of Tamil Nadu M Subramaniam emphasised the state government’s take on the oxygen shortage issue. Speaking to ANI, he said, “There were no deaths due to oxygen shortage in Tamil Nadu. The chief minister has worked on a war footing to prevent this."Meanwhile, following attacks by opposition leaders, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra on Wednesday said that the onus was on the states and Union territories (UTs) to report on Covid-19 fatalities due to oxygen shortage, adding that such data wasn’t shared with the Centre.“If the Opposition says the Centre has not put the correct data, then they should ask their own state governments what has gone wrong,” Patra said.He blamed the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led states for not sharing oxygen shortage-related deaths to the Centre. Notably, Chhattisgarh that has backed the Central government on this issue is a Congress-ruled state.Among the opposition leaders, who have slammed the Centre are Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and Delhi deputy chief minister and AAP leader Manish Sisodia.Also Read | Centre lied in Parliament over deaths due to oxygen shortage: SisodiaThese developments come after the newly-appointed Union minister of state for health and family welfare, Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that no deaths “due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states/UTs”. She was responding to a question that several coronavirus patients died on roads and hospitals due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of the virus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-5th-state-to-back-centre-s-claim-of-no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101626885224822.html
21-07-2021||India||6th-7th century Shiva temple discovered in Odisha, claims INTACH||A survey team of the Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage has claimed to have discovered the ruins of a 6-7th century Shiva temple in Puri district making it one of the oldest temples in Odisha and one of the earliest in the post-Gupta era.The four member team led by Anil Dhir, Deepak Kumar Nayak, Subhashish Dash and Suman Swain of INTACH found the temple at Biropurusottampur village in Pipili tehsil of Puri district during the survey of Ratnachira Valley and its monuments. The temple locally known as Swapneswar Mahadev is located by the side of Ghateswar temple in the village and is made of square stone Khandolite stone blocks with no binding or cementing as is seen in most Odisha temples of 11th and 12th century onwards such as Jagannath temple and Konark temple.Dhir said the stone blocks were placed one over other in symmetry to make the temple wall and roof.“No evidence of iron clamps has been seen. The neatly chiselled blocks denote an era when Kalingan traditional temple architectural style was in its infancy. The temple is devoid of any external embellishments on both the inner and outer walls; even the parsadevata niches are empty,” said Dhir, a noted historian.Nayak said the temple is believed to have been built after the post- Gupta era. “The region was a part of the South Toshali area of the ancient Kalinga kingdom and finds mention in the copper plate inscriptions of the post-Gupta period. The Kanasa plates of Sri Lokavigraha and Olasingh plates of Bhanuvardhana, issued in the 6th-7th century throw light on the worship of Maninagesvar (Shiva) and Naga Cult of the South Toshali region. Taking into account the material and style of this temple, it is evident that it was built at least 1300 to 1400 years ago, and is among the oldest intact temples in the region,” he said.Anil Dhir, who had earlier completed the detailed survey of the Prachi Valley and the ancient Jagannath Sadak said similar temples were seen in the Mahendragiri hill ranges of southern Odisha.Dhir said the ancient monument is in a very precarious state and on the verge of collapse. Growth of thick vegetation on the top and the sides has caused severe damage. The thick roots have split the stone blocks and developed wide cracks and the rear wall is dangerously leaning backwards. The sanctum sanctorum gets flooded because of the leaks in the roof. The entire temple may crumble down anytime if proper measures are not taken immediately.Superintendent of Bhubaneswar circle of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Arun Mallick said the agency would soon study the temple for its exact history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6th7th-century-shiva-temple-discovered-in-odisha-claims-intach-101626884621013.html
21-07-2021||India||Sidhu invites Captain to elevation event, sends note signed by 60 Punjab MLAs||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu will take charge as the party’s Punjab unit president on July 23 and has sent an invite to chief minister Amarinder Singh for the event. The cricketer-turned-politician is said to have invited All India Congress Committee member and in-charge of the party’s affair in Punjab, Harish Rawat, to the programme.According to news agency ANI, the invitation sent to Singh, a retired Army Captain has been signed by about 60 Congress legislators. The ruling camp has about 80 MLAs in the state.Earlier in the day, about 60 of the lawmakers, including a number of ministers, turned up at Sidhu’s Amritsar residence in an apparent show of strength amid the ongoing power tussle between the new Congress president and the chief minister. SinghOn Tuesday, the CM’s advisor Raveen Thukral said Singh will not meet Sidhu until the latter publicly apologised for the personal derogatory social media attacks against him. The duo have been at loggerheads ever since the Amritsar (East) MLA attacked the CM over the Guru Granth Sahib desecration cases.Singh had also reportedly written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing his reservations over the appointment of Sidhu as the state unit chief, stating the move could have an "adverse" impact on the party's prospects in the assembly elections which are likely to take place early next year.The central Congress leadership had formed a three-member team, comprising Rawat and senior party leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and JP Aggarwal to resolve the months-long crisis in one of the remaining few states where the grand old party is in power. However, there seems to be no end to the feud at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-invites-captain-to-elevation-event-sends-note-signed-by-60-punjab-mlas-101626881512125.html
21-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala imposes 2-day lockdown on July 24 and 25 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala imposes 2-day lockdown; mass testing at dists with high positivity rateThe Kerala government on Wednesday said that the state will be under complete lockdown throughout the weekend on July 24 and 25. Read more.‘Release my husband too’: Wife of Manipur journalist also detained under NSAWife of Manipur journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem, arrested in May under provisions of National Security Act (NSA) for a Facebook post, wrote to Manipur chief secretary Rajesh Kumar on Tuesday requesting his release after political activist Erendro Liechombam, who was also arrested on same charges, was let go on Monday following a Supreme Court order. Read more.Karnataka HC ruling on Twitter MD plea in Ghaziabad assault case tomorrowThe Karnataka high court on Thursday will pronounce its ruling on a plea filed by Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari challenging a notice issued to him by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with a clipping of an alleged hate crime that went viral on social media in June. The court has twice deferred its verdict in the case. Read more.Zika virus disease: 3 more test positive in Kerala as tally goes past 40With three more testing positive for the Zika virus disease in Kerala, the total confirmed cases of the infection in the state went up to 41 on Wednesday, health minister Veena George said. Of the 41 reported cases, five are currently active and are undergoing treatment, the minister further said. Read more.Oust BJP, Mamata Banerjee tells regional parties on TMC’s martyr’s dayTrinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the alleged use of the Israeli software Pegasus for snooping on politicians, activists and journalists and made on open appeal to Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar to put together an opposition front to defeat the BJP in 2024 national elections. Read more.Low-pressure in Bay of Bengal to bring rain in these states till July 25: IMDThe ongoing monsoon has been wreaking havoc in several parts of India, including Mumbai and Delhi. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for July 21 and 22 in Mumbai, with extremely heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. Read more.You can get 1TB of data on Reliance JioFiber for less than ₹250: Here are all the detailsJioFiber, the broadband arm of Reliance Jio, has some pretty popular offerings for its users including ones that come with plenty of data. And it also has additional top-up features that allow you to access more internet without having to really pay a lot of money more. One of these offers is that you can get 1,000GB (1TB) of data on JioFiber for ₹250 only. But there are some things you should know about this 1TB data on offer. Read more.Saif Ali Khan poses with all his four kids, Sara, Ibrahim, Taimur and Jeh, for first time in Eid special picSara Ali Khan treated fans to a new picture of Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan's son Jeh. The actor, on the occasion of Eid, took to Instagram and shared a picture in which she was seen holding Jeh in her arms while Taimur Ali Khan sat on Saif's lap. Ibrahim Ali Khan took a seat on the floor. Sara hid Jeh's face with an emoji. Read more.‘He talks less, that’s one of the secrets to success as a coach’: Ramiz Raja lauds Rahul Dravid after India win 2nd ODIFormer Pakistan cricketer Ramiz Raja has heaped praise on Rahul Dravid after Shikhar Dhawan-led Team India registered a stunning victory over Sri Lanka in the 2nd ODI on Tuesday in Colombo. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-imposes-2-day-lockdown-on-july-24-and-25-101626879063980.html
21-07-2021||India||‘Not surprised’: Pro-talks ULFA leader Anup Chetia on name in Pegasus list||Leader of pro-talks faction of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA), Anup Chetia, said on Wednesday that he was not surprised to find his name on the list of those under possible phone surveillance using Pegasus spyware in India . One of the founding members of the outfit formed in 1979, 64-year-old Chetia is part of the pro-talks faction of the ULFA, talking with the Centre for the past few years. “As former members of ULFA, we once indulged in anti-India activities. So, I am not surprised that my name has come up in that list. I am sure my phones are being tracked all the time,” said Chetia. As unearthed by a collaborative investigation involving 17 media organisations, and reported by The Wire, which is one of the 17, the phone numbers of Union ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw and Prahlad Patel, opposition leaders Rahul Gandhi and Abhishek Banerjee, activists, and 38 journalists, including three from HT and one from its sister publication Mint, were among thousands of potential targets around the world. The investigation was based on a data leak of around 50,000 numbers obtained by Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories, a non-profit.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number on the list does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. Amnesty International subsequently forensically investigated 67 of these phones, and found 23 hacked and 14 showing signs of attempted penetration.While NSO Group, the Israeli firm that makes Pegasus, has maintained that only governments are its clients, India’s IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has called the investigation an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”.The fact that Chetia was still in touch with several leaders of the anti-talks faction of the outfit, ULFA-Independent, of which Paresh Baruah is the commander-in-chief and his stance on several issues including the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which he opposed and even threatened in 2018 to walk out of talks if it was not scrapped, were seen as a possible reasons for his name to figure on the list. “I have not indulged in any anti-national or criminal activities in the past 18 years. Because of my past, it is natural that I could be under surveillance. But I’m not bothered about it,” he said. The Pegasus list also had the name of another prominent leader from Assam, Samujjal Bhattacharya, adviser to the influential All Assam Students Union (AASU). Despite repeated attempts, he couldn’t be reached as his phone was switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-surprised-pro-talks-ulfa-leader-anup-chetia-on-name-in-pegasus-list-101626880540847.html
21-07-2021||India||Aviation minister Scindia forms apex panels to revive aviation sector||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Madhavrao Scindia on Wednesday formed three key advisory groups comprising airlines, airport operators, cargo carriers, ground handling companies, flying training organisations and maintenance, repair and overhaul companies to deliberate and resolve challenges faced by the pandemic-hit aviation sector.The advisory group on airports headed by the aviation minister will include the aviation secretary, aviation ministry joint secretary, director general, Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, chairman, Airports Authority of lndia, G.B.S. Raju, Business chairman, GMR Group, Jeet Adani, vice president, Adani Group and Hari K Marar, MD & CEO, Bengaluru International Airport Limited.“The terms of reference of the Civil Aviation Advisory Group of Airports, inter-alia includes the following:- To advise the Government for enhancing the airport capacity; to advise on matters related to infrastructure augmentation and modernization; to advise on matters related to augmenting passenger facilities and amenities at airports; to advise on matters related to improving customer experience and satisfaction while awaiting various airport services; to advise on matters related to improving ASQ rating and other similar international benchmark ratings,” the order said.The group will also advise on tariff related and other regulatory issues, on matters related to manpower skilling in the airport sector and on CAPEX performance of airports, inclusive of targets under the National infrastructure Pipeline.Another apex group to deal with issues related to domestic airlines will be headed by the aviation ministry and include General VK Singh (retd) minister of state, civil aviation; aviation secretary, DGCA, Rajiv Bansal, CMD, Air India, Rahul Bhatia, chairman, Indigo (vi) Shri Ajay Singh, chairman, SpiceJet, Ness Wadia, director, Go Air, Bhaskar Bhat, chairman, Vistara; Sunil Bhaskaran, CEO, Air Asia and CEO, Alliance Air.“The Joint Secretary of DG Division will act as Convener. The Joint Secretary of DT Division will support the Group on the issues related to domestic transport,” the order said.The advisory group of airlines will advise the government on enhancing the domestic and international connectivity, on matters related to promotion of passenger and cargo service, matters related to passenger facilities during air travel and manpower skilling in the aviation sector. It will also suggest ways to safeguard the viability of airlines.“The groups shall meet regularly to deliberate upon issues and resolve challenges facing each sector. Orders have been issued for the same,” the aviation ministry tweeted.The Indian aviation sector is estimated to have suffered losses worth around $ 8 billion dollars in two years as a direct impact of the pandemic, according to aviation consultancy and research firm CAPA. Airlines have been seeking government stimulus since last year to tide over their losses. The aviation industry has also demanded lowering of the Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) taxation for years. It has sought the inclusion of ATF under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime as tax uniformity would lead to cost reduction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aviation-minister-scindia-forms-apex-panels-to-revive-aviation-sector-101626878741033.html
21-07-2021||India||Kerala imposes complete lockdown on July 24, 25; mass Covid-19 testing planned at districts with high positivity rate||The Kerala government on Wednesday said that the state will be under complete lockdown throughout the weekend on July 24 and 25.As part of Covid-19 containment activities, the state disaster management department issued the orders, which would come into effect from 12am on July 22. It has directed the state health department to conduct a mass testing campaign for Covid-19 on July 23 (Friday) in districts where the seven-day average of positivity rate is more than 10%.“The Health and Family Welfare Department is directed to conduct a mass testing campaign on Friday, 23rd July 2021 with a target of 3 lakh tests across Kerala with special focus on Districts where the seven-day average TPR is above 10%. Further, the number of daily tests shall also be enhanced urgently to the peak testing capacity for the effective containment of the pandemic,” the order said.Also read | Zika virus disease: 3 more test positive in Kerala as tally goes past 40, says health minister Veena GeorgePreviously, the state government on July 16 had relaxed the Covid-19 restrictions in Kerala for three days from July 18 to July 20 on account of Bakri Eid celebrations on July 21.Shops selling textiles, footwear, jewellery, home appliances, electronic items, fancy stores and repair shops were allowed to function between 7am and 8pm on the three days.Following this, the Supreme Court said that the easing of curfews in the state for three days owing to the Bakri Eid celebrations was “wholly uncalled for.” The top court also said that the government giving in to pressure from traders disclosed a “sorry state of affairs.”The court had also urged the Kerala government to heed to the Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution and follow the law laid down in its July 16 order passed in the matter of Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh, where the court had noted that all sentiments are subservient to the Right to Life.Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association had urged the Kerala government to reconsider its order on relaxing the restrictions. The medical body’s president Dr JA Jayalal said that the way in which the lockdown was implemented was “controversial.”“The way in which they adopted the lockdown is very controversial. They are giving intermittent lockdowns for two days,” news agency ANI quoted him as saying.“We are definitely not saying that the entire lockdown has to be enforced. But if a policy of two days of lockdown is undertaken and the rest of the days are free, a rush is natural. Instead of that, you can evenly distribute it and ensure people are wearing the mask,” he further added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-imposes-complete-lockdown-on-july-24-25-mass-covid-19-testing-planned-at-districts-with-high-positivity-rate-101626876894804.html
21-07-2021||India||Zika virus disease: 3 more test positive in Kerala as tally goes past 40, says health minister Veena George||With three more testing positive for the Zika virus disease in Kerala, the total confirmed cases of the infection in the state went up to 41 on Wednesday, health minister Veena George said. Of the 41 reported cases, five are currently active and are undergoing treatment, the minister further said.The minister said that two residents of Anayara aged 26 and 37 years and another person aged 25 from Pettah tested positive for the disease on Wednesday, news agency PTI reported, citing a press release.Also, the tests for confirming the disease were conducted at the virology lab of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College and the health of all people infected was satisfactory presently, the minister added.Earlier on Tuesday, a 49-year-old woman from Thiruvananthapuram tested positive for the Zika virus disease and the tally was then recorded at 38. However, the active cases of the disease have reduced from eight on Tuesday to five as of date.Also read | Kerala imposes complete lockdown on July 24, 25; mass Covid-19 testing planned at districts with high positivity rateWith the spread of the Zika virus in Kerala, neighbouring Tamil Nadu has not reported a single case of the disease, the state's health secretary J Radhakrishnan said on Wednesday, news agency ANI reported.As part of efforts to control the spread of transmission of the virus, the Thiruvananthapuram municipal corporation and other district administrations have intensified their activities to control mosquitoes that carry the disease.Meanwhile, there is no let-up in the number of new Covid-19 infections in Kerala as the government continues to battle the spread of two viral diseases.On Wednesday, 17,481 more people tested positive for the coronavirus disease and the total confirmed cases so far reached 3,205,197, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The state also witnessed 105 fatalities in the previous 24 hours which pushed the death toll to 15,617. Close to 130,000 (exactly 129,640) active cases of the disease were present in the state as of date, the bulletin also showed. While three districts reported over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, four other districts logged over 1,000 new cases in the same time period.The state government has implemented a complete lockdown for two days on July 24 and 25 in order to contain the disease. Also, mass testing campaigns have been planned in the state on July 23.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-disease-3-more-test-positive-in-kerala-as-tally-goes-past-40-says-health-minister-veena-george-101626878154951.html
21-07-2021||India||Low-pressure in Bay of Bengal to bring rain in these states till July 25: IMD||The ongoing monsoon has been wreaking havoc in several parts of India, including Mumbai and Delhi. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for July 21 and 22 in Mumbai, with extremely heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places.The severe weather conditions have been fatal for more than 30 people in the Maharashtra capital, after rain triggered landslides, led to collapsed houses and even electrocutions. The suburban train services in Mumbai were also disrupted, and several long-distance trains were diverted, short-terminated or rescheduled for waterlogging and flooding.A meteorologist at the regional centre of the IMD Mumbai said the rainfall is the result of “very strong westerly winds bringing in moisture” from an active monsoon trough running along coastal Maharashtra. On Wednesday, Mumbai gauged 23.9mm of rain till 8.30am, down from 38.4mm recorded in the previous 24 hours.The situation in Delhi wasn’t much better either with at least 20 underpasses getting inundated following incessant rains in the city on Monday and Tuesday, Delhi traffic police officials said.However, IMD in its evening bulletin on Wednesday, mentioned that rainfall activity over northwest India is likely to reduce further from Thursday onwards. The department had earlier said that widespread and heavy rain over northwest India will likely begin to reduce from Wednesday onwards.The bulletin added that a cyclonic circulation lies over northwest Bay of Bengal, and under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the water body during the next 48 hours. “It is likely to move west-northwestwards along the monsoon trough during the subsequent two to three days,” the IMD bulletin further stated.Here are the key IMD alerts for Mumbai and other states and Union territories (UTs):1. Extremely heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Mumbai till July 23. The IMD has issued a red alert for the city for today and tomorrow. The intensity of rainfall, however, is likely to reduce from July 24 onwards.2. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy showers are very likely to continue over west coast and adjoining regions, and Gujarat during the next four to five days. Extremely heavy falls are also very likely over Konkan, Goa and ghat areas of central Maharashtra on July 21 and 22.3. Light to moderate rainfall is very likely at scattered places over Delhi in the next 24 hours.4. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over western Himalayan region, including Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh, and adjoining northwest Indian states of Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh today. Although the rainfall intensity has been predicted to reduce further from July 22 onwards, it is likely to pick up again from July 25.5. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is likely over east India and adjoining central India between July 21 and 24. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is also very likely over Telangana and coastal Andhra Pradesh on July 21 and 22. The same weather event is also very likely over Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, and east Madhya Pradesh on July 22.6. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Bihar will likely observe moderate to severe thunderstorms with lightning during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lowpressure-in-bay-of-bengal-to-bring-rain-in-these-states-till-july-25-imd-101626875362080.html
21-07-2021||India||Collective leadership, no CM candidate in Karnataka: Congress' DK Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said on Monday his party will not project any chief ministerial face for the next Assembly election in the state and there was no rift within the grand old party. Stating that there will be a collective leadership, Shivakumar said he only had political differences with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal- Secular (JD-S).Shivakumar’s statement came a day after Congress leader and former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah, both of whom are in Delhi, denied speculation of any difference with the former. "We are together. We are building the party together... there's no rift in Karnataka Congress," he had said.When asked about his meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Shivakumar said talks were held about the party’s stand on the current political crisis in Karnataka BJP over the leadership issue. “There is a lot of trouble in Karnataka BJP. There will be a change of leadership. We had to plan our stand. A lot of people are trying to approach us and a lot of issues are there. We discussed all those issues as well as phone tapping,” Shivakumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, Shivakumar had said the Congress party’s ethos is to work together. “We are a national party. We believe in collective leadership. Even the elections will be contested this way. There are questions, but one or two individuals are not important. There are several leaders in the Congress, and we will go to the election together.”Even as the party continues to sit in opposition ever since the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP overthrew a coalition government of the JD-S and Congress in July 2019, supporters of both Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah have been openly backing them as the Congress’ chief ministerial candidate for the next election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/collective-leadership-no-cm-candidate-in-karnataka-congress-dk-shivakumar-101626875186485.html
21-07-2021||India||‘Release my husband too’: Wife of Manipur journalist also detained under NSA||Wife of Manipur journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem, arrested in May under provisions of National Security Act (NSA) for a Facebook post, wrote to Manipur chief secretary Rajesh Kumar on Tuesday requesting his release after political activist Erendro Liechombam, who was also arrested on same charges, was let go on Monday following a Supreme Court order. The SC is now hearing a petition filed by his father seeking compensation alleging his detention was illegal.Following Leichombam’s release from an Imphal prison, the Manipur government on Monday revoked its earlier order to detain him under Section 14(1) of NSA. Elangbam Ranjita’s letter said the government should now also revoke the order under NSA against her journalist husband.“My husband has been detained in the Central jail Sajiwa under NSA since May 17 along with one of the detainee Erendro Leichombam who’s NSA has been revoked by your office on July 19,” Ranjita wrote in her letter, which has been seen by HT.Both Wangkhem and Leichombam were arrested in May this year after Facebook posts denigrating claims that consumption of cow urine and dung could cure Covid-19 while alluding to the death of Manipur Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president S Tikendra Singh due to the disease.“That the allegations and invoking section of law/act against the said two detainees are the same. However, my husband’s detention order has not been revoked by the concerned authority. So I request your good office to revoke the NSA slapped against my husband so that any further proceedings/any lawful step/course of action may also be dispensed with,” the letter added.Speaking to HT over phone from Imphal, Ranjita said there was no response from the Manipur government to her letter till Wednesday evening.Wangkhem, a popular TV journalist, was first arrested in November 2018 for uploading a video on social media which was critical of Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh led government.Several charges including for sedition and under the National Security Act were slapped against him. He was released in April 2019 after the Manipur high court revoked his detention.He was again arrested in September 2020 on charges of sedition and promoting enmity between different groups on social media. Wangkhem was released in December 2020 following which he joined Frontier Manipur and started hosting a talk show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/release-my-husband-too-wife-of-another-manipur-journalist-detained-under-nsa-101626872620226.html
21-07-2021||India||Karnataka HC ruling on Twitter MD plea in Ghaziabad assault case tomorrow||The Karnataka high court on Thursday will pronounce its ruling on a plea filed by Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari challenging a notice issued to him by the Uttar Pradesh Police in connection with a clipping of an alleged hate crime that went viral on social media in June. The court has twice deferred its verdict in the case.On June 24, the high court had granted interim protection to Maheshwari, a resident of Bengaluru, and directed against any coercive action towards him. The UP Police challenged this order in the Supreme Court on June 29. In anticipation of the move, Maheshwari had filed a caveat in the top court a day before, urging it to hear his representation as well.He had earlier informed the Karnataka high court that he is ready to appear before the UP Police, only if he is assured that he would not be arrested. While the police Maheshwari to appear before them in person, the Twitter boss said he is willing to give a statement only via video conferencing.The UP Police had filed a case against Twitter, Congress leaders and some journalists for misleading public in an assault case of an elderly Muslim man at Loni in Ghaziabas. A clipping of the 72-year-old who was allegedly forced to chant “Jai Siya Ram” by six men went viral on June 5. The accused had also forcibly chopped the man’s beard. Police later said there was no religious angle to the incident and the victim was attacked over a personal dispute.The man's family has, however, denied the police's claims and sought further investigation into the matter.Police said Twitter “did nothing to prevent the video from going viral.” It sent a legal notice to Maheshwari to appear before them for questioning, and sent a second notice seeking “account details” of those who posted and “promoted the video.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-ruling-on-twitter-md-plea-in-ghaziabad-assault-case-tomorrow-101626872209790.html
21-07-2021||India||Opposition MPs to ‘gherao’ Parliament to protest farm laws: OP Chautala||Former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala said parliamentarians of opposition parties will gather outside the Parliament on July 22 to protest against the Centre’s contentious farm laws. "Opposition MPs will gherao Parliament tomorrow in protest against the three black laws and create such a situation that would force the government to repeal these laws,"The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) supremo was visiting the Delhi-Ghazipur border to support the ongoing farmers protest "These laws should be withdrawn. India is an agriculture-based country. Agriculture is the backbone of the Indian economy. This agitation is not only for farmers and labourers but for the entire nation," news agency ANI quoted Chautala as saying.Chautala was released from prison earlier this month after serving a 10-year sentence in a teacher recruitment scam. He has been visiting protest sites to extend his support and also paid a visit to Palwal in Haryana. Addressing a farmers' gathering in Palwal, "Our country is primarily an agrarian one. If farmers are happy, then the country is prosperous, if they are not happy, the nation cannot progress,"Also Read: 'Kisan Panchayat': 200 farmers to visit Jantar Mantar everyday from July 22Chautala praised erstwhile deputy Prime Minister in the governments of Prime Minister VP Singh and Chandra Sekhar, Chaudhary Devi Lal, for dedicating his life to working for farmers and the common man. "We want to realise the dreams of the late Chaudhary Devi Lal. All his life he struggled for one thing -- hardworking farmers and the common man should be happy. He wanted the government to take care of basic needs of the people," he said.Farmers have been protesting across the country against the three new farm laws. Inside the Parliament opposition parties have been protesting against the laws during the monsoon session. The various farmer unions have collectively decided to send 200 protesters to Jantar Mantar every day from July 22 to hold peaceful ‘Kisan panchayats’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-mps-to-gherao-parliament-to-protest-farm-laws-op-chautala-101626870404332.html
21-07-2021||India||Severity of future Covid-19 waves on kids speculatory, says top paediatrician||A top paediatrician called it speculatory on Wednesday if the future waves of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) would affect children with increased severity.Dr Praveen Kumar, the director of the department of paediatrics at New Delhi's Lady Hardinge Medical College, also said that the mortality rate in children is lower as compared to adults and said the rare instances of fatalities among children have been found to in those with comorbidities."Whether the future waves will affect children more or with increased severity are speculations. People speculate that future waves may affect children more as most of the adults will be vaccinated in the next few months while we do not have any approved vaccine for children at this point," Dr Kumar said, advising the people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour at their home and limit their social engagements to reduce the chance of contracting the infection and passing them on children.Speaking on the impact of Covid-19 on children, Dr Kumar said that the pandemic can have a severe effect on children’s mental and physical health owing to factors such as confinement at home, illnesses in the family and stress from job loss for parents or financial insecurity."Children may express psychological distress (sadness) by acting out differently as each child behaves differently. Some may become silent while others may express anger and hyperactivity," Dr Kumar said."Though we don’t know how the virus is going to behave and affect children in the future, we need to protect our children from the contagion," he added.The leading paediatrician said that caregivers should show patience with children and make an attempt at understanding their emotions. He suggested watching out for signs of psychological changes in children."Look for signs of stress in young children, which could be excessive worry or sadness, unhealthy eating or sleeping habits, and difficulty with attention and concentration. Families also need to support children to cope with stress and also allay their anxiety," he said.Dr Kumar said the vaccine available for pregnant women and lactating mothers "will give a certain degree of protection to the growing foetus and newborn against the deadly infection."The child health expert said that the deadly second wave of Covid-19 has affected children equally."Covid-19 is a new virus and it affects all age groups because we do not have natural immunity against this virus," he said, pointing at data from the National Centre for Disease Control / Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme dashboard which showed approximately 12% of the Covid-19 infection was contributed by patients less than 20 years of age.Recent surveys have shown similar seropositivity in children and adults. "However, due to a larger number of people getting affected during the second wave of the pandemic, the number of infected children was more as compared to the first wave. However, the mortality rate in children so far is lower as compared to adults and is usually seen in children with comorbidities," Dr Kumar said.The doctor, however, cautioned against a new syndrome seen among infants as well as adolescents, called the multisystem inflammatory syndrome. He said three types of clinical course have been observed — persistent fever with raised inflammatory parameters, classical Kawasaki disease-like presentation and shock, left ventricular dysfunction with the inotropic requirement.He said most patients report it two-to-six weeks after the peak of Covid-­19 infections in the affected population."For establishing the diagnosis of MIS-C, advanced investigations are required. All suspected cases should be referred and managed in a tertiary care hospital with HDU/ICU facility. If identified early, all these cases can be treated," Dr Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severity-of-future-covid-19-waves-on-kids-speculatory-says-top-paediatrician-101626866462574.html
21-07-2021||India||Oust BJP, Mamata Banerjee tells regional parties on TMC’s martyr’s day||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the alleged use of the Israeli software Pegasus for snooping on politicians, activists and journalists and made on open appeal to Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar to put together an opposition front to defeat the BJP in 2024 national elections.She also urged the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance into the allegations that the Central government could have used the Pegasus software to hack phones of prominent political opponents and critics. She suggested that the apex court should form a special investigation team in the matter.“I definitely know that my phone was tapped…Only judiciary can save democracy. Oust spying and save the nation,” Banerjee said during an hour-long virtual address on the TMC’s martyrs’ day, the big annual event held in the memory of 13 youth Congress workers killed in police firing in Kolkata on July 21, 1993.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah became the prime targets in her speech.“Pegasus is bigger than Watergate,” said the Bengal chief minister, referring to the Watergate scandal that rocked the US government and led to President Richard Nixon’s resignation in 1974.Like last year, Banerjee addressed people virtually due to the Covid pandemic but for the first time, giant screens were installed in public places and TMC offices not only in Bengal but also in states such as Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Tripura. Banerjee spoke in Bengali, English and Hindi to reach out to her audience.In Delhi, leaders of regional parties assembled at the Constitution Club of India to listen to the speech.“I will be in Delhi from July 27 to 29. I urge Sharad Pawar Ji (the Nationalist Congress Party chief) to hold a meeting. Mr Prime Minister please don’t disturb us,” said Banerjee.“I don’t know what will happen in 2024 but we have to start our planning now… We will not be defeated. I am confident we will win,” she said, indicating that the TMC is keen to form an alliance against the BJP in the next Lok Sabha polls. After her party’s thumping victory against the BJP in the Bengal assembly elections, Mamata Banerjee’s party is looking to expand its base and forge an opposition alliance to challenge the saffron party nationally.“Only two and a half years are left until the elections. Let us form an alliance and show the path to the nation. I am a worker. I will follow you and your instructions. Chairs do not last forever but love of the people lives on,” said Banerjee.“If our front comes to power we will give free ration to the entire country,” said Banerjee referring in great detail to the rationing system and other welfare schemes implemented by her in Bengal.“I cannot call up Sharad Pawar Ji, P Chidambaram, the Delhi chief minister or the Odisha chief minister because my phone is tapped. See I have put a plaster on the camera of my phone. Instead of a democratic state you (BJP) want to have a surveillance state,” said Banerjee. She held up her mobile phone which had a brown tape pasted on the backside.“Before the assembly polls, I was in a meeting with our party leaders. My phone was there. They recorded everything,” she said.“Modi Ji I am not criticising you as a person but you and Amit Shah Ji have only come up with dark laws. You only want violence and disturbance. India is the land of Swami Vivekananda, Nehru, A P J Abdul Kalam and Bhagat Singh. India needs development and integrity. But all we can see is despair and instability,” said Banerjee.“Mohabbat kaam se hota hai, maan ki baat bolne se nahi (you can spread love through your work, not by speaking your mind),” said Banerjee, referring to the Prime Minister’s monthly radio show ‘Maan Ki Baat’ through which he addresses the nation.“We have to build up agitation across the nation against rising prices of diesel, petrol and LPG,” said the Bengal chief minister.The BJP Bengal unit countered Banerjee by paying homage to its workers killed in political violence.Claiming that 124 BJP workers have been killed since the 2008 panchayat polls, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh held a peaceful agitation at Rajghat in New Delhi while party workers held programmes in Bengal’s districts and Kolkata.“Mamata Banerjee’s government uses Pegasus to snoop on people and opposition leaders. She has a better idea about the technology,” Ghosh said in Delhi.Mamata Banerjee was a Youth Congress leader in 1993 and led an agitation on July 21 against the then Left Front government in the state. Over the years, the martyr’s day rally has emerged as a symbol of the TMC’s struggle since its birth in 1998 and serves as a platform from which Banerjee sends out messages and declares future plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oust-bjp-mamata-banerjee-tells-regional-parties-on-tmc-s-martyr-s-day-101626869260142.html
21-07-2021||India||DRDO successfully test flights indigenous Man-Portable Anti-Tank Guided Missile||The Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) on Wednesday successfully flight tested indigenously developed low weight, fire and forget Man-Portable Anti-Tank Guided Missile (MPATGM). The mission marked a major boost for the Narendra Modi government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign and would strengthen the Indian Army, the DRDO said.According to ANI inputs, the missile was launched from a man-portable launcher integrated with thermal site and the target was mimicking a tank. It hit the target in direct attack mode and destroyed the same with precision, the DRDO said, adding the test has validated the minimum range successfully.“All the mission objectives were met. The missile has already been successfully flight-tested for the maximum range. The missile is incorporated with state-of-the-art Miniaturised Infrared Imaging Seeker along with advanced avionics,” the premier defence research and development body said in a statement.According to a report in Mint, the man-portable missile is launched using a tripod designed for a maximum range of 2.5 km with a launch weight of less than 15 kg. Its control flight tests have been successfully carried out, while guided flight tests (with IIR Seeker) are planned.The DRDO also successfully flight tested the New Generation Akash Missile (Akash-NG), a surface to air missile, from Integrated Test Range (ITR) off the coast of Odisha during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-successfully-test-flights-indigenous-man-portable-anti-tank-guided-missile-101626864446651.html
21-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mohan Bhagwat says CAA NRC will not harm Indian Muslims and all the latest news||CAA, NRC would not harm India’s Muslims: RSS chief Mohan BhagwatRashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) would not harm India’s Muslim citizens while urging the voters “to check” those who try to politicise the issues on communal lines. Read MoreC’garh okays auction of 17 coal blocks, raises concerns about impact on wildlifeThe Chhattisgarh Cabinet has approved auctioning of 17 out of 18 coal blocks identified by the Centre in the state for the purpose, raising concerns about the impact of the mining in wildlife-rich areas that are home to elephants, sloth bears and leopards. Read More25 killed in central China floods, military deployedAt least 25 people were killed including 12 who were trapped in a flooded subway in Zhengzhou, the capital of central China’s Henan province, following rare torrential rains in recent history in the region. Read MoreAvesh Khan ruled out of remainder of warm-up game between Indians and County Select XI, BCCI provides injury updateFast bowler Avesh Khan will be taking no further part in the three-day warm-up game between Indians and County Select XI that is being played at the Emirates Riverside in Durham, the BCCI announced Wednesday. Read MoreSoha Ali Khan celebrates Eid-al-Adha with Inaaya in blush pink anarkali, here's what it costsBollywood celebrities have been taking to social media today (July 21) to wish their fans Eid Mubarak. Read MoreNewborn bee takes its first steps in the world. Watch mesmerising videoIt is incredible to watch videos that show a newborn animal taking its first steps. Read MoreBajaj Chetak Electric scooter to open for bookings in three new Indian citiesBajaj Auto is all geared up to extend the availability of its Chetak Electric scooter in more Indian cities. Read MoreArbaaz Khan opens up on trolling after divorce from Malaika Arora: 'Happened to Aamir Khan too'Arbaaz Khan has spoken about the trolling that he endured after his separation from Malaika Arora. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mohan-bhagwat-says-caa-nrc-will-not-harm-indian-muslims-and-all-the-latest-news-101626865548797.html
21-07-2021||India||Pegasus project: Surveillance, phone tapping debates in Parliament over yrs||Opposition lawmakers on Tuesday disrupted Parliament proceedings and demanded urgent debates over the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities. Issues such as surveillance and phone tapping have been raised in Parliament earlier as well. In responses to parliamentary questions over alleged illegal phone tapping, the governments including the present one, have maintained that there have only been lawful interceptions.The current government has since 2014 repeatedly cited Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, saying it allows for interception “in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with the foreign States, or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of an offense.”In response to Asaduddin Owaisi’s question on alleged unlawful surveillance in 2019, Ravi Shankar Prasad, the then electronics and information technology minister, told Lok Sabha that the allegations were part of attempts “to malign the government”. Prasad dismissed the allegations as “completely misleading”.In February 2021, Lok Sabha member Maneka Gandhi asked the government whether it had found the presence of Pegasus spyware in the country or has it launched an investigation into the use or sale of any spyware on surveillance in the country. Sanjay Dhotre, the then minister of state for electronics and information technology responded by saying there is no such information available with the government.Rajya Sabha member Ravi Prakash Sharma in November 2019 sought to know the number of cases of phone tapping authorised in 2018 and 2019 and the steps taken to check unauthorised and illegal phone tapping. In response, then minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy gave no details about authorised phone tapping. He insisted no illegal tapping has taken place. Thus “no question arises” about steps the government has to take to check unauthorised and illegal phone tapping, he added.In 2015, Parliament member Vishnu Dayal Ram asked the government about the strength of the surveillance agencies. He also sought details of specific organisations of government engaged in surveillance.Haribhai Parthibhai Chaudhary, the then minister of state for home affairs, responded saying the assessment of the strength of security and intelligence agencies in the country is a continuous process. He refused to name such agencies of surveillance. Chaudhary said that details in this regard cannot be disclosed in the interest of national security.In July 2015, the government told Parliament that “the present regime appears to be adequate and currently there is no proposal to bring out any new regulatory framework for lawful interception.”Following the 2019 WhatsApp breach using Pegasus, the government told Parliament that it is working on the Personal Data Protection Bill to safeguard the privacy of citizens. The bill was tabled in Lok Sabha in December 2019 and was later referred to a parliamentary panel for a review.In March 2015, the government said it intercepts calls “in unavoidable circumstances”. It added for this, the order may be issued by an officer, not below the rank of joint secretary, who has been duly authorised by the Union home secretary. The government said a provision that in remote areas or for operational reasons, where obtaining of prior direction for interception of message or class of messages is not feasible, the required interception of any message shall be carried out with the approval of the head or second officer of the authorised security agency at the central level and at least inspector general of police at the state level.The government added on average, 5,000 interception orders per month are issued by the Union home secretary on the requests by law enforcement agencies.Trinamool Congress lawmaker Derek O’Brien said his party will not allow Parliament to run until the government holds an open discussion on Pegasus. “The government tries to do politics with Covid. We do not want discussion on farmers. Repeal farm laws and tomorrow discuss Pegasus or TMC’s position is that there will be no more Parliament (proceedings) till August 13.”Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor said if the government has been engaged in snooping, it needs to give an explanation. “If they say, they have not done it, then it is a more serious national security concern as some other governments might have done it since NSO (whose spyware Pegasus enables the remote surveillance of smartphones) only caters to vetted governments.”Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Sanjay Raut has sought a joint parliamentary probe on the issue.The government has again maintained the country has well-established processes to check unauthorised surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-project-surveillance-phone-tapping-discussions-in-parliament-over-yrs-101626865959862.html
21-07-2021||India||India-Bangladesh border force mark Eid-al-Adha by exchanging sweets and greetings||Indian Border Security Force (BSF) exchanged sweets with its counterpart, Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB), on the occasion of Eid-al-Adha at the India-Bangladesh border in Fulbari on Wednesday. The initiative was taken by BSF South Bengal Frontier, reported ANI.The BSF and BGB, who share cordial relations, exchanged greetings and good wishes at Pertrapole Integrated Check Post (ICP) and other Border Outposts, honouring a long running tradition between the two forces. The two forces guard a 4,096-kilometre-long India-Bangladesh border."Both the border guarding forces share cordial and congenial relations. The exchange of sweets comes as a goodwill gesture and reflects true comradeship. It also helps in building and strengthening cordial relations," the BSF south Bengal frontier with its headquarter in Kolkata said in a statement.Also Read: India, Pakistan exchange sweets along J&K border to celebrate Eid-al-AdhaBSF and Pakistani rangers also exchanged sweets at various points along the border on the occasion of Eid-al-Adha, resuming a convention that was put on pause by Pakistan in 2019 in the aftermath of the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir. A BSF spokesperson said that "exchange of sweets took place between BSF and Pakistan Rangers on the occasion of Eid at JCP (joint check post) Attari" in Punjab's Amritsar district, which lies across the Wagah border front of Pakistan, and in Rajasthan.Sweets and greetings are also exchanged by the two sides during festivals like Diwali, Eid, Republic Day, Independence Day, BSF Raising Day on December 1 and Pakistan's Independence Day on August 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiabangladesh-border-force-mark-eid-al-adha-by-exchanging-sweets-and-greetings-101626865093271.html
21-07-2021||India||July 25, 5pm: CBSE extends deadline for finalising Class 12 result||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday extended the last date for finalising Class 12 result. The board issued a release which said that the deadline has been extended till 5pm on July 25 from the current July 22."As of now, it has been observed that schools are finalizing their data with full capacity. However, as last date i.e. 22.07.2021 is approaching fast and teachers involved are under stress, getting panicky and committing mistakes and sending request to CBSE to rectify these," the CBSE release said."CBSE is well aware about the time constraints and problems faced by the schools and teachers. Accordingly, CBSE has decided to extend the last date from 22.07.2021 to 25.07.2021 (05:00 PM)," it further said.The board requested the schools to continue working towards compiling the result by completing the moderation to avoid last minute rush.The CBSE had made Eid-ul-Adha a working day for its officials due to the July 22 deadline. Examination controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said that the department and board headquarters will be functioning from 10am to 5pm on Wednesday.It had opened the tabulation portal for the moderation of Class 11 and 12 on July 16.With the board exams being cancelled in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19, schools have been tasked with tabulation of results using separate alternative assessment policy announced by the CBSE for classes 10 and 12.The results are expected to be declared by July 31.The new academic session in universities and colleges across the country will begin from October 1, while the admission process has to be completed by September 30, according to new guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC).Universities and higher education institutions (HEIs) have been asked to ensure that the admission process for undergraduate courses begins only after the declaration of results by the CBSE, ICSE and all state boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/july-25-5pm-cbse-extends-deadline-for-finalising-class-12-result-101626864175754.html
21-07-2021||India||Over 30 Trinamool Congress workers detained for Covid guidelines violation||Over 30 activists of Trinamool Congress (TMC) led by the party’s Tripura unit chief Asish Lal Singh were detained from Gournagar in Unakoti district for violating the Covid-19 containment guidelines by organising a political gathering on Wednesday. Tripura TMC leader Asish Lal Singh said they were arrested while hoisting TMC flag to pay tribute to martyrs of 1993 Kolkata firing.Apart from Singh, Trinamool Congress Unakoti district president Anjan Chakraborty was also detained. “They organised a gathering today amidst the pandemic, violating the Covid-19 guidelines. We detained them in presence of an executive magistrate and [they] are now in a temporary jail. More detentions will be made,” said Kailashahar sub divisional police officer Chandan Saha. “Moreover, they didn’t take any prior permission for the gathering,” Saha added. Asish Lal Singh said they were arrested while he was hoisting their party flag to pay tribute to the martyrs of 1993 Kolkata firing. Youth Congress activists were allegedly killed in police firing in Kolkata on this day in 1993 during a rally led by then Congress leader Mamata Banerjee. Tripura TMC has claimed that the party’s ranks have swelled in the state in the last few months as it seeks to emerge as a force in state politics after the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition ended the two decades-long communist rule in the state. Next assembly elections in Tripura are slated for 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-trinamool-congress-workers-detained-for-covid-guidelines-violation-101626864219757.html
21-07-2021||India||Madurai Meenakshi temple elephant to get additional mud flooring in stable||Parvati, the temple elephant at the famed Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple, will be provided more mud flooring in her stable, local media Dinamalar reported on Wednesday. The Tamil Nadu government is planning to extend the facility to all the temple elephants in the state.Parvati had recently contracted cataract in one of her eyes. After Parvati's condition was reported, Hindu Religion and Charitable Endowment minister P Sekar Babu and local ministers P Moorthy and Palanivel Thiagarajan visited the temple along with experts from Tamil Nadu University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences and diagnosed the condition of Parvati’s eyes.The 24-year-old pachyderm contracted eye disease due to dehydration, veterinarian said. The prolonged treatment by the experts is helping the pachyderm and the cataract is disappearing fast.Dedicated to goddess Meenakshi and her consort Sundareshwar, the temple is one of the oldest and most beautiful temples in Tamil Nadu. Spread over 14 acres in the heart of Madurai city, the temple is paved with granite stones.A few years ago, a portion of this granite floor was removed and paved with mud to provide comfort to the elephant. The mud floor is comfortable for the elephant to walk around, according to the temple management. Finding the mud floor helpful to elephants, the temple authorities have decided to extend this mud flooring in the stable.The temple management has also decided to float tenders for repairing Veeravasantha Rayar Hall damaged by the fire in 2018. The granite stones for repair works are stored in the temple farm at Senkulam. Once the tenders are finalized, the hall renovation work will start, temple authorities said.After the state government was informed about the temple management decision to extend mud flooring for elephant Parvati, the state government is now contemplating on extending this facility for all the temple elephants in the state. The decision will be placed at the state assembly shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madurai-meenakshi-temple-elephant-to-get-additional-mud-flooring-in-stable-101626862574547.html
21-07-2021||India||After Centre, these states also claim no deaths reported due to oxygen shortage||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo has said that his state has a surplus of oxygen and no deaths were reported in the state due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Deo made the remarks on Tuesday, after the Centre informed the Rajya Sabha that no deaths due to lack of oxygen has been specifically reported by states/Union territories.Also Read: Centre lied in Parliament over deaths due to oxygen shortage, says Sisodia"It is true that no patient died due to the lack of oxygen in Chhattisgarh. Our state is an oxygen-surplus state. There could have been some issues regarding management, otherwise, there is no death due to lack of oxygen," Deo told news agency ANI.He further accused the Centre of taking credit for all goods things and blaming the states for all bad things."At least they (Central government) admitted that health is a state subject. Otherwise, it appeared as if they are taking everything under their control. They take credit for all goods things and blame states for everything that is bad," said Deo.Apart from Deo, Tamil Nadu health secretary J Radhakrishna also said on Tuesday that the state government ensured adequate availability of oxygen in both government and private hospitals and there was no death due to lack of the life-saving gas.He further mentioned that a dedicated team looked after the state's oxygen supplies.Madhya Pradesh and Bihar too have accepted the fact that no deaths were reported due to shortage of oxygen."No deaths took place due to lack of oxygen in our state. Union health minister stated the same in Rajya Sabha. Even in Tamil Nadu, the health minister voiced the same opinion," said Vishwas Sarang, the medical education minister of Madhya Pradesh.In Bihar, state health minister Mangal Pandey said the government made arrangements while fighting pressures. "We received the Centre's support and oxygen allocation was increased. We facilitated oxygen in all hospitals," Pandey told ANI.He also attacked the Congress party, saying it doesn't want to help people. and only raises issues in Parliament.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday accused the opposition-ruled states of doing politics on the issue while earlier admitting that there was no death due to shortage of oxygen.BJP leader Sambit Patra noted that a Delhi government committee had told high court that there was no evidence to suggest that around 21 people had died due to shortage of oxygen in Jaipur Golden hospital on April 23-24 night after the hospital management reported the matter. The Maharashtra government also told Bombay High Court that no one died due to the oxygen shortage, he added.The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi, opposition Congress and BJP's former ally Shiv Sena have lashed out at the Centre after Minister of State for Health Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar said in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states/UTs. He was responding to a question by Congress MP KC Venugopal.Venugopal took strong objection to the statement and said he will move privilege motion against the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-centre-these-states-also-claim-no-deaths-were-reported-due-to-shortage-101626862360452.html
21-07-2021||India||India, Pakistan exchange sweets along J&K border to celebrate Eid-al-Adha||India and Pakistan took part in “sweets diplomacy” along the international border on the festival of Eid-al-Adha on Wednesday.“Indian Army and Pakistan Army exchanged sweets on the auspicious occasion of Eid-al-Adha at the Line of Control at Poonch-Rawalakot Crossing Point and Mendhar-Hotspring Crossing Point in Poonch district on Wednesday,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.The ceremony is seen as an enhanced confidence-building measure in the backdrop of ongoing ceasefire between both the countries.“Greetings and best wishes of peace and harmony were conveyed to the Pakistan Army representatives from Indian Army. The gesture was appreciated by both the armies and is expected to further promote goodwill and mutual trust,” he added.A senior Border Security Force (BSF) officer also said that sweets and pleasantries were exchanged between the BSF and Pakistan Rangers along the international border in Jammu region to celebrate Eid.“Today, the festival of Eid-al-Adha was celebrated by border men on Indo- Pak border. On this occasion, troops of BSF and Pakistan Rangers greeted each other and exchanged sweets in Hira Nagar, Samba, Ramgarh, RS Pura, Arnia, Pargwal sectors of international border in Jammu region. There has not been cross-border shelling for a long time, and farmers on both sides of the border have been able to carry out their farming activities peacefully,” said BSF Jammu frontier DIG SPS Sandhu. This was the first exchange of sweets between the two border guarding forces after the Pulwama terror attack on a CRPF convoy by a suicide bomber that left 40 CRPF personnel dead on February 14, 2019.The Pulwama attack was one of the deadliest terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir.It was carried out by a Jaish suicide bomber, who rammed a vehicle carrying over 100kg of explosives into the CRPF bus in Pulwama district. The attack also left many critically wounded.In the last month,there has been increased drone activity, including the June 27 attack on the Indian Air Force station in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pakistan-exchange-sweets-along-j-k-border-to-celebrate-eidaladha-101626862361370.html
21-07-2021||India||‘Govt increased oxygen exports by 700% in Covid-19 pandemic year’: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader and the party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said that the Union government increased oxygen exports by 700% in the Covid-19 pandemic year and did not make arrangements for tankers to transport the oxygen within the country.The remarks by Vadra came after minister of state (MoS) for health Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar on Tuesday told Parliament that there were no deaths “specifically reported” by states and Union territories due to lack of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 infections. He submitted the reply as a written response to a question by Congress MP KC Venugopal about the subject.👉एंपावर्ड ग्रुप और संसदीय समिति की सलाह को नजरंदाज कर ऑक्सीजन उपलब्ध कराने का कोई इंतजाम नहीं किया👉अस्पतालों में ऑक्सीजन प्लांट लगाने में कोई सक्रियता नहीं दिखाई 2/2Quoting the Centre’s reply, Vadra tweeted in Hindi, “The deaths happened because - In the pandemic year, the government increased oxygen exports by 700 per cent. The government did not make arrangements for tankers transporting oxygen.”She further said that the government also ignored the advice of the empowered group and the parliamentary committee and no arrangement was made to provide medical oxygen.“Ignoring the advice of the Empowered Group and the Parliamentary Committee, no arrangement was made to provide oxygen. No activity was seen in setting up oxygen plants in hospitals,” she said in a subsequent tweet.Also read | States, UTs did not report deaths due to oxygen shortage: BJPIn his written reply, MoS Dr Pawar also told Parliament that health is a state subject and all states and UTs in India report the number of Covid-19 infections, deaths to the Union health ministry.Following this, Congress’ KC Venugopal, who raised the question initially, said that the minister had misled the house. “I am totally surprised. Government has given a reply today that nobody in the country died due to shortage of oxygen. In every state we saw how many patients died due to lack of oxygen. Actually, the minister misled the house. I will move a privilege [motion] against the minister,” Venugopal told reporters earlier on Tuesday.The govt replied today that nobody in the country has died due to shortage of oxygen. In every state we saw how many patients died due to lack of oxygen. Actually Minister misled the house. We will move a Privilege Motion against him: Shri @kcvenugopalmp #OxygenShortageKilledUs pic.twitter.com/EltZPChPpYCongress minister Rahul Gandhi too had criticised the government’s reply. He said that there was a “severe lack of sensitivity and truth” in part of the government.The demand for medical oxygen swelled during the second wave of infections across many hospitals in the country. The number of daily new infections and the fatalities surged alarmingly between April and June 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-increased-oxygen-exports-by-700-in-covid-19-pandemic-year-priyanka-gandhi-101626861500660.html
21-07-2021||India||Kerala's first transgender poll nominee ends life. Sex-reassignment op to blame?||Weeks after complaining about a sex-reassignment surgery gone wrong, the first transgender candidate from Kerala to file nomination in the recently held Assembly election, Anannyah Kumari Alex, allegedly killed herself on Tuesday. Alex, who was also the first from her community to become a radio jockey, was found hanging in her flat in Kochi.Health Minister Veena George ordered a probe into the death. “A transgender organisation had also given complaint regarding this. An expert committee will be formed to study issues related with sex reassignment surgery,” George was quoted as saying by The News Minute.Alex had once said if transgenders join the mainstream, then definitely there will be colourful changes in society. She was reportedly working as a make-up artist and a freelance fashion stylist.Alex had recently raised allegations of medical negligence against a doctor and a private hospital and sought justice on the matter. She said she was facing serious health issues ever since she underwent a sex-reassignment surgery she underwent in June last year. She alleged that she was unable to work due to severe physical pain even after a year of the surgery.“I’m a victim of gross medical negligence. My private part looks like a piece of meat, it has no resemblance to a vagina. I want to conduct a resurgery, I want justice,” she was quoted as saying in an article by The News Minute.She said she had been experiencing severe pain in the vaginal area and could not bear to even stand for a long time or sit. “Even when I stand for a longer time, sneeze, laugh or even brush my teeth, I have severe discomforts. I have also been experiencing breathing difficulties,” she said.Earlier, Alex was in the news after she filed her nomination as an Assembly election candidate in the Vengara constituency of Malappuram district. She had set to contest against Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader PK Kunjalikutty as a Democratic Social Justice Party (DSJP) nominee. However, she suspended her campaign a day before polling, alleging that she was being harassed and received death threats from leaders of her own party. As she could not withdraw her nomination at the time, she urged voters to not extend their support to the DSJP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-first-transgender-poll-nominee-ends-life-sex-reassignment-op-to-blame-101626860510532.html
21-07-2021||India||ATM cash withdrawal fee to pinch more from August 1||Starting August 1, the interchange fee that banks can charge on Automated Teller Machines (ATM) will see an increase of ₹2 following the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) order. In June, the central bank raised the interchange fee from ₹15 to ₹17, while for non-financial transactions the fee has been raised from ₹5 to ₹6.The fee is charged by banks to merchants processing payments through credit card or debit cards. As per the revised rules, the customers will be eligible for five free transactions every month from their home bank ATMs.Customers can claim free transactions from ATMs of other banks, too, which include three withdrawals in metros and five in non-metro cities.The changes were announced on the basis of the suggestions of a committee set up by the RBI in June 2019. It was set up under the chairmanship of the chief executive of the Indian Banks’ Association to review the entire gamut of ATM charges and fees with a particular focus on interchange structure for ATM transactions.The central bank had said these charges were allowed to be hiked owing to the increasing cost of ATM deployment and expenses towards the maintenance of ATM that banks incur. News agency PTI reported that as of March 31, there are 115,605 onsite ATMs and 97,970 off-site teller machines in the country and around 900 million debit cards issued by different banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atm-cash-withdrawal-fee-to-pinch-more-from-august-1-101626860291634.html
21-07-2021||India||Guj HC orders collection of critical Covid patient's sample as wife wants child||The Gujarat High Court has directed a hospital in Vadodara to conduct an IVF/Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) procedure for the collection of sample of a critical Covid-19 patient having slim chances of survival, after his wife expressed the desire to bear his child.The HC issued the order issued on Tuesday, considering it as an "extraordinary urgent situation".After an urgent hearing of a petition filed by the patient's wife, Justice Ashutosh J Shastri directed the Vadodara-based hospital to conduct the IVF (In vitro fertilisation)/ART procedure for the collection of his sample and keep it stored in an appropriate place as per medical advice.The petitioner wants to conceive his child through the IVF/ART technology, but the hospital was not allowing this unless she got a court order directing it to collect his sample, her lawyer Nilay Patel said. Hence, she approached the high court on Tuesday with an urgent plea, he said.The HC said "the ad interim relief is granted in an extraordinary urgent situation before the court and the same shall be subject to the outcome of the petition".The court also issued notices to the state government and the hospital's director, and sought their response on July 23.The petitioner approached the court, saying her Covid-19-infected husband was suffering from multi-organ failure and was on life support system, and according to doctors, he has slim chances of survival, Patel said.The HC directed the petitioner and the assistant government pleader to communicate its order to the hospital for collection of the patient's sample, looking at the criticality of the situation when his health condition is said to be deteriorating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guj-hc-orders-collection-of-critical-covid-patient-s-sample-as-wife-wants-child-101626858737099.html
21-07-2021||India||Centre lied in Parliament over deaths due to oxygen shortage: Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday accused the Central government of “lying” in Parliament that no deaths were caused due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Addressing a digital press conference, Sisodia said there was “utter mismanagement” of oxygen supply during the second wave in the country and blamed the Centre’s policies for the “disaster” that unfolded in the country. “The Centre blatantly and shamelessly lied to the Parliament on Tuesday. There was a genuine oxygen crisis across the country between April 15 and May 10. During this period, there was utter oxygen mismanagement by the Centre because of which, there was chaos in hospitals. The Centre is now lying to hide its mistakes. It changed its oxygen distribution policy after April 13 which led to a total disaster. The Centre will have to take responsibility for this,” said Sisodia. “Today, to reinforce that lie, BJP spokespersons held a press conference and bashed non-BJP state governments, including that of Arvind Kejriwal [Delhi]. This has been etched in the history now that when the country was battling a brutal second wave of Covid-19, the Centre, because of its foolish policies, pushed the country into a full blown oxygen crisis… Why is Prime Minister Modi lying?” he said. Also Read | Delhi minister hits out at Centre’s ‘no deaths due to oxygen shortage’ remarkBJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on Wednesday said the Delhi government itself submitted an affidavit in the court claiming none of the 20 Covid-19 deaths that happened in Jaipur Golden hospital between April 23-24 in the national Capital were caused due to oxygen shortage. Responding to this, Sisodia said, “We are saying this to the court that the Centre is not allowing us to make a committee which is to investigate all such deaths... If you ask us today, we have no data of deaths that happened due to oxygen shortage. We will be able to get such a number only if the Centre allows us to form the committee.”Delhi endured a punishing fourth wave of Covid-19 infections between April and May that left the health infrastructure overrun, medical workers overwhelmed, and led to crematoriums running out of space. Over 760,000 people were infected in that period, while over 13,000 died of the infection between April and May alone. Cases in the city began to peter out towards the middle of May on the back of a lockdown, which the state government imposed from April 19. The situation worsened with the city reeling under an acute shortage of oxygen.The deputy chief minister alleged that the Centre “troubled” non-BJP-ruled states by allocating them oxygen from distant places. “When CM Kejriwal took responsibility and admitted that people indeed died due to oxygen shortage, the Centre stepped back. Kejriwal had ordered the constitution of a special committee which was to investigate every Covid-19 death due to oxygen shortage in Delhi, fix responsibility for the lapses, and give compensation to such families. But, the Centre, through the L-G, did not allow us to make this committee. They just want to hide real facts. If you (Centre) have the courage to face the truth, then allow Kejriwal to form this committee and conduct an independent inquiry into each death caused due to oxygen shortage,” Sisodia said. In a writtten statement in Parliament, the Central on Tuesday said no deaths specifically due to lack of oxygen were reported by states and Union territories during the second Covid-19 wave. Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen during the second wave, minister of state (health), Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha ,“Due to unprecedented surge in demand of medical oxygen during the second wave -- the demand in the country peaked to nearly 9,000 MT as compared to 3,095 MT during the first wave -- the Central government had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution to the states.”“Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union health ministry to all states and UTs... Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union health ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by States/UTs,” stated Pawar’s reply. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said, “If there was no shortage of oxygen, why did hospitals move court? Hospitals and the media were flagging oxygen shortage issues daily. Television channels showed how hospitals were running out of the life-saving gas. It is completely false to say that no one died due to oxygen shortage. There have been many deaths due to oxygen shortage in Delhi and many other places across the country.”The country has been coming out of a deadly second wave of the outbreak which overwhelmed the medical infrastructure to the point of a breakdown. At its peak of second wave, India recorded 414,188 infections in a span of 24 hours on May 6. The cases have receded gradually since, and India recorded its lowest daily spike in 125 days at 30,093 infections on Tuesday. But on Wednesday, it recorded 42,015 fresh cases of coronavirus infections, taking the cumulative tally past 31,216,337, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-lied-in-parliament-over-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortagesisodia-101626856659184.html
21-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu holds show of support, takes MLAs to Golden Temple in luxury bus||Taking on his new role with fervour, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday called party lawmakers at his residence in Amritsar in a symbolic show of support. The former cricketer-turned-politician's aides said that more than 60 MLAs will reach his residence to support him.In early visuals emerging from Punjab Congress chief's Amritsar house, party MLAs were seen filling Sidhu's residence. By noon, at least 40 lawmakers had turned up at Sidhu's house. The MLAs supporting Sidhu were ferried to the Golden Temple in Amritsar in luxury buses.Sidhu assumed the charge of the Punjab unit chief on Sunday.As he made his way to constituency Amritsar, Sidhu on Tuesday returned to a hero’s welcome with the party rank and file lining up with garlands, banners, flags and bouquets at Golden Gate, the main entrance to Amritsar from National Highway 1. The thick crowd waiting to welcome him swelled even as it rained in the area.Amritsar has sent Sidhu to Parliament thrice and he is the Amritsar East MLA at present.As people queued up to catch a glimpse of Sidhu on the highway, Sidhu came out of the sunroof of his car and celebrated the rousing welcome. He was honoured with siropas (robes of honour), momentos and garlands en route his residence in Amritsar. Sidhu also visited Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of Bhagat Singh, to pay tributes to the freedom fighter at his memorial here.Meanwhile, the rift between Sidhu and Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has widened as the reports of meeting between the two leaders were rejected by the CM's media advisor Raveen Thukral."Reports of Navjot Singh Sidhu seeking time to meet Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh are totally false. No time has been sought. No change in the stance. The Chief Minister will not meet Sidhu till he publicly apologises for his personally derogatory social media attacks against him," said Singh's media advisor in a tweet yesterday.Underlining the Punjab model, Sidhu on Tuesday said will make the state prosperous again."An 18-point programme given by the Congress high command will make every Punjabi a shareholder and the power given by the people be returned in the shape of development," he said.Sidhu said he stressed on awakening the spirit of truth and rights among each Punjabi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-holds-show-of-support-takes-mlas-to-golden-temple-in-luxury-bus-101626849844554.html
21-07-2021||India||Some entities want to lower India’s prestige: CM Khattar on Pegasus controversy||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday questioned Amnesty International’s credibility while referring to the rights organisation’s role in forensic analysis related to the targeting of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities by Israeli spyware Pegasus.“Amnesty International did not disclose its source of funding to the government. Rather, it chose to pack its bags and leave the country. That means that it is linked to certain entities which want to lower the prestige of our country. Their Pegasus narrative cannot be trusted,” Khattar said.Also Read | Haryana govt to reduce 30 pc syllabus for classes 10, 12Amnesty International last year announced it was halting its work in India, saying the government froze its bank accounts as “an act of reprisal” for the organisation’s work.Khattar accused the Congress of making up stories to dent the country’s image globally. “Our credibility will go down. Because of the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, our country has reached a certain level globally.”He blamed previous Congress governments for snooping. Khattar claimed even his mobile number could be under surveillance by a spying company. “But that does not mean that we (the government) have any role in it. In fact, we could also be the victim. There are so many agencies which snoop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-entities-want-to-lower-india-s-prestige-cm-khattar-on-pegasus-controversy-101626854499148.html
21-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 415 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 415 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, July 20, even as the latest serological survey said that about two out of three Indians may have some protection from Covid-19.The study covered 28,975 people who were tested for antibodies for Sars-CoV-2. In all, 67.6% of the participants tested positive as a result of either an infection or because they took a vaccine.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 415,225,632 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,179,469 doses were administered on the day.Also Read | Open schools, with a focus on early gradesIn the 18-45 age group, 1,503,713 were given the first dose while 136,257 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 129,252,381 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 5,211,066 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.India on Wednesday recorded 42,015 fresh Covid cases, taking the cumulative tally past 31,216,337, data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. The country also recorded 3,998 new fatalities in the last 24 hours. A total of 418,480 people have succumbed to the infectious disease from the start of the pandemic, as per the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-415-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101626853659859.html
21-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra's arrest: What laws say about making porn movies in India||Businessman and Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra has been arrested on several charges including cheating, making pornography etc. The Mumbai Police received complaints from more than one woman of being lured into starring in adult content for Raj Kundra's app Hotshots, which is presently owned by a UK firm, which allegedly belongs to Kundra's brother-in-law. After a few arrests and raids, the police finally reached Raj Kundra.The charges under which Raj Kundra has been booked include Section 420 (cheating), Section 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 and other sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.Also Read | Raj Kundra's porn app case: No active role of Shilpa Shetty found yet, say copsHere is what the laws saySection 292 of the Indian Penal Code: According to this section, something shall be deemed as obscene if it is lascivious or appeals to the pruri­ent interest. Under its many provisions which bar selling, renting, distributing any such content, the section says whoever "takes part in or receives profits from any business in the course of which he knows or has reason to believe that any such obscene objects are for any of the purposes aforesaid, made, produced, purchased, kept, imported, exported, conveyed, publicly exhibited or in any manner put into circulation shall be punished.Watch | Raj Kundra porn app case: What police said about Shilpa Shetty's involvementSection 293 of the Indian Penal Code: This section deals with the age of the customers/audience as it says "Whoever sells, lets to hire, distributes, exhibits or circulates to any person under the age of twenty years any such obscene object as is referred to in the last preceding section, or offers or at­tempts so to do, shall be punished".There are several sections of the Information Technology Act, 2020 which pertain to pornography.Section 67 in the IT Act: This provision says whoever "publishes or transmits or causes to be published or transmitted in the electronic form, any material which is lascivious or appeals to the prurient interest or if its effect is such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons who are likely, having regard to all relevant circumstances, to read, see or hear the matter contained or embodied in it, shall be punished".The Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act 1986 says no person shall publish, or cause to be published, or arrange or take part in the publication or exhibition of, any advertisement which contains indecent representation of women in any form.There are detailed provisions in Indian laws banning child pornography.While shooting for adult content is banned in India, viewing porn got periodically blocked as the government blocked many sites in the recent past. However, watching adult content is not officially banned in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-arrest-what-laws-say-about-making-porn-in-india-101626852316164.html
21-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kalyan Singh on life-support, critical, say officials and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kalyan Singh on life-support, critical: OfficialsFormer Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is critical and has been put on a life support system, according to officials from the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow. Read MoreUK Strike Force joins Indian and Quad navies to put a stamp on Indo-PacificThe Queen Elizabeth carrier strike group will bring the focus on Quad and the Indo-Pacific when the naval force exercises with Indian Navy’s Rajput class guided missile destroyer, an attack submarine and anti-submarine warfare aircraft in the Bay of Bengal while enroute to the contested South China Sea. Read More'Kisan Panchayat': 200 farmers to visit Jantar Mantar everyday from July 22The government is facing opposition's heat inside Parliament over various issues. The Congress and others parties have said that they will not let monsoon session proceed normally unless the government listens to their demands. Read MoreRahul Dravid gives impeccable speech in dressing room after India's win in 2nd ODI, BCCI shares videoRahul Dravid gave an incredible speech in the dressing room after India came back from a difficult situation to pull off a stunning win in the second ODI against Sri Lanka in Colombo. Read MoreSupriya Pathak calls her stepson Shahid Kapoor ‘our main anchor’, reveals Mira Rajput is ‘a great cook’Actor Supriya Pathak has called her stepson, actor Shahid Kapoor, the 'main anchor' of the family. Supriya also praised the cooking skills of Shahid's wife, Mira Rajput. Read MoreMaruti Suzuki hits 50 lakh sales milestone in rural India, builds on solid reachMaruti Suzuki on Wednesday informed it had completed 50 lakh units in cumulative sales in the rural markets of the country and that rural India contributes to a sizable 40% of its overall sales here. Read MoreEid-al-Adha 2021: Huma Qureshi wishes fans Eid Mubarak in bespoke anarkali, see picsIndians are celebrating the holy festival of Eid-al-Adha or the Feast of Sacrifice today (July 21). Read MoreAnand Mahindra shares video of ‘gold Ferrari’, post sparks Twitter chatterMahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra is an avid Twitter user. He often takes to the micro-blogging site to share various kinds of posts that prompt people to post different comments. Read MoreWatch: Raj Kundra porn app case: What police said about Shilpa Shetty's involvement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kalyan-singh-on-life-support-critical-say-officials-and-all-the-latest-news-101626850766546.html
21-07-2021||India||Kalyan Singh on life-support, critical: Officials||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is critical and has been put on a life support system, according to officials from the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow."Kalyan Singh ji's health status is critical. He has been intubated and put on life-saving support system since Tuesday evening. His clinical parameters are being closely monitored by the expert Consultants," the officials said in a statement on Tuesday.The former chief minister's health is being monitored by the senior faculty of critical care medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology. A close watch is being kept on all aspects of his health, officials said.The hospital officials on Tuesday said Singh is being administered oxygen through a face mask."His clinical parameters are being closely monitored by the expert Consultants. He has been kept on non-invasive ventilation due to respiratory worsening," the hospital had said in a statement.SGPGIMS Director RK Dhiman is also closely monitoring Singh's treatment on daily basis.The 89-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader who has also served as the former governor of Rajasthan was admitted to the ICU earlier this month after an infection and reduced consciousness level.Earlier this week on Sunday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the hospital to enquire about Singh's health.With inputs from Agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalyan-singh-on-life-support-critical-officials-101626847392069.html
21-07-2021||India||UK Strike Force joins Indian and Quad navies to put a stamp on Indo-Pacific||The Queen Elizabeth carrier strike group will bring the focus on Quad and the Indo-Pacific when the naval force exercises with Indian Navy’s Rajput class guided missile destroyer, an attack submarine and anti-submarine warfare aircraft in the Bay of Bengal while enroute to the contested South China Sea.An armada of 12 warships, more than 30 aircraft, two submarines and over 4,500 personnel from Indian and Royal Navy will exercise from July 22-23 under the annual Exercise Konkan rubric. The Elizabeth CSG is on a maiden deployment with state of the art F-35B fighters on board and is accompanied by top of the line destroyers from the US and Netherlands. The CSG after exercising with Indian Navy will head towards the Indo-Pacific and exercise with Japanese, South Korean, New Zealand and Australian Navies.The Elizabeth CSG deployment is part of Britain’s Indo-Pacific tilt post-Brexit and dovetails into Quad coalition of democracies efforts to stand up to the Chinese Navy’s growing ambitions and aggression in the Indo-Pacific. As a part of this effort, Britain has decided to permanently station two of its patrol boats in the Indo-Pacific in an order to ensure freedom of navigation and rule of law in the sea.The Elizabeth CSG will be exercising with Japanese maritime forces and will make a port call to Yokosuka, the homeport of USS Ronald Reagan, the only forwardly deployed super carrier of the US. Japanese urgency to ramp up its military capabilities and deepen military cooperation with Quad and other allies comes at a time when China has emerged as country’s top security threat. Only last week, Chinese propaganda machines threatened to nuke Japan if it interferes in Taiwan or East China Sea by saying that Beijing will revisit its no first use option. Japan has a running land dispute with China over Senkaku Islands in East China Sea.After touring the Indo-Pacific, the Elizabeth CSG will conduct tri-services exercises with the Indian military off the coast of Goa in Arabian Sea. The joint exercises will be held on October 21-23 in Karwar harbour and in high seas on October 24-27 with complex amphibious landing manoeuvres and joint operations in all three spectrums. CSG Elizabeth will make a port call at Karwar and Mumbai ports with top officials of the Indian military going on-board the aircraft carrier for operational meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-strike-force-joins-indian-and-quad-navies-to-put-a-stamp-on-indopacific-101626847569004.html
21-07-2021||India||Stalin signs MoU at investors' meet, says 83,000 new jobs will be created||The Tamil Nadu government has signed investment deals worth ₹28,500 crores in the presence of Chief Minister M K Stalin at an investors’ meet in Chennai, reported Tamil newspaper Dina Thanthi on Wednesday. The newly signed deals will generate 83,000 more new jobs in the state. Managing directors, CEOs, and senior authorities from 49 companies attended the meeting, and 49 new Memorandum of Understandings were signed, the daily stated.The investments are made in sectors including automobile parts production, industrial parks, IT and ITES, textiles, and pharmaceuticals. The projects are spread across the state in places like Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Pudukottai, Karur, Erode, Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruppur, Krishnagiri, Ranipet, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Cuddalore, and Tiruvannamalai districts.Addressing the event, chief minister M K Stalin said that the Tamil Nadu government is signing 35 MoUs for the new industrial ventures worth ₹17,141 crores on Tuesday. These new investments will generate 55,044 new jobs. The state government has laid the foundation stone for nine projects through which ₹4,250 crores investments have been made in the state and these nine projects would generate 21,630 jobs. The state government has also inaugurated the operations of five industries which made ₹7,117 crore investments generating 6,798 jobs. Collectively, the state has ensured 49 industrial ventures with a total investment of ₹28,508 crores, creating 83,482 new jobs at this juncture, Stalin said.Stalin appealed to the industrialists based in Tamil Nadu and abroad to invest in the state and create more jobs, contributing to the human development opportunities of Tamil Nadu youth. The government is dedicated to making Tamil Nadu the most investors’ friendly state in South Asia. The objective of the state government is to turn Tamil Nadu into a one trillion economy by 2030, the Chief Minister added.Stalin also inaugurated a single-window portal 2.0 for the investors during the function. The upgraded single-window portal will integrate 24 departments facilitating new and old investors for their industry-related approvals.Tamil Nadu industries minister, Thangam Thennarasu, Chief Secretary V Iraianbu, and senior officials attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-signs-mou-at-investors-meet-says-83-000-new-jobs-will-be-created-101626846644499.html
21-07-2021||India||People celebrate Eid-al-Adha, offer namaz at homes in Delhi amid pandemic||Devotees mostly stayed indoors to offer namaz and celebrate Eid-al-Adha in Delhi on Wednesday, as religious and festive gatherings remain prohibited in the city to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal greeted people on the occasion."Hearty wishes to all the countrymen on Eid-ul-Adha. May this festival bring happiness and prosperity in your lives," Kejriwal tweeted.The day lacked usual hustle bustle and festivity as major mosques such as Jama Masjid and Fatehpuri Masjid in old Delhi were closed for the visitors. Police personnel were also deployed outside the mosques to prevent crowding."As congregational prayers are not allowed due to Covid-19 restrictions, just a few staffers and their family members offered namaz on Eid-ul-Adha today. People themselves are careful and not thronging the mosques to keep safe from the virus," said Syed Ahmed Bukhari, Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid.A senior police officer said meetings were held with Imams earlier to urge them to encourage people to celebrate Eid at their homes for everyone's safety amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Police presence was enhanced and patrolling was intensified to ensure no overcrowding took place amid festivities, he said."Posters were also pasted by the police wishing everyone Eid Mubarak and at the same time urging them to celebrate the festival at home with their families and stay safe," he said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said the Imams and other members of mosques were briefed about the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) guidelines regarding Covid and their cooperation was sought for safe celebrations on the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-celebrate-eid-ul-adha-offer-namaz-at-homes-in-delhi-amid-pandemic-101626847476299.html
21-07-2021||India||Low depression in Bay of Bengal likely, Tamil Nadu to get more rains in coming days||With ample signs of a low depression brewing in North-Western Bay of Bengal sea, Tamil Nadu may have to brace up for more rains in the following days, reported Tamil daily Dinamalar quoting Regional Meteorological Centre at Chennai. The center has warned of a low depression formation in the Bay of Bengal on July 23.The low depression will result in heavy winds ranging from 40 to 50 kilometers per hour in Tamil Nadu's coastal districts, Gulf of Mannar, South and Central parts of Bay of Bengal, Karnataka, Kerala, and Lakshadweep islands. The fishermen are warned not to venture into these areas in the coming days. The skies will remain cloudy in Chennai city on Wednesday and moderate showers could be expected in some parts of the city areas, the regional center forecasted.The center also predicted heavy rains with thunderstorms and lightning to moderate showers in the Western Ghats districts namely the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Theni, Dindigul, and Tenkasi districts on Wednesday. Light showers could be expected in some parts of the state while dry climate will prevail in most parts of the state, the weather bulletin mentioned.Chennai and suburban areas are witnessing heavy rains and thunderstorms, especially during the nights this week. Earlier on Monday night, incessant rains resulted in the diversion of flight services to Chennai Airport. Heavy rains with lightning and winds which started lashing the city suburbs lasted from Monday night to Tuesday morning.Air Asia flight from Guwahati supposed to land at Chennai Airport on Monday night could not make a landing due to inclement weather. Airport authorities diverted the flight to Bengaluru Airport. The flight returned to Chennai early Monday morning. Two passenger flights and three cargo flights taking off from Chennai airport were also delayed by one hour on Monday, according to the daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-depression-in-bay-of-bengal-likely-tamil-nadu-to-get-more-rains-in-coming-days-101626845604227.html
21-07-2021||India||Maharashtra reconciles over 3,000 Covid deaths pushing India's daily toll to 3,998||Maharashtra has reconciled 3,509 Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday, which resulted in a sharp and unexpected jump in the number of India's daily Covid-19 toll which, for the past few days, has been on a steady decline. The health ministry dashboard on Wednesday showed India's daily Covid-19 toll as 3,998, which is a massive jump from Tuesday's 374 deaths. Not only Tuesday, but India's daily Covid-19 toll has also now come down to hundreds from thousands.The rise in the number of daily cases on Wednesday also owes to Maharashtra's 14th Covid data reconciliation. India on Tuesday recorded 30,093 fresh cases, the lowest in 125 days. Within 24 hours, the tally jumped to 42,015.After the 14th reconciliation, Maharashtra's positive case tally has increased by 2,479, while the toll has increased by 3,509.India's overall Covid-19 situation is improving while the country now stands at the crucial juncture between the receding second wave and a possible third wave. Most of the states are seeing a steady decline in the number of daily cases and daily tolls. But Maharashtra, Kerala and the northeastern states are still not out of danger.Amid the apprehension of a possible third wave of the pandemic, any sudden change in India's daily Covid-19 graph draws scrutiny. Wednesday's rise in the number of cases and deaths is however a backlog and not a 24-hour spurt. Maharashtra too has not seen any unnatural increase in infection or death in the last 24 hours. It is not clearly known when the deaths that the state government reconciled on Tuesday took place.What is data reconciliation?Adding backlog data to the state's tally is known as the process of data reconciliation. This may happen if some cases, deaths remain undocumented when they took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reconciles-over-3-000-covid-deaths-pushing-india-s-daily-toll-to-3998-101626845777446.html
21-07-2021||India||Covid-19: RT-PCR test to cost ₹299 in Gurugram||The state government slashed the price of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), considered the gold standard test to detect Covid-19, to ₹299 in the state, as per an order issued by the state health department on July 15. The order was released by the district health department on Tuesday.It is for a seventh time that the health department has revised the testing cost, fixing separate rates for samples given directly at the lab and those collected from homes.Testing of samples at private hospitals or accredited diagnostic labs certified for Covid-19 testing will cost ₹299, while for home collection, the price has been capped at ₹499. Until now, one had to pay ₹499 to get tested in a private facility and ₹699 for home collection, as per the rates fixed in the first week of January 18.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer for Gurugram, said, “All private labs have been directed to charge the new testing rates. Action will be taken against if there is any complaint related to overcharging by labs.”The costs of other tests to detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the body, such as antigen test ( ₹350) antibody test ( ₹250), TrueNat ( ₹1,250) and CBNAAT ( ₹2,400) continue to remain the same.The RT-PCR testing charge was first slashed on June 16, 2020, from ₹4500, which was the upper limit fixed by the Indian Council of Medical Research in March 2020, to ₹2,400. In 2020, the test cost was reduced to ₹1,600 on August 29, to ₹1,200 on October 2 and ₹900 on October 29.On Tuesday, as per the district health bulletin, over 2,720 RT-PCR tests and 791 rapid antigen tests were administered. Even as the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the sample tested, is nearly 0.1%, the health department is conducting around 3,000 tests a day.According to the health bulletin, seven new Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday. The active case count stands at 70, while the total tally is 180,810. No Covid-19 death has been reported in the last 11 days, with the toll at 919 in the district.First dose inoculation suspended The health department suspended the administration of first dose vaccines on Wednesday due to a vaccine shortage. Only the second dose will be administered at 42 government vaccination centres.At least 200 doses of Covaxin will be given at four health centres in Tigra, Chauma, Badshahpur and Manesar, and 250 doses at Candour tech space in Sector 48. At least 100 doses of Covishield, each, will be available at the remaining sites. Also, 100 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine will be given at the Sector 31 polyclinic.On Tuesday, about 15,085 vaccine doses were administered, of which 8,523 were at government health centres and 6,562 at private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-rt-pcr-test-to-cost-299-in-gurugram-101626845133442.html
21-07-2021||India||First possible human infection of bird flu in India: What we know so far||An 11-year-old boy died on Tuesday at Delhi's AIIMS, marking possibly the first documented bird flu case and death in humans in India. Bird flu is influenza that affects birds. On rare occasions, this infection can transmit to humans. Early this year, several states of India witnessed a sudden outbreak of avian influenza amid the Coronavirus pandemic. But this is the first documented transmission of bird flu to a human, doctors said.What we know about this caseThe 11-year-old was admitted to the paediatric department of AIIMS in June end. Initially, Covid-19 was suspected. When he tested negative for Covid, he was suspected of influenza. The boy was suffering from leukaemia and pneumonia. Then his samples were sent to Pune's National Institute of Virology where he tested positive for bird flu.On July 20, he succumbed to the infection. The flu spreads from the saliva, mucous and faeces of the infected birds. It is not yet clear how the boy got infected. All staff who were attending this boy are being monitored closely.Does bird flu affect humans?In general, bird flu does not affect humans. But sporadic transmission of the infection from birds to humans has occurred, not documented in India, but in other countries. It can not usually transmit from one infected human to another as the virus can not attach to human cells well.According to World Health Organization, from January 2003 to July 8, 2021, there were 239 cases of human infection of avian influenza. Of these cases, 455 were fatal. The last was reported from Laos on October 31, 2020.Is bird flu deadly?Yes, bird flu is deadlier than Covid-19 as its mortality rate is 60% in comparison with Covid's 3% mortality rate.First human case of bird flu in China in JuneChina reported the first human infection of H10N3 bird flu in June in a 41-year-old man, a resident of Zhenjiang. Reports said he recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-possible-human-infection-of-bird-flu-in-india-what-we-know-so-far-101626843053628.html
21-07-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath says opposition must apologise for stalling Parliament||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath lashed out at opposition parties, saying the ruckus they created in Parliament is like strangling the decmocracy. He also said that the farmers, who have been protesting against the farm laws passed by the Centre, have been provoked.Adityanath said the opposition should apologise to the people and the country.“The opposition is continuously playing with democracy. The current session of Parliament is very important as there has to be discussions for the welfare of villages, the poor, the youth and the women. Many important bills were to be discussed but the opposition was not at all co-operative. The opposition hatched this conspiracy,” said the opposition.He was referring to the opposition noise in the Lok Sabha when PM Modi stood up to introduce the new ministers inducted into the Cabinet after the recent reshuffle. the Opposition began raising slogans on the rising prices of fuel.The Opposition’s sloganeering continued while speaker Om Birla appealed for silence and to let “customary” introduction of the ministers take place. The Prime Minister said that instead of a hue and cry, he had expected that the ministers would be honoured with claps. “But it seems that Dalits, women… OBCs of the country becoming ministers does not go down well with many people sitting here in Parliament."Adityanath said that Parliament is a forum to express one's point of view. "The opposition noise is like strangling of democracy. For this, the opposition should apologise to the people and the country."The chief minister further said that in the name of the farmers' movement, the peasants were linked with faith and religion. “The farmers’ were provoked, violence was created. The opposition is doing negative politics but it is not going to benefit the country. The frustrated intentions of the opposition will never succeed. The opposition had spoiled the atmosphere before 2019 by bringing an issue like Rafale, but the public responded to them. Now only the public and the public will answer them," he added.Since its beginning on Monday, the monsoon session has witnessed repeated adjournments of both the houses of Parliament due to uproar by opposition parties on various issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-says-opposition-must-apologise-for-stalling-parliament-101626842228042.html
21-07-2021||India||Educational institutes to reopen in Chhattisgarh from August 2||The Chhattisgarh government on Tuesday announced the reopening of higher secondary schools, colleges, and universities from August 2 with 50% attendance. In a statement, the government said the decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting. It added the students can attend classes on alternate days while online classes for all streams will continue.“It is not mandatory for the students to attend the colleges,” the statement said. It added the permission of parents of students for attending them will be required.The schools will be reopened in areas with no Covid-19 cases. Local bodies will take decisions on reopening them after consultations with parents. Officials said Industrial Training Institutes will also be reopened along with medical, engineering, polytechnics colleges in a phased manner.The state Cabinet has also approved a proposal to reopen ashrams and hostels shut due to the pandemic in Bastar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/educational-institutes-to-reopen-in-chhattisgarh-from-august-2-101626841718270.html
21-07-2021||India||New IT rules to address public’s grievances: I&B ministry||Information and broadcasting ministry joint secretary Vikram Sahay has said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines & Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, are aimed at addressing the grievances of the common man and keep the citizen at the heart of their redressal mechanism.“The rules establish a soft touch co-regulatory architecture involving a Code of Ethics and a three-tier grievance redressal framework for publishers on digital media,” said Sahay at a webinar on the Digital Media Ethics Code on Tuesday.Also Read | Over 1,800 news portals shared compliance details: Govt officialsHe spoke about the provisions related to furnishing and disclosure of information by the digital media publishers and added the ministry has received responses from over 1,800 publishers.The webinar was organised for the stakeholders in the northern Indian states and Union territories including digital news publishers, journalists, OTT platforms, and academia. It was part of a series of webinars on the rules. Webinars were earlier held for the southern, western, eastern, north-eastern, and central regions in June and July.The rules were notified in February and have been challenged in high courts across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-it-rules-to-address-public-s-grievances-i-b-ministry-101626840998145.html
21-07-2021||India||India Covid-19 tally shoots up again after 42,015 cases recorded in 24 hours||India on Wednesday recorded 42,015 fresh cases of coronavirus infections, taking the cumulative tally past 31,216,337 data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. The country also recorded 3,998 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, data showed. A total of 418,480 people have succumbed to the infectious disease from the start of the pandemic, the government data shows. India's active cases of Covid-19 also rose by 1,040 in the last 24 hours and settled at 407170. These account for 1.3% of total infections. The country's recovery rate stood at 97.37% on Wednesday, as 36,977 people were cured of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, data updated at 8am showed. The country has been coming out of a deadly second wave of the disease outbreak which overwhelmed the medical infrastructure to the point of a breakdown. At its peak of second-wave, India recorded 414,188 infections in a span of 24 hours on May 6. The cases have receded gradually since then, and India recorded its lowest daily spike in 125 days at 30,093 infections on Tuesday.In the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament, the government pointed to the easing of lockdown combined with pandemic fatigue, lack of community adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour and evolution and circulation of more transmissible variants of SARS-CoV-2 viruses to the second wave.Minister of State for health Bharati Pravin Pawar said central teams deployed to across India during February to May observed lack of adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour and sub-optimal efforts at containment in certain geographies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-tally-shoots-up-again-after-42-015-cases-recorded-in-24-hours-101626838008366.html
21-07-2021||India||Five vaccines, 19 trial sites among Covid projects supported by Centre||The government is funding the development of four vaccine candidates that have entered the human clinical trial stage and one vaccine candidate that is in advanced pre-clinical stages under Mission COVID Suraksha of the department of biotechnology. Among the vaccine candidates being supported is the world’s first DNA vaccine Zydis Cadila’s ZyCov-D that has already submitted interim phase 3 data for emergency-use authorisation. The other vaccine candidates are a protein subunit vaccine by BiologicalE in phase 3 clinical trial, an adenovirus based nasal spray vaccine by Bharat Biotech in phase 2, an mRNA vaccine by Gennova in phase 1, and a virus-like particle-based vaccine by Genique Lifesciences in pre-clinical animal studies.Also Read | Maharashtra has administered at least 40 million Covid vaccine doses till nowSo far, Mission COVID Suraksha has committed ₹710 crore to support these vaccines, three animal challenge facilities (for testing vaccines and therapeutics on animals), and 19 clinical trials sites (for phase 3 human trials). The mission is also supporting the scaling up of Covaxin production at Bharat Biotech and three other public sector undertaking companies, according to a statement by the Centre in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.“Mission COVID Suraksha is led by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and is implemented by Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) of DBT, at a total cost of Rs. 900 Cr. for 12 months,” said Dr Jitendra Singh, minister of state for union science ministry, in a Rajya Sabha answer.Currently, three vaccines are in use in India’s vaccination drive -- the Indian version of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and the Russian Sputnik V. India will also receive 7.5 million doses of the US mRNA vaccine by Moderna through the World Health Organization’s vaccine-sharing initiative Covax.Several states have been complaining of vaccine shortage since the drive was opened up for everyone over the age of 18 in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-vaccines-19-trial-sites-among-covid-projects-supported-by-centre-101626840218209.html
21-07-2021||India||Kin of 921 doctors, healthcare workers who died of Covid paid ₹50L each: Govt||The families of 921 doctors and healthcare workers, who died of Covid-19, have been paid ₹50 lakh insurance each until July 15 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, the government told Parliament on Tuesday.“The scheme provides a comprehensive personal accident cover of ₹50 lakh to healthcare providers, including community health workers and private health workers drafted by the Government for Covid-19 related responsibilities, who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by it,” said minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar in Rajya Sabha.Also Read | Maharashtra has administered at least 40 million Covid vaccine doses till nowThe benefits of the scheme have been extended for 180 days with effect from April 24, 2021.Pawar said the government has taken several steps to improve the safety and wellbeing of medical officers and staff as it realised the criticality of human resources in dealing with the pandemic.“Ministry of Health and Family Welfare provided guidelines on Infection Prevention and Control practices to the State Governments to minimize the risk of infection to healthcare workers. The healthcare workers were provided with hydroxychloroquine for prophylaxis and prevention of infection. The guidelines on rational use of personal protection equipment for hospital and community settings (including front-line workers) were issued. These guidelines followed a risk-based approach and recommended type of PPE that needs to be used in various risk settings...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kin-of-921-doctors-healthcare-workers-who-died-of-covid-paid-rs-50l-each-govt-101626839978307.html
21-07-2021||India||Covid report, full vaccination mandatory for people entering Bengal from Sikkim||The district administration of Darjeeling in north Bengal has made it mandatory for all people entering West Bengal from Sikkim to produce either a Covid-19 negative RT-PCR test report or a double vaccination certificate. This comes a day after the Himalayan state, which shares its borders with Darjeeling, reported at least 97 cases of the Delta variant. “Darjeeling registered 79 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, which was the second highest number of fresh cases in West Bengal. North 24 Parganas recorded 82 cases, the highest in the state. Kolkata registered 60 cases,” said an official of the state government. District authorities in Darjeeling issued an order on Tuesday which made it mandatory for all passengers entering West Bengal from Sikkim to carry either the vaccination certificate, or negative RT-PCR report conducted 72 hours prior or a Rapid Antigen Test negative test report conducted within 48 hours prior to arrival. Also Read | On TMC’s Martyr’s Day, BJP to project killing of party workers in BengalThe order issued by Darjeeling district magistrate S Poonambalam will come into effect from Thursday. The neighbouring Kalimpong district in north Bengal, which also shares borders with Sikkim, is also likely to follow suit, officials said. As Sikkim depends on Siliguri, the biggest town in North Bengal, for almost everything, the order has come as a major inconvenience for the people of the neighbouring state. “One of the major reasons behind the high number of Covid-19 cases in Darjeeling is the presence of a large trading hub like Siliguri. Kalimpong, which is also a hilly district, recorded just 16 fresh cases on the same day,” said an official. With Sikkim reporting prevalence of the Delta variant of coronavirus, state health minister MK Sharma said, “Delta variant was found in 97 of the 98 random samples sent for genome sequencing at Kalyani in West Bengal. The samples were sent on June 23 and we were informed about it via email on Monday.” Sikkim has been reporting a large number of daily Covid cases for the past three months even as the fatality rate is only 0.59%. Sikkim was one of the few states in the country to report Covid cases very late last year. So far, it has reported 325 Covid deaths. The state with 700,000 population has so far reported 23,796 Covid cases while the number of active cases is 2,462. On Tuesday, 147 new cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-report-full-vaccination-mandatory-for-people-entering-bengal-from-sikkim-101626838718272.html
21-07-2021||India||Heavy rain over N-W India likely to gradually reduce from today||Widespread, heavy rain over northwest India is likely to reduce in intensity from Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The monsoon trough is running close to its normal position. Its western end is likely to shift northwards for a brief period during the next 48 hours. Subsequently, a low pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal around July 23.An offshore trough at mean sea level is running from Maharashtra coast to Karnataka coast. It is likely to persist for the next 3-4 days. Under the influence of these systems, widespread with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining plains of northwest India (Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh) is likely during the next 24 hours and a decrease in rainfall activity is expected thereafter. Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain todayWidespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to continue over the west coast and adjoining interior areas during next 4-5 days. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall (over 20cm) is also likely over Konkan, Goa and adjoining ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra till July 23. Isolated heavy rainfall over south Gujarat region till July 23 is likely to increase to isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall from July 24. Widespread isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over east and adjoining central India on July 24.Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning is very likely at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, north Madhya Pradesh and East Rajasthan during the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-over-n-w-india-likely-to-gradually-reduce-from-today-101626838297993.html
21-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre issues 7-point advisory after 4th serosurvey and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Travel only if fully vaccinated': Govt's 7-point advisory after 4th serosurveyAround 67.6 per cent of Indians now have developed antibodies against SARS-COV-2 either through infection or through vaccination, the government's fourth serosurvey results have revealed. Read moreDon’t think my phone was hacked, says Union minister Prahlad Singh PatelUnion minister Prahlad Singh Patel, whose contact number was in the list of phones allegedly put under surveillance using Pegasus software, on Tuesday denied the reports, saying that the BJP-led central government does not indulge in such activities. Read moreEmotional well-being of students is our priority: Manish SisodiaInteracting with the parents and children of Delhi government schools on the second day of the parent-teacher meeting (PTM), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said that the government schools are taking steps -- through happiness curriculum, and Yuva counselling helplines -- to ensure the emotional well-being of children during the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more11 feared abducted by Maoists in ChhattisgarhAt least 11 people have gone missing from a village in Chhattisgarh’s insurgency-hit Sukma district and are suspected to have been abducted by Maoists, police said on Tuesday. A search for the missing is underway, they added. Read moreCovid-19: Delta variant now accounts for 83% of US Cases, informs CDCThe Delta mutation of the coronavirus (Covid-19) now makes up 83% of all sequenced Covid-9 cases in the United States, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Rochelle Walensky, informed in a Senate hearing on Tuesday. Read moreSebi looks into insider trading charge against Adani firmsIndia’s market regulator is scrutinizing at least three companies controlled by billionaire businessman Gautam Adani for alleged breaches of securities laws related to prevention of insider trading and inadequate disclosures, two people familiar with the probe said. Read moreDeepak Chahar reveals what Rahul Dravid told him before walking out to bat in 2nd ODI vs Sri LankaDeepak Chahar on Tuesday night garnered all the attention as he played a remarkable innings to take India home in the 2nd ODI in Colombo. When Chahar was batting in the middle, former India captain and head of this Sri Lanka series Rahul Dravid was seen having a few anxious moments inside the dressing room. Read moreShilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra's porn case isn't his first controversy: Here's a look at his brushes with the lawShilpa Shetty's husband, businessman Raj Kundra, was arrested in connection to a pornography racket bust in Mumbai late Monday night. “The crime branch registered a case in February about the creation of pornography films and publishing them through some apps. Read moreWatch| Jeff Bezos' space flight via Blue Origin rocket; back to Earth in 10 minsAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos blasted off Blue Origin's New Shepard flight on Tuesday. Flight took off from its Launch Site One in the West Texas desert in the United States. The founder of Blue Origin was accompanied by brother, Mark Bezos and Wally Funk. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-issues-7-point-advisory-after-4th-serosurvey-101626836712441.html
21-07-2021||India||Eid-al-Adha 2021: PM Modi, President Kovind extend wishes on Bakrid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his greetings to the people celebrating Eid-al-Adha or the 'Feast of Sacrifice' and said this festival should further the collective empathy, harmony and inclusivity in the society."Best wishes on Eid-ul-Adha. May this day further the spirit of collective empathy, harmony and inclusivity in the service of greater good," the prime minister said in a tweet. President Ram Nath Kovind also sent out his wishes to citizens celebrating the festival and asked people to follow Covid-19 safety guidelines."Eid Mubarak to all fellow citizens. Eid-uz-Zuha is a festival to express regard for the spirit of love and sacrifice, and to work together for unity and fraternity in an inclusive society. Let us resolve to follow COVID-19 guidelines and work for happiness of all," President Kovind said on Twitter on Wednesday early morning.Muslims across the world are celebrating the festival of Eid-al-Adha or Bakrid, one of the two Muslim festivals, in the shadow of coronavirus disease outbreak. This Eid, celebrated mid-year and two days after the beginning of the Hajj pilgrimage in the last month of the Islamic calendar, traditionally, is started after sighting of the new crescent moon.Celebrated in Islamic and non-Islamic nations feverously, the festival marks the end of Hajj and involves animal sacrifice as a symbol of Ibrahim's sacrifice to Allah. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also extended their wishes to citizens on Twitter. On Wednesday early morning, a small group of 15-20 people reached the Jama Masjid, one of the largest mosques in India, to offer namaz on the occasion of Eid-al-Adha amid stringent coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols. In what happens to be the second Eid this year during the pandemic, devotees are offering prayers at mosques in a staggered manner amid heavy safety protocols due to the viral disease outbreak.The Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid in Delhi - India's largest mosque - underlined the community's need to stick to Covid-19 safety norms to prevent another virus wave. "We need to follow Covid-19 guidelines for the safety of ourselves and for our families in view of third wave. We had decided to allow limited people to offer namaz at Jama Masjid. 15-20 people offered prayers," the Shahi Imam Abdul Ghafoor Shah Bukhari told news agency ANI.Thin crowds of Muslims in India marked the Eid celebrations in the morning by offering namaz at prominent mosques across the country. Devotees were seen offering namaz at Ahmedabad's Jama Masjid. "We are thankful to Allah for being able to celebrate Eid in limited numbers. I am grateful to the police for making good arrangements," an Imam told news agency ANI. People were also seen offering prayers in accordance with social distancing protocols in Palayam Juma Masjid in Thiruvananthapuram. Devotees also offered prayers at Khairuddin Masjid in Amritsar, Punjab and Mumbai's Mahim Dargah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eidaladha-2021-pm-modi-president-kovind-extend-wishes-on-bakrid-101626836558869.html
21-07-2021||India||Eid-al-Adha 2021: People reach Jama Masjid, offer namaz amid Covid-19 protocols||Several devotees on Wednesday reached the Jama Masjid, one of the largest mosques in India, to offer namaz on the occasion of Eid-al-Adha amid stringent coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols. Muslims around the world are observing Eid-al-Adha or what is known as the 'Feast of Sacrifice' from late Tuesday evening and on Wednesday and offering prayers at mosques in a staggered manner amid heavy safety protocols due to the viral disease outbreak.Eid-al-Adha this year happens to be another major Islamic holiday in the shadow of the pandemic, curbing large gatherings of devotees at prominent mosques like Hajj.Also read | Eid-ul-Adha 2021: History and significance of this holy festivalEarly morning visuals showed a handful of people in the Jama Masjid mosque in the shadow of a heavy police security blanket prohibiting crowding. The Shahi Imam of Masjid underlined the community's need to stick to Covid-19 safety norms to prevent another virus wave."We need to follow Covid-19 guidelines for the safety of ourselves and for our families in view of third wave. We had decided to allow limited people to offer namaz at Jama Masjid. 15-20 people offered prayers," the Shahi Imam Abdul Ghafoor Shah Bukhari told news agency ANI.The Delhi police personnel present at the spot in the old part of city also observed that people are following regulations strictly, as emphasised on by the Shahi Imam."People are cooperating with us and maintaining Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Otherwise, it's a very crowded area (Jama Masjid)," deputy commissioner of police for central district Jasmeet Singh told ANI.Imam Sahab has also made an announcement here and appeal people to offer namaz at home, the DCP central district added.Also read | Bakra Eid 2021: Eid al-Adha significance, celebrations across the globeEid al-Adha is typically marked by prayers, large social gatherings, slaughtering of livestock and distributing meat to the needy. This year, the holiday comes as many countries battle the delta variant first identified in India, prompting some to impose new restrictions or appeal for people to avoid congregating and follow safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eidaladha-2021-people-reach-jama-masjid-offer-namaz-amid-covid-19-protocols-101626831323147.html
21-07-2021||NA||Highlights: Oppn must apologise for stalling Parliament, says UP CM||As the monsoon session of Parliament started from July 19, opposition parties have targeted the central government over various issues. On Tuesday, the opposition parties' focus of discussion in Parliament shifted from farm laws, coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and fuel prices to the Pegasus project. Also Read| Modi asks BJP MPs to counter Oppn on CovidThe names of at least 38 journalists appeared on the leaked list of potential targets for surveillance by an unidentified agency using Pegasus, a report by the Wire said on Sunday. Congress along with other opposition parties has demanded an independent probe into this issue and also demanded a Joint Parliament Committee. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were disrupted multiple times on Tuesday as protests over the Pegasus project intensified. Also Read| Lok Sabha halted, Rajya Sabha disrupted over Pegasus snoop listHowever, the Rajya Sabha was able to hold a discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic on Tuesday afternoon. The central government informed Parliament on Tuesday that there were no deaths reported by states and Union Territories (UTs) due to lack of oxygen supplies during the second wave of the pandemic. Both the Houses have been adjourned till July 22. Follow highlights here:Follow all the updates here:'Kisan Panchayat': 200 farmers to visit Jantar Mantar everyday from July 22The farmers, who have been protesting near national capital Delhi's borders for more than eight months, demanding the three farm laws enacted in September last year be repealed, have said they will hold a 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar from July 22. Read moreOppn must apologise for stalling Parliament, says UP CMUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath targeted opposition parties by saying the ruckus they created during the monsoon session of parliament was like like strangling the country's democracy. Read moreCovid-19: Families of 921 doctors and healthcare workers who died of virus paid ₹50 lakh insurance each: CentreThe central government informed Parliament on Tuesday that families of 921 doctors and healthcare workers, who died due to the Covid-19 disease, have been paid ₹50 lakh insurance each until July 15 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. Read moreCentra seeks house nod for ₹23,675 crore extra spendingThe central government on Tuesday sought the Parliament’s approval for an additional expenditure of ₹23,675 crore for this financial year, in view of the increased spending on healthcare amid the pandemic. Read more4.81 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in tribal districts till July 15, says CentreThe central government informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that a total of 4.81 crore vaccine doses against Covid-19 have been administered in 176 identified tribal districts across 25 states till July 15.Cong to move privilege motion against Union minister's 'Oxygen' remarkThe Congress party will move a privilege motion against minister of state (MoS) for health Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar over her comment that no state or Union Territory (UT) reported deaths due to lack of oxygen supplies during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101626832090751.html
21-07-2021||India||Don’t think my phone was hacked, says Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel||Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel, whose contact number was in the list of phones allegedly put under surveillance using Pegasus software, on Tuesday denied the reports, saying that the BJP-led central government does not indulge in such activities.“I have seen the reports published in newspapers. But I don’t think my phone was being hacked. I am not a big person. I don’t think our government will do such work, so no question regarding arises,” the Union minister of state for food processing industries and Jal Shakti told news agency ANI. “It’s the govt that takes action on such matters. Ashwini Vaishnaw has put forth the government’s views in Lok Sabha on Monday and the party (BJP) has also presented their side. That’s why I don’t think there is a need to comment on it.”Targeting the Opposition for repeatedly raising the issue, the minister said: “The government should be allowed to work. The Opposition should discuss the issue and allow the House to function. This is a better way.”The software, made by Israel-based NSO Group, said it only supplies to government clients. On Monday, reports said that aside from 38 journalists, former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi, political strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Patel were also potential targets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dont-think-my-phone-was-hacked-says-union-minister-prahlad-singh-patel-101626831030453.html
21-07-2021||India||'Travel only if fully vaccinated': Govt's 7-point advisory after 4th serosurvey||Around 67.6 per cent of Indians now have developed antibodies against SARS-COV-2 either through infection or through vaccination, the government's fourth serosurvey results have revealed. While this means that more than half of the population is immune as of now -- amid the apprehension of a third wave -- the ministry has issued a warning regarding travelling and said one should not undertake travelling at this time without being fully vaccinated.Here is the Centre's 7-point advisory:1. No room for complacency: The finding of the fourth serosurvey offers a ray of hope, but there is no room for complacency as a large chunk of the population, 32%, is still vulnerable.2. Not a statement on district-wise situation: The government said that the local- or district-level situation might be different from the overall situation as national serosurvey is only a bird's eye view of the overall immunity situation of the country.3. State-level action needed: States must continue local serosurvey to find out the percentage of population immune against Covid so that state-level action can be taken up.4. Future waves of infection possible: The Union health ministry said that the findings of the serosurvey indicate that future waves of infection are possible because some states have reported higher immunity against Covid, while some are in the lower rung. States which in the serosurvey reported lower immunity are naturally at a higher risk of future waves.5. No non-essential travels: Since the first week of July, as states are relaxing their restrictions, mobility has gone up not only in tourist spots but also in local markets. Prodded by the government, states have again brought back some restrictions. The government on Tuesday said non-essential travels should be discouraged.6. Congregations be avoided: Though many states have relaxed public gathering norms, given the situation, societal, public religious and political congregations must be avoided, the government said. Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi government have recently cancelled Kanwar Yatra.7. Travel only if fully vaccinated: Stressing on full vaccination, which is the complete course of two vaccine doses to be taken in a recommended gap, the government said travelling should be undertaken only if the individual is fully vaccinated.In the wake of uncontrolled crowding and the Covid-19 situation plateauing in some areas, some states have again mandated negative RT-PCR test report for entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-only-if-fully-vaccinated-govt-s-7-point-advisory-after-4th-serosurvey-101626829889408.html
21-07-2021||India||J&K DGP hints at Pak ordnance factory role in IAF base attack||Drones have added a new dimension to security threats from terror groups and investigations into the attack on the Jammu Indian Air Force station last month has highlighted the involvement of “non-state actors” supported by state actors such as the ordnance factory of Pakistan, Jammu and Kashmir director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Tuesday.“(The attack was) a very condemnable incident and very wrong kind of doing on the part of non-state actors (terror groups) who are likely to have been supported by state actors (Pakistan army or ISI),” he said.The comments come nearly a month after two drones were used to target the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Jammu with explosives on June 27. The explosives left two personnel injured. Drones have since been repeatedly spotted hovering over military installations in the region.Singh also pointed out that, in the past, drones from across the border have been used to drop currency, arms and ammunition inside Indian territory. “Picking up this kind of a target has added a new dimension to our security threats from terrorists. We have taken countermeasures. Certain additional technologies have been deployed along the border. We are trying to take extra precaution,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-dgp-hints-at-pak-ordnance-factory-role-in-iaf-base-attack-101626828230718.html
21-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra's porn app case: No active role of Shilpa Shetty found yet, say cops||Actor Shilpa Shetty's husband and businessman Raj Kundra arrested in connection with a pornographic film racket has been remanded to police custody till July 23 on Tuesday. The 45-year-old has been accused of streaming a mobile phone application called Hotshots app streaming pornographic content shot in Mumbai and surrounding areas. So far, Mumbai police have not found any active role of Shilpa Shetty in the case. "We have not been able to any find any active role (of Shilpa Shetty) yet. We are investigating. We will appeal to the victims to come forward and contact the Crime Branch Mumbai and we'll take appropriate action," joint commissioner of police (Crime), Milind Bharambe said.Timeline of the case> In February 2019, Raj Kundra started a company named Arms Prime Media Pvt Ltd.> Six months later, the company developed a mobile phone application called Hotshot, which has been named by police as the porn streaming app.> The app was then sold to Kenrin Ltd., a London-based entity owned by Kundra’s relative Pardeep Bakshi for $25,000.> In December 2019, Kundra resigned from Arms Prime Media. but Kundra used to control the entire operation of the app through three WhatsApp groups.> The Hotshots app was taken down by Apple App Store in June 2020 and Google Play Store removed the app in November 2020. In both cases, the reason was the content.> In February 2021, Mumbai Police registered a case after a woman approached the police and complained that she was forced to do a porn film.> Subsequently, two more cases were registered and the property cell of the Mumbai crime branch made several arrests in connection with the case.What is Hotshots?The mobile application at the centre of the racket is a paid streaming application, which is no longer available. According to the description, the app offers exclusive and original short films, hot photos and videos of some of the "hottest celebrities from all over the world". The content is marked as 18+.Investigation so far has revealed that Raj Kundra's Viaan Industries had an agreement with UK-based Kenrin, owned by Kundra's brother-in-law, about the responsibility of content creation for the app. Though the UK-based company was the front of the entire operation, the shooting used to be done by Kundra's company while the subscription money used to come in the name of Kenrin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-s-porn-app-case-no-active-role-of-shilpa-shetty-found-yet-say-cops-101626826566037.html
21-07-2021||India||Will the OPEC deal bring petrol, diesel prices down?||On July 18, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) reached an agreement to increase its crude production by 400,000 barrels per day on a monthly basis till the halted output is fully restored. OPEC is a cartel of 13 countries which produce 29% of the total crude oil in the world. Brent crude prices have fallen sharply after the announcement. Brent Crude closed at $68.62 per barrel on July 19, 6.75% lower than $73.59 on July 16.As of July 20, 2021, petrol and diesel prices did not increase for four consecutive days. This was the longest period without a price increase since May 3. Petrol and diesel prices changed only twice during the March 27-May 3 period, when assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal were being held.Will the OPEC deal lead to a fall in petrol and diesel prices in India?Here are four charts that explain this.Brent crude was falling even before the OPEC dealBrent crude reached $78.34 per barrel on July 2, 2021. This was the highest price since October 23,2018. It has fallen gradually since then, gained momentum once again and then fallen sharply after the OPEC deal to reach $68.62 per barrel on July 19. An agreement among OPEC members to boost production is not the only factor behind the softening of crude oil prices. A renewed surge in Covid-19 cases in advanced countries and the possibility of re-imposition of restrictions or fall in demand is also a cause. “Oil has run into stiff headwinds in July after rising in seven of the past eight months as the global economy rebounded from the pandemic. The salvaged OPEC+ deal has removed a layer of uncertainty for the market, but the latest Covid-19 resurgence is a reminder that the recovery will be bumpy”, a Bloomberg report said.Crude production will not reach pre-pandemic levels even after OPEC dealData from OPEC’s monthly oil market report shows that world’s total oil production in the quarter ending June 2021 was 88.62 million barrels per day (mbpd). While this is marginally higher than the 86.64 mbpd in the quarter ending June 2020, it is significantly lower than the 93.9 and 91 mbpd produced in the quarters ending June 2019 and June 2018. OPEC’s own production cuts have played a significant role in global production being lower than pre-pandemic levels than that of non-OPEC members.Will fuel prices in India fall significantly?Even though crude oil prices have fallen significantly between July 2 and 19; from $ 78.34 to $ 68.62, petrol-diesel prices have not come down significantly in India. In fact they have only gone up except in the last four days. The price of petrol and diesel was ₹99.16 and 89.18 per litre in Delhi on July 2, 2021. This had increased to ₹101.84 and 89.87 per litre on July 20, 2021.Is the government; to be sure, government-owned oil companies, not passing on the benefits of fall in crude price to the consumers? There are two factors worth highlighting here. Brent crude prices do not represent the price of crude oil imports to India. The petroleum ministry releases what is called the price of Crude Oil Basket (COB) for India. On July 19, 2021, India’s COB was $71.2 per barrel, $2.58 more than the $68.62 at which Brent was priced. Then there is also the question of the role of the rupee dollar exchange rate. The average rupee-dollar exchange rate was ₹73.27 per dollar in May 2021. This had fallen to ₹74.79 per dollar on July 19, 2021. This means that exchange rate dynamics have neutralised the price of gains from softening of international crude oil prices to some extent.﻿Tax cuts hold the key to any significant relief in pricesWhile petrol-diesel prices could ease significantly if crude prices crash from where they are now, it needs to be underlined that tax burden is a major reason for the current level of high petrol-diesel prices in India. Petrol-diesel prices had not reached their current levels even when crude oil prices had crossed the $100 per barrel mark between Feb 2011 and Sep 2014. The total tax component in petrol and diesel prices per litre had increased from ₹37.77 in April 2020 to ₹56.33 in July 2021 for petrol and from ₹28.02 to ₹44.94 for diesel in Delhi.The government in its reply to a parliament question on July 19 said that Rs1,01,564 lakh crores have been collected through union excise duty between April and June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-the-opec-deal-bring-petrol-diesel-prices-down-101626812617019.html
21-07-2021||India||The 1991 Budget, in hindsight||On July 24, 1991, Manmohan Singh presented the first Budget of the PV Narsimha Rao government, a Budget that would change the face of the Indian economy. While the intellectual argument for reforms had been gaining momentum for a long time before 1991, it took an economic crisis and deft politics, both within and outside his party, by Rao — he was heading a minority government at the time — to actually see them through. The reforms triggered a sharp debate when they happened, but they have come to enjoy a rare bipartisan consensus in the last 30 years and survived many regimes.At a time when the Indian economy is trying to come out of its largest ever contraction, the nature of economic challenges is very different from what they were 30 years ago. The 30th anniversary of Manmohan Singh’s first Budget is an opportune moment to look at the 1991 Budget in hindsight, retrace the journey, and, perhaps, ask the right questions.How serious was the immediate crisis before 1991 Budget?Manmohan Singh’s 1991 Budget speech made no attempt to hide the extent of the economic crisis prevailing then.“The new Government, which assumed office barely a month ago, inherited an economy in deep crisis. The balance of payments situation is precarious...We have been at the edge of precipice since December 1990 and more so since April 1991...The people of India have to face double digit inflation which hurts most the poorer sections of our society. In sum, the crisis in our economy is both acute and deep. We have not experienced anything similar in the history of independent India.”How bad was the foreign exchange and inflation situation at the time?A look at inflation and foreign exchange reserve and trade numbers suggests that the balance of payment crisis was much bigger than the inflation crisis.We have inflation data going back to 1961-62 under the Consumer Price Index for Industrial Workers or CPI (IW) series. CPI (IW) had been in double digits from October 1990 onwards when Singh presented his Budget in July 1991. It would stay above the 10% mark until September 1992.Annual growth in CPI (IW) was 11.2% and 13.48% in 1990-91 and 1991-92. The country had seen worse or comparable inflationary episodes before. The oil-shock years of the 1970s were the worst. CPI (IW) grew at 20.59% and 26.75% in 1973-74 and 1974-75. 1966-67 and 1967-68 had seen inflation to the tune of 12.11% and 12.36%. 1980-81 and 1981-82 were also consecutive double-digit inflation years. (See Chart 1)“The current level of foreign exchange reserves, in the range of ₹2,500 crore, would suffice to finance imports for a mere fortnight,” Manmohan Singh said in his Budget speech.This particular statistic went on to become the biggest artefact associated with the pre-reform economic crisis in 1991. Because India does not have monthly trade and foreign exchange figures before 1990, it is difficult to ascertain whether the foreign exchange crisis in 1991 was the most severe the country ever faced. However, monthly average calculations based on annual import and foreign exchange reserve numbers since 1970-71 do show that the pre-reform crisis was indeed the most severe. Arguments over the roots of this crisis triggered a sharp debate among various economists back then, and the basic tenets of this continue to be relevant today. ( See Chart 2)‘An idea whose time has come’: The 1991 Budget’s case for economic liberalisationThe Indian economy had its share of fiscal, inflationary and balance of payments crisis even before 1991. Where the 1991 Budget differed was in its firmness to unleash wholesale policy reform. The speech articulated this unequivocally.“Macroeconomic stabilisation and fiscal adjustment alone cannot suffice. They must be supported by essential reforms in economic policy and economic management, as an integral part of the adjustment process, reforms which would help to eliminate waste and inefficiency and impart a new element of dynamism to growth processes in our economy. The thrust of the reform process would be to increase the efficiency and international competitiveness of industrial production to utilise for this purpose foreign investment and foreign technology to a much greater degree than we have done in the past, to increase the productivity of investment, to ensure that India’s financial sector is rapidly modernised, and to improve the performance of the public sector, so that key sectors of our economy are enabled to attain an adequate technological and competitive edge in a fast changing global economy.”The real liberalisation push came not in the Budget but via drastic changes in industrial and export-import policy which were announced with the Budget. In his essay The Road to the 1991 Industrial Policy Reforms and Beyond published in the collection India Transformed: 25 Years of Economic Reforms, former Reserve Bank of India deputy governor Rakesh Mohan (who was then working in the industry ministry) provides an account of Singh’s firm resolve to push the reform process.“Within a few days of his appointment (as finance minister), Manmohan Singh called a meeting of all the secretaries of the major economic ministries and the chief economic adviser... Manmohan Singh outlined the full economic reform programme that was to be followed over the next five years — and more importantly, over the next six weeks. The latter included immediate action to be taken on industry policy. He said quite clearly that he had the full mandate of the Prime Minister to do whatever had to be done to solve the crisis... Since he knew that some of the mandarins present were not on board with the kind of liberalising economic reforms envisaged, he added: “If any of you have any difficulty with the proposed reform programme, we can find other things for you to do!” This was perhaps the most firm and forceful that I ever saw Dr Manmohan Singh.”The unfulfilled promise of 1991 industrial policy reform and continuing quest for a new industrial policyThe 1991 Industrial Policy document looked at five major areas: industrial licensing, foreign investment, foreign technology agreements, public sector and The Monopoly and Restrictive Trade Practices (MRTP) Act of 1969. In all these areas, the policy thrust was towards removing restrictions on entry of capital, both foreign and domestic. Industrial licensing was abolished in all sectors except 18 industries where it was preserved on account of security and strategic concerns. The policy also said that the “portfolio of public sector investments will be reviewed with a view to focus the public sector on strategic, high-tech and essential infrastructure”. This was the first signal of withdrawal of government from business — a policy that would gain further momentum with the disinvestment of public sector enterprises, a process which continues to unfold even today.While private industry has made significant achievements in India in the three decades of economic reforms, the cherished goals of the 1991 industrial policy are still unrealised to a large extent, especially when they are seen from a macroeconomic lens. The share of manufacturing in GDP has not increased much. It was 14.5% in 1991-92, and stood at just 17.1% in 2019-20, the year before the pandemic disrupted economic activity. The stagnant share of manufacturing even after three decades of reforms is the biggest proof that there are other structural impediments to an industrial revolution in India.That India has not been able to realise the objective of increasing the efficiency and international competitiveness of its industrial production can be seen from the composition of its exports. The World Integrated Trade Solution (WITS) database of the World Bank uses a 2000 paper by economist Sanjaya Lall to classify exports by their level of technological sophistication. There are five mutually exclusive categories in this classification: primary (rice, tea, petroleum, etc.), resource-based (vegetable oils, cement, etc.) low technology (textile fabrics, jewellery, etc.), medium technology (passenger vehicles, industrial machinery, etc.) and high technology (turbines, pharmaceuticals, etc.) products.The share of high technology exports in India’s export basket has barely increased; from 2% in 1991 to 6% in 2019, the latest period for which this data is available. For China, this share increased from 9% in 1992 to 35% in 2019. (See Chart 3)While India did enjoy some success in exporting medium technology goods, whose share increased from 11% to 21%, this has not been an unambiguous blessing. This year’s Economic Survey made this point in the most effective manner when it attributed Bangladesh’s export success to its prioritisation of labour-intensive commodities unlike India. While Bangladesh’s export basket is in keeping with its labour abundant reality — textiles, footwear and apparel constitute 90% of its exports — around 40% of India’s exports is capital or technology intensive, the survey pointed out. Using the Bangladesh export example, the survey asked the country’s exporters to learn from this and specialise in products in which India is competitive. As India continues to experiment with various kinds of policy tools to promote industry, be it the Make in India programme or the latest Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, the question of an effective industrial policy is as relevant and perhaps elusive as it was in 1991.To be sure, economic reforms did play a critical role in the rise of IT industry in India. According to NAASCOM, the industry association of India’s IT industry, the IT sector is a $194 billion industry which employs 4.47 million professionals and contributes around 8% of India’s GDP. The IT sector also generates significant export earnings for the country; $128.6 billion in 2019-20, according to data from RBI.The rise of India’s IT industry would not have been possible if the pre-reform restrictions on imports and foreign currency use had not been lifted, which led to the absurd situations such as IT companies having to keep waiting for approvals to import computers. Writing in the collection India Transformed: 25 Years of Economic Reforms Infosys founder Narayana Murthy also talks about two critical reforms which were critical in the growth of the IT industry in India. The first was a removal of condition of multinational companies necessarily diluting equity holding in their Indian subsidiaries to 40%. This encouraged global IT giants to set up entities in India and generated significant positive spill over effects for the domestic players. The second was the abolition of the office of Controller of Capital Issues (CCI) which had a mandate to decide on the pricing of Initial Public Offerings of companies. The officer did not have the necessary skill-set to evaluate business prospects of evolving sectors such as IT. The CCI had valued Infosys shares at ₹11 in 1990. The company finally got listed in 1993 at ₹95 per share, after it could work with specialised investment bankers before listing, once the office of CCI was abolished.The question of fiscal consolidationOne of the biggest milestones of India’s post-reform phase was the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budgetary Management (FRBM) Act in 2003. The FRBM Act gives a legal mandate to the Union government to keep its budgetary deficit under check. The original Act called for an elimination of revenue deficit and bringing down the fiscal deficit to 3% of GDP by 2008. The fiscal glide path, the term used for bringing down the deficit as prescribed under the Act has since been adjusted owing to the adverse economic developments. The 1991 Budget made the first noise about the need for fiscal consolidation.“In the macro-management of the economy, over the medium term, it should be our objective to progressively reduce the fiscal deficit of the Central Government, to move towards a significant reduction of the revenue deficit, and to reduce the current account deficit in the balance of payments,” Singh said in his Budget speech. Fiscal deficits, while they have come down compared to where they were in 1991, have not stabilised to the levels envisaged in the FRBM Act. The pandemic’s shock is likely to administer a long-term shock to fiscal consolidation.The issue of fiscal conservatism or prudence has always been a polarising one among economists. Even Singh tried to pre-empt some of this criticism while arguing for fiscal prudence in his 1991 speech. “During the period of transition (to a low deficit phase), it shall be our endeavour to minimise the burden of adjustment on the poor. We are committed to adjustment with a human face. It will also be our endeavour that the adjustment process does not adversely affect the underlying growth impulses in our economy,” he said.The economic virtue of fiscal intervention gained popularity after British economist John Maynard Keynes gave his idea of government investment acting as a multiplier of growth in a recession affected economy during the Great Depression of the 1930s. Keynesian ideas held sway after the Second World War until the 1970s, often referred to as the Golden Age of capitalism. A neoliberal economic revolution after the Oil Shocks brought fiscal conservatism and deregulation of finance back in favour.Questions have been raised about the purported virtue of fiscal prudence, especially during an economic downturn by many economists across the world. The view found a reflection when the FRBM Review Committee under the chairmanship of NK Singh submitted its report in 2017.“One disadvantage of headline fiscal balance rules is that they do not have counter-cyclical properties. For example, when growth – and therefore revenues – is above potential, policymakers should ideally be reducing fiscal deficits, and thereby creating fiscal space that can be used in downturns. However, adhering to a fiscal deficit target necessarily results in those extra revenues being spent. Similarly, during downturns, as automatic stabilizers work, one would want the fiscal deficit to expand, but that is precluded by adherence to a headline deficit rule, thereby making fiscal policy pro-cyclical. There is widespread evidence that fiscal policy in emerging markets tends to be pro-cyclical rather than counter-cyclical, in part because of political incentives to run large deficits in good times when financing is available.”The question of fiscal prudence bringing a pro-cyclical element to economic policy — as was pointed out by the NK Singh Committee — is extremely relevant given the fact that India’s fiscal stimulus to deal with the pandemic’s economic shock has been among the smallest among major economies. (See Chart 4)The nature of tax burden and the question of tax evasionThere is one area where the vision set in the 1991 Budget has seen a reversal: the objective of raising the share of direct taxes in overall tax revenue. “The revenue from direct taxes, both as a proportion of GDP and as a percentage of total tax revenues, has registered a steady decline over time. This trend has to be reversed, so as to restore equity in, and balance to our fiscal system,” Singh said in his Budget speech.According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database, share of direct taxes in total tax revenue of Centre and states fell from 18.3% in 1981-82 to 16.3% in 1990-91. This share would increase consistently in the post-reform period to reach a peak of 43.2% in 2009-10. It has since then fallen steadily. It fell to 36.1% in 2015-16 before rising marginally to 38.9% in 2019-20. Recent numbers are likely to be even lower, thanks to the corporation tax cuts in 2019, fall in direct taxes due to the pandemic and the increased reliance on petrol-diesel taxes in the post-pandemic phase. The goal of reversing this decline in the share of direct taxes is still worth pursing.It needs to be understood that this objective cannot be pursed without rationalising the tax structure and plugging various loopholes which existed 30 years ago and continue to, today. The absurdities of India’s tax system in 1991 are best captured by this exemption Singh abolished in his speech.“Over the years, those with an instinct for gambling have increasingly patronised the races. I propose to withdraw the income-tax exemption of ₹5000 (India’s per capita GDP at factor cost was ₹7167.28 in 1991-92) in respect of earnings from races, including horse races. I am sure that persons who place bets will now also have the added pleasure of sharing their earnings with the government.”The problems facing India’s tax system are far from over. This is best seen from the fact that amount of taxes raised, but not realised by the Union government stood at ₹12.98 lakh crore at the end of 2019-20 (latest available data). To put this number in context, the gross tax revenue of the Union government was ₹20.1 lakh crore in 2019-10.Of the ₹12.98 lakh crore of revenues not realised, ₹10.42 lakh crore was under dispute, while the rest was on account of lack of assets or the assessee not being traceable. The fact that amount worth almost half of the Centre’s gross tax revenue is mired in dispute raises serious questions about the transparency and simplicity (or lack of it) of India’s tax system. The fact that Goods and Services Tax, which is the biggest indirect tax reform in independent India, had serious teething troubles when it was launched in 2017 and continues to suffer from multiplicity of slabs only underlines the importance of simplifying India’s tax regime.While the current government’s tax policy has its share of blames, especially on the question of tax burden becoming regressive, the United Progressive Alliance government, where Singh was the Prime Minister, also did not do justice to the ideals of a simple transparent tax system, by decisions such as retrospective taxation. (See Chart 5)The moral dilemma of conspicuous consumption in a poor economy which also runs a trade deficitThere is practically no rationale against the removal of arbitrary, often stifling, regulations on private enterprise which existed in India before the 1991 Budget. However, there is merit in engaging with the line of argument which was given by many left-leaning economists. This critiques the liberalisation of trade, which had begun in a piecemeal manner before the 1991 reforms and has increased significantly in the last three decades. The logic which was given was that it was the rich who had contributed to the rise in current account deficit by spending scarce foreign exchange on items of luxury consumption.“There is no time to lose. Neither the government nor the economy can live beyond its means year after year,” Singh said in his Budget speech referring to the high fiscal deficit and current account deficit along with a shortage of foreign exchange.Ashok Mitra, one of India’s most original Marxist economists, and also a cheeky polemicist, attacked Singh’s logic in his column Calcutta Diary in the July 27, 1991 issue of the Economic and Political Weekly. “It is simply not true that the nation as a whole has been living beyond its means. It is only a minor segment of the nation, the top-most decile, which has lived it up since that egregious doctrine of borrow and spend , borrow again and spend again, became official policy in the eighties,” Mitra wrote.Singh himself had tried to pre-empt the attack on this front in his Budget speech. “In highlighting the significance of reform, my purpose is not to give to fillip to mindless and heartless consumerism we have borrowed from affluent societies of the West. My objection to the consumerist phenomenon is two-fold. First, we cannot afford it. In a society where we lack drinking water, education, health, shelter and other basic necessities, it would be tragic if our productive resources were to be devoted largely to the satisfaction of the needs of a small minority...Our approach to development has to combine efficiency with austerity. Austerity not in the sense of negation of life or a dry, arid creed that casts a baleful eye on joy and laughter. To my mind, austerity is a way of holding our society together in pursuit of the noble goal of banishing poverty, hunger and disease from this ancient land of ours.”Singh’s Budget speech also referred to the Congress manifesto’s promise of “measures to curb conspicuous consumption” while increasing excise duty on refrigerators, air-conditioners, motor cars, etc.Conspicuous consumption has increased by leaps and bounds in the three decades since Singh’s warning in 1991, even as millions of Indians continue to live in penury. The richest Indians can enjoy almost all the pleasures money can buy inside and outside the country. Sure, India does not face a foreign exchange crisis today like it did in 1991, even though we continue to run a large trade deficit. Capital inflows and remittance incomes have helped on this front. The possibility of a capital-flight driven balance of payment crisis is remote, if not non-existent today. However, the question of forcing some sort of austerity on the rich to pursue the goal of providing relief to the poor continues to be as relevant and it is politically difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-1991-budget-in-hindsight-101626811201778.html
21-07-2021||India||Wise to reopen primary sections first, says govt||New Delhi: Director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday said it would be wise to first open the primary section if states decide to reopen schools as younger children are better equipped to handle Covid-19, followed by secondary and senior secondary schools.“Once India starts reopening schools, it will be wise to begin with the primary section as children have a lower number of ace receptors to which virus attaches, making them much better at handling viral infections than adults,” he said during the Union health ministry briefing on Covid-19 on Tuesday.He, however, stressed that for such a step to be considered, it must be ensured that school teachers and other support staff such as attendants, bus drivers etc. are fully vaccinated.Bhargava was asked if it was now time to reopen schools as many districts in the country were reporting less than 5% Covid-19 test positivity rate.The fourth round of pan-India sero survey conducted by ICMR also showed that the seroprevalence in children between six and nine years of age was 57.2%, making it almost similar to adults.“There was a slight change in this current round of sero survey. In that, we also included children between six and 17 years of age. Over 50% showed exposure to the virus,” Dr Bhargava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wise-to-reopen-primary-sections-first-says-govt-101626810329871.html
21-07-2021||India||No crisis should be politicised: Mandaviya hits out at Oppn||New Delhi: Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who took over following a Cabinet reshuffle earlier this month, accused Opposition leaders in Parliament on Tuesday of politicising the pandemic by criticising the government’s Covid-19 response and appealed for all states to come together to avert a third wave of infections.Mandaviya was replying to the discussion on the pandemic in Rajya Sabha, where MPs criticised the government’s handling of the second wave of infections, the medical oxygen crisis, and problems with the vaccine drive.“In the discussions so far, it is seen that anything good that happened in managing the pandemic, the members say it was due to the efforts of the local state government and the chief minister, but for anything that went wrong, the fault was with the Modi government,” said Mandaviya in his response.The minister heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, listing out steps taken in the early days of the pandemic as well as over the past year.He responded to some specific allegations, saying the Union government followed the demand of the states on vaccines when they wanted to procure directly, and repelled criticism over vaccines.“Some were asking why did India put a lockdown in March last year. India put a lockdown in order to ramp up vast medical infra. Lockdown was meant to prepare against the helplessness we saw in other countries,” he said.“But we are not complaining,” he added. “We must not forget that no crisis should be politicised. PM Modi has said in the past that when 1.3 billion people work together and take a single step on any issue, it means the country is going ahead with many steps -- in a crisis situation it always helps to move ahead together,” he said, appealing for everyone to work together.“When vaccination was launched, there was misinformation. We also must remember that vaccines had shelf life of six months – how could it be that we didn’t use it, and we shouldn’t give it to others,” he said, addressing criticism that the government gave away doses, which led to a shortage.“We gave vaccines because we had doses that were expiring, because we believe in the motto that the world is a family,” he said.Mandaviya also said that several Indian companies were stepping up production of doses and India could also have access to new vaccines in coming months. “Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech have started trials on children. I expect their trials to be successful. We need to trust our scientists. I trust my scientists and indigenous companies,” Mandaviya said, while adding that Serum Institute of India has become supplying 110-120 million doses a month and Bharat Biotech is expected to supply 35 million in August.Earlier, opposition members of the Upper House questioned the government’s preparedness and called for better coordination with the state governments.Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Manoj Kumar Jha said the government machinery entirely failed in taking appropriate steps during the second wave, and added that the crisis was the result of continuing disregard for health care “from 1947 till now”.“For one-and-a-half months, the whole country lived through a nightmare... Even MPs were not heard, what of the common man?” he said. “We witnessed undignified death, the next generations will not forgive us,” he added.Shantanu Sen of the Trinamool Congress said that during the second wave, there were bodies filling up at cremation and burial grounds. “Please make sure in the third wave, bodies don’t pile up on the street,” he said.“Lancet, the oldest medical journal, World Health Organization, the Supreme Court and several high courts, and even countries like Brazil, Canada and the UK have categorically criticised the Covid fighting policy of India. What can be more shameful for us,” he added.Tuesday’s was the first time the Covid-19 crisis was discussed in parliament following the devastating second wave of infections in April-May.Leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, Congress’s Mallikarjun Kharge said the government’s Covid-19 death toll figure of 400,000-500,000 is “false” and conservative, and claimed the average number of deaths cannot be less than 5.2 million.The Congress alleged that Modi “failed” in tackling the pandemic and made former health minister Harsh Vardhan a scapegoat.“There are about 638,565 villages in the country. Even if there were five Covid-19 deaths in a village, the total death toll would have been 3,191,825,” he said. “There are 7,935 urban cities, even if you take 10 deaths in each city, the toll would have been more than 793,500. Similarly, there would have been an estimated 360,000 deaths in 19 metros. On an average, it comes to 52.43 lakh deaths. It cannot be less than this. Still, they (government) say it is only 4-5 lakh. They keep saying this,” Kharge added.As Kharge’s remarks drew angry protests from the treasury benches, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma urged them to allow the debate to take place. “A serious topic is being discussed. The ruling party should listen patiently. When you speak, we will also listen patiently. This is not the right way of debating,” Sharma said.Mandaviya addressed this point in his reply and said death figures are provided by states and the Union government merely releases it.On cooperation between the Centre and the states, Mandaviya said the “PM met the State heads some 20 times, to ask for their feedback regarding how the pandemic can be best tackled, and drafted measures accordingly”.The minister said a package of over ₹23,000 crore has been approved for strengthening the health infrastructure, including setting up 24 million hospital beds and 20,000 ICU beds with a special focus on paediatric care to handle any possible third wave of the pandemic.Mandaviya also said that the government has taken several steps to enhance manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccines in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-crisis-should-be-politicised-mandaviya-hits-out-at-oppn-101626810023436.html
21-07-2021||India||Amid row over Eid relaxations, Kerala logs 16,848 Covid cases||Thiruvananthapuram: Even as the Supreme Court pulled up the state for allowing a three-day relaxation for Bakrid festival, Kerala on Tuesday clocked another spike in Covid-29 infections reporting 16,848 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 11.91 per cent. Statistics released by the state health ministry shows it is the highest tally and TPR in a month and the state contributes more than 50 per cent of total cases of the country -- in last 24 hours the country reported only 30,093 cases with a TPR of 1.68 per cent. Of 430,000 active cases, the state’s share is 126,000. Though many experts have started talking in terms of a possible third wave, the state government stuck to its repeated theory that the second wave started very late and what the state was witnessing is the peak of the second wave. But a close look at infection pattern shows the state is showing no sign of plateauing. When infections started declining rapidly across the country, Kerala is the only state that reports high volume of cases for more than a month. After the SC rap, the state has decided not to give any relaxation after Bakrid and weekend lockdown will continue for one more month. “On Friday we will do three lakh tests. High TPR is a big concern and we should increase our vigil and surveillance,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan after the pandemic review meeting. As the threat of third wave looms large, some experts have called for a strict monitoring of high incidences in Kerala and Maharashtra. But others said the presence of antibodies in Kerala is only half of the national average. “In the latest sero survey around 67 per cent of the total population in the country have antibodies but in Kerala it is below 30 per cent. So there are large pockets of uninfected people who are susceptible. It was expected,” said public health expert Dr N M Arun. He said it was too early to talk about a third wave but the state needs utmost vigil. As cases rise exponentially last week the CM had announced a series of relaxations for Bakird which came in for heavy criticism. At least 40 people will be allowed in places of worship and shops and business establishments will opened till 8 pm. And the number of pilgrims in Sabarimala hill temple was also doubled from 5000 to 10,000. On Tuesday the SC had criticised the state and warned that it will be held responsible for any possible outcome. Besides concessions for Bakrid, certain activities like film shooting and relaxations for places of worship were also announced. But many experts and the apex body of doctors, Indian Medical Association, came down heavily on it saying “it was most ill-timed and inappropriate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-row-over-eid-relaxations-kerala-logs-16-848-covid-cases-101626808415751.html
21-07-2021||India||Stalin urges PM not to proceed with marine fisheries bill in House||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday urged the Union government not to move the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill, 2021 during the current session of Parliament. “This issue is of grave concern to Tamil Nadu, particularly among the coastal districts,” Stalin said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Many provisions in the proposed Bill go against the interests of the local fishermen communities and certain clauses infringe upon the rights conferred to the States under the State List of the 7th Schedule of Constitution of India.” Stalin said the union government has proposed to move the Bill without adequately addressing the concerns and well-being of Indian fishermen who are traditionally engaged in this occupation for their livelihood for generations.“While we understand and appreciate the need to protect and preserve the marine eco system, we also consider it equally important that the livelihood and interests of the traditional fishermen are clearly protected,” said his letter released by the government. “As the proposed Bill has many disturbing clauses, like criminalisation and imprisonment of fishermen, use of force against fishermen, levy of charges, levy of huge penalties etc., it has resulted in widespread protests and disquiet.” Stalin asked for the Bill to be put through wider debate and discussion. After the union government had obtained all views from stakeholders on the Bill in its present form, he said a decision on moving a fresh Bill could be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-urges-pm-not-to-proceed-with-marine-fisheries-bill-in-house-101626808295785.html
21-07-2021||India||Flood-hit primary health centre turns into hi-tech hospital in Kerala’s Malapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: A primary health centre in Malappuram district which was destroyed during the floods in 2018 has been reconstructed as a hospital with modern facilities under the ‘Rebuild Kerala’ initiative and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the hospital on July 24, officials said. The primary health centre was catering to poor patients and its destruction was in the news then. Later UAE-based VPS Health Care group, owned by NRI businessman Dr Shamseer Vayalil, promised to rebuild the health centre. “Built at the cost of ₹10 crore, the new hospital and laboratory will have all modern facilities,” said district medical officer NK Sakeena, adding that it will cater to at least 200,000 patients in a year. Located at remote Vazhakkad village, the hospital was designed by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras and students of the School of Architecture and Planning at Thrissur Engineering College. The building component used is glass fibre reinforced gypsum panel, also known as Rapidwall, which can withstand natural calamities, said VPS Health Care authorities. “It has all modern facilities. Experts from many fields rubbed shoulders with local people for such an initiative,” said VPS Health Care chairman Shamseer Vayalil. The hospital has an advanced laboratory, modern imaging department, oxygen beds, concentrators and a stabilisation unit to attend to sufferings from oxygen saturation, said the group in a statement. “What is makes it different is that it is made of eco-friendly technology eliminating the usual brick and cement structure with an aesthetically pleasing design.” Three years ago, flood had ravaged many parts of the state claiming 500 lives -- it was dubbed as the flood of the century. After the disaster, the government had undertaken an initiative, called ‘Rebuild Kerala’, to piece together damaged infrastructure and lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floodhit-primary-health-centre-turns-into-hi-tech-hospital-in-kerala-s-malapuram-101626808175722.html
21-07-2021||India||Kerala minister lands in row over viral clip on molestation case||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala forest minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) AK Saseendran has landed in a controversy over an alleged audio tape of his conversation with the father of a woman, who filed sexual harassment complaint against another NCP leader, in which he was purportedly heard asking the parent to settle the issue. Talking to reporters on Tuesday, the minister refuted the allegations. While he did not deny his telephonic conversation, he said he did not know that it was a sexual harassment case. However, the woman’s father while talking to reporters alleged that the minister called him several times and asked him to withdraw the compliant and settle the issue amicably. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party sought the minister’s resignation saying he violated the “oath of office” by “forcing a sexual assault victim to withdraw her compliant”. “He has no right to continue in power,” said VD Satheesan, leader of the opposition in state assembly. Youth Congress leader Veena Nair on Tuesday met Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and sough his expulsion. BJP state president K Surendran said, “He has violated his oath of office forcing the victim to withdraw a sexual harassment case.” However, Saseendran said he called up the woman’s father since both (accused and complainant) were members of the NCP and he wanted to know about the issue. He claimed that he backed out after he came to know harassment charges were also involved. According to the police, the woman from Kollam in south Kerala had filed a complaint at Kundara police station on June 28, alleging that NCP state executive member G Padmakaran had caught hold of her hand and tried to molest her inside a hotel owned by him in March. In her police complaint, she said the NCP leader wanted to know why she joined the BJP when everyone else in her family belonged to the NCP. In 2020 local body elections, she unsuccessfully contested on the BJP ticket. In his purported conversation with the father, the minister is heard saying that there was a minor issue in the party, and it should be settled in a good manner. In the audio clip, when the man asks if the minister was seeking to settle the issue of a hotel owner’s bid to sexually assault his daughter, the minister purportedly says he knew about the issue, and it should be settled in a good manner. HT cannot indepenently verify the autheticity of the audio clip. Later, the victim’s father claimed they were being pressurised to withdraw the compliant, an allegation Saseendran denied. “Since both belong to the NCP, I made an inquiry. I never pressurised either the father or daughter,” he said, adding that he was told about a verbal duel, not harassment or assault. The woman’s father said he would file a complaint with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayarghavan said he was not aware of the issue and will react only after studying it. Party insiders, however, said senior leaders were upset with the development. NCP state president PC Chacko defended the minister, saying he was only trying to ascertain facts about the compliant. This is not the first time Saseendran has landed in a controversy. During the first Pinarayi Vijayan government, Saseendran, then transport minister, was forced to quit in 2017 after his alleged inappropriate conversation with a woman journalist surfaced. He was later inducted after the journalist withdrew her compliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-lands-in-row-over-viral-clip-on-molestation-case-101626808115675.html
21-07-2021||India||Cong sends top leader to Imphal amid reports of state president quitting party||IMPHAL: The Congress rushed party in-charge for Manipur, Bhakta Charandas, to Imphal amid reports that the state party president, Govindas Konthoujam, and two MLAs have resigned from the party and headed to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Manipur goes to polls in March 2022 along with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Goa.Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bhupenda Meitei tweeted that Congress president, Sonia Gandhi is well aware of the developments in the state, and she is deeply concerned for the future of Manipur.“As per the direction of Congress President Smt. Sonia Gandhi ji, AICC in-charge of Manipur, Shri @BhaktaCharandas ji, former Union Minister, will arrive in Imphal by 9 AM tomorrow to meet with senior leaders and other leaders of the party,” he said in a tweet.The development came as reports claimed that Konthoujam, a six-time lawmaker who heads the state Congress unit, has stepped down. The former minister could not be reached for his response as his mobile phone was switched off. He was appointed state Congress president in December 2020.News reports also indicated that some other Congress leaders were also on their way out. Kh Joykishan was among those who was said to have resigned as the state unit’s vice president. Joykishan, who represents Thangmeiband assembly constituency in Imphal West district, rejected the media report. “It is not true,” he said.Yamthong Haokip, MLA from Saikul assembly constituency, who was said to have quit the party could not be contacted for his comment. His phone was also switched off. The Congress emerged as the single largest party in the 2017 assembly elections, winning 28 out of 60 seats but could not form the government. Instead, the BJP, which won 21 seats, came to power with support of four National People’s Party MLAs, four Naga People’s Front MLAs and one MLA each from TMC, Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent.The strength of the 60-member assembly has been reduced to 54 (BJP-24, INC-17) after three members were disqualified and three Congress MLAs resigned earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-sends-top-leader-to-imphal-amid-reports-of-state-president-quitting-party-101626808057228.html
21-07-2021||India||Maha probes officials’ tour to Israel in 2019||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government’s director general of information and publicity (DGIPR) on Tuesday started an inquiry into the tour of five of its senior officials to Israel in November 2019, an official familiar with the developments said, adding the probe comes on the heels of the demand by the Congress, which is part of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government, to probe if the Pegasus leak had any state connection. The general administrative department, which governs the information and public relations department of the state government, has issued notices to the officials asking them to submit a report related to the tour, the official said, adding that the preliminary inquiry conducted earlier had found several violations of the set rules related to the foreign tours.Five senior officials headed by a director of the department had gone to Israel between November 15 and 25, 2019. “Notices have been served to the officials asking them to submit the details of the tours, including object, itinerary of tours, meetings that took place during the tour and the efforts by them to ensure that the department was benefited from their experience among others,” said an official from general administrative department. When contacted, Dilip Pandharpatte, director general of information and public relations refused to comment on the issue.“The officials had extended their tour by a few days, when the extension of any such official tour is not permitted. The permission from the chief minister of the state is mandatory for any such foreign tour, alongwith the ministry of external affairs, finance and home affairs is mandatory. Since the model code of conduct was in place when the tour was being chalked out, the permission from the ECI too was necessary. The DGIPR had taken the permission by the then chief secretary, but it was not sufficient. The rules also mandate for the official invitation from the government of the country they are visiting. In this case, the tour was planned on the basis of the letter given by consul general of Israel in Mumbai. We have found gross violation of the laid down rules related to the foreign tours of the officials,” another official from the government said.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant on Monday had demanded that the state government should probe if there were any links related to Maharashtra in the Pegasus leaks. “The illegal and unauthorised phone tapping done by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla, who headed state intelligence department during Fadnavis government, is being probed and the truth will soon come to the fore. But there are also doubts if there are any Maharashtra links to Pegasus leaks and any IPS officer who was posted at Mantralaya was working on it? A few officials from the office of director general of information and public relations (DGIPR) of the state government had visited Israel during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. The questions including if they got any training, by whose permission they had gone, did they submit any report to the government, how many times did they go to Israel, were there any scheduled meetings in Israel, had government had any correspondence with NSO or any presentation was made to the state government, need to be answered. A probe into the issue will throw light on these questions,” Sawant said.Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said the team of officers had gone to Israel but it was well after the assembly polls ended. “The team had gone to study the farming and farm techniques in Israel. Maharashtra government during my tenure as the CM, never had taken any services of the NSO. Let the government probe into the case.”The DGIPR is also checking about several Israel tours of a senior officer from DGIPR during the Fadanvis government. The department is also has the information about the logistic support provided by a local agency in Israel. “The officials who went on tour may not have direct links with the alleged phone tapping controversy as none of them has any technical knowledge required. We believe that it was a leisure tour organised to oblige senior officials from the government,” a senior official from the GAD said. Aditi Tatkare, minister of state for general administration, said she was not aware of any probe. “The publicity department does take cognizance of the media reports related to the government. I am not aware if any such probe has been started and if there was any officials complaint made by Sachin Sawant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-probes-officials-tour-to-israel-in-2019-101626807755703.html
21-07-2021||India||House IT panel likely to take up Pegasus issue on July 28||A parliamentary committee on information technology chaired by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor is likely to take up on July 28 the alleged illegal surveillance mounted on journalists, activists, opposition leaders, etc, using Israeli military-grade spyware Pegasus, a person familiar with the matter said.The panel, going by the notification HT has accessed, will hear what the ministry of electronics and information technology, ministry of home affairs and the department of telecommunications have to say on this.“GoI has denied resorting to unauthorised surveillance. The question this raises is, if #Pegasus is only sold to governments, which other govts (China/Pak?) are using it to snoop on prominent Indian citizens? Shouldn’t the authorities call for an independent investigation,” Tharoor had tweeted on July 18.This is not the first time that the panel has taken up the issue of the Israeli spyware. In 2019, after instant messaging service WhatsApp had reported being vulnerable to the spyware attack, the panel had called these same ministries to explain their stand.At the time, At the time, the issue required an unusual vote to take up the matter as BJP members resisted the suggestion -- a casting vote by Tharoor finally broke a tie.“It’s been proved that phones examined in India had invasion of Pegasus. Since this product is only sold to vetted govts, question arises which government? If GoI says they haven’t done it, some other govt did it, then it’s a more serious national security concern,” news agency ANI quoted Tharoor as saying on Tuesday.The maker of the spyware — Israel-based NSO Group — has said that it only supplies the software to governments. On Monday, reports had surfaced that claimed that apart from 38 Indian journalists, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and two of his aides, Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, political strategist Prashant Kishor and former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa’s phones had also been hacked. The list also included the number of a woman who had accused former chief justice of India Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment and the numbers of 11 of her friends and family members.The investigation by a global consortium of media houses also named public health experts Gagandeep Kang and M Hari Menon and diplomats from at least five countries as potential targets of Pegasus software.Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who defended the government in Parliament hours before being named as a potential hacking target, and Jal Shakti minister of state Prahlad Singh Patel, were the high-profile government names in the list of people who were allegedly snooped on.The consortium published on Sunday that 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide, including Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, and reporters from the Wall Street Journal, CNN, New York Times, and Le Monde.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.The Indian government has denied any involvement. But the opposition has called for a probe into the allegations..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-it-panel-likely-to-take-up-pegasus-issue-101626807695635.html
21-07-2021||India||police file case against Adhikari over allegations of phone tapping||Kolkata: The police in East Midnapore district on Tuesday filed a case against Bharatiya Janata Party’s Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in the West Bengal assembly, accusing him of intimidating and insulting government officials and tapping their phones. The case has been filed by the police on their own accord based on a video in which Adhikari purportedly said that he has all the records of phone calls made from the office of chief minister Mamata Banerjee to her nephew, Trinamool Congress’ national general secretary and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee. East Midnapore superintendent of police Amarnath K said at a press conference on Tuesday that Adhikari said in the video that he has the phone records of police officers too, which he should not officially have. “Hence, a case has been registered under the Official Secrets Act. He made some communal statements as well for which Section 295 (A) of the Indian Penal Code has been added. A charge under the Disaster Management Act has also been added as more than 50 people had assembled for the meeting violating Covid-19 restrictions,” Amarnath K said. In the 35-second video clip, which was shot outside the SP’s office in Tamluk on Monday, Adhikari can be heard referring to the chief minister as “aunt” and Abhishek Banerjee as “nephew”. “The role of the IO (investigating officer), inspector-in-charge and the superintendent of police will be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Then you will understand that no aunt can save you. Phone calls are made to you from the nephew’s office. I have all the phone numbers and call records. If you have the state government, we have the central government,” Adhikari can be heard saying in the clip. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video or identify of the police officers being referred to in it. But a section of the local media in the state reported that the statement was made at a public meeting in East Midnapore district on Monday afternoon and Adhikari was referring to local police officers. Adhikari’s comments have created quite a stir in the state, especially as they surfaced a day after opposition parties cornered the BJP in Parliament, accusing the central government of using military grade Israeli spyware Pegasus to snoop on opposition leaders, journalists, activists and government officials. TMC has said in Parliament that Abhishek Banerjee was among those whose phones were tapped. Adhikari didn’t deny the charges. “One should not give importance to this. The TMC and police are synonymous,” he said.The TMC reacted sharply, saying the video confirms the illegal use of Pegasus malware by the BJP. “Adhikari should be arrested immediately and interrogated in custody. He has proved that Pegasus was used to snoop on many people, including Abhishek Banerjee. This is a heinous crime. The Centre is misusing its powers,” said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. West Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson, Samik Bhattacharya, played it down. “Suvendu Adhikari is a seasoned politician. He made the statements at a political rally. If the police can lodge cases against Adhikari, why is Mukul Roy being spared? After joining the BJP (in 2017) he told a television channel that his phone was tapped by the TMC government,” he said. Mukul Roy, who was a national vice-president of the BJP, returned to the TMC on June 11 along with his son. Adhikari is a legislator from East Midnapore’s Nandigram where he defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the recent assembly polls by 1,958 votes. His father and one of his brothers are TMC Lok Sabha MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-file-case-against-adhikari-over-allegations-of-phone-tapping-101626807636189.html
21-07-2021||India||Siddaramaiah denies rift with Shivakumar||Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday refuted claims of a rift between him and Karnataka Pradesh Congress president DK Shivakumar. Addressing media during a press conference in New Delhi, which was attended by both Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah said: “There are no rifts within the party. There could be small differences in the party, which could be resolved. In a democratic party, these are common… there are no differences that could harm the party. Rahul Gandhi has asked us to work together. He said the (political) atmosphere in Karnataka is good, and we should return to power. We are following that advice,” Siddaramaiah said on Tuesday. DK Shivakumar said the Congress party’s ethos is to work together. “We are a national party. We believe in collective leadership. Even the elections will be contested this week. There are questions one or two individuals are not important. There are several leaders in the Congress, and we will go to the elections together.” Speaking to the media earlier on Tuesday, Siddaramaiah said that DK Shivakumar and he are together. “We’re building the party together. There’s no rift in Karnataka Congress, and the party will come back to power. Why should there be a rift? We are fighting against the corruption of BJP,” Siddaramaiah said. Siddaramaiah had come to New Delhi, following a call from the party high command. The leaders are expected to meet party president Sonia Gandhi amid a speculations power tussle. The meeting is expected to be regarding the appointment of office-bearers and strategies for the upcoming Assembly elections in 2023. “I am in Delhi because Rahul Gandhi wanted to meet me by 4 pm today (Tuesday), this is what KC Venugopal told me. I don’t know what subject matter he is going to discuss,” Siddaramaiah said. “There is no rift…I have no problem with any leader. We want to prepare to help people to throw this Govt out of power…this meeting had nothing to do with constituency or power,” he has said on arrival. Congress leader’s Delhi visit assumes significance as a section of MLAs and leaders including Chickpet MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan and Kampli MLA J N Ganesh are openly backing him to lead the state in the event of the Congress getting a majority in 2023 polls. On Monday, Siddaramaiah in a response to a question whether the party was ready in case the BJP is unable to handle its internal crisis, said “Congress is ready to face elections at any point of time. I don’t feel that an early election will take place because if Yediyurappa is removed, another person will be made the chief minister.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-denies-rift-with-shivakumar-101626807395729.html
21-07-2021||India||Lingayat mutts and leaders rally behind BSY amid row||Bengaluru: Heads of several mutts in Bengaluru met Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa amidst speculations of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) replacing him, despite him saying that the decision would depend on the party high command.“I will have to abide by the decision of the party high command,” the CM is reported to have told the delegation of priests. The political and religious leaders of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which comprises 16 per cent of the state’s population and the biggest vote base for BJP, promised their support to Yediyurappa following the meeting. The Lingayat community is back in focus with speculations of Yediyurappa’s departure. Yediyurappa has been the face of the Lingayat community in the party and has enjoyed big electoral support from its members.One of the pontiffs who attended the meeting said that Yediyurappa told them that he would abide by the BJP high command’s decision. Several of the mutt leaders who attended the meeting have warned the BJP against any move to dislodge the 78-year-old. Veera Someshwara Shivacharya Swami said any move to replace Yediyurappa will have big consequences for the BJP. “Friction is common in politics, let anyone say anything, we have confidence that BS Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister and complete the term. If there are any shortcomings in this, it will have big consequences for the party,” he said. Muruga mutt seer Sri Shivamurthy Sharanaru held a press conference in support of the senior BJP leader, in Chitradurga district on Tuesday in support of Yediyurappa. “Yediyurappa may belong to the Lingayat caste and religion. But he is a leader for all. He is a mass leader who treats everyone equally. He has worked for the development of people of all castes and religions equally. That is why he must continue as the CM of the state,” the seer said. “Yediyurappa is a grassroots level leader. He has built the party from the scratch. He should not be disturbed. We are here to support him and express solidarity with him. The party will suffer if he is removed,” the Murugha mutt seer added. Yediyurappa is said to have told the delegation that he will have to abide by the decision of the BJP high command, giving some credence to speculation that a change of leadership is on the cards. “Yediyurappa only said that he is not in a position to speak anything on the issue and will have to abide by the decision of the high command. He did not say anything else,” Balehosur mutt’s Dingaleshwar Swamy, who led the delegation of pontiffs, said. “When we questioned Yediyurappa what happened, he said he will not comment on that, and the high command’s decision is final. He did not say anything else. The unanimous opinion of the pontiffs is: don’t replace Yediyurappa. If it is done, you (BJP) will face bad consequences in the days to come,” he added. The pontiff told reporters that if in any situation Yediyurappa is replaced, the BJP will probably get decimated in Karnataka. “This is not only our opinion but of a majority of people of the state,” he added. On Monday, senior Lingayat leader in the Congress party and the former minister MP Patil had said the Lingayat community would be upset if the BJP high command removed Yediyurappa from the post. “Surely, the Lingayats will be displeased with the BJP’s central leaders if they remove the Lingayat leader BS Yediyurappa from the post of the chief minister,” Patil tweeted. Another Congress leader and president of All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha (the largest group within the Lingayat community) Shamanuru Shivashankarappa, who met the chief minister on Monday, said the latter should continue with the post. Shivashankarappa, who met Yediyurappa at his residence for over an hour, had told media that the Veerashaiva community was standing firmly with Yediyurappa and any efforts to dislodge him would not go down well with the community. ”If they dislodge Yediyurappa, the BJP will suffer the same fate that happened when Nijalingappa and Veerendra Patil were removed.The BJP must think about this history before venturing into any adventures. It is BB Shivappa and BS Yediyurappa who toiled hard and built this party. If they remove him, they will be ruined,” he had said. As the speculations continue, Yediyurappa has called the legislative party meeting on July 26. This decision comes after he returned to the state after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi last week. On his return, he told the media that the central leadership asked him to continue. “The central leaders have asked me to continue as chief minister and strengthen the party. We must follow their instructions from time to time. There is no question of leadership change,” Yediyurappa told reporters on his return from Delhi. However, since returning to Karnataka, Yediyurappa has not issued any public statements denying the rumours of his replacement. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lingayat-mutts-and-leaders-rally-behind-bsy-amid-row-101626807335649.html
21-07-2021||India||11 feared abducted by Maoists in Chhattisgarh||At least 11 people have gone missing from a village in Chhattisgarh’s insurgency-hit Sukma district and are suspected to have been abducted by Maoists, police said on Tuesday. A search for the missing is underway, they added. According to inspector general of police (IGP) (Bastar range) Sunderaj P, seven persons went missing after attending a social gathering two days ago. “...(the) villagers from Kunded under Jagargonda police station limits went to a nearby village to attend a social gathering a couple of days back and they are yet to return home. We are trying to verify the information about a few of them being taken captive by Maoists,” he said.Sukma superintendent of police Sunil Sharma said that four others, including a village head, on Monday had reportedly gone to hold talks with the rebels on the alleged abduction of the villagers but did not return. According to people familiar with the developments, the rebels suspected that the missing persons had appeared for a police recruitment test, and hence, may have taken them in captivity.No case has been registered so far and talks are underway between tribal leaders and Maoists, the people cited above added.ITBP trooper killed in gunbattleA paramilitary trooper of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) was killed and another was injured in an exchange of fire between security forces and Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Left-wing insurgency-affected Naraynapur district on Tuesday.The Bastar IGP said the gun battle broke out near Aamdai Valley after a party of the ITBP’s 45th battalion was out to clear the movement of Chandan Kashyap, the member of Chhattisgarh assembly from Narayanpur constituency.“After the convoy of Kashyap passed through the area around 10 am, a small action team of Maoists opened fire on the ITBP jawans. One jawan, Shiv Kumar Meena, died while assistant sub-inspector Keshav Ram suffered minor injuries,” Sunderaj P said, adding that Ram was out of danger and undergoing treatment at a local hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-feared-abducted-by-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-101626806136793.html
21-07-2021||India||US seeks to extradite 26/11 accused to India||The Biden administration has urged a California court to clear the extradition of Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman Tahawwur Rana to India for his role in planning the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack.US government attorneys urged the court to “conclude that India’s extradition request contains sufficient evidence of probable cause on each of the criminal charges for which India seeks Rana’s extradition”.Rana, 59, has been declared a fugitive by India, where he is facing multiple criminal charges for his involvement in the 2008 terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. A warrant was issued for his arrested in India in August 2018.US attorneys, Tracy L Wilkison and Christopher D Grigg, in a proposed order titled Findings of Facts and Conclusions of Law, said, “Having found that all of the requirements for certification of extradition have been satisfied, the Court certifies the extradition of Tahawwur Hussain Rana to the Secretary of State and commits him to custody pursuant.”“Based on the evidence submitted by India, RANA allowed fraud against the Indian government to occur through the creation and submission of forged documents. The purpose behind such fraud is irrelevant under the Indian criminal provisions,” the document, filed on July 15, said.The Indian government has accused Rana of conspiring with David Coleman Headley to assist the Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in orchestrating the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.“In any event, RANA knowingly allowed Headley to obtain the business visa and the cover that he needed to conduct terrorism-related surveillance operations in India, ultimately leading to the three-day terrorist attacks in Mumbai,” the document said.Headley, a Pakistani-American who scouted the Mumbai targets for LeT operatives, visited India using the Indian branch of Rana’s Chicago-based company, First World Immigration Services, as cover.Headley is serving a 35-year-jail sentence in a plea deal with the US government that protects him from extradition.Also Read | Tahawwur Rana, 2008 Mumbai terror attack suspect, to remain in US custodyAccording to the document, the evidence establishes that the Mumbai attacks were committed by LeT, a terrorist organisation targeting India.“Rana was aware that Headley was involved with LeT, and that by assisting Headley and affording him a cover for his activities, he was supporting the terrorist organisation and its associates. Rana knew of Headley’s meetings, what was discussed, and the planning of the attacks, including some of the targets. Further, it was foreseeable that these attacks would lead to death, injury, and destruction of property,” it said.Rana’s attorneys, John D. Cline and Patrick W. Blegen, however, argued that the “government has not satisfied the requirement” of provisions of the Extradition Treaty that a request for extradition be supported by “such information as would justify the committal for trial of the person if the offense had been committed in the Requested State”.Rana was held guilty by a jury in a Chicago court in 2011 for providing material support to a terrorist plot against a Danish news publication and to LeT, and was sentenced to 14 years in prison in 2013.The court, however, acquitted him on the charge of conspiracy to provide material support for the Mumbai attack.Rana was released in 2020 on humanitarian grounds when he tested positive for Covid-19 and rearrested shortly after in Los Angeles on India’s extradition request.In another motion filed in the California court on July 15, the US attorneys urged the court to find that India has the jurisdiction to charge Rana for “(a) conspiracy to wage war, to commit murder, to commit forgery for the purpose of cheating, to use a forged document, and to commit a terrorist act, in violation of Indian Penal Code (lists sections)..; (b) waging war, in violation of IPC (section); (c) conspiracy to wage war, in violation of (another section of) IPC; (d) murder, in violation of IPC (section); (e) committing a terrorist act; and (f) conspiracy to commit a terrorist act.”(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-seeks-to-extradite-26-11-accused-to-india-101626806076767.html
21-07-2021||India||Compensation for Covid deaths: Centre seeks time till mid-Sept to frame rules||The Centre has sought from the Supreme Court an additional period of four weeks to frame guidelines on the grant of ex-gratia relief to families of victims of Covid-19 under the National Disaster Management Act (DMA) 2005.According to a top court judgment on June 30, the central government was given six weeks to frame guidelines under Section 12 (ii) of the 2005 Act which talks of minimum standards of relief to be provided to persons affected due to Covid-19. Under this provision, the Centre needs to demarcate the categories of beneficiaries and decide on the amount of ex-gratia accordingly. The period of six weeks is supposed to end on August 11.In an application filed in the apex court on Monday, the Centre said the NDMA is in the process of framing guidelines and is at an advanced stage of finalising the ex-gratia scheme.“The exercise to frame appropriate guidelines for payment of ex-gratia payment to the victims of Covid-19 disaster under Section 12(iii) of the DMA is in active consideration of the NDMA and going on. This exercise, though at an active advance stage, requires a little more in-depth examination before the same is finalized and implemented,” the application read.As per data available with the ministry of health and family welfare, over 4.14 lakh people had died due to the virus till Tuesday.“Any accelerated formulation, in the respectful submission of the applicant, may result in undesirable results,” the Centre said.The application requested the court to grant additional four weeks to enable the NDMA to prepare a “comprehensive and robust formulation”.Ideally, an application filed in a disposed case is heard in the Supreme Court by the bench that passed the judgment. One of the judges of the two-judge bench who passed the order, Justice Ashok, has since retired. The judgment was authored by Justice M R Shah.In the wake of the Centre’s application, the Chief Justice of India can decide to assign this for hearing before a new bench or the bench with only Justice Shah as a member.The significant ruling by the court in June was based on two separate public interest litigations (PILs) filed by two lawyers, Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal. The two petitioners had highlighted a notification issued by the ministry of home affairs, the nodal ministry for DMA, on April 8, 2015, by which the government had quantified an ex-gratia compensation of ₹4 lakh to victims killed in a notified disaster for getting relief under Section 12(iii) of the 2005 Act.Since Covid-19 was declared as a “notified” disaster on March 14, 2020, the PIL demanded the April 2015 notification to be extended to such victims.The June 30 judgment accepted the principle that the Centre was liable under Section 12(iii) of DMA to provide compensation. On the quantum, the court left it to the wisdom of NDMA to determine the amount by taking into consideration the availability and requirement of funds under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for meeting other priorities and fund requirements under other heads of prevention, preparation and mitigation of the Covid-19 pandemic.The court also directed the Centre to frame a “simplified procedure or guidelines” for issuing an official document or death certificate to the family of those who succumbed to the virus.“If a person has died after he was found to be Covid positive and he has died within two to three months, either in the hospital or outside the hospital or at home, the death certificate or official document must be issued to the family members of the deceased stating the cause of death as ‘died due to Covid-19’,” the bench had remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-4-more-weeks-to-frame-rules-on-relief-to-covid-victims-families-101626804936034.html
21-07-2021||India||SC quashes part of UPA-era constitutional amendment||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that the Parliament could not have introduced a law regulating cooperative societies within states and Union territories under the 97th Constitution amendment of 2011, without first getting it ratified from half of the state legislatures.However, the three-judge bench of the top court by a 2:1 majority held that the Constitution (97th Amendment) Act 2011 will be valid and operational with regard to multistate cooperative societies which relate to cooperative societies existing across many states or union territories.The majority view of Justices RF Nariman and BR Gavai said, “We declare that Part IXB of the Constitution of India is operative insofar as multi-state co-operative societies are concerned…. Part IXB, insofar as it applies to co-operative societies which operate within a State, would therefore require ratification under Article 368(2) of the Constitution of India. In the present case, ratification not having been effected, the Amendment is non est.”Article 368 refers to the power of Parliament to amend the Constitution.The third judge on the bench, Justice KM Joseph supported the majority view to the extent that Part IXB does not apply to state cooperative societies. He went a step further and held that the law cannot apply to multi-state cooperative societies either.Justice Joseph in his separate dissenting view said, “To sustain these provisions, the court would have to resurrect the dead provisions contained in Article 243ZI to 243ZQ and Article 243ZT. The Doctrine of Severability must apply on surer foundations. It is my view that unless the provisions, which have been found unconstitutional are kept alive, Articles 243R and 243ZQ are plainly unworkable.”Article 243ZR related to multi-state cooperative societies.The 97th constitutional amendment, which dealt with issues related to effective management of co-operative societies in the country, was passed by Parliament in December 2011 and had come into effect from February 15, 2012.The matter came to the Supreme Court by an appeal filed by Centre against a Gujarat high court judgment of April 22, 2013 which struck down the entire Part IXB of the Constitution introduced by the 2011 Constitution Amendment Act as “non est” (which means “does not exist”).The Part IXB contained Articles 243ZH to Article 243ZT, which empowered Parliament (for multi-state cooperative societies) and state legislatures for other cooperative societies to make laws.These laws could prescribe standards of incorporation, regulation, winding up, composition, tenure, audit, submission of periodic accounts and reports, provision for reservation and penalty clauses.The high court found that the process adopted by Parliament to introduce the law was wrong as cooperative societies were a subject reserved exclusively for States under the Seventh Schedule. Any change required ratification of half of the state legislatures, the HC held.The Centre’s appeal was argued by Attorney General KK Venugopal who said that since the passing of the Constitution Amendment law of 2011, 17 out of 28 States have already enacted legislative measures and therefore, it can be said that more than half of the states had accepted and applied the provisions of Part IXB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-quashes-part-of-upa-era-constitutional-amendment-101626804819445.html
21-07-2021||India||PM briefs floor leaders on Covid management, 6 parties skip meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that Covid-19 response should not be a matter of politics and that India has been able to check the disease at a second wave while some countries have suffered as many as four waves. He made the remark while addressing a meeting of Parliamentary floor leaders.According to three leaders present in the meeting, the PM used an Olympic analogy to underline that good pandemic management of a state is a matter of satisfaction for the entire country. “If an Indian athlete wins a gold medal in the upcoming Olympics, it is a matter of national pride and not which party in power helped him or her. It’s same for the pandemic management too,” Modi said at a briefing for floor leaders on Covid-19.The meeting, conducted by Union home minister Amit Shah, was boycotted by six Opposition parties—the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Akali Dal, Rashtriya Janata Dal, CPI(M) and CPI—as they maintained that any discussion on Covid should take place in ParliamentThe Prime Minister spoke about how India’s vaccination programme—the largest in the world—has gained pace and pointed out “that the first 10 crore doses took around 85 days while the last 10 crore doses have taken 24 days.”He also informed the leaders that the daily closing stocks show an average of more than 1.5 crore vaccines at the end of the day throughout the country,” said an official press release.Modi stressed on the need for proper planning of vaccination, especially at the district level, based on the advance availability indicated by the Union health minister, and expressed concern over only 80% of India’s healthcare workers being vaccinated till now.“Modi said 100% of them must be vaccinated,” said a leader present in the meeting.Parties close to the BJP hailed Modi’s efforts. Pashupati Paras of the LJP described Modi as the “best PM of the world”. AIADMK said, “Modi is a deity in all Indian households.”Biju Janata Dal leader Pinaki Mishra asked the PM to keep the share of vaccine doses for private hospitals to only 10% in states such as Odisha, which doesn’t have too many private health facilities.Trinamool leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said Bengal got only 2.5 million doses as against the allotted 7.5 million doses for July, and requested the PM to give more vaccines to the state.DMK leader TR Balu was critical of the Centre’s role and alleged that the government is clueless in the battle against Covid-19. Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav cautioned that in many UP villages, people shut their door to vaccine teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-briefs-floor-leaders-on-covid-management-6-parties-skip-meeting-101626804756812.html
21-07-2021||India||No deaths reported due to lack of O2 by states in 2nd wave: Centre||No deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically reported by states and Union territories during the second Covid-19 wave, the government said in a written statement in Parliament on Tuesday.Responding to a question on whether a large number of Covid-19 patients died on roads and hospitals due to acute shortage of oxygen during the second wave, minister of state (health), Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply in Rajya Sabha said,“Due to unprecedented surge in demand of medical oxygen during the second wave— the demand in the country peaked to nearly 9000 MT as compared to 3095 MT during the first wave— the central government had to step in to facilitate equitable distribution to the States.”“Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union health ministry to all states and UTs… Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union health ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by States/UTs,” Pawar replied.However, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in a statement said, “There was an actual shortage of oxygen during the second wave’s peak period of the pandemic. The central government has been running a cover-up since the very start of the pandemic. It is because of their flawed policy and implementation that the country had to endure an oxygen crisis during the toughest phase of the pandemic.”“The Delhi Government wanted to account for the reason behind deaths during the pandemic, we had constituted a ‘Death Audit Committee’ to work towards that. The central government however did not want their fallacies to be unveiled so they did not let us go through with the committee as they knew what truth will come out in the open,” he added.The government came under flak in the parliament with several members criticising the Centre for severe oxygen shortage during the second Covid-19 wave. Trinamool Congress’ Shantanu Sen said, “People were dying on the roads because of scarcity of oxygen and it was a matter of shame since it happened in the 21st century.” During Covid, the Centre took unilateral decisions and hands of state governments were tied, he added.Pawar, in her reply mentioned, government actions that included provisioning medical oxygen, and other consumables to ensure clinical care of patients in view of the steep rise in cases during April- May 2021.“A dynamic and transparent framework for allocation of medical oxygen in consultation with states and UTs and all the stakeholders such as relevant ministries, manufacturers/suppliers of liquid oxygen, etc. was prepared. The active caseload of the state and UT was the primary determinant of oxygen allocation. Other factors such as case doubling rate, available medical infrastructure, etc. were also given due consideration,” the reply read.Further, the allocation was kept dynamic as per the changing pandemic load.At the peak of the second wave in April and May, several cities reported an acute lack of oxygen that left critical patients gasping for breath. Prominent hospitals approached the courts and in some states -- such as Goa -- hospitals told the judiciary that patients died due to oxygen shortages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deaths-reported-due-to-lack-of-o2-by-states-in-2nd-wave-centre-101626804756246.html
21-07-2021||India||Antibodies in 68% Indians||Roughly two out of three Indians may have some protection from Covid-19, government experts on Tuesday said, citing the latest sero survey findings that they described as a “ray of hope”, but added that a large part of the population is still vulnerable and future waves cannot be ruled out.The study covered 28,975 people who were tested for antibodies for Sars-CoV-2. In all, 67.6% of the participants tested positive as a result of either an infection or because they took a vaccine.“Two-thirds of the general population, above the age of six, had antibodies. More importantly, a third of the population did not have antibodies, which is roughly 400 million people,” said Balram Bhargava, the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), at the government’s routine press briefing.The official said that among the people surveyed, 12,607 did not take any dose of a vaccine. Among the rest, 5,038 had one dose and 2,631 had two.The seroprevalence among the unvaccinated was 62.3%. In those who had a vaccine, the prevalence rate was 81% for those with one shot, and 90% for those who took both doses.Samples were taken “in the last 10 days of June and the first week of July”, Bhargava said, and added that the survey design was different from the past nationwide sero surveys since this one included children above the age of six. “But the survey was held in the same 70 districts spread across 21 states,” he said.India’s third nationwide sero survey, which covered 28,589 people, was completed in early January, when prevalence was 24.1%. Till January 10, India had roughly 10.4 million infections. India’s second wave of infections broke out in late March and peaked in April-May. Till July 10, roughly the time when the latest sero study ended, the cumulative cases were at 30.8 million.Also Read | Covid-19 antibodies last at least nine months after infection, here's howHaving Sars-CoV-2 antibodies offers protection from Covid-19 – the higher the concentration, the lower are the chances of a reinfection or symptomatic disease, research has shown. In the real world, this has meant that a past infection or vaccination helps prevent symptomatic or serious disease, if not an infection altogether.“Implications of this sero survey clearly show there is a ray of hope, but there is no room for complacency. We must maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour, and community engagement,” said Bhargava. He also clarified that the survey could not be used to estimate local-level parameters.“State-led sentinel sero survey should inform further local-level action. State heterogeneity indicates possibility of future wave of infections. Where sero prevalence is lower, chances of future wave of infection is higher,” he said to reiterate the need to maintain curbs on activities.“Societal, public, religious and political congregations should be avoided. Non-essential travel must be discouraged, and [people should] travel only when fully vaccinated. The way forward is to ensure full vaccination among health care workers as soon as possible and to encourage vaccination in vulnerable groups,” he said.A second government expert, too, stressed on the need to maintain precautions. “The important thing to note is that 40 crore people have no antibodies. We would like them to gain protection through vaccination and not an infection. Because such a large pool of vulnerable population is still among us -- one out of three -- the pandemic is in no way over. Second wave is still persisting. Danger of outbreak is still very much there,” said VK Paul, Niti Aayog member (Health).Experts said that the findings should be seen cautiously and warned against making assumptions about so-called herd or population immunity. “The aggregated data at the national level is a piece of good news but not a reason to celebrate or have unreasonable optimism. We should be very careful and not jump the gun in declaring that we are nearer the threshold of population immunity. We can still have major outbreaks, as we see in the UK, Israel, and others,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.Also Read | Sero survey in Punjab to focus on 6-17 age groupHerd immunity or population immunity refers to a level of protection in a community where there are too few people left for an infectious pathogen to spread. For Sars-CoV-2, this level was initially thought to be around 66% for the virus that was first seen in Wuhan. For the Delta variant, the threshold is believed to have risen to 80-87.5%, since the mutations make it spread significantly faster.But the concept has also been tricky in the case of Covid-19 for other reasons. Herd immunity is a concept accounted for in the case of vaccination-induced immunity. Additionally, antibodies from a natural infection can vary between people and tend to wane after a particular amount of time.Dr Babu said these were among several caveats to keep in mind. “One, even if this is truly representative, there is a high proportion of uninfected and unvaccinated persons in India. Two, there can be a disproportionately higher susceptible pool of uninfected persons in certain regions and some age groups. We should ramp up the vaccination coverage and widen it to ensure susceptibility levels should decrease. Finally, we do not know much about the proportion of reinfections in the community and antibody waning in the general population,” he added.Protection from Covid-19 also depends on a second line of defence of the immune system, which involves T cells and B cells. At the same time, new variants of the coronavirus can help the virus evade immunity from a past infection as well as vaccination -- although people are still expected to be somewhat protected from severe disease and death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibodies-in-68-indians-101626804217418.html
21-07-2021||India||No party wants law to clean up politics, rues Supreme Court||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that no political party was interested in framing a law to decriminalise politics by banning candidates against whom grave charges have been framed by the courts, adding that the legislative wing of the government has not been keen on taking a step in this direction.“There is unity in diversity,” quipped the bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai. “Unfortunately, we can’t legislate. We have been telling the legislature to take action against the candidates against whom charges have been framed but nothing has been done. Nothing is done and nothing will ever be done by any party,” the court said.The bench was hearing a contempt petition filed by advocate Brajesh Singh, who alleged wilful disobedience of court orders by various political parties during the Bihar assembly elections in 2020.Singh’s petition cited a Supreme Court judgment in February 2020, making it mandatory for all political parties to put up on their websites and also publish in two newspapers information regarding the pending criminal cases against candidates being fielded by them and the reasons for selecting them. Singh contended that several parties failed to put in public domain the details of criminal antecedents of their candidates, apart from just citing their winnability as the factor for picking them.Also Read | Centre seeks 4 more weeks to frame rules on Relief to covid victims’ familiesWhile delivering its judgment last year, the top court noted an “alarming increase of criminals in politics”. Both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress welcomed the verdict at the time, and said it will help deal with the criminalisation of politics.The order was passed in response to contempt petitions, which, among other things, pointed out that despite directions given by court in an order on September 25, 2018, for decriminalisation of politics, the government and the Election Commission of India (EC) failed to take concrete steps on the issue.The Supreme Court, in its 2018 judgment, asked for an enactment of a law to decriminalise politics, instructed candidates to fill in details of pending criminal cases against them in the form provided by EC, and ordered the disclosure by parties of the background of the candidates on public platforms.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who represented the Election Commission of India, apprised the bench that there were 427 candidates with criminal antecedents who contested the assembly elections in Bihar in 2020. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) topped the list with 104 tainted candidates, followed by the BJP, which fielded 77 such candidates.Singh pointed out that after the apex court’s judgment in February, the Election Commission (EC) on March 6 wrote to all recognised political parties, making it clear that a failure to abide by the court orders will be treated as a breach under Paragraph 16A of the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968, under which the election symbol of a party can be suspended or withdrawn.However, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), submitted that there were myriad issues in suspending an election symbol in a polity such as India, where even panchayat polls are conducted on the party’s election symbol. “Should the symbol of a national party be cancelled because directions haven’t been followed in a state or at a panchayat level? These are issues to be pondered over,” he said.The bench asked Sibal: “Are we then expected to put our hands up in the air? If we don’t go through the route of Paragraph 16A, how do we go about it?”Sibal replied that the top court should authorise EC under Article 324 (power of superintendence, direction and control of elections) to debar any candidate against whom the charges under offences entailing more than seven years in jail have been framed.But the bench retorted that a five-judge bench in 2018 clarified that a constitutional court could not issue such directions since there was no provision in the Constitution or any statute to back such a sanction. “But we will definitely think over your suggestion. You give us a note, and we will see what we can do within the parameters of the 2018 judgment,” it said.The bench added: “What we are sure about is that the legislative branch will never do this. I am sure about this that not in the near future but in any future, they won’t do it.”Also Read | SC quashes part of UPA-era constitutional amendmentUnder the Representation of People Act, an MP or an MLA convicted by court and sentenced to imprisonment for a term of more than two years is disqualified from contesting elections for the imprisoned period and a further period of years from his release. There is no provision for disqualifying any candidate prior to conviction. The Act disqualifies a candidate for the use of corrupt practice in the elections, which needs to be proven by another candidate in opposition before a court.In a separate case, where the Supreme Court is monitoring the constitution of special courts for expediting the trial of sitting MPs and MLAs, statistics have revealed that a total of 4,442 cases were pending against MPs and MLAs in special courts across the country as on September 1, 2020. Out of this, sitting legislators are accused persons in 2,556 cases.Senior advocate Harish Salve, who also appeared for EC, told the bench that the suspension of an election symbol should be the last resort in instances of “most egregious defaults” by the political parties because too many political parties will be thrown out of the electoral arena if every default will lead to taking away the election symbol.“Winnability is always the chief criteria in picking up candidates and that is why the voters will have to understand this, reject this. For now, the court may censure all the parties in default and issue a warning that if they don’t follow the court orders, 16A (suspension of symbol) will be the final route,” Salve added.The court also heard counsel for various parties, including the BJP, Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party, Lok Janshakti Party, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and NCP, as it reserved its order on issuing further directions in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-party-wants-law-to-clean-up-politics-rues-sc-101626804215480.html
21-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha halted, Rajya Sabha disrupted over Pegasus snoop list||Protests over prominent politicians, journalists, constitutional authorities and even sitting ministers being allegedly targeted by Israeli spyware rocked Parliament on Tuesday with Opposition lawmakers repeatedly disrupting both Houses and demanding urgent debates on the subject.The Lok Sabha failed to transact any business and the Rajya Sabha managed to hold a debate on the country’s Covid-19 situation later in the day.The disruptions came a day after a global investigative consortium reported that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa, election strategist Prashant Kishor, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee and two sitting Union ministers were among people potentially targeted by Israeli phone hacking software Pegasus.“There are issues of concern. We should not read only in the newspapers or see it on the TV,” said Congress’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, demanding a debate.To be sure, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. In the absence of digital forensics of specific devices, it is not possible to conclusively establish that the phones linked to these numbers were hacked.Opposition leaders from the Congress and the TMC had given notice under Rule 267— to suspend other business and take up debate on the Pegasus controversy. YSR Congress also gave a similar notice to demand a special package for Andhra Pradesh. In the Lok Sabha, MPs rushed down to the Well of the House over the Pegasus row, oil price hike and farm laws.As soon as the Lok Sabha assembled at 11am, Opposition members started shouting slogans and showing placards against the government. The House was adjourned within five minutes.When it reassembled at 2pm, the protests resumed. One of the placards in Hindi said that while people are unemployed, the government was busy with “jasoosi” (spying).Some Congress members held placards about Gandhi’s name appearing in the list of potential targets. TMC members shouted slogans against Banerjee’s phone number being in the list. Other parties such as Shiromani Akali Dal, YSR Congress and Aam Aadmi Party also protested over separate issues.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urged the members to restore normalcy, reminding them that it is improper to raise issues from the Well. “You are all senior leaders. Don’t try to create a wrong precedent in the House,” Birla said.The House was finally adjourned for the day at 3pm.The Rajya Sabha was also disrupted in the morning but assembled for the Covid debate in the afternoon.Amid the protests, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said that members had the right to raise important issues but “if 15 people today, 17 people yesterday, give notice under Rule 267 on a variety of issues, what is the way for the chairman to admit notices and then take the House forward?”The TMC said it will continue to disrupt Parliament till the government comes clean on the issue.“This is a serious issue and the TMC will not compromise on it. We will not let either House run till this government comes clean on the charges of snooping and surveillance. The government has spent millions to hack into phones at a time when the country is dealing with a pandemic,” TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien said.Also Read | House panel calls Home ministry, MeitY and DoT over Pegasus reportsEarlier in the day, some Opposition leaders in the Rajya Sabha held an informal meeting — the first such effort towards floor coordination — on how to balance between the two key issues: Pegasus controversy and the Covid-19 debate. The leaders decided that the Upper House won’t be allowed to run for anything else except the Covid-19 debate.A highly invasive malware, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy. In some cases, it can be installed without the need to trick a user into initiating a download. In 2019, WhatsApp disclosed that 121 users from India were among those globally spied upon by unnamed entities using Pegasus.The investigation is based on a data leak of around 50,000 numbers obtained by Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories, a non-profit organisation. Amnesty International subsequently forensically investigated 67 of these phones, and found 23 hacked and 14 showing signs of attempted penetration. The Wire reported that 10 of the phones forensically examined in India showed they had either been hacked or signs of an attempted hacking.Pegasus’s manufacturer, Israel-based NSO group, called the investigation “full of wrong assumptions and uncorroborated theories”, and said it sold its software “solely to law enforcement and intelligence agencies of vetted governments”.Also Read | ‘International conspiracy to defame India’: Assam CM on Pegasus rowThe consortium – which comprises 17 media organisations, including The Guardian, The Washington Post, Le Monde and Indian news website The Wire – published on Sunday that 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide, including Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, and reporters from the Wall Street Journal, CNN, New York Times, and Le Monde.On Monday, it reported that Gandhi, Lavasa, information and technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, jal shakti minister of state Prahlad Singh Patel, public health experts Gagandeep Kang and M Hari Menon, and the woman who accused then chief justice of India Ranjan Gogoi of sexual harassment in 2019, were potentially targeted.The government denied any involvement.“Aap Chronology Samajhiye! [Understand the chronology] This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations which do not like India to progress. Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress,” Union home minister Amit Shah said in a statement on Monday.Vaishnaw told Parliament – hours before his name was revealed in the list -- that the allegations were an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”. “Time tested processes in our country are well-established to ensure that unauthorised surveillance does not occur,” he said in his first speech as IT minister in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ls-halted-rs-disrupted-over-pegasus-snoop-list-101626804156931.html
21-07-2021||India||Stalin aims to make Tamil Nadu USD 1 trillion economy by 2030||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin has set an ambitious target for the state to become a USD 1-trillion economy by 2030. “We want Tamil Nadu to be one of the best states in South Asia. Our government’s target is to make Tamil Nadu a USD 1 trillion economy,” Stalin said, speaking at the Investors Conclave organised by the industries department, in Chennai on Tuesday. “A conducive environment to attract investments to Tamil Nadu should be created,” he added.The state industry department’s principal secretary, N Muruganandan, speaking at the function added that the chief minister has set a target to bring in investment of ₹23 lakh crore by 2030.During the event, the total investment committed to 49 projects came to around Rs. 28,508 crores and employment opportunities to 83,482 people. This included the Tamil Nadu government entering into 35 MoUs with a cumulative investment of ₹17,141 crores and employment opportunities for 55,054 people. These are the first series of investments inked by the two-month-old DMK government, officials said.Guidance Tamil Nadu, the state nodal agency for investment promotion, has entered into an MoU with American Tamil Entrepreneurs Association (ATEA) to promote start-ups in the fields of innovation, research and development. The government has sanctioned a grant of ₹five crore to five start-ups selected for this program.An MoU was signed between General Electric Company and TIDCO to establish a Centre of Excellence to enhance the production of aircraft and aeronautical components for industries in the aerospace and defence sector using advanced manufacturing technologies.The investments are in the fields of power plants, electronics, auto components, industrial parks, IT/ITeS services, food processing, footwear, pharmaceuticals, and textiles. The tie-ups are with companies such as JSW Energy to set up 450 MW Wind Power Generation in Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Dindigul and Tiruppur with a ₹3000-crore investment.Germany-based ZF Wabco is to make auto components in SIPCOT Oragadam Phase 2 in Kancheepuram with an investment worth ₹1,800 crore. Singapore-based Capital Land is to set up a data centre in Chennai for 1,200 crore and Tata Consultancy Services will generate employment for 15,000 people for their Phase III project at Sipcot Siruseri with an investment worth ₹900 crore.Former national president of All India Manufacturers’ Organisation and convener of Consortium of Indian Associations, KE Raghunathan, said that the state’s target of USD one trillion economy is achievable but external factors, such as the pandemic, will have an impact.“Reaching that mark is feasible because Tamil Nadu is a state that is industrial, it has decentralised empowerment, it produces close to 150,000 engineers every year,” he said. In Raghunathan’s view, Tuesday’s developments show that the investments cover an array of various industries unlike in Global Investors’ Meet (GIM) where 90% of the investments were in the renewable energy sector. The investment sites are spread throughout Tamil Nadu and the government had recognised high-value and low-value projects equally, he said.“Tamil Nadu had cornered all the neighbouring states (Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala) by positioning industrial estates at the border points but in the last 15-20 years we seem to have lost that advantage,” said Raghunathan.“Normally, industries are wary when a government is in transition. By continuing with projects signed by the previous (AIADMK) regime, Stalin has conveyed a signal that he will not hamper the commitments made to those industries coming into Tamil Nadu.” The next step, he said, is the MSME development in Tamil Nadu.“Where is Stalin going to lead the entrepreneurs who are already doing business in Tamil Nadu? How is he going to save them from the losses they incurred during Covid-19? Any corporate which sets up large units will need to depend on the local entrepreneurs.”Stalin launched a Single Window Portal 2.0 with upgraded digital services such as parallel processing of clearances, virtual meeting with departments, an Artificial Intelligence-based Chatbot and approval for select clearances for existing and new investors.Stalin also laid the foundation stones for nine projects, with a total investment commitment of ₹4,250 crores, including AG&P Pratham’s commissioning of a station at an investment of ₹1,700 crore. He inaugurated five projects with a cumulative investment of Rs. 7,117 crores including UAE’s Integrated Chennai Business Park DP World located in Thiruvallur at an investment of ₹1,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-aims-to-make-tamil-nadu-usd-1-trillion-economy-by-2013-101626801217235.html
21-07-2021||India||Antony Blinken may meet PM Modi during India visit next week||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken is likely to visit India on his maiden trip next week since assuming charges under the Biden Administration in January, according to news agency ANI quoting government officials familiar with the development.While Blinken would hold a bilateral discussion with India's external affairs minister S Jaishankar the US diplomat may also call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the visit, which the news agency said could be between July 27 and July 28. However, an official announcement on the visit is awaited.Jaishankar and Blinken have met thrice in the past one year, with the latest coinciding with the Indian foreign minister's visit to the United States in May.During the visit, the two leaders spoke on a wide range of issues, including Covid-19 relief, efforts to strengthen Indo-Pacific cooperation through the Quad initiative, the security situation in Afghanistan and combatting climate change, among others.The Quad, also known as Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, is a strategic dialogue between the United States, Japan, Australia and India during which the countries discuss economic and military cooperation.Blinken and Jaishankar may talk on a range of issues in New Delhi, including Covid-19 vaccines, the security crisis in Afghanistan in the aftermath of US troop pullout and China assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region.Blinken would be the second top official of the Biden Administration to visit India after US Secretary of Defence Llyod J Austin flew to New Delhi in March.Blinken's visit also assumes in significance ahead of the Quad summit in October when US President Joe Biden would host the leaders of Australia, India and Japan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antony-blinken-may-meet-pm-modi-during-expected-india-visit-next-week-centre-101626796466354.html
21-07-2021||India||Decoding the legality of ‘authorised’ surveillance in India||Use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for alleged phone tapping of prominent personalities, including journalists, politicians and experts in India, has given rise to host of issues pertaining to cyber security threats and state-mandated surveillance that bypass the concept of trusted communications.In a statement in Lok Sabha, IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that “any sort of illegal surveillance” by unauthorised persons is not possible in India where statutes prescribe a well-settled procedure for carrying out lawful interception as per the due process of law.What are the provisions allowing interception of electronic communication in India?Pertinent provisions in the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and the Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2000 authorise the Union and the state governments to intercept all types of electronic communication, including phone calls, e-mails, WhatsApp messages etc.Under Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, agencies at the Centre and states can intercept electronic communication “on the occurrence of any public emergency, or in the interest of the public safety”. The law empowers designated officials to put a device under surveillance on being satisfied that “it is necessary or expedient so to do in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of an offence”. Reasons for ordering interception has to be recorded in writing by the officials concerned.Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Rules identifies the officers who can order surveillance of messages. It lays down that a secretary to the Government of India in the ministry of home affairs can pass orders of interception in the case of Centre, and a secretary-level officer who is in-charge of the home department can issue such directives in the case of a state government. In unavoidable circumstances, Rule 419A adds, such orders may be made by an officer, not below the rank of a joint secretary to the Government of India, who has been duly authorised by the Union home secretary or the state home secretary.The directions for interception can remain in force for a period not exceeding 60 days from the date of issue and may be renewed upon an approval of the competent authority up to for a total period of 180 days. Records pertaining to interception are to be destroyed every six months unless these are likely to be required for “functional requirements”. The service providers must also destroy records pertaining to directions for interception of message within two months of discontinuance of the interception of such messages.Rule 419A also prescribes for a review committee, separately at the level of the Centre and states. While the Cabinet Secretary heads the review committee at the Centre, the chief secretary of the concerned state is the chairman of the state review committee. All orders on interception are required to be sent to the review committee within seven working days of such directives. Review committees are obligated to ensure that interception orders are reasoned, proper and justified.Similarly, Section 69 of the Information Technology Act 2000, together with the Information Technology (Procedure for Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring and Decryption of Information) Rules 2009, authorises the agencies to issue directions for interception or monitoring or decryption of information through any computer resource, including mobile phones.Section 69 states that interception is permissible “in the interest of the sovereignty or integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to above or for investigation of any offence”.How have constitutional courts viewed the power of surveillance with State?The first major judgment by the Supreme Court on the issue surveillance came in 1964. A seven-judge bench, in Kharak Singh Vs The State of Uttar Pradesh, adjudicated whether a police officer was entitled under the UP Police Regulations to visit any individual’s house for a physical “surveillance” and if such “domiciliary visits at night” violated any fundamental right. The Constitution bench held that such a surveillance was violative of Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of individuals since there was no law under which the said regulation could be justified. “An unauthorised intrusion into a person’s home and the disturbance caused to him thereby, is as it were the violation of a common law right of a man- an ultimate essential of ordered liberty, if not of the very concept of civilisation,” held the court.The next case saw a shift from physical surveillance to surveillance through intercepting devices. An important case on interception and the power to do so was instituted in the Supreme Court by NGO People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) in 1991. PUCL had argued that any order for telephone tapping should be sanctioned by judicial authorities at the Centre and in the states to prevent arbitrary and politically motivated decisions to tap telephones of different people. The NGO challenged the constitutional validity of Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act. In the alternative, the petition pleaded that the said provisions be suitably read down to include procedural safeguards to rule out arbitrariness and to prevent the indiscriminate telephone-tapping.The Supreme Court, in its judgment in the PUCL case in 1996, held that right to privacy would certainly include telephonic conversation in the privacy of one’s home or office and, “telephone-tapping would, thus, infract Article 21 of the Constitution of India unless it is permitted under the procedure established by law.” It ruled that “public emergency” and “interest of public safety” are the precursors to any phone tapping and all interception must arise out of these concerns. The court further noted that there were no rules in vogue to guide such interception and issued a slew of directions on how and when a phone can be tapped, holding “it is necessary to lay down procedural safeguards for the exercise of power”. The court said that the directions issued by it will remain operational till the time the Centre framed suitable rules under the Act. Subsequently, the Centre codified the guidelines in 2007 by engrafting Rule 419A, borrowing from the directions issued by the apex court. However, considering the fact that there was an absence of any provision in the Telegraph Act permitting judicial oversight of phone tapping orders and also the fact that in a similar law in UK — the Interception of the Communications Act, 1985, interception did not require judicial oversight, the Supreme Court did not issue any direction on judicial oversight of interception orders.Right to privacy Vs SurveillanceStarting from the Kharak Singh case in 1964, the Supreme Court acknowledged the significance of right to privacy whenever the issue of surveillance by a state agency came up. The judgment in Kharak Singh underscored that “nothing is more deleterious to a man’s physical happiness and health than a calculated interference with his privacy”. All the seven judges were unanimous that right to privacy is a part of the right to “protection of life and personal liberty” guaranteed under Article 21.In R Rajgopal alias RR Gopal and another Vs State of Tamil Nadu (1994), the Supreme Court held that the right to privacy is implicit in the right to life and liberty guaranteed to the citizens of this country by Article 21. The judgment added that it is a “right to be let alone” and every citizen has a right “to safeguard the privacy of his own, his family, marriage, procreation, motherhood, child-bearing and education among other matters”.Taking a cue from these declarations, the apex court in the PUCL case, too, said that the right to hold a telephone conversation in the privacy of one’s home or office without interference can certainly be claimed as “right to privacy” and there must be a just and fair procedure established by the law to curtail this liberty in the larger public interest.Meanwhile, in 2010, former chairman of the Tata Group and industrialist Ratan Tata filed a writ petition, alleging violation of his right to privacy following the leak of the Niira Radia tapes. Between 2008 and 2009, the income tax department tapped the phone lines of Nira Radia, a political lobbyist, for almost a year. Subsequently, in 2010, some of the recorded tapes were leaked, resulting in the publication of a small portion of the tapes recorded by the department. These tapes included conversations between Radia and a number of public figures, including politicians, journalists, and business houses. One such public figure was Ratan Tata. Tata’s petition emphasised that the government has no right to intercept telephonic conversations if it did not have a mechanism to protect the privacy of citizens. It sought a probe into the leak and a directive to the authorities to retrieve all leaked recordings. Importantly, Tata did not challenge the right of the government to intercept.This case had an effective hearing last in August 2013 when the court framed three issues: Right to privacy vis-a-vis the Government; right to privacy vis-a-vis the Press; and right to know the information. The last time this case got listed was in July 2019 after which it has not come up for a hearing yet.The judicial debate on the status of the right to privacy was, however, settled in August 2017 when a nine-judge bench held that right to privacy is a fundamental right that will be protected by the constitutional courts in the country. This judgment highlighted that the informational traces are also an area which falls within the realm of the right of privacy and such data is as personal as that of the choice of appearance and apparel. “Telephone tappings and internet hacking by State, of personal data is another area which falls within the realm of privacy,” added the court.The privacy judgment lays down a four-fold test that needs to be fulfilled before state intervention in the right to privacy: 1) The state action must be sanctioned by law; 2) In a democratic society, there must be a legitimate aim for action; 3) Action must be proportionate to the need for such interference; and 4) It must be subject to procedural guarantees against abuse of the power to interfere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-the-legality-of-authorised-surveillance-in-india-101626719551709.html
21-07-2021||India||Kharif sowing so far lags last year’s by 11%||A patchy monsoon continues to crimp planting of kharif or summer-sown crops, as the total area sown by farmers till mid-July, a period when sowing peaks, was down 11% from a year ago, official data show. Total acreage of kharif crops stood at 61.1 million hectare, nearly 11% less than the 69.2 million hectare sown during the corresponding period last year.The June-September rain-bearing system, which waters nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area, is deficient by 8% since its onset in June, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The national weather agency officially forecast a normal monsoon, which helps farmers grow plentiful crops. This week’s forecast valid until July 25 has predicted “active monsoon conditions” across the country.While rains were plentiful after their onset, recording 28% surplus up until the third week of June, the monsoon entered a hiatus around June 19 driven by unfavourable weather patterns. It has yet to recover fully. In July, the most critical month during the kharif season because it determines yields and crop health, rainfall so far has been 26% deficient. “When July rains are deficient, it first impacts areas with no irrigation,” said Jeet Singh Sandhu, vice-chancellor of the SKN Agricultural University, Jaipur.On July 18, Union minister of science and technology, Jitendra Singh, visited the IMD’s headquarters in New Delhi to enquire about the monsoon’s progress, urging scientists to “focus on more accurate forecasting”, according to a statement from Singh’s ministry.The monsoon is critical for Asia’s third-largest economy, as half of the population depends on a farm-derived income. The rains also replenish more than 100 nationally important reservoirs, critical for drinking, power supply, and irrigation.A good harvest drives up rural demand for goods and services, helping the economy grow.The monsoon is one of the factors that also influence the Reserve Bank’s inflation forecast and monetary policy, which determines key interest rates.In 2020-21, when India faced a recession due to the pandemic, agriculture was the only sector to post positive growth of about 3.1%. This helped to keep farm incomes steady. This year, robust farm incomes are critical too to cushion the impact of a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections. The share of agriculture in the country’s gross domestic product, a key measure of output, is nearly 17%.Overall, the total area under crops till mid-July, when compared to normal area, was less by 3%, but some crops critical to keeping food prices low showed deficiencies. The normal area is an average of the area cultivated during the past five years.As on July 16, 2021, the area under rice, a key driver of farm incomes, stood at 16 million hectare, which is near normal but 7% down from last year’s levels.The area under pulses, a key driver of food inflation during periodic shortages, was 13% below normal at 7 million hectare. Compared to last year, the area under pulses is lower by 12%. Planting of coarse cereals like sorghum and pearl millet – crops usually grown by the poorest farmers with small landholdings – is down 21% compared to what is considered normal for this time of the year.Last year, driven by robust showers, sowing of kharif crops had risen sharply, exceeding normal levels in June itself.“There could be a major shift in soybean, cotton and maize acreages across the rainfall deficit states if monsoon fails to revive as forecast,” said Hetal Gandhi, an economist with Crisil Ltd, Mumbai, a ratings firm.Farmers have managed to sow oilseeds, such as soybean, in about 12 million hectare, which is close to normal levels but down 14% since a year ago, the official data show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kharif-sowing-so-far-lags-last-year-s-by-11-101626719431341.html
