22-07-2021||India||Centre slams claim of not distributing ventilators during peak second Covid wave||The Central government on Thursday dismissed a media report claiming it had kept 13,000 unused ventilators and did not deliver the same to states during the second wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. The Centre said a large number of the ventilators sent to the states have remained uninstalled and unused in their warehouses.The Centre's rebuttal was based on a report published in The Quint that said close to 13,000 (12,973) ventilators procured by the Centre were not distributed to the states. The article claimed to have accessed an RTI response received on July 8 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.In a statement, the government said no ventilators have been kept in the inventory and not given to states that needed them. Every lot of ventilators which are ready for dispatch is being sent to states and Union territories promptly, it said.The statement said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had placed an order for procurement of 58,850 ventilators at the beginning of the pandemic -- between March 27, 2020 and April 17. All these equipment were made in India, considering the fact that there was very little possibility of import due to a rise in global demand and restriction on export in manufacturing countries. The government said local manufacturers, who had limited capacity, were encouraged to ramp up production and it was done by sourcing technology and tying up with companies who could assist them in the matter.Based on the recommendations of the Empowered Group-III meant for ensuring adequate supply of essential medical devices, these procurement orders were placed by the Union government.“After the ventilator models were technically examined and validated by the Committee of Experts under the Director General of Health Services, these were recommended for supplies to the states/UTs. The supplies were made as per the demand received from States/ UTs. The demand from the states for ventilators received till September 2020 was addressed through supplies. Thereafter, negligible additional requirements were projected by the states. Till November, 2020, almost entire quantity of ventilators demanded by the states had been delivered i.e., 35,398 ventilators,” it said.“After November, till March 2021, additional supply of ventilators was only 996 since the additional demand for ventilators was only this much.” However, of this, a large number of ventilators remained un-installed in the states, it said. Considering the fact that states did not allocate them to the hospitals in view of no demand, the Union health secretary on April 4 wrote to a few states urging them expedite the installation of ventilators, and for projecting additional requirements of the same if any in view of the recent surge in cases. The Union Health Ministry then wrote multiple reminder mails to the states and UTs."Since there was no demand from the states, no supply schedule was given to the manufacturers. The manufacturers are required to assemble the ventilators based on the demand projected to them within the quantity of overall orders given to them. Every unit of ventilators are required to be assembled, calibrated, tested and quality checked and pre-dispatched inspected before the ventilator is actually supplied to states," the government further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-slams-claim-of-not-distributing-ventilators-during-peak-second-covid-wave-101626975617867.html
22-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi meets state Congress leaders ahead of Goa elections||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi met several leaders from Goa Congress in one on one meetings on Thursday to discuss the party’s preparation for upcoming state assembly elections amid an internal friction over leadership of party’s state unit. A senior leader said the one on one meetings allowed the leaders to speak their mind.“We had one on one meetings with him (Rahul Gandhi) where each one was given an opportunity to speak their minds. I told him what was best for the party and what the party needs to do going forward,” South Goa MP and former chief minister Francisco Sardinha told HT.Sardinha has in the recent past publicly called for the ouster of incumbent state party president Girish Chodankar saying that he was unable to unite the party and also oversaw party’s poor performance in the local body polls.“We discussed the political situation in Goa and the strategy to ensure Congress’ victory in the assembly elections,” party observer Dinesh Gundu Rao, said.Besides Sardinha, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Digambar Kamat, state Congress president Girish Chodankar, MLAs Aleixo Lourenco and Luizinho Faleiro, Ramakant Khalap a former union minister who has given the charge of the party’s coordination committee in the state, was also summoned to Delhi.Besides the leadership issue, the high command also sought inputs on possible alliances with other regional parties into the polls.“Thank you @RahulGandhi for your valuable advise (sic) and guidance. We will work unitedly to defeat the communal, unconstitutional and undemocratic forces in Goa in the upcoming assembly elections and ensure victory of @INCGoa,” Kamat tweeted after emerging from the meeting.The meeting comes barely days after the high command sent several central leaders to the state. After observer Dinesh Gundu Rao who met several leaders during his four days long stay in the state, Dr Shama Mohammed as well as Alka Lamba also visited Goa and gave their feedback on party’s level of preparedness for the upcoming elections.The Congress which lost 13 MLAs over the last five years to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is now also facing a stiff challenge from Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party that has chosen to target what were once Congress strongholds, which is proving to be a problem for the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-meets-state-congress-leaders-ahead-of-goa-elections-101626975421066.html
22-07-2021||India||'We're back': Zomato's app restored after crashing briefly due to global outage||Zomato tweeted late on Thursday it was "back" after its app went down briefly due to a global outage linked to Akamai, a content distribution network (CDN). As the app went down, users flooded social media sharing hilarious messages about not being able to place their orders, also posting screenshots of the app while it was down."Phew, we're back," Zomato shared in an update on its Twitter account, after acknowledging earlier that the app was down. "Our app is down due to a widespread Akamai outage, Our teams are working to ensure all orders placed are delivered asap," it had informed earlier.Phew! We are back!Akamai, too, acknowledged the disruption and, after the issue was fixed, tweeted to confirm it was not a result of a cyberattack on its platform. "We have implemented a fix for this issue, and based on current observations, the service is resuming normal operations. We are continuing to monitor the situation, and can confirm this was not a result of a cyberattack on the Akamai platform," it shared on his Twitter handle.We are continuing to monitor the situation and can confirm this was not a result of a cyberattack on the Akamai platform.Digital payment platform Paytm was among the Indian apps affected due to the issue. "Akamai seems to be going through an outage," Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma tweeted.Akamai seems to be going thru an outage.The disruption did not spare websites of several airlines, banks and technology companies in the United States either, according to news agency Reuters. Delta Airlines, Costco Wholesale Corporation and American Express reported outages on Thursday.This is the such third incident in the US in a span of just two months, as per Reuters. In June, multiple outages hit social media, government and news websites across the world. The outage was attributed by some reports to Fastly, a US-based cloud computing services provider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-to-deliver-orders-global-outage-hits-zomato-other-apps-101626973087426.html
22-07-2021||India||Reality show winner invokes ‘right to be forgotten’, moves HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought the Centre and Google’s response on a plea by a reality show winner Ashutosh Kaushik, who claimed he had a right to be forgotten and sought removal of some of the videos, photos and articles related to his drunk driving in 2009 from various online platforms .Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the ministry of information and broadcasting, Google LLC, Press Council of India and Electronic Media Monitoring Centre to respond to the petitioner’s invocation of the rights to privacy and to be forgotten within four weeks and listed the matter for further hearing in December.Kaushik, who won MTV Hero Honda Roadies 5.0 in 2007 and the second season of Big Boss in 2008, has sought that the Central government is directed to take urgent steps to safeguard his reputation and dignity by ordering removal of his videos, photos and other related articles from various online platforms which are being facilitated by Google as the same is engendering a detrimental effect on his life and personal liberty.In 2009, Kaushik was arrested for allegedly driving under the influence of alcohol and not wearing a helmet.Advocate Amit George, representing Kaushik, submitted that whenever his name is searched on Internet, photos relating to his past life are shown on various search engines including Google and urged the court to order removal of all such posts, videos and photos.Senior advocate Arvind Nigam, representing Google, said the right to be forgotten was not yet a law in the country.The plea said the right to be forgotten enables a person to silence the past events of his life that are no longer occurring.“Right to be forgotten is in sync with the right to privacy, which was hailed by the Supreme court as an integral part of Article 21 (Right to life) of the Constitution,” the plea said.The petition said Kaushik’s valuable contribution in the television and big screen industry has earned him accolades, love and appreciation of people across India.“However, despite attaining outstanding success in entertainment industry, the petitioner had to suffer utmost psychological pain for his diminutive acts, which were erroneously committed a decade ago as the recorded videos, photos, articles of the same are available on various search engines/ online platforms,” the plea read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reality-show-winner-invokes-right-to-be-forgotten-moves-hc-101626973560935.html
22-07-2021||India||Meenakshi Lekhi says 'hooligans, not farmers' remark misread, takes back words||Union minister of state Meenakshi Lekhi said on Thursday took back her “hooligans not farmers” comment if it had hurt anyone even as she said her statement has been misinterpreted.“My statement has been misinterpreted. Nonetheless, if my comments that are being linked with farmers have hurt anyone, then I take my words back,” Lekhi, who was recently inducted as a junior minister in the external affairs and culture departments, said.“During a press conference today, my comment was sought on the Red Fort violence on January 26 and the attack on a media person (at Farmers' Parliament today). In response, I said only hooligans, not farmers can indulge in such activities,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Lekhi later put out a tweet on her statement in the matter.मेरे शब्दों को तोड़ा मरोड़ा गया है अगर इससे किसी को ठेस पहुँची है तो मैं अपने शब्द वापस लेती हूँ । pic.twitter.com/s98ezkskzlEarlier in the day, Lekhi said, “They are not farmers, they are hooligans... These are criminal acts. What happened on January 26 was also shameful criminal activities. The Opposition promoted such activities.”A journalist, named Nagendra, was reportedly attacked by a woman with a stick at the protest ground.Soon after, there was outrage over the comments. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait hit out at Lekhi said farmers are annadatas' (providers) and to call them such names is inappropriate. "Hooligans are the ones who have nothing. It is wrong to make such remarks for farmers. We are farmers, not hooligans. Farmers are 'anndatas' of the land," Tikait was quoted as saying.The farmers protesting for months along the borders of Delhi against three Central laws began their ‘Farmer Parliament’ on Thursday at the Jantar Mantar.Later in the evening, the Delhi Police said the first day of farmers' protest at Jantar Mantar was peaceful. “In view of the Independence Day and ongoing Parliament session, we made necessary arrangements to keep the protest peaceful. We hope that we will get this support and coordination in future as well,” said Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meenakshi-lekhi-says-hooligans-not-farmers-remark-misread-takes-back-words-101626972079144.html
22-07-2021||India||Govt hopes more nations to ease movement of Indians as Covid situation improves||The Union government on Thursday said it has been taking up the issue of travel restrictions for Indians with foreign governments as the Covid-19 situation in the country has improved considerably, adding some positive steps in this regard and more nations are likely to normalise the movement of people.“With the improvement in the Covid situation in India, we have been taking up with foreign countries the issue of easing travel restrictions for Indians. We believe that this is an important element towards economic recovery,” Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson for the ministry of external affairs, was quoted as saying on Thursday.The remarks came at a time when many people, especially students studying in universities in countries like China, Italy and others, struggled to travel back due to the ongoing restrictions.Also read | 'Delta variant continues to be dominant variant in new Covid cases': INSACOG“There have been some positive steps in this direction and we would hope that more countries take steps to normalise the movement of people from India,” Bagchi said, reiterating a demand that the ministry has been making with these nations ever since the number of daily new infections reduced following the deadly second wave of Covid-19 in India.Earlier in the month, the ministry made a similar statement and said it expected many countries to ease the travel restrictions for Indians as the Covid-19 situation had “vastly improved” then. “As we have said earlier, we hope that with the vastly improved Covid situation in India, countries would ease restrictions for travel from India. We have been taking up this issue with foreign partners wherever possible,” Bagchi said on July 8, while responding to a question about difficulties faced by Indian citizens travelling abroad. He had also highlighted meetings held by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and minister of state V Muraleedharan to resolve the issue.Meanwhile, the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday extended its ban on international flights from India, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka owing to pandemic concerns.At the peak of the second wave, the number of daily new Covid-19 infections in India had increased alarmingly and over 4,00,000 cases were reported on a daily basis. The infections were driven in part by the Delta variant of Covid-19.On Thursday, the country registered over 41,000 new cases and 507 fatalities. So far, 3,12,57,720 cases and 4,18,987 deaths have been recorded in the country.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-hopes-more-nations-to-ease-movement-of-indians-as-covid-situation-improves-101626972257712.html
22-07-2021||India||Assam: 23 members of newly formed Bodo militant outfit NLFB surrender||Twenty three members of a newly formed Bodo militant outfit, National Liberation Front of Bodoland (NLFB), including its commander in chief Binod Mushahary alias M Batha, surrendered at a ceremony in Assam on Thursday.The cadres laid down arms at Mazbat in Udalguri district in presence of parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika, chief executive member of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) Pramod Boro and senior police and administrative officials.“People’s trust on the government. policies is reflected by NLFB’s decision to return to the mainstream today. I welcome their homecoming,” Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Thursday.“We reiterate our commitment for all-round development of Bodoland and to protect the unique socio-cultural and political identity of Bodo people,” he added.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had announced a reward of ₹10 lakh on M Batha, who had been hiding in Arunachal Pradesh along with his cadres. All of them travelled on foot and police-escorted vehicles to the surrender ceremony.“Our organization NLFB has decided to come overground and join the mainstream for the best interest of the state and for upholding the peace and integrity of the region,” a press statement signed by NLFB president read.It added that the outfit is abjuring violence and putting a halt to their armed struggle for creation of a separate Bodoland state.Batha and his cadres were part of the 1,615 militants who surrendered in January last year after signing of the third Bodo peace pact between the Centre and four factions of National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB).But Batha and his followers went back to the jungles after few months and formed NLFB. Details of the new outfit emerged in February this year after a large cache of arms meant for NLFB was seized in Assam.In a statement issued in March, the outfit had stated that formation of a separate state of Bodoland for people from the Bodo tribe was their main goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-23-members-of-newly-formed-bodo-militant-outfit-nlfb-surrender-101626972060665.html
22-07-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee attacks Centre over Pegasus snoop list before meeting PM Modi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee sharpened attack against the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government on Thursday over the Pegasus snoop list, ahead of her meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi next week. With the monsoon session going on, Banerjee is also likely to visit the parliament and meet several opposition leaders during her stay at the National capital. “...I had sought an appointment with the Prime Minister and he has given me time. I will also try to meet the President. This apart several political leaders have requested that they want to meet me. I would try to adjust and accommodate as far as possible in two to three days,” Banerjee said on Thursday while speaking to media persons. Mamata is scheduled to go to Delhi on Monday and is likely to return on Friday. This will be the first meeting between Modi and Mamata after the two met for 15 minutes in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. The centre-state relation then nosedived as the Union government recalled Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the then chief secretary of the state, for skipping the PM’s review meeting. With Pegasus snooping row rocking Parliament for the third consecutive day, Banerjee sharpened her attack against Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “If any big scam or scandal emerges when the parliament session is going on, it is the duty of the Prime Minister and Union home minister to give a statement to brief the parliament and inform the citizens of the country. But instead of doing that they are trying to bulldoze any voice that is being raised. No one will support this autocratic attitude,” she said while condemning the Income Tax raids on a media house. The TMC supremo has on multiple occasions in the past alleged that her phone was being tapped. On Thursday, she hinted that spyware could have been used to snoop and record a high-level meeting of her party before the recently concluded and bitterly fought assembly elections that led to her party defeating the BJP to return to power for the third consecutive term. “Ahead of the assembly elections, four of us, me, Abhishek Banerjee, Subrata Bakshi and Prashant Kishor were holding a meeting. The mobile phones were with us, even though we were not talking over the phone. The entire meeting was recorded. We came to now after PK got his phone audited. Can you imagine how dangerous it is?” Banerjee said. On Wednesday, Banerjee had accused the Central government of turning the country into a “surveillance state” and appealed to regional parties to come together to form an opposition front to defeat the BJP in 2024 general elections. “Everyone across the country should get united. Alone, I am no one. But together with you I would make 100. I would be plus one. We have to tell that the country can’t be run just by jumla baji (false promises) and julum baji (atrocities),” she said on Thursday. The BJP however mounted a counter attack saying that the TMC wants to divert attention from the NHRC’s report which has slammed the state government for post poll violence, which allegedly led to killing and rape of several BJP supporters. “The NHRC report has unmasked the government and all its lies are now out. In a bid to divert the attention, the TMC is now raising such allegations. But this won’t stand,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-attacks-centre-over-pegasus-snoop-list-before-meeting-pm-modi-101626970920595.html
22-07-2021||India||Kerala plans to sign agreement with RDIF to fill Sputnik V vaccine vials||Kerala may soon enter a deal with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the country’s sovereign wealth fund, to set up a unit for filling Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine vials, news agency ANI reported.Kerala industries principal secretary Dr K Ellangovan told news agency ANI that the RDIF has shown interest in the proposal made by the state government through the Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev. If things go as planned, a Sputnik V manufacturing plant would be established in the state soon.“We have given two options — one greenfield project in Life Science Park, and, the second, for filling up of vials, which would be immediate. So, there are short-term and long-term projects," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Dr Ellangovan further explained that some modifications are currently being worked out regarding allotment of land. Once they materialised, large quantities of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines can be brought to Kerala and vials of the doses can be filled up from the same place. “With regard to the long-term plan of setting up Sputnik V vaccine manufacturing plant, the details are being worked out,” he further told ANI.Also Read | Sputnik V vaccine effective against new variants of coronavirus: StudyLast week, the Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Oxford AstraZeneca’s vaccine Covishield, announced a partnership with the RDIF to manufacture over 300 million doses of Sputnik V jabs in India – with the production set to commence in September this year.RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev told a virtual news meet that September will be a “key month” for increasing the production of Sputnik V vaccines in India as the SII and many other firms are likely to launch the production by then.The RDIF has also entered into a partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs to market the first 250 million doses of the vaccine in India.The Sputnik V vaccine was launched on a soft pilot basis in India in May. The nationwide launch has now spread to more than 50 cities and towns across the country. The soft launch initially began in Telangana’s capital Hyderabad, and has now scaled up to Bengaluru, Kolkata, Delhi-NCR, Chennai, Navi Mumbai, Patna, Pune, Lucknow, Ranchi, Chandigarh, Bhubaneswar, and Coimbatore, among others, a Dr Reddy’s Labs said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plans-to-sign-agreement-with-rdif-to-fill-sputnik-v-vaccine-vials-101626969628270.html
22-07-2021||India||Members of Dalai Lama’s inner circle on Pegasus list||Phone numbers of key members of the inner circle of the Dalai Lama, including Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) chief Penpa Tsering, are among the potential targets selected by users of the Pegasus spyware, according to media reports on Thursday. The 86-year-old Tibetan spiritual leader himself doesn’t use a smartphone, but several persons close to him were among possible targets for surveillance, including his emissary in New Delhi Tempa Tsering, his private secretary Tenzin Taklha and his aide Chhimey Rigzen, Le Monde reported. About 20 Tibetan activists, politicians and religious leaders were part of the leaked database of 50,000 phone numbers that clients of the Israeli company NSO Group, the developer of Pegasus, selected for surveillance during 2017-19. The list also included the Gyalwang Karmapa, Ugyen Trinley Dorje, former CTA or Tibetan government-in-exile head Lobsang Sangay, whose number was added in mid-2018, Penpa Tsering, who was elected chief of the CTA in May this year, and Samdhong Rinpoche, the head of a trust tasked with overseeing the selection of the Dalai Lama’s successor, according to reports by The Guardian and Le Monde. Paris-based Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International gained access to the leaked list, which has been analysed by a consortium of 17 media outlets from across the globe. Both Le Monde and The Guardian reported their analysis indicated that the Tibetan leaders were selected as potential targets by an Indian security service or the Indian government. The Indian government has so far denied any wrong-doing and also not confirmed or denied whether it licensed the Pegasus spyware. There was no immediate response from Indian officials on the reports that Tibetan leaders were included in the list of potential targets for phone hacking. Le Monde reported that members of the Dalai Lama’s inner circle were first selected for possible surveillance from the end of November 2017, when former US president Barack Obama met the Tibetan spiritual leader in New Delhi. Sangay appeared on the list in mid-2018, when he was president of the CTA and had increased trips within India and abroad. However, the phones of the Tibetan leaders were not examined and it wasn’t possible to say whether they were infected by the spyware, which is capable of accessing all the contents of a phone, recovering geo-location data and turning it into an audio or video recorder. Referring to the inclusion of the Tibetans in the list, Le Monde reported: “It reveals, as never before, the suspicion of the Indian state vis-à-vis the Tibetan community, suspected of being infiltrated by Chinese spies, as well as its strategic importance at a time when the tension between the two most populous countries in Asia continues to increase.” It added that India has reasons to be wary, because as recently as August 2020, a Chinese national suspected of being a spy, who was paying Buddhist monks for information about the Dalai Lama’s bodyguard, was arrested in India. “India wants to make sure that Tibetans don’t strike a deal with the Chinese that involves the Dalai Lama going back to Tibet,” an unnamed former staffer with the CTA told The Guardian. China has launched a campaign to push the narrative that it will oversee the selection of the Dalai Lama’s successor and that India can have no role in this process. This has been rejected by the CTA, and the US passed a law in 2020 to sanction Chinese leaders who interfered with the Dalai Lama’s reincarnation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/members-of-dalai-lama-s-inner-circle-on-pegasus-list-101626969360453.html
22-07-2021||India||Madras HC gives nod to Stalin’s panel on NEET, dismisses BJP’s plea||The Madras high court on Tuesday dismissed Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) plea challenging Tamil Nadu government’s decision to constitute a committee to study the impact of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on socially and economically backward medical aspirants. The first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said that by no stretch of imagination, the constitution of the commission can be seen as contrary to the orders of the Supreme Court or as a counter to any legislative action taken by the Union government.The ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) constituted the committee headed by retired justice AK Rajan in June to study the impact of NEET, take in public suggestions and indicate alternative admission procedures and the legal steps to be undertaken to implement such fair and equitable methods. One of the election promises of the DMK is to abolish the NEET. The BJP’s Tamil Nadu general secretary, Karu Nagarajan filed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to quash the committee.The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test is an all India pre-medical entrance test for students who wish to pursue undergraduate medical (MBBS), dental (BDS) and equivalent Ayush BAMS, BUMS, etc. courses in government and private institutions in India and also, for those intending to pursue primary medical qualification abroad.NEET is a sensitive issue in Tamil Nadu since several medical aspirants have died by suicide. It has gone through several legal wrangles before it entered the state in 2017. Until then Tamil Nadu considered class 12 board exam marks for admissions into medical colleges. The move to abolish NEET is supported by all political parties in Tamil Nadu except the BJP, which is in alliance with the opposition led by the AIADMK.In an affidavit filed last week, the Centre said it was out of Tamil Nadu’s jurisdiction to constitute a panel and that it was a futile exercise. The petitioner and the Union government cited previous orders of the Supreme Court on the case of NEET to say that the panel is unconstitutional. The Union government argued that, according to provisions under the National Medical Commission Act, 2019 and the constitutional lists, the committee is neither requisite nor valid.However, the judges said there is nothing to prevent an elected government from studying the impact of NEET. “For all we know, the commission may come up with some material that the state government may use to persuade the Union to search for an alternative or modify the process to make it more inclusive for students belonging to the socially backward and economically weaker sections to participate therein with a better chance of success,” the court said in its orders. “The issuance of the notification does not exceed the authority of the state government. As long as the state government does not do anything to upset the procedure for admission to medical institutions as established by law, it does not call for any interference.”The court also observed that there could be another point of view on the way forward for Tamil Nadu students to compete with others in NEET by raising the standard of school education in the state. “It is a question of policy as to whether the bar has to be raised at the school level or the bar has to be lowered at the medical college admission level and such matters of policy are resolved by discussion and any attempt at mature resolution begins with lending the ear and being receptive to the other point of view,” the court said. TN chief minister MK Stalin welcomed the judgment saying the “important verdict is the starting point for the Tamil Nadu government’s determination and efforts.” He criticised the BJP for supporting the government’s stance with regards to NEET in the legislative assembly but subsequently filing a legal case.He said it was a “blow” to the BJP, and established the party’s “duplicity”. Since the NEET schedule for the year has already been announced for September, Stalin pointed out that the legal steps to be taken after the panel submits its report wouldn’t be over by then. “But we will ensure a situation where we would have ended the difficulties caused to our students due to NEET,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-gives-nod-to-stalin-s-panel-on-neet-dismisses-bjp-s-plea-101626968340472.html
22-07-2021||India||Gujarat schools for classes 9-11 to reopen from July 26 with 50% capacity||The Gujarat government on Thursday allowed the reopening of schools for students of classes 9 to 11 from July 26 with 50% capacity with all coronavirus-related guidelines in place. The government said students who are willing to attend physical classes need to submit a consent form from their parents, according to news agency ANI. The move came in the wake of a rapid fall in Covid-19 cases.Schools have already opened for students of class 12 since July 15, even though physical attendance has not been made mandatory. The government has also allowed physical classes technical institutions with 50 per cent attendance while following all pandemic-related protocols such as wearing of masks, social distancing, regular sanitisation etc.On July 8, the government lifted the night curfew in 10 out of 18 urban areas in Gujarat and allowed the resumption of coaching classes for students of class 9 to post graduate courses along with competitive exams with 50 per cent attendance.Gujarat on Thursday reported 34 new cases of the virus taking the total number of active cases to 370, according to the health department bulletin. There was no death recorded in the last 24 hours, while 53 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day.As many 5,08,576 people received their vaccines against the virus during the day of whom 2,67,293 people between the age group of 18-44 got their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-schools-for-classes-9-11-to-reopen-from-july-26-with-50-capacity-101626967707631.html
22-07-2021||India||Baijal writes to Sisodia says L-G’s efforts for public welfare seen with bias||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Thursday wrote to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia criticising his letter accusing the L-G of encroaching upon the domain of the elected government by holding meetings with bureaucrats independently without involving concerned ministers on important matters. He also said that Sisodia should not have made the letter public and rather taken up concerns over administrative issues over a personal discussion.In his letter, Baijal said his recent meetings with bureaucrats involved issues such as Covid-19 management, implementation of schemes such as ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’, water supply and housing. He added that Sisodia’s letter did not specify any instance of “obstruction” and accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government of looking at his efforts through a “biased lens”.“Several complicated administrative issues involve multiple departments and it is needless to say that [in] matters of public importance, the opinion of the elected government should be in favour of cooperation and harmony… Your letter does not mention any specific instance of obstruction caused to the decision of the elected government on any issue… It is unfortunate that my efforts with clean intent towards public welfare were seen through a biased lens and misinterpreted. In the end, I want to repeat that I shall continue fulfilling my constitutional responsibilities aimed at serving the people of Delhi,” said Baijal’s letter to Sisodia, written in Hindi, a copy of which HT has seen.He further said that some of the meetings with chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana regarding shortage of water supply in Delhi was chaired on request from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Sisodia, in a letter to Baijal, sent on Saturday, had objected to the L-G holding meetings with bureaucrats and alleged that he instructed them on works that came under the purview of the elected government. Sisodia called the L-G’s actions “murder of democracy” and violative of the Supreme Court judgment.“Over the last few months, you have been calling prominent officials of the Delhi government to your office and issuing directions related to work of their departments. I have also come to know that you are issuing directions to the officials on subjects that come under the purview of the elected government, without even keeping the ministers in the loop, and later officials of the L-G secretariat are pressuring the bureaucrats to implement such orders,” Sisodia said in the letter, a copy of which was seen by HT.The deputy CM “humbly requested” Baijal to desist from such “activities”. “Under the Constitution, the Delhi LG can take decisions only on police, land and public order,” Sisodia said, citing the Supreme Court order of July 4, 2018, which said that the L-G should work with the aid and advice of the elected government.Baijal wrote back to Sisodia on Thursday claiming all his meetings were “within” his office’s “domain” and his efforts were being subjected to “wrongful allegations instead of due appreciation”.“These meetings are essential in the light of better coordination among multiple agencies and they are important in ensuring efficient implementation of welfare schemes and programmes. Such meetings aimed at fulfilment of responsibilities of this office towards ensuring public welfare are not new but never before have any objections been raised against them,” he wrote. He added that he had no hesitation in sharing details of the meetings held in the last three months.“There have been three review meetings of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) focussing on strategies and preparedness against potential waves of the Covid-19 pandemic in future. There have also been routine meetings of the DDMA on status of vaccination, compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, PSA oxygen plants in hospitals, facilities concerning supply of medical oxygen among hospitals, strength of healthcare and paramedic staff, sero-survey, relaxations concerning economic activities, strategies on micro containment, contact tracing and tests, and information and awareness campaigns. Stakeholders such as the National Disaster Management Authority, health and revenue departments, police and panels of experts have participated in these meetings… Are meetings organised to enhance coordination among them to ensure better Covid-19 management unconstitutional now?” Baijal asked in the letter.He also mentioned meetings held to review implementation of ONORC, welfare of street vendors, water supply, Delhi Master Plan and women security.“Delhi is also facing shortage of water and Delhi chief minister (Arvind Kejriwal) had himself asked me to personally discuss the water issue with chief ministers of neighbouring states Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. To address hardships faced by people due to shortage of water supply, three meetings were held which involved representatives of the environment department, urban development department and Delhi Jal Board,” the letter said.He asserted that all the aforementioned meetings were conducted through video conference facility and not necessarily through physical attendance of all stakeholders in Raj Niwas. “When decisions are to be taken, concerned officials and ministers are invited to attend these meetings…,” the letter argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baijal-writes-to-sisodia-says-l-g-s-efforts-for-public-welfare-seen-with-bias-101626967800449.html
22-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Harsh Vardhan Shringla to visit UK on July 23 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Foreign secretary Shringla to visit UK during July 23-24India’s foreign secretary Harsh Shringla will visit the UK during July 23-24 for a comprehensive review of bilateral relations, including the Roadmap 2030 to elevate ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership over the next decade. Read more'Sab yaad rakha jaega': Rahul’s fresh jibe at Centre over oxygen shortage deathCongress leader Rahul Gandhi took a jibe at the Centre on Thursday over its statement on “zero death reported” due to oxygen shortage by sharing a 44-second video on his Twitter profile with a one-liner caption that reads “Sab yaad rakha jaega” (Everything will be remembered). Read moreGujarat announces special Covid-19 vaccination drive for shopkeepers on July 25The Gujarat government announced on Thursday a special Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state on July 25 (Sunday) for shopkeepers and people involved in other commercial activities. Read moreIndia vs Sri Lanka, 3rd ODI: Dead rubber but Shikhar Dhawan and Co. seek fringe benefitsAhead of his first assignment as India coach, Rahul Dravid had made it clear that he cannot make the same promise to the 20 players on tour in Sri Lanka that he usually does when he oversees the country’s developmental teams. Read moreVarun Sharma recalls his childhood love story that ended with the first season of Kasautii Zindagii KayVarun Sharma has recalled his childhood love story and revealed why it ended with the first season of popular serial, Kasautii Zindagii Kay. Read moreHardware is not the business at GOQii, healthcare is: Vishal GondalThe use of smartbands and smartwatches has witnessed an exponential rise over the last one year. The pandemic made people more aware of their health needs and one of the cheapest, and easiest ways of keeping track of it all is a smartband or a smartwatch. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-harsh-vardhan-shringla-to-visit-uk-on-july-23-and-all-the-latest-news-101626967031512.html
22-07-2021||India||'Sab yaad rakha jaega': Rahul’s fresh jibe at Centre over oxygen shortage death||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a jibe at the Centre on Thursday over its statement on “zero death reported” due to oxygen shortage by sharing a 44-second video on his Twitter profile with a one-liner caption that reads “Sab yaad rakha jaega” (Everything will be remembered).The curated video, which opens with the message “the truth about oxygen shortage”, shows several images and news articles from the time of the second wave of Covid-19, and the related deaths reported across states and Union territories (UTs) owing to lack of oxygen.सब याद रखा जाएगा।#OxygenShortage pic.twitter.com/I5ouDxz7IRRahul’s latest remark follows the one he made on Tuesday soon after Union minister of state for health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, in response to Congress MP KC Venugopal’s question, told the Rajya Sabha that no deaths “due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by the states/UTs.”“It wasn’t just the lack of oxygen but also a severe lack of sensitivity and truth. It was then, still is today,” Rahul wrote on Twitter on Tuesday.Several opposition leaders apart from Rahul, including Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Delhi deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, criticised the Centre over its claim on oxygen shortage.However, many states have backed the claim as well, citing that no Covid-19 patients died in their states due to lack of oxygen.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra had on Wednesday said that it is the responsibility of the states and UTs to report on fatalities owing to oxygen shortage and that such data wasn’t shared with the Centre. “If the Opposition says the Centre has not put the correct data, then they should ask their own state governments what has gone wrong,” he added.Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu are among opposition-led states that have also denied any fatality among coronavirus patients due to oxygen shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sab-yaad-rakha-jaega-rahul-s-fresh-jibe-at-centre-over-oxygen-shortage-death-101626965524247.html
22-07-2021||India||Foreign secretary Shringla to visit UK during July 23-24||India’s foreign secretary Harsh Shringla will visit the UK during July 23-24 for a comprehensive review of bilateral relations, including the Roadmap 2030 to elevate ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership over the next decade. The Roadmap 2030 was adopted at a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson in May, when the two sides launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership for facilitating market access in specific sectors, and unveiled plans to finalise an interim trade deal by mid-2022 as a precursor to a free trade agreement. “During the visit, the foreign secretary will meet his counterparts and conduct a detailed review of bilateral relations with particular focus on the implementation of the Roadmap 2030. He will also discuss regional and global issues of mutual interest,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday. The Roadmap 2030, he said, is aimed at elevating bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and guiding cooperation over the next 10 years in key areas such as trade, defence, security, climate, health and people-to-people relations. The Enhanced Trade Partnership is part of UK’s efforts to ramp up trade ties with countries across the world following its exit from the European Union (EU). It will see Britain open up its fisheries sector to more Indian players, facilitate more opportunities for nurses, recognise Indian seafarers’ certificates and enter into a joint dialogue on a social security agreement. In return, India lifted restrictions to enable British producers to export fruits to the country and improved access for medical devices through the acceptance of the UK Certificates of Free Sale. The two sides will also work towards reciprocal opening up of legal services. These actions are expected to generate some 25,000 new direct and indirect jobs in India. Shringla’s visit is also expected to be an opportunity for India and UK to review the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban has launched a massive campaign to capture territory while refusing to engage in meaningful peace talks to find a political settlement. The UK has emerged as a key player in facilitating back channel contacts with the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-to-visit-uk-during-july-2324-101626965580109.html
22-07-2021||India||Gujarat announces special Covid-19 vaccination drive for shopkeepers on July 25||The Gujarat government announced on Thursday a special Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state on July 25 (Sunday) for shopkeepers and people involved in other commercial activities. The announcement by deputy chief minister Nitin Patel followed reports of availability of 1.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine with the government.“Till now, we have administered 3.01 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The Centre had sent additional doses as per our request. As a result, we still have a stock of 15.18 lakh doses and around 2.5 lakh doses arrive almost every day,” news agency PTI quoted Patel as saying.The Gujarat government had in July asked the people working in the businesses of hotels, malls, shops, salons and restaurants to receive their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine before July 31.Also read | India’s Covid-19 vaccine coverage at 417 million doses so farPatel, who also holds the state’s health portfolio, referred to the previous order by the Gujarat home department and said that the special inoculation drive has been organised to vaccinate the traders and employees of commercial establishments. He further said that the shots would be administered at 1,800 centres across the state.The vaccination drive would also cover those working at coaching centres, libraries, entertainment industry as well as sportspersons and conductors of state transport department buses.Meanwhile, the state government had halted the Covid-19 vaccination on Wednesdays since July 7 on account of Mamata Diwas, observed as part of the ongoing universal immunisation programme for pregnant women, children and infants, according to news agencies. On the day, healthcare workers across the state check on pregnant women for guidance and distribute iron and vitamin tablets.Gujarat reported no new Covid-19 related fatalities on Wednesday and 28 cases of infections from the disease. With this, the total confirmed cases reached 824,574 while the death toll stood at 10,076, according to the data from the state health department.The Union ministry of health and family welfare data showed as many as 30,174,809 doses of the vaccine, including 23,152,231 first shots and 7,022,578 second jabs, have been administered in the state as of 7am on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-announces-special-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-shopkeepers-on-july-25-101626964839613.html
22-07-2021||India||'We're independent of Twitter': Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari's submission in Karnataka high court||Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari on Thursday described it as an "independent entity," claiming that its parent company, Twitter Inc, "does not have a single share in it," according to news agency PTI. The submission was made by Maheshwari's legal counsel in the Karnataka high court during hearing by a single-judge bench on his plea against the Uttar Pradesh Police's notice to him seeking his personal appearance in connection with the video of an alleged hate crime in Loni in northern state's Ghaziabad.Also Read | Ghaziabad assault case: Karnataka HC to pronounce order on Twitter India MD's plea on July 22"Twitter Inc is a parent company. We have absolutely nothing to do with it. Twitter India is an independent organisation and independent institution," CV Nagesh, Maheshwari's counsel, responded on behalf of his client when asked by Justice G Narendra whether the social media giant could be called as a "parent company." Nagesh further described Twitter India as "only an affiliated company" of Twitter Inc. This prompted the judge to point out that there is no such thing as an "affiliated company." Justice Narendra further said that in normal terms, such a thing is called a "sister company" or "associate."Responding to the judge's observation, the counsel said, "Let me go on record that Twitter Inc does not hold a "single share" in Twitter India. That's why I'm submitting that it's a totally different entity." Nagesh also proposed to place a memo on record on Friday that Twitter Inc, headquartered in San Francisco in the United States, is "not even a shareholder."Arguing for the Ghaziabad Police, P Prasanna Kumar, its legal counsel, warned of "consequences" for submission by Maheshwari's team that they don't know "who Twitter India is." Further arguing that 99% of Twitter India's shares are with Twitter Inc, Kumar said that all of Maheshwari's colleagues have been representing Twitter India, as well as Twitter Inc, before agencies of the Union government, up to this day.On this, Nagesh went on to describe the shareholding pattern. "Twitter International Company, headquartered in Ireland, has 9999 shares, while Twitter Netherlands has one share. However, it is Twitter Inc which runs the platform," he explained.The Karnataka high court, which, on June 24, granted interim protection from arrest to the Bengaluru-based Maheshwari, was earlier scheduled to pronounce its judgment on July 13, which was further deferred to July 20, and then to July 22. The judgment is now expected to be pronounced on Friday. The Uttar Pradesh Police, on June 29 challenged in the Supreme Court the high court's order granting interim protection to Maheshwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-india-an-independent-entity-md-manish-maheshwari-submits-in-karnataka-high-court-101626962282498.html
22-07-2021||India||India again calls for early meeting of military commanders on LAC standoff||India on Thursday again called for the next round of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders to be held “at the earliest” to discuss and resolve all remaining issues related to the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). There has been no forward movement since external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi met in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe on July 14 and agreed that the meeting of military commanders should be organised as soon as possible. “The two leaders agreed that the next round of commander level talks should be convened at the earliest, wherein the two sides should discuss all the remaining issues and seek a mutually acceptable solution,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing. “There was also an understanding that both sides will continue to ensure stability on the ground and neither side will take any unilateral action that could increase tension,” he said. Differences had emerged between the two sides following the meeting in Dushanbe. While Jaishankar said both sides should speedily resolve the remaining issues on the LAC since the standoff was negatively impacting bilateral ties, Wang contended that the situation in the border areas had de-escalated and the two countries should set aside the standoff to expand bilateral cooperation. Bagchi noted that Jaishankar had told the Chinese side that “both sides had agreed that a prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side and that it was visibly impacting the relationship in a negative manner”. Jaishankar also emphasised that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas has been the “foundation for the development of ties” since 1988. “Attempts to change the status quo last year, which also disregarded commitments under the 1993 and 1996 agreements, have inevitably affected ties. It was, therefore, in mutual interest that the two sides work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols,” Bagchi said. The Indian side has insisted that there has been lack of progress in disengagement and de-escalation of frontline troops following a limited drawdown on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. Last month, India again blamed China’s actions of amassing troops in border areas and attempting to alter the status quo on the LAC for the standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-calls-for-early-meeting-of-military-commanders-on-lacstandoff-101626964740113.html
22-07-2021||India||UNGA president-elect Abdulla Shahid says India central to his plans||President-elect of the UN General Assembly Abdulla Shahid, who is also foreign minister of the Maldives, said on Thursday that India will be central to his five-point plan for the world body, including reforming the United Nations and post-pandemic recovery.Shahid, who arrived in New Delhi on Wednesday for a three-day visit, said in an interview that there was a need for greater cohesion in the UN and world community on terrorism, including a common definition for the scourge, so that terrorists know they have no place in a civilised society.India was among the first countries to back Shahid’s candidature for the post of president of the UN General Assembly and he unveiled a vision statement earlier this year for a “presidency of hope” with “five rays of hope” or priority themes – recovering from Covid-19, rebuilding sustainably, responding to the planet’s needs, respecting the rights of all, and reforming the UN.“I chose the theme ‘presidency of hope’ because of the difficult times that the world community has gone through during the past one-and-a-half years,” he said.“On all the five rays of hope, I need India to work with me...I’m counting on India to back my presidency of hope. All these five rays of hope are issues India has always attached great importance to internationally,” he added.Shahid further said: “When it comes to recovering from Covid-19, we need to address the issue of vaccine equity. India is one of the largest producers of vaccines...India has been an advocate for rebuilding sustainably. We launched the [UN] Decade of Action in 2020...We should not let Covid-19 take our focus from the Decade of Action. That is why I’m calling to reset the clock and to start rebuilding sustainably, build back better, build back greener, bluer, and make this a much more vibrant decade...and India can play a role.”Describing global efforts to tackle terrorism as part of pending issues linked to UN reforms, Shahid said the world body and the global community need to speak in one voice on the matter. “We need united political will to be demonstrated by completing the work that has been ongoing at the UN – the convention against terrorism...We have still not been able to reach a definition of terrorism,” he said.This work needs to be expedited to demonstrate unity in confronting terror at the political level so that terrorists know they have no place in civilised society, he added.Though Shahid’s visit to India is largely focused on his upcoming term at the UN, he said he would discuss bilateral relations and development cooperation with his Indian interlocutors. “I will be signing an MoU even during this visit on high impact community development projects, which are in great demand in the Maldives. I’m signing the MoU [on Friday]...,” he said.“The much larger projects that have been in the pipeline are about to be inaugurated. And I’m hoping that many of these projects will be inaugurated in the next month or so,” he said, adding the projects had made progress despite delays due to the pandemic.The Maldives has a key role in India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy and has benefited from large India-backed infrastructure projects worth $2 billion. It was the first country to receive made-in-India vaccines in January, and this was preceded by health and humanitarian aid in 2020, including 12 tonnes of medicines, and a soft loan of $250 million for budgetary support.Asked about concerns in the region about radicalism in the Maldives following the May 6 bombing in Male that seriously injured Speaker Mohamed Nasheed, Shahid said: “Only the investigations will reveal how far the roots of this attack are going. So I cannot comment on that. But the government is determined to make sure that we do a thorough investigation...assisted by foreign experts from Australian federal police, from the UK and also the US...So we’ll make sure that all culprits are brought before justice.”Responding to a question on the implications of differences within the ruling Maldivian Democratic Party over a bill to criminalise hate speech that was introduced after the attack on Nasheed, Shahid said a final call will be made by parliamentarians.“Like any bill that is submitted to the Parliament, this is a bill that the government initiated. But as in the past, the Parliament scrutinises the bill and the bill is now back in a committee. So I’m hopeful that as soon as the Parliament is back [from a recess on August16], they will attend to the bill,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unga-president-elect-abdulla-shahid-says-india-central-to-his-plans-101626963482046.html
22-07-2021||India||Himachal to reopen schools for higher classes from Aug 2 with strict Covid norms||The Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday decided to reopen schools for classes 10th, 11th and 12th from August 2 in strict adherence of Covid-19 norms. The decision that came amid a steady fall in coronavirus cases in the hill state was taken during a cabinet meeting held under chief minister Jairam Thakur.It was also decided those studying in classes 5 and 8 would be allowed to visit schools clearing their doubts from August 2, according to inputs by news agency ANI.Coaching, tuition and training institutions would further be allowed to function from July 26 following all standard operating procedure (SOP) in place with regards to the pandemic.At present, there are 935 active cases in the state with 115 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the latest bulletin of the state health department. The state saw two deaths and 119 recoveries during the same period.A lot of schools and higher education institutions were reopened for physical classes earlier this year once the pandemic situation had improved, but had to shut again when the second wave of the Covid-19 wave hit the country.The Himachal Pradesh education department had conducted a two-day inoculation drive from June 22 against Covid-19 for students, teachers and non-teaching staff, including mid-day meal workers, in colleges and schools.State higher education director Amarjeet K Sharma had said more than 200 vaccination centres have been set up in schools and colleges across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-to-reopen-schools-for-higher-classes-from-aug-2-with-strict-covid-norms-101626961694452.html
22-07-2021||India||Cabinet approves Central university, development corporation in Ladakh||The Union cabinet on Thursday approved setting up of a Central university in the newly formed Union Territory of Ladakh, as well as an integrated multi-purpose infrastructure development corporation. The decision was taken with “an aim of addressing regional imbalances in higher education level and stimulating the society of Ladakh”, an unnamed government official quoted by PTI said.This is in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s promise made in the address to the nation on last Independence Day to set up a new university in Ladakh.“The Cabinet also approved the creation of one post of managing director for the corporation in the pay scale of ₹144,200- ₹218,200 level,” the government said in a press release. “The authorized share capital of the corporation will be ₹25 crore and recurring expenditure will be around ₹2.42 crore per year. It is a new establishment. Presently, there is no similar organization within the newly formed UT of Ladakh.”The government added that the approval has the potential to generate employment as the corporation will be undertaking various developmental activities. “The corporation will work for industry, tourism, transport and marketing of local products and handicraft. Corporation will also work as the main construction agency for infrastructure development in Ladakh,” the government said.The government said it will result in inclusive and integrated development of :Ladakh.“It [will] increase domestic production of goods and services and will facilitate their smooth supply. Thus, the approval will help in realizing the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” the statement read.The government has also approved a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme for specialty steel in an initiative aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing and exports and cutting down the import burden for the sector, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said. The scheme will be applicable for five years from 2023-24 to 2027-28.“With a budgetary outlay of ₹6,322 crores, the scheme is expected to bring in investment of approximately ₹40,000 crores and capacity addition of 25 metric tonne (MT) for speciality steel. The scheme will give employment to about 525,000 people, of which, 68,000 will be direct employment. Speciality steel has been chosen as the target segment because out of the 102 million tonnes steel produced in India in 2020-21, only 18 million tonnes of value added steel or speciality steel was produced in the country,” said the government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-central-university-development-corporation-in-ladakh-101626961679894.html
22-07-2021||India||Delhi LG Anil Baijal calls deputy CM Sisodia's allegations 'baseless', quotes SC judgment||Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has dismissed the allegations made by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia over the former's meetings with government officials, calling it baseless and devoid of any merit. In a letter to Sisodia, Baijal said all the meetings called by him in the recent months were within the ambit of the constitutional provisions and responsibilities entrusted to the office of lieutenant governor.He said that the office of lieutenant governor has the highest regard towards the Constitution of India and the principles of democracy and is committed to abiding by Supreme Court judgment on the division of power."Whatever the reason might be, the letter should not have been made public due to the sensitivity related to the roles and responsibilities of constitutional authorities," Baijal wrote, adding that the deputy CM should have discussed the issue with him personally.HT had earlier reported on Sisodia's letter to Baijal in which the deputy CM had termed LG's actions “murder of democracy” and violative of the Supreme Court judgment. Sisodia had objected to the lieutenant governor issuing directions to Delhi government officials "on subjects that come under the purview of the elected government, without even keeping the ministers in the loop."Also Read | LG encroaching on Delhi govt’s turf, says SisodiaBaijal said even as some subjects have been kept out of the purview of the Delhi government, effective coordination and consultation with other departments are required for the execution of policies and schemes relating to reserved subjects."In your letter, no specific evidence or instance has been cited where guidance given by me in the meetings has in any manner obstructed the implementation of decisions taken by the elected government," he wrote.In his rebuttal to Sisodia, Baijal quoted the Supreme Court judgment in Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi vs Union Of India (2018) which says "[t]he methods and approach for the Governments of the Union and the States may sometimes be different but the ultimate goal and objective always remain the same and the governments at different levels should not lose sight of the ultimate objective.""It is unfortunate that a biased view was taken and wrong interpretations were made for the actions taken in the public interest with a clear intention," the lieutenant governor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-lg-calls-deputy-cm-s-allegations-baseless-101626959141471.html
22-07-2021||India||22 yr old Jammu woman murdered, husband and his brother arrested||A Jammu man was arrested along with his elder brother on Thursday for allegedly murdering his estranged wife a day earlier on Wednesday. “On Wednesday, a man Manzoor Abdullah reported at Chassan police station that his 22 year old sister Shamim Akhtar was found murdered with sharp edged weapons,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity. The deceased was married to Mohammad Shabir some three years ago but Shabir sent her to her parents’ house after their relations turned sour. “However, on Wednesday, when she was grazing cattle in the nearby field in her parental village, Shabir along with his elder brother Abdul Majeed attacked her with a sharp edged weapon and killed her on the spot,” said the officer quoted above. He added that both brothers then fled the crime scene and hid in Reasi and Rajouri districts respectively. A police team trekked hills in heavy rains and arrested Abdul Majeed from upper reaches of Kunderdan forest area when he was trying to sneak into Kashmir valley via Kounsarnag mountain pass on Thursday, said the officer. Similarly, another team got clues that Mohammad Shabir could be hiding in Rajouri district and raided all possible places including Bela Colony, from where he was arrested early morning while trying to hire a vehicle with the aim to flee to Kashmir via Mughal Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-yr-old-jammu-woman-murdered-husband-and-his-brother-arrested-101626959099663.html
22-07-2021||India||Fuel price in Chennai remains constant for 6th straight days||On Thursday, the petrol price was at ₹102.49 and diesel was at ₹94.39 in Chennai and the prices remaining constant for the last six days come as a small relief for the people.The fuel prices in Chennai remained constant for the sixth straight day on Thursday. The petrol price remained at ₹102.49 and diesel at ₹94.39 for each litre in Chennai.The oil companies fix the daily rate of petrol and diesel based on the international price of crude oil and Centre’s approval. With the crude oil rate for every barrel steadily increasing until recently, the fuel prices in the country witnessed a steady rise and crossed the ₹100-mark.There have been frequent protests and rallies against the skyrocketing fuel prices in the state after the petrol price touched ₹100. More than 30 people were detained by police at Thanjavur railway station after they attempted to stage a demonstration against the petrol, diesel, and cooking gas prices. On Tuesday, the All India Democratic Women’s Association staged a protest at Union territory Puducherry garlanding cylinders and raising slogans to express their anguish.Meanwhile, the truck owners’ associations also urged the state governments and the Centre to reduce the fuel prices and toll gate fees. The skyrocketing diesel price affected truck operations and toll gate fees, the truck owners said. “The fuel prices contributed to the inflation of essential commodities. The trucks are not getting sufficient cargo as the demand is shrinking,” a member of the association said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-price-in-chennai-remains-constant-for-6th-straight-days-101626949395288.html
22-07-2021||India||Centre to bring privilege motion against TMC MPs for ‘ruckus’ in RS: Report||The Centre is planning to bring a privilege motion against Trinamool Congress MPs who allegedly misbehaved with Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw while he was reading out a statement on Pegasus spyware snooping issue on Thursday, news agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the developments.Pegasus reports are false, fabricated: Meenakshi LekhiTrinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen snatched Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw’s statement on the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities in the Rajya Sabha earlier today.Pegasus row: UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu detained during rallyUnion minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Trinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen also engaged in a heated argument in Rajya Sabha after the incident. The altercation did not end afterwards but it only exacerbated after the House was adjourned owing to heated arguments between members of the Bharatiya Janata Party as well as the Trinamool Congress. According to news agency ANI, marshals in the Parliament had to intervene to stop the argument between both sets of lawmakers.Pegasus must lead to legal reform and consensus on the harms of surveillanceThe proceedings in the Parliament were disrupted several times on Thursday during the ongoing monsoon session over the Pegasus spyware issue. The Opposition parties have also sought to target the government over the deaths of Indians during the second wave and also over the three farm laws which farmer leaders as well as the Opposition wants scrapped.After the altercation with Sen, Vaishnaw along with Parliamentary Affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal, ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and V Murleedharan held a meeting to discuss the incident which happened in the Parliament.Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi criticised the actions of Shantanu Sen and accused the TMC of stooping to new lows. “The Opposition, especially members of the TMC and the Congress, will stoop so low that they will do things which damage the country’s reputation. One of the members in the House snatched papers from a minister who was making a statement,” Lekhi said.“Such kind of behaviour is something which was never seen in a democracy. We have earlier seen how they conducted themselves when the Prime Minister was addressing and introducing new ministers in the Parliament,” Lekhi further added in reference to the opening day of the monsoon session of the Parliament where Opposition leaders had protested against the government when PM Modi was trying to introduce new members of his Cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-bring-privilege-motion-against-tmc-mps-for-ruckus-in-rs-report-101626955890012.html
22-07-2021||India||Hooligans, not farmers: Union Minister on journo attack at Jantar Mantar||Newly appointed Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi referred to protesting farmers as hooligans while talking about an alleged attack on a media person during the ‘Farmers’ Parliament’ at the Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Thursday. The minister of state for external affairs and culture said the opposition was promoting such activities.“They are not farmers, they are hooligans... These are criminal acts. What happened on January 26 was also shameful criminal activities. The Opposition promoted such activities,” Lekhi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Later, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait hit out at Lekhi said farmers are annadatas' (providers) and to call them such names is inappropriate. "Hooligans are the ones who have nothing. It is wrong to make such remarks for farmers. We are farmers, not hooligans. Farmers are 'anndatas' of the land," Tikait was quoted as saying.The farmers protesting for months along the borders of Delhi against three Central laws began their ‘Farmer Parliament’ on Thursday at the Jantar Mantar. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given special permission for a demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres from the Parliament Complex, till August 9, where the Monsoon Session is underway.A journalist, Nagendra, was reportedly attacked by a woman with a stick at the protest ground. In a video that has been doing the rounds for a while now, the journalist can be seen showing his injuries and saying, “A woman journalist tried interviewing the protestors when a female protester got abusive. When a couple of us went to talk to her, she tried smashing my head with a stick,” Nagendra said.He is further heard saying there are some elements present in the protest who are creating a ruckus.On Republic Day, this year, a tractor rally by the protesting farmers had turned violent and many of them had occupied the Red Fort, deviating from their initially agreed upon route. Some of them were even seen unfurling their flags from the ramparts of the fort. Several cases were registered following the incidents of violence on the fort’s premises. The protesters had also entered Delhi city by breaking police barricades||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hooligans-not-farmers-union-minister-on-journo-attack-at-jantar-mantar-101626947699502.html
22-07-2021||India||Petition in SC for court-monitored probe into Pegasus scandal||Terming the Pegasus spying scandal a “serious attack” on Indian democracy, the judiciary and on the security of the country, a petition has been filed by a lawyer in the Supreme Court demanding a court-monitored investigation by a special investigation team (SIT) to identify those responsible for snooping on opposition leaders, activists, journalists and judges among a host of other persons.The petition filed by advocate Manohar Lal Sharma said, “The Pegasus scandal is a matter of grave concern and a serious attack upon Indian democracy, judiciary and country security. The widespread and unaccountable use of surveillance is morally disfiguring.” It is yet to be admitted. The petition has named Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a respondent along with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) without making the Union of India as a party. Sharma earlier approached the CBI for registering a first information report (FIR) into allegations of Pegasus spying but this was not done, the petition stated.Sharma, who is known for being the first to file petitions on major issues, made a two-fold demand to the top court. He sought a probe by a SIT under the supervision of the top court into the revelations and prosecute all accused persons who bought the Pegasus software and allegedly snooped on Indian citizens for criminal breach of trust (IPC Sections 408, 409), criminal conspiracy (IPC Section 120B), read with Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act 1923 (penalty for spying) and relevant provisions under the Information Technology Act 2000.Sharma, a serial petitioner has been previously reprimanded and fined by the court by the petitions, some of which have been dismissed in minutes. He further requested the top court to declare buying of Pegasus software for snooping to be “illegal” and violative of a person’s right to life and privacy protected under Article 21 and said, “Buying of Pegasus software without approval (of Parliament) contra to the Art. 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution is a criminal breach of trust and also attracts Sections 408, 409 and 120-B of IPC.”Articles 266(3), 267(2), 283(2) provide that any amount to be spent or withdrawn out of the Consolidated Fund of India or the Contingency Fund maintained by states should be in accordance with law.The breach of privacy using Pegasus software engaged the attention of the Supreme Court in December 2019, almost a month after the names of 121 Indians whose phones were allegedly hacked using this software surfaced. The matter was brought to court by former Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh pracharak KN Govindacharya.A three-judge bench headed by then Chief Justice of India SA Bobde refused to go into the issue and allowed the petition to be withdrawn at the very first hearing on December 2, 2019. The petition sought a direction for a court-monitored probe by either National Investigation Agency or a special investigation team against WhatsApp, Facebook and NSO Group for violating right to privacy of Indian citizens. The petition even sought perjury proceedings to be initiated against WhatsApp for misleading the top court with its claim that the data of its users was fully encrypted and nobody, including WhatsApp, held the key to access it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-in-sc-for-court-monitored-probe-into-pegasus-scandal-101626954659447.html
22-07-2021||India||Teenage girl in UP allegedly thrashed after she insisted on wearing jeans, dies||A teenage girl in Uttar Pradesh's Deoria city was allegedly thrashed to death by her family after she insisted on wearing jeans, news agency ANI reported quoting police.The police also accused the family of trying to dispose of the body by throwing it from the Patanwa bridge, but it got stuck and was spotted by police later.As per the report, the incident occurred on Monday, when the 17-year-old, who hailed from Savreji Kharg village, insisted on wearing jeans and a top.Circle officer Yash Tripathi told ANI that the victim succumbed to severe injuries on the head. A post-marten examination also confirmed the injuries and a fracture in the victim’s head.The victim’s mother lodged a complaint with police and named 10 people, including the teenager’s grandparents. Police registered a complaint under Sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 302 (punishment for murder) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, the police are also trying to explore other motives of the murder, according to ANI. “The reason for the murder appears to be something else, which the family is trying to hide and investigations are on,” police said as per the ANI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teenage-girl-in-up-allegedly-thrashed-after-she-insisted-on-wearing-jeans-dies-101626953630457.html
22-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress' Ajay Kumar Lallu detained during rally against Pegasus snoop and all the latest news||UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu detained during rally against Pegasus rowUttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu was detained on Thursday during a protest rally of the party over the Pegasus spyware controversy. Read MoreIndia, UK conduct naval exercise in Bay of BengalThe aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, Britain’s largest warship, and its strike task group is conducting complex maritime exercises with the Indian Navy in the Bay of Bengal as part of efforts to enhance interoperability and naval cooperation. Read MoreO2 deaths: Congress moves breach of privilege motion against ministerThe Congress on Thursday moved a breach of privilege motion against the minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar for allegedly misleading Parliament over deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MoreNew Hero Maestro Edge 125 launched with connected tech, sportier graphicsHero MotoCorp has launched the new Maestro Edge scooter with connected technology and new colour options. Read MorePics: Shweta Tiwari in hot pink bralette and pants channels her inner boss ladyActor Shweta Tiwari is taking the internet by storm in a chic and sexy hot pink ensemble that she wore for a photoshoot. Read MoreHarsh Goenka shares Indira Gandhi’s letter to JRD Tata, tweets ‘Sheer class’. Post goes viralIf you are someone who follows Harsh Goenka on Twitter, you may be aware of the different interesting posts he often shares. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-police-detain-up-congress-chief-ajay-kumar-lallu-101626952821574.html
22-07-2021||India||'Delta variant continues to be dominant variant in new Covid-19 cases': INSACOG||INSACOG, a consortium of government panels involved in the genome sequencing of the coronavirus, which was set up in December last year, has described the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus as the "dominant" lineage for new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being reported from the across India, according to news agency PTI.The other variants of concern (VoC), INSACOG said, are "at a lower rate and declining."Also Read | Delta variant ‘primarily responsible’ for Covid-19 second wave, says govt expert"Delta remains the most rapidly rising lineage globally that is responsible for multiple outbreaks, including across southeast Asia, which shows the fastest growth in new cases globally," the consortium said about the variant, which was first detected in India last year, and is also denoted as the B.1.617.2 strain. It further described Delta as a variant, a new and more concerning variant than which in the Delta sub-lineage, "currently does not exist," according to evidence.On a recent study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), INSCAOG said it confirms most of the clinical cases in vaccine breakthrough were due to the Delta variant. The study, it said, also shows hospitalisation was required in only 9.8% cases, while the fatality rate was found to be at 0.4%.Also Read | Delta major reason for Covid breakthrough infection: 10 findings of ICMR study"Public health measures to reduce transmission, as well as vaccination, continue to remain critical," INSACOG stressed, adding that no cases of the Lambda variant have been reported in the country thus far.The Delta variant is believed to be behind the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, which peaked in April and May. A mutation of Delta, called the Delta Plus, experts believe, is likely to cause a possible third wave of infections in the country. Besides Delta, the Kappa variant, or the B.1.617. strain, too, was detected here last year.In the last 24 hours, India reported 41,383 fresh Covid-19 cases and 507 fatalities due to the viral disease, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-variant-continues-to-be-dominant-variant-in-new-covid-19-cases-insacog-101626949720669.html
22-07-2021||India||India, UK conduct naval exercise in Bay of Bengal||The aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, Britain’s largest warship, and its strike task group is conducting complex maritime exercises with the Indian Navy in the Bay of Bengal as part of efforts to enhance interoperability and naval cooperation. Britain has sent the 65,000-tonne carrier and its task group to the Indian Ocean as part of the country’s moves to enhance its profile in the Indo-Pacific and to foster defence ties with nations across the region. The task group is set to sail to the disputed South China Sea on the next leg of its deployment. The three-day annual Konkan exercise between the Indian and British navies, which began on Wednesday, will see warships from both sides conducting a range of multi-ship, air, sea and sub-surface maritime drills, as well as close quarter manoeuvring. Also Read | Royal Navy personnel on UK carrier shares family bond with Indian military“This enables both forces to advance their interoperability and cooperation ahead of further exercises when the [carrier strike group] returns to the Indian Ocean in the autumn. The combined forces equate to 10 ships, two submarines, approximately 20 aircraft and almost 4,000 personnel,” the British high commission said in a statement. “The joint endeavour provides tangible security to our friends and a credible deterrence to those who seek to undermine global security. An Indian warship will also exercise with the Royal Navy off the coast of the UK in August,” the statement added. The exercise is being conducted at a time when both the UK and India are in the midst of bolstering the capabilities of their navies with aircraft carriers, and UK carrier strike group is spearheading Britain’s joint expeditionary capability. HMS Queen Elizabeth is equipped with fifth generation F-35B Lightning multi-role aircraft, which are jointly manned by the Royal Air Force, Royal Navy and US Marine Corps. The group includes six Royal Navy ships and a submarine, a US Navy destroyer, a frigate from the Netherlands and 32 aircraft, and is manned by 3,700 sailors, aviators and marines from the combined forces of the UK, US and the Netherlands. The UK’s First Sea Lord, Admiral Tony Radakin, said: “This is a month that will see the Royal Navy and Indian Navy meet and work together in two oceans – beginning in the Indian Ocean as the UK carrier strike group arrives for the first of multiple UK-India exercises and events. “Later this summer, both will participate in a separate exercise in the Atlantic Ocean. The deployment is proof of the strength, energy and significance of the growing relationship between our navies.” Vice admiral Ben Key, Britain’s chief of joint operations, described the carrier strike group’s deployment as a “symbol of Global Britain in action” that showcased the UK’s commitment to India, the Indo-Pacific and confronting threats to international order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-conduct-naval-exercise-in-bay-of-bengal-101626952020556.html
22-07-2021||India||‘India, China most vulnerable to joint risks of climate change, air pollution’||India and China are among the world’s top five countries that are most vulnerable to climate change and air pollution with the capacity to deal with the risks, a first of its kind research assessing the combined risks of air pollution and climate change, said on Thursday.The world’s two fastest developing economies with 2.5 billion plus people have witnessed a spurt in particulate matter induced air pollution levels in the past two decades and have seen high risks due to climate change induced extreme rainfall, frequent cyclones and heat waves in recent past, the study says.“Deaths resulting from toxic pollution are highest where the distribution of toxic pollution is greatest and, critically, also where the impacts of climate change pose the greatest risk,” the study, Global distribution and coincidence of pollution, climate impacts, and health risk in the Anthropocene, said, in a specific reference to India and China.For more than 30 years, the scientists on the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) have assessed impacts of human induced climate change whereas bodies such as World Health Organisation have focused on health impacts of rising air pollution globally.Scientists at the University of Notre Dame found a “strong and statistically significant” link between the two environmental hazards and said the countries which are at most risk of climate change are also the countries with highest risks of toxic pollution.A vital difference between climate change and air pollution is that greenhouse gases that cause global warming are considered non-toxic whereas air pollutants such as particulate matter or nitrogen dioxide are toxic.“It is not surprising to find that these risks are highly correlated, but this study provides the data and analysis to inform policy, data and analysis that were previously lacking,” associate professor of Political Science at the university Debra Javeline said, in a statement.To make the study useful for policymakers, the authors ranked 177 countries on “Target”, a measure that combined a country’s climate impact risk, toxic pollution risk and its potential readiness to mitigate these risks. Most countries such as India and China, have high air pollution and green house gas (GHG) emissions. China is the world’s leading total GHG emitter and India is on track to join it at the top and they are two top ranked countries to emit toxic air pollution. Based on these criteria, the study ranked Singapore, Rwanda, China, India, Solomon Islands, Bhutan, Botswana, Georgia, the Republic of Korea and Thailand as top 10 countries. “The top one-third of countries at risk of toxic pollution and climate impacts represent more than two-thirds of the world’s population, highlighting the magnitude of the problem and unequal distribution of environmental risk,” researchers wrote in the paper published in peer-reviewed scientific journal PLOS One.Among those countries appearing at the bottom of the list are Equatorial Guinea, Iraq, Jordan, Central African Republic and Venezuela. “These (bottom of the table) nations are most likely to have outstanding governance issues that currently stand in the way of effectively addressing pollution and climate change,” the study said.On India and China, the two largest countries, together representing over 2.5 billion people, the study said they have relatively high Proportion Mortality ranks --- India ranked 5th and China 13th with 23.5% and 17.9% of annual deaths associated with toxic pollution, equalling 2.3 and 1.9 million premature deaths annually, respectively. The study also pointed out that the two countries have come up with national pollution reduction policies to reduce pollution deaths. In the case of China, it said, its National Plan on Air Pollution led to 40% reduction in pollution levels.“The improved air quality resulted in significant corresponding reductions in respiratory disease and cardiovascular disease mortality rates,” the study said, adding that there is strong potential for co-benefits from efforts focused on China and India in risk reduction for neighbouring countries and other countries at-risk of climate change more broadly.Anumita Roy Chowdhary of Centre for Science and Environment said the study interestingly provides broad parameters linking air pollution and climate change and provides insight on how tackling both with singular policy instruments can be co-beneficial. “We know that reducing air pollution helps in managing green house gas emissions and vice-versa. The study, however, analyses the capability of 180 countries to deal with twin environmental problems,” she said.University’s postdoctoral research associate Drew (Richard) Marcantonio said the idea of ranking (Target) is to highlight where action can be taken to reduce risk to human health and whether it can be done through incentives or sanctions. “A range of measures can be used to promote risk reduction such as trade incentives..., or other policy and regulatory enforcement mechanisms,” the study said, adding that it provides moral reflection to determine what actions should be taken and who should take them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-most-vulnerable-to-joint-risks-of-climate-change-air-pollution-101626951839200.html
22-07-2021||India||Pegasus row: UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu detained during rally||Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu was detained on Thursday during a protest rally of the party over the Pegasus spyware controversy. Party spokesperson Ashok Singh said police had been deployed outside Lallu’s residence in Lucknow and he was asked not to move out of his house.“Lallu and other Congress workers were taken into police custody when he came out to lead the party rally against the Pegasus phone tapping issue,” Singh said.Lallu took to Twitter and wrote the government in a panic mode turned his house into a police camp, and then, it tried to stop him from going ahead with the agitation.पेगासस जासूसी के खिलाफ कांग्रेस पार्टी का परिवर्तन चौक से राजभवन तक मार्च था। घबराई सरकार ने मेरे लखनऊ स्थित आवास को पुलिस छावनी में तब्दील कर मुझे नजरबंद किया, अब रोक रहे हैं।फांसीवादी सरकार मत भूले हम गांधी पथपूजक रुकेंगे नहीं।दम है तेरे दमन में कितनादेख लिया है, देखेंगे pic.twitter.com/oTc4GOudlhCongress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ has been placed under house arrest, Singh further said.Mishra said the UP Congress had proposed to take out a ‘peaceful’ procession from Parivartan Chowk to Raj Bhawan and hand over a memorandum to Governor Anandiben Patel to lodge a protest on the tapping of phones of party leader Rahul Gandhi, journalists and others.Inspector in-charge of Hazratganj police station, Shyam Babu Shukla, said Lallu and his supporters were taken into custody and moved to Eco garden, the place notified by the local administration to hold protests as they were causing inconvenience to the public by protesting in the city’s Hazratganj area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-congress-chief-ajay-kumar-lallu-detained-during-rally-against-pegasus-row-101626948869567.html
22-07-2021||India||Manish Sisodia asks public on AAP’s CM face during Uttarakhand visit||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday asked the people of Uttarakhand whether retired colonel and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Ajay Kothiyal should be the chief minister. Sisodia was on a day-long visit to the hill state.Colonel Kothiyal, who is an Indian Army veteran and former principal of Uttarkashi-based Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, joined the AAP in April this year.Addressing a press conference in Roorkee, Sisodia said he met the common people of the Uttarkashi including professionals, students and senior citizens like an ‘aam aadmi’ (common man), adding he received a positive response when he asked the people about Kothiyal as the chief ministerial face of AAP.Addressing an important Press Conference from Roorkee, Uttarakhand | Live https://t.co/OpdqfwHTsuAccusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led government in Uttarakhand of being corrupt and protecting the corrupted, Sisodia said, “The BJP earlier had Trivendra Singh Rawat as CM and he was nicknamed ‘zero work chief minister’. After him, Tirath Singh Rawat came and he was also a ‘zero work chief minister’. And now, Pushkar Singh Dhami has arrived who openly says that he will neither not stop anyone from stealing nor will allow anyone else to stop it.”The Delhi deputy chief minister further called Colonel Kothiyal a ‘nationalist’ who has devoted his life towards serving the country. “I want to ask a question to the people. Should Colonel Kothiyal be the chief minister of Uttarakhand?” Sisodia said at the briefing.He announced that the AAP will field candidates in all the 70 seats at assembly elections in the state slated for next year.Sisodia said Uttarakhand lacks quality education and faces electricity problems. The AAP will change this if it comes to power, he added.Sisodia’s visit comes almost two weeks after Delhi CM and AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal visited Dehradun on July 11 and announced among other things free electricity to the people of the poll-bound state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-sisodia-asks-public-on-aap-s-cm-face-during-uttarakhand-visit-101626943191342.html
22-07-2021||India||No factual basis to reports about alleged use of spyware: Vaishnaw in RS||Union electronics and information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday reiterated that many “over the top” allegations have been made in the reports about the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities. “These allegations have been dismissed in the past by all parties involved, including the Supreme Court. There is no factual basis to these allegations,” he said in Rajya Sabha amid protests by Opposition parties.TMC MP Shantanu Sen snatched the statement from the Union minister, leading to a commotion in the House which was subsequently adjourned until Friday. Also Read | Anti human trafficking Bill: Civil society recognises urgency, but has concernsVaishnaw on Monday said reports suggesting India used the spyware to infiltrate phones were nothing but an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions” Vaishnaw, who was making his first speech as the new minister in Parliament, said that the “highly sensational story” has made several “over the top allegations” but there is “no substance behind them”.“It is not a coincidence that the reports have been published a day before the Monsoon Session of Parliament,” said Vaishnaw, who was just minutes later named as one of the ministers who may have been targeted.An international investigative media consortium has reported the alleged targeting and sparked a political storm.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-factual-basis-to-reports-about-alleged-use-of-spyware-vaishnaw-in-rs-101626948165151.html
22-07-2021||India||'No urgency needed': Delhi high court on pleas challenging WhatsApp's privacy policy||The Delhi high court on Thursday remarked "there is no urgency now" on pleas challenging WhatsApp's privacy policy as the Facebook-owned messaging platform has already informed the high court it "would not transfer data" to Facebook till India enacts the proposed data protection law. A two-judge bench, comprising chief justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, also recalled WhatsApp's statement to it on July 9 clarifying it won't block accounts of those not accepting its privacy policy "for the time being."Also Read: WhatsApp will put policy on hold till data law is enacted"We said we will not block," senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, reiterated during Thursday's hearing. However, senior advocate Vivek Sood, appearing for one of the petitioners, Harsha Gupta, argued the data can still be transferred according to the pre-2021 policy, calling for WhatsApp to make a statement stating it will not transfer the data.Advocate Manohar Lal, who appeared for the first petitioner, Chaitanya Rohilla, submitted to the court his client's concern did not pertain to the personal messages sent using the platform, but the meta data that is shared with Facebook. Meghan, a co-petitioner with two other persons, also raised issues with respect to privacy."All right, we're considering. There's no use of WhatsApp making statement again and against," the chief justice-headed bench observed, fixing August 27 as the date on which it will hear the pleas challenging the privacy policy.The high court, on July 9, had heard WhatsApp's plea challenging a probe into its privacy policy by the Competition Commission of India (CCI). During that hearing, senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for WhatsApp, had submitted on behalf of its client, "Commitment is that I will do nothing till the Parliament's law comes in. If they allow it, I will have it. Either we fit or we don't."The pleas challenging the privacy policy claim it allows WhatsApp "full access" into a user's online activity without there being any supervision by the government. The charge has been dismissed by the messaging platform which has said "personal messages continue to be protected by end-to-end encryption."The proposed Data Protection Bill, meanwhile, seeks to regulate the use of an individual data by the government and private companies. A joint parliamentary committee is examining the bill, and has been given time till the ongoing monsoon session to submit its report.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-urgency-needed-delhi-hc-on-pleas-challenging-whatsapp-s-privacy-policy-101626944633518.html
22-07-2021||India||Anti human trafficking Bill: Civil society recognises urgency, but has concerns||The draft anti-trafficking Bill, 2021, which is slated to be tabled in the monsoon session of Parliament, has mostly elicited a positive response from activists and organisations working to combat the threat, with a few recommending additional measures to the Bill after the ministry of women and child development sought public feedback.The new Bill expands the scope of the powers of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and goes on to add transgender persons to the list of trafficked persons apart from women and children.It also widens the punishment for offences, with persons found guilty of trafficking liable for a minimum term of seven years, which can be extended to 10 years. The provision will have implications for cross-border offences as well. The persons convicted will also have to pay a fine of ₹1-5 lakh, the Bill has proposed. It will also allow the properties of convicts, bought using money from trafficking, to be forfeited. The Bill also mandates the creation of a three-tier monitoring system, a national, state and district level anti human trafficking committee.Also Read | Rights activists caution against child labour and trafficking during pandemicAs per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2019, the total number of child victims of trafficking increased from 2,837 in 2018 to 2,914 in 2019, registering a marginal growth of 2.8% during the year. The top six states reporting child trafficking (below 18 years) were Rajasthan (653), Delhi (536), Bihar (294), Odisha (202), and Kerala (179), and Madhya Pradesh (124).Social reformer Kailash Satyarthi has called for urgent passage of the Bill, citing the need for a strong anti-trafficking law. “A strong anti-trafficking law is the moral and constitutional responsibility of our elected leaders, and a necessary step toward nation-building and economic progress. As long as children are bought and sold at a lesser cost than cattle, no country can call itself civilised. Covid-19 has caused a rise in trafficking, especially of women and children. We cannot take this lightly. A law for prevention, timely investigation, punishment for traffickers, and the protection and rehabilitation of survivors is a matter of urgency,” he said.But others such as the non-governmental organisation (NGO) HAQ: Centre for Child Rights, and Coalition for an Inclusive Approach on the Trafficking Bill, have cautioned against the increased scope of the Bill, stating that it may lead to confusion and even abuse of certain provisions.“The Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021 (“Bill”) intends to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children, to provide for care, protection, and rehabilitation to the victims, while respecting their rights, and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them, and also to ensure prosecution of offenders,” HAQ: Centre for Child Rights has said in its submission to the ministry of women and child development on July 14.The key provisions and concernsWith respect to the NIA, the Bill states that it will tackle all trafficking cases, including inter-state and international ones.“The National Investigation Agency shall act as the national investigating and coordinating agency responsible for prevention and combating of trafficking in persons and other offences under this Act, as well as for investigation, prosecution and coordination in cases of trafficking in persons and other offences under this Act in accordance with the provisions of the National Investigation Agency Act, 2008, including cases which are inter-state or international in nature or such other cases as may be assigned to it by the Central Government,” states the draft Bill.According to former director general of police, PM Nair, who was integral in setting up the government’s grassroots level anti human trafficking units (AHTUs), the expansion of the scope of NIA’s powers is welcome but a crucial gap that remains is the lack of rehabilitation, which remains beyond their remit. “NIA is an investigative body, it does not have a system of rehabilitation,” he said. “There needs to be a coordinated state level rehabilitation system that can accommodate those rescued, which can be supervised by the NIA.”Nair also added that a dedicated wing should be set up with the NIA that looks after cases of human trafficking in particular, similar to the special crimes wing. He lauded the inclusion of section 370 of the Indian Penal Code into the Bill, stating that it will help in greater coordination as there will be common law, which has more utility.But making NIA the sole authority to investigate the cases has not gone down well with everyone. The Coalition Coalition for an Inclusive Approach on the Trafficking Bill has challenged the provision stating it represents a threat to the federal structure of the constitution. “The proposal of NIA not only being the investigation agency, but also the applicability of the NIA Act to the investigation of offences under the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021 should be a wake-up call for all states in the Indian Union… the NIA now will have a legal basis to enter states and even begin investigations for trafficking without the consent of the concerned state. In a federal set-up, any expansion of the authority of the NIA beyond what is already scheduled in the NIA Act should be viewed with the utmost concern,” it has said in its submission.Another concern is Section 23 of the Bill, which explains what constitutes trafficking of persons, has also elicited a strong response from the community. The section notes that any person who “recruits, transports, transfers, harbours or receives another person; By means of threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of the abuse of power or of a position of authority or of vulnerability, or of the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person”. It goes onto explain that “exploitation shall include, at a minimum, the exploitation of the prostitution of others or other forms of sexual exploitation including pornography, any act of physical exploitation, forced labour or services, slavery or practices similar to slavery, servitude or forced removal of organs, illegal clinical drug trials or illegal bio-medical research or the like.”Terming it anti-migrant workers, HAQ explains how the Bill can adversely affect labourers, adding that it conflates trafficking with forced labour and migration. “The proposed Bill conflates trafficking with forced labour and migration. Inclusion of the word “forced labour” in the Explanation 1 on “exploitation” in section 23 allows all migrant workers in the unorganised sector to be treated as forced labour.While this per se is not problematic and anybody who is subjected to forced labour should find recourse in law, the recruitment and movement for such labour, which is often a result of inducement and may also involve false promises and deceit, will bring them under the definition of trafficking as proposed in the Bill. The Bill further requires all persons perceived as “trafficked victims” to be rescued and rehabilitated, thus invariably implying that all migrant workers in the unorganised sector, who may be deemed as “forced labour” shall have to be rescued from their situation of work and institutionalised in the name of rehabilitation,” HAQ has said in its statement.The Coalition, too, has warned against the dangers of an overbroad response, stating that it negates the consent of those the Bill is supposed to protect. “The Bill adopts a definition of trafficking which defines victims as those who cannot consent, in effect negates the autonomy of the so-called victims. Even those who had been trafficked have the right to make decisions about their current and future life. By empowering authorities to place persons who are trafficked in custodial institutions without their consent,3 the Bill fundamentally erodes the notion of individual autonomy guaranteed under the Indian Constitution,” it has said.The three committees proposed by the Bill, says Nair, should instead be called authorities. “Committees come across as toothless, we need to establish a lexicon that gives them powers.”The Coalition has also stressed the need to adopt a more welfarist approach and not just a “criminalization impulse”. “The Bill is fundamentally motivated by a criminalising impulse. Issues which have to be seen within the lens of development are sought to be dealt with by criminal law. The state instead of taking on welfarist/developmentalist functions chooses to focus on incarcerating the poor,” it has highlighted.The way forward The Bill, which was passed in 2018 in the Lok Sabha but lapsed before it reached the Rajya Sabha was revised after the ministry received a suggestion from a spectrum of stakeholders. It will now be reintroduced in the lower House, and if cleared, will be sent to the upper House before it becomes an Act.While many remain concerned with certain provisions of the Bill, a push for its passage has been the focus for most of the organisations, which see it as a strengthening of the system to combat human trafficking.Jyoti Mathur, executive director of the Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation, said that there are a lot of positive features in the Bill. “It’s high time we have a law which looks at trafficking in a comprehensive manner,” she said. “Although trafficking is covered under ITPA, under POCSO Act, and Indian Penal Code, among others. But it is not just about the criminal aspect of it but also about the rehabilitation aspect of it.”She added that trafficking is a continuous crime. “NIA’s scope being expanded is an advantage. Police investigation has seen delays and issues of jurisdiction in the past. NIA also has international jurisdiction. Making an amendment to their Act and adding trafficking under its ambit is a big step. It will keep traffickers from taking advantage of the gaps in the system,” she said.Mathur added that one must not get lost in the details as the Bill overall is more positive in nature. “In pursuit of perfection, we cannot delay the law,” she said. “There will always be something missing. The Bill in its current form has plenty of good features. We need to focus on that,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-human-trafficking-bill-civil-society-recognises-urgency-but-has-concerns-101626946485072.html
22-07-2021||India||Govt failed to properly probe post-poll violence complaints: Calcutta HC||The West Bengal government has failed to properly investigate complaints of alleged violence after the May-April assembly elections, the Calcutta high court observed on Thursday.“The proceedings have become adversarial because the state has failed to properly investigate,” a five-judge bench said while hearing public interest litigations related to the violence.The violence allegedly broke out hours after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) returned to power for a third time in May. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which hoped to wrest power from TMC, has blamed the ruling party for the violence. The TMC has insisted incidents of violence were reported when the law and order was under the Election Commission’s jurisdiction and that Banerjee dealt with them effectively after taking over.The court’s comments came days after a panel of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) set up following a high court order in June to look into violence blamed the state government for it. In a 50-page report submitted to the court last week, the panel slammed the state government saying the violence “shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus”. It recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the violence and that the trials related to it be conducted outside the state.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the West Bengal government, dismissed the report. “It is nothing but a politically motivated report. We do not give credence to the NHRC report,” he told the court.Mahesh Jethmalani, who appeared for the petitioners, said the state whose inaction has triggered the entire litigation wants to now investigate on its own. He called for a probe by an independent agency. “The state has been complicit in many instances.”The court directed the government to file its reply on the NHRC report by July 26. The matter would be heard again on July 28.The NHRC report said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged in the state between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 to loot and arson. It added out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% are currently in jail. “The situation in the state of West Bengal is a manifestation of the law of ruler, instead of rule of law...This was retributive violence by supporters of the ruling party against supporters of the main opposition party.”Banerjee dismissed the report last week, calling it misleading with distorted facts. “How many commissions and central agencies did the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) send to (BJP-ruled) Uttar Pradesh?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-failed-to-properly-probe-post-poll-violence-complaints-calcutta-hc-101626945764988.html
22-07-2021||India||Committed to solving issues related to Char Dham Board: Uttarakhand CM||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has said his government is committed to solving issues related to Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board amicably by talking to the parties concerned including the priests. “We have been already doing that, but despite that, it seems that the priests of the four shrines have doubts that we are going to snatch their rights,” he said during his visit to the rain-affected villages in Uttarkashi district on Wednesday.Dhami’s statement came amid protests by the priests of the four revered shrines of Char Dham--Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri--for the abolishment of the Board constituted last year.Also Read | U’khand issued 5.3k more death certificates than last yr between Jan and Apr: RTI“I want to assure them that their all rights will be kept intact. The government only wants to assist them in improving the facilities for pilgrims. Having said that, we are in favour of any positive changes in the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board,” Dhami said. He added the government plans to form a committee to speak to the parties concerned on the issues related to the Board. “Based on the recommendations of the committee, further action will be taken.”The opposition Congress has backed the priests and said the Board should be abolished. “The government should listen to the priests who have been managing the shrines for ages. It should immediately end the controversial Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board and restore the old system of managing the shrines,” said Congress leader Suryakant Dhasmana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-solving-issues-related-to-char-dham-board-uttarakhand-cm-dhami-101626944264909.html
22-07-2021||India||Over 4 million ineligible people got PM-KISAN cash: Govt in Parliament||Nearly 4.2 million people not eligible for pay-outs under PM-KISAN, the Modi government’s cash-transfer scheme for farmers, received ₹2,900 crore in all since the scheme’s roll-out and steps will be taken to recover the amounts, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has stated in a Parliament reply. According to data cited in Tomar’s reply to an “unstarred” question in Lok Sabha, the Lower House, most states had ineligible beneficiaries. The largest numbers were in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Bihar. An unstarred question is one in which a written answer is provided. Under PM-KISAN, the government provides income support of ₹,6000 a year to every land-owning farmer with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of ₹2,000 -- once every four months. The scheme was launched on February 24, 2019. In the last instalment paid in May this year, the government disbursed over Rs19,000 crore to 90 million farm households. So far, the Union government has paid nearly ₹1.15 lakh crore. According to the scheme’s guidelines, the responsibility of identifying beneficiaries for PM-KISAN lies with the states. On May 21, 2020, HT had first reported that the Union agriculture ministry had asked the Assam government for a report and a probe into a potential fraud in PM-KISAN, which allowed non-farmers to get cash in the state. This prompted the state to temporarily halt payments. According to figures provided by Tomar in his written reply on July 20, the number of illegal beneficiaries in Assam stood at 83,5268, the highest in any state, accounting for about a fifth of total ineligible beneficiaries. Also Read | Kharif sowing so far lags last year’s by 11%Tamil Nadu, a state known for efficient bureaucracy, figures next with 72,2271 fraudulent beneficiaries. In Chhattisgarh, 58,289 ineligible people got cash benefits, the third-highest. In Punjab, the number of ineligible people was 56,2256, followed by Bihar with 52,178 illegal beneficiaries. “States have been asked to initiate criminal proceedings against people who fraudulently got into the system and to recover amounts disbursed to them,” an official with knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity. The amounts to be recovered from ineligible beneficiaries in some states run into hundreds of crores. Assam needs to recover ₹554 crore, while Uttar Pradesh must get back ₹258 crore (the state had 26,5321 ineligible beneficiaries). Bihar has to recover ₹425 crore, while Punjab needs to recover ₹437 crore. In India, the well-off or ineligible people often receive benefits they are not entitled to. According to the government’s Economic Survey 2015-16, the rich get “implicit” subsidies worth ₹1 lack crore, pointing to the need for better targeting of anti-poverty schemes. Under PM-KISAN, a beneficiary has to be “a farmer family comprising husband, wife and minor children who own cultivable land as per land records”. Non-farmers are automatically excluded. The exclusion guidelines say people who pay income tax or receive pension which is ₹10,000 or more after retiring from government service, former and current ministers, professionals and institutional land-owners are not eligible for the scheme. Aside from updated land-holding records, most states require farmers to provide at least four sets of other verified documents to be eligible for PM-KISAN handouts: the 12-digit biometric Aadhaar, phone number, bank details and with know-your-customer proof. These data points are “triangulated” (or cross-matched) through software designed into the public financial management system (PFMS), the platform that enables automatic transfer of cash into bank accounts. The PMFS platform is the backbone of direct benefit transfers. Despite this, over 4 million eligible people received nearly ₹2,900 crore cash under PM-KISAN. “But it is also because of multiple checks through advanced software and validation of beneficiaries through automated systems that these ineligible people got caught. Full details of such people are available and states will have to proceed against them as per law,” the official cited above said. Also Read | 10mn households in JE hot spots get tap water accessAny farmer can enrol for PM-KISAN by applying at local revenue offices or a state’s nodal officer for the scheme, who is nominated by the state government. Farmers can also self-register through the PM-KISAN portal and common service centres, a network of public-services offices spread across the country. “The structure of the Scheme inherently comprises of (sic) mechanism for exclusion of errors on the basis of continuous verification and validation of data of beneficiaries by various authorities like Aadhaar/PFMS/Income Tax database. After successful verification and validation of data, the benefits are transferred to intended beneficiaries,” the minister’s reply stated Ineligible people can pose to be eligible farmers by forging documents, or with connivance of local-level officials and through concealment of income, the official cited above said. In Assam, it appeared that people who got counted in “include pensioners, non-farmers, income-tax payers” and that “names of more than one person from each family” are on the list, the HT’s report of May 21, 2020 had quoted Guwahati-based farm expert Pushpadhar Das as saying. The scheme’s central guidelines require authorities to undertake physical verification of beneficiaries too. A video-conference between federal and state officials is held every Tuesday to continuously monitor the scheme, according to Tomar. “The amounts withdrawn by ineligible are public money. Since the Centre entirely funds PM-KISAN, it should also take responsibility for this. States must punish conniving local officials,” said KS Mani, an agricultural economist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4-million-ineligible-people-got-pm-kisan-cash-govt-in-parliament-101626943424601.html
22-07-2021||India||Karnataka cops launch initiative to combat theft, harassment in train coaches||Karnataka Police has taken a new initiative to abolish all sorts of nuisance, theft, and harassment to passengers inside the coaches of the railways, according to a report published on 22nd July on BTV Web, a Kannada news channel portal. This is the first time in the country when the standard police force has taken the initiative to curb undesirable activities inside the railway stations and coaches.Notably, the railway police have also vowed to work in tandem for this initiative. The facility was devised by the combined effort of Bhaskar Rao, additional director general of police (ADGP), and superintendent of police (SP), railways, Sri Gowri.Initially, the officials carried out a public meeting drive in Cantonment, Yeshwantpur, and Bengaluru Central railway stations.Police officials in charge of the railway stations across several cities in Karnataka will visit the stations themselves and hand over visiting cards to the passengers and users of the railway station. They will then educate the staffers on how to keep the railway stations and trains safe for users of railway services from nuisance mongers and thefts.“The 'happy to help’ cards will be given to the passengers with contact numbers of the police officials in the area. This initiative will be spread all over the state in a phased manner”, Rao was quoted as saying by the portal. The passengers or railway users who are harassed by criminal elements can call or send a WhatsApp message to reach the police officials and can ask for their help.Police officials in Bengaluru Central, Yeshwanthpur, Cantonment, Bangarpete, Mandya, Hassan, and Arsikere have already printed their visiting cards and they will soon be distributed among the railway users. As many as 18 major railway stations will see this activity being implemented in the next few days, Rao said.According to the statistics of the police department, the crime rates in railway stations and coaches have come down substantially in the last three years. In 2018, a total of 1,496 cases were reported followed by 1,870 in 2019 and 755 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cops-launch-initiative-to-combat-theft-harassment-in-train-coaches-101626940472444.html
22-07-2021||India||Mumbai Police recover 70 porn videos made on Raj Kundra's order: Reports||The arrest of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband, businessman Raj Kundra is not the end of the alleged porn racket operating in Mumbai, as Mumbai police are believed to have found a wider network, involving many small production houses of the city. These houses were associated with the operation of hotshots, the now-deleted streaming application. Reports said Mumbai police recovered 70 videos which were shot by Kundra's former personal assistant Umesh Kamat with the help of different production houses. The police team has also found 90 videos which were exclusively meant for the Hotshots app. Now, these smaller production houses will also come under the scanner.WhatsApp chats reveal Raj Kundra had plan B, lawyer says content not porn | 10 updatesThe complaint against Raj Kundra is not only making pornographic films in India, which is illegal under several provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the IT rules but also to lure people to feature in porn movies promising them roles in web series. Kundra's lawyer Abad Ponda, however, said the content of the app was vulgar, but not pornographic. Several other Bollywood personalities have claimed so.Raj Kundra is in police custody till July 23, but he has not revealed much during the questioning. Reports said Mumbai Police have written to various banks seeking details of the bank account of Kundra.After raiding his house and office, Police have found the server which will be sent for forensic analysis to confirm whether the content for the app was uploaded using the server.Mumbai Police have launched the probe into the case in February and after several arrests reached Raj Kundra. A report claimed Raj Kundra avoided arrest since February by bribing the Crime Branch officers.Raj Kundra has been running this business for two years though his Hotshots app was sold to a UK firm apparently to escape investigation in India. Police have revealed that the UK firm is owned by Kundra's brother-in-law and though the official ownership was transferred, Kundra used to manage the operations. Police have also revealed that Raj Kundra was planning to close Hotshots altogether and start a new streaming app. Kundra had also planned to take down some of the content from Hotshots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-recover-70-porn-videos-made-on-raj-kundra-s-order-reports-101626942352624.html
22-07-2021||India||‘Attempt to scare media’: Arvind Kejriwal condemns I-T raids on Dainik Bhaskar, TV channel||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday condemned the raids conducted by the income tax department on the Dainik Bhaskar group and a Hindi news channel based in Uttar Pradesh. The raids were carried out in multiple cities in suspected tax evasion case. Kejriwal said these raids are an attempt to scare the media.“Income tax raids conducted on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar are an attempt to scare the media. Their message is clear- those who speak against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will not be spared. This kind of thinking is very dangerous. Everyone should raise their voice against it,” Kejriwal said in his tweet posted in Hindi.The Delhi chief minister also urged the raids should stop immediately and the media should be allowed to function freely.दैनिक भास्कर और भारत समाचार पर आयकर छापे मीडिया को डराने का प्रयास है। उनका संदेश साफ़ है- जो भाजपा सरकार के ख़िलाफ़ बोलेगा, उसे बख्शेंगे नहीं।ऐसी सोच बेहद ख़तरनाक है।सभी को इसके ख़िलाफ़ आवाज़ उठानी चाहिएये छापे तुरंत बंद किए जायें और मीडिया को स्वतंत्र रूप से काम करने दिया जाएThe Income Tax department on Thursday conducted searches at offices of the Dainik Bhaskar Group in multiple locations including Maharashtra,Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.Similar searches were conducted by the department at the premises of the UP-based Hindi news channel.Also Read| Income tax dept raids offices of Dainik Bhaskar GroupApart from Arvind Kejriwal, other prominent opposition leaders have also targeted the Narendra Modi-led central government over the raids on these two media houses.Rajasthan chief minister and Congress leader Ashok Gehlot said the raids are an attempt to suppress the media, adding the Modi government cannot tolerate even the slightest criticism. “This is the fascist mentality of BJP which does not like to see the mirror of truth in democracy,” Gehlot tweeted.The attack on journalists & media houses is yet another BRUTAL attempt to stifle democracy.#DainikBhaskar bravely reported the way @narendramodi ji mishandled the entire #COVID crisis and led the country to its most horrifying days amid a raging pandemic. (1/2)“The attack on journalists & media houses is yet another BRUTAL attempt to stifle democracy. #DainikBhaskar bravely reported the way @narendramodi ji mishandled the entire #Covid crisis and led the country to its most horrifying days amid a raging pandemic,” Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote on the microblogging site and urged those working in the media to stay strong.Meanwhile, opposition leaders in Parliament also tried to raise the issue of income tax raids on the Dainik Bhaskar group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attempt-to-scare-media-kejriwal-condemns-raids-on-dainik-bhaskar-tv-channel-101626939161455.html
22-07-2021||India||After days of rains, weather improves in J&K today||Weather started improving in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday after three days of heavy rains. Rains lashed parts of the Union territory on Wednesday morning on the occasion of Muslim festival, Eid-ul-Adha. However, there was no overnight or morning rain activity. “There is no forecast of any major rainfall for the next few days, “ said meteorological department director Sonam Lotus. In Kashmir, Gulmarg received the highest rainfall at 14.6mm while in Jammu, Bhaderwah logged the highest rainfall at 52mm. Also Read | 144 fresh Covid cases, 1 fatality recorded in J&KThe maximum temperatures on Wednesday was recorded in Srinagar at 25.8 degrees Celsius (°C) -- 3.7°C below normal, and it was the lowest in Gulmarg at 15.2°C.“In Jammu division, 28.6°C was recorded in Kathua while it was 28.2 in Jammu district -- a drop of over five degrees, “ said an official of weather office. Jammu and Kashmir received intermittent heavy rains from Monday, bringing relief from temperatures above 30°C. On Sunday, the maximum temperatures in Srinagar and Jammu were 35°C and 36°C respectively- highest so far this summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-days-of-rains-weather-improves-in-j-k-today-101626941144526.html
22-07-2021||India||NSCN-IM leaders among potential Pegasus spyware targets||Key members of the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM), which has been in talks with the government, were among those allegedly targeted by Israeli spyware Pegasus between 2017 and 2019, news portal The Wire reported.The portal is part of a consortium of global media organisations that investigated the alleged targeting of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities.Atem Vashum, Apam Muivah, Anthony Ningkhan Shimray, Phunthing Shimrang and N Kitovi Zhimomi were listed as potential Pegasus targets worldwide, reported The Wire. There was no immediate response from NSCN-IM.The Centre signed a framework agreement with the NSCN-IM in 2015 years after the two sides announced a ceasefire agreement in 1997. A conglomeration of seven different Naga groups signed an “agreed position” with the Centre in 2017 for ending the insurgency in Nagaland.Also Read | All members of newly formed Bodo militant outfit in Assam likely to surrenderR N Ravi, the Centre’s interlocutor for the talks, set a deadline to conclude the negotiations by October 2019. NSCN-IM has been upset over Ravi’s attempt to “distort” the agreement and has sought a new interlocutor.Ravi, who is also Nagaland governor, repeatedly claimed that talks have concluded. But the NSCN-IM in March 2021 said that the talks teams were back on the table and negotiations were progressing.The Centre is believed to have proposed a peace deal, but the NSCN-IM has refused to accept it. NSCN-IM’s demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution are said to have delayed the conclusion of the talks, which were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Nagaland has formed a committee comprising all the 60 members of the state assembly and the two Members of Parliament to push for and facilitate expedited talks. The panel has held meetings this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscnim-leaders-among-potential-pegasus-spyware-targets-101626940544594.html
22-07-2021||India||'Ready to talk to farmers': Agriculture minister ahead of Jantar Mantar protests||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that the government is ready to hold discussions with protesting farmers "if they express their issues with the laws point-wise". The remarks were made ahead of the planned protests by farmers in Delhi against the three contentious legislature that were enacted by the Centre in 2020.Click here to follow live updates on farmers' protest"Country has witnessed that these farm laws are beneficial and are in favour of farmers. We have had discussions about these laws. If they express their issues with the laws point-wise, we can discuss it," ANI quoted the agriculture minister as saying.Buses carrying protesting farmers from Tikri and Sindhu borders arrived at Jantar Mantar in the national capital. They are protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.The agitating farmers are appealing to the Centre to repeal the laws, alleging that these legislatures would leave them at the mercy of big corporates.The farmers will hold a 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar. They will also march towards Parliament during the demonstration.Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi staged a protest in Parliament demanding the Centre to pay heed to farmers' demands who are sitting at various Delhi borders since November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-talk-to-farmers-agriculture-minister-ahead-of-jantar-mantar-protests-101626938151793.html
22-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: BS Yediyurappa sends a message after cryptic tweets and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'After the event on 26th': After Yediyurappa's cryptic tweet, comes this messageStarting from cryptic tweets that he posted at around 8.40pm on Wednesday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has dropped enough hints that the central leadership might have an alternative plan for him. Read more.‘India has robust system’: Govt refutes claims of undercounting Covid-19 deathsAmid the rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) death toll in India, the central government on Thursday questioned reports which claim that the number of fatalities from the virus in the country has been 'vastly undercounted'. Read more.Manipur Police orders monitoring of social media postsThe Manipur Police have directed immediate setting up of cells at the district level to “check unlawful contents and communal posts” on social media. Additional director general of police (intelligence) Ashutosh Kumar Sinha issued an order in this regard on July 15. Read more.Area of proposed elephant reserve will not be reduced: Chhattisgarh CM BaghelChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has said the area of the Lemru Elephant Reserve will not be reduced and will be spread over 1,995 square kilometres. Read more.Tokyo 2020: Anurag Thakur launches ‘Humara Victory Punch’ to cheer IndiaUnion minister Anurag Thakur cheered Indian athletes ahead of Tokyo Olympic games 2020. Thakur started a new initiative #humaravictorypunch to boost spirits of athletes. Watch here.Audi e-tron, e-tron Sportback launched; prices start at ₹99.99 lakhAudi e-tron and Audi e-tron Sportback have officially been launched in the Indian car market at a starting price of ₹99.99 lakh (ex showroom). Read more.Manish Raisinghan's wife reacts to secret baby rumours with Avika Gor: 'Bechara kahan bhatak raha hoga'Actor Manish Raisinghan and his wife Sangieta Chauhaan have reacted to the rumours of his secret baby with former co-star Avika Gor. In a joint interview, the couple laughed away the speculation. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bs-yediyurappa-sends-a-message-after-cryptic-tweets-101626937131424.html
22-07-2021||India||Heavy rains cause floods in parts of Maharashtra||Coastal Konkan, parts of Mumbai metropolitan region and several districts in western Maharashtra and Vidarbha witnessed floods on Thursday following heavy rains since Wednesday.Chiplun town in Ratnagiri district of Konkan is badly hit as floodwater from nearby Vasisthi river submerged several areas. The state administration is planning to evacuate hundreds of residents who have been stranded at home in submerged areas.State authorities have deployed two teams of National Disaster Relief Force in Kolhapur as the Panchganga river has started swelling.Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Raigad, Ratnagiri, Pune, Satara and Kolhapur for Thursday while nine other distircts, including Mumbai, Palghar, and Thane, are under orange alert.Water level of Panchganga river in Kolhapur, and Krishna in Sangli has been on the rise nearing the danger level. The district administration has started discharge from the Koyana dam in Satara after it reported a rise in the water level. Many rivers in Ratnagiri district in coastal parts of the state have crossed their danger level.Also Read | Ajit Pawar says fully vaccinated people should be allowed to go outIn Mumbai Metropolitan Region, governed by nine municipal corporations, including Mumbai and Thane, the incessant rainfall over the past couple of days has resulted in waterlogging and disruption in the local train operations. Of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to Mumbai, Modak Sagar started overflowing early Thursday morning and Tansa is almost full. Two other lakes, Tulsi and Vehar, began overflowing last week. The rainfall in the catchment areas of the lakes has resulted in the rise in the water stock that will last for 64 days.Local train operations are also disrupted on Central and Harbour line. Train services on the Konkan railway too have witnessed disruption owing to the waterlogging on the tracks in Ratnagiri. “Eight trains have been regulated due to a disruption on the route,” Konkan Railway said. Water level of the Vashishti river between Chiplun and Kamathe stations in Ratnagiri rose above the danger level early Thursday morning.After the water level in Panchganga river started rising rapidly, state authorities deployed two teams of NDRF in Kolhapur. “Each team has 25 personnel. More teams have been kept on standby for other parts of the state,” said an official from the disaster management unit of the state government.With moderate to heavy rainfall across the state over the past few days, the water level in reservoirs has increased to 34.28%. The state has received 57.3% of the season’s -- June to September -- rainfall with 575.1mm rainfall till date against season’s average rainfall of 1004.2 mm. The state has received more than 88mm rainfall in the last 60 hours, according to the state government website.Two NDRF teams have been deployed for Khed and Chiplun, Ratnagiri tehsils that have been badly hit. The local administration has started rescue operations with the help of three boats of Indian Coast Guard and police department. The district administration has also demanded a Coast Guard helicopter for the rescue operation in these tehsils, a statement by district collector read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-cause-floods-in-parts-of-maharashtra-101626938384302.html
22-07-2021||India||Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh, 7 others booked for extortion||The Mumbai Police on Thursday booked the city's former top cop Param Bir Singh for extortion, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy after a complaint from a builder. The complainant has claimed that Singh demanded ₹15 crore from him through a DCP-rank police officer and four other cops.The case has been registered by the Marine Drive police. The FIR has names of eight people, including six policemen, according to Mumbai Police as reported by news agency ANI. Two civilians have been arrested in connection with the case, ANI quoted the police as saying.Param Bir Singh, the former Mumbai Police commissioner was booked under the Atrocities Act case in April this year on the complaint of a serving police inspector from Akola.This could be another setback for Singh who has accused former Maharashtra home minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh of directing former cop Sachin Waze to extort ₹100 crore every month from hotels, bars and other establishments in Mumbai.Deshmukh denied any wrongdoing but resigned from his post in April after the Bombay high court asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to carry out a preliminary enquiry. The agency later filed a case it the matter.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is conducting a probe into the money laundering case related to the alleged multi-crore bribery-cum-extortion racket. The central agency recently arrested Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde after it carried out raids against them and the NCP leader in Mumbai and Nagpur.Deshmukh had earlier skipped ED's summons for questioning in the case. He recently moved the Supreme Court seeking protection from any coercive action in the money laundering case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exmumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-7-others-booked-for-extortion-101626937234628.html
22-07-2021||India||Manipur Police orders monitoring of social media posts||The Manipur Police have directed immediate setting up of cells at the district level to “check unlawful contents and communal posts” on social media. Additional director general of police (intelligence) Ashutosh Kumar Sinha issued an order in this regard on July 15. He cited an earlier order issued in September last year and said police superintendents will also be members of a central social media monitoring cell.Sinha asked the members of the cells to “continuously monitor all posts/uploads/comments posted in all dialects of Manipur” on social media platforms. He said the members should bring to the notice of senior officials “unlawful contents” and “communal posts”, which “could have detrimental effects on law and order”.Sinha urged the concerned officers to take prompt legal action whenever required. HT has seen a copy of his order.The social media monitoring cells have been asked to check the national cybercrime reporting portal for posts related to their districts and also submit a report every fortnight on the status of monitoring and actions taken.The order was issued four days before the Supreme Court directed the Manipur Police to immediately release political activist Erendro Leichombam, who was imprisoned since May under the stringent National Security Act (NSA) for a Facebook post. NSA provides for imprisonment without trial for up to two years.Leichombam has since been released but his friend and journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem, who was also arrested In May for a Facebook post, remains imprisoned.Wangkhem and Leichombam were arrested over their Facebook posts on how consumption of cow urine and dung cannot cure Covid-19. Their comments were made with reference to the death of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s Manipur chief S Tikendra Singh of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-police-orders-monitoring-of-social-media-posts-101626937184514.html
22-07-2021||India||Covid-19 fear: Family in Andhra Pradesh locks itself for 15 months||AndAs the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic struck the world last year, the most crucial factor which governments and health authorities spoke about was to stay home and not venture outdoors without any reason.A family in Andhra Pradesh took the advise very seriously. The police on Wednesday rescued the members of the family, which confined itself to a tent house for nearly 15 months in the state’s Kadali village due to fears of getting infected by Covid-19, news agency ANI reported on Thursday.“The family of Chuttugalla Benny, his wife, and two children, have been residing here. They were afraid of Corona and locked themselves in the house for almost the past 15 months. They confined themselves to the house and locked it from inside,” Kadali village’s sarpanch Choppala Gurunath told ANI.The issue came into light when a village volunteer visited the tent house to get the thumb impression of the family members for allowing a housing plot for them under a government scheme. Upon refusal of the family members to come out, the volunteer apprised village sarpanch and others about the situation.“Their matter came to light when our village volunteer went to their house to get their thumb impression as they were allotted a housing site. When he called them, they refused to come out by saying that they would die if they came out. The volunteer had informed us of the matter, and we rushed to this place,” village sarpanch Gurunath said, adding the family was immediately rushed to a government hospital with the help of police and villagers and is currently under treatment.Gurunath pointed out the family members even attended the nature calls (feeling the need to urinate or defecate) inside their tent house. They (family) would have died if they continued to stay inside for two or three more days.Andhra Pradesh has so far logged 1,946,749 cases and 13,197 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Wednesday, the state reported 2,527 new cases, 2,412 recoveries and 19 deaths. The active cases have marginally increased to 23,939 while the Covid-19 positivity rate is at 8.2 per cent.The state government on Wednesday extended the ongoing Covid-19 curfew till July 30 from 10 pm to 6 am daily. The decision to extend the curfew was taken “after a thorough review of the Covid-19 situation and keeping in view the decline in the number of positive cases,” principal secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal said in an order on Wednesday.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-fear-family-in-andhra-pradesh-locks-itself-for-15-months-101626936428023.html
22-07-2021||India||Area of proposed elephant reserve will not be reduced: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has said the area of the Lemru Elephant Reserve will not be reduced and will be spread over 1,995 square kilometres. He said the project was discussed on Tuesday at the state Cabinet meeting. “...everyone agreed that 1,995 square kilometre area is to be dedicated for elephants under this project,” Baghel said on Wednesday.On July 3, a letter by the state forest department said ruling Congress lawmakers including minister TS Singh Deo want the area of the reserve to be reduced by one fourth. Deo said his name was wrongly included in the letter and added he never proposed to reduce the size.Chhattisgarh has been considering the extension of the reserve. Activists want the entire catchment area of the Hasdeo River to be included in the reserve. The previous Bharatiya Janata Party government proposed the reserve in 2005 spread over 450 square kilometres. The proposal was approved in 2007 but the project never took off.Baghel revived the plan and in 2020 sought to expand the proposed reserve to 1,995 square kilometres.Sudeip Shrivastava, an environmental lawyer, said the 1995 square kilometre area has been proposed to keep most of the Hasdeo Arand coal blocks out of its boundary. “Obviously, the coal blocks like Parsa, Kete Extension, Gidhmuri and Paturia Dand are out of the reserve. The main catchment of Hasdeo Bango Dam is at a huge risk and mining interest has prevailed over that of farmers and tribals,” said Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/area-of-proposed-elephant-reserve-will-not-be-reduced-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-101626935864128.html
22-07-2021||India||'After the event on 26th': Yediyurappa's message following cryptic tweet||Starting from cryptic tweets that he posted at around 8.40pm on Wednesday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has dropped enough hints that the central leadership might have an alternative plan for him. On Thursday, the 78-year-old leader said on July 26, the BJP government will complete two years in Karnataka. "After this, I will follow whatever JP Nadda will decide. It is my duty to bring back BJP to power. I urge party workers and seers to cooperate," Yediyurappa said. Based on the instructions that the central leaders will give him on July 25, the chief minister said he will begin his work from July 26 after the two-year anniversary event."Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amit Shah (Home Minister) and our national President J P Nadda have a special love and faith towards me. You are aware that no position has been given to those who have crossed 75 years of age, but appreciating my work they have given me an opportunity despite me crossing 78 years," Yediyurappa said, as reported by news agency PTI.On Wednesday evening, Yediyurappa urged everyone to act "in accordance with party ethics and not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful and embarrassing for the party".I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics & behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics & not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful & embarrassing for the party."I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics & behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics & not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful & embarrassing for the party," he wrote after seers for the Lingayat community urged him to continue as the chief minister. They have also warned of "bad consequences" for the BJP if Yediyurappa is replaced.Last week, Yediyurappa visited Delhi and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president JP Nadda. On return from the trip, he dismissed the speculations of his stepping down.Why Yediyurappa urged his supporters to exercise restraintMutts, pontiffs have extended support to Lingayat strongman Yediyurappa and have warned that if he is replaced, it will not be good for the BJP in the state. Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha have urged him to continue as the CM.Who will be Yediyurappa's probable successor?Union minister Pralhad Joshi, BJP national general secretary CT Ravi, BJP national organising secretary BL Santosh are the probable names doing rounds as Yediyurappa's successor. While Joshi and Santosh are Brahmins; Ravi, who is MLA from Chikkamagaluru, is a Vokkaliga, another dominant community in the state, mostly concentrated in Southern Karnataka, where the party is trying to make inroads, a PTI report said, adding that the state did not get a Brahmin CM after Ramakrishna Hegde since 1988. Murugesh Nirani, Arvind Bellad and several other names, who are ministers in the state cabinet, are doing rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-the-event-on-26th-after-yediyurappa-s-cryptic-tweet-comes-this-message-101626935497549.html
22-07-2021||India||‘India has robust system’: Govt refutes claims of undercounting Covid-19 deaths||Amid the rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) death toll in India, the central government on Thursday questioned reports which claim that the number of fatalities from the virus in the country has been 'vastly undercounted'. Refuting such allegations, the government said that the guidelines laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in this regard are being followed and that the Union health ministry has always advised states to conduct death audits in their hospitals to report any cases of death that may have been missed."Given the robust and statute-based death registration system in India, while some cases could go undetected as per the principles of infectious disease and its management, missing out on the deaths is unlikely," the government said in an official press release. "This could also be seen in the case fatality rate, which, as of 31st December 2020, stood at 1.45% and even after an unexpected surge observed in the second wave in April-May 2021, the case fatality rate today stands at 1.34%."Highlighting the recent media reports alleging that India’s toll of excess deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic could be in millions, the government said that US and European countries’ age-specific infection fatality rates have been used to calculate excess deaths in India based on the seropositivity."The extrapolation of deaths has been done on an audacious assumption that the likelihood of any given infected person dying is the same across countries, dismissing the interplay between various direct and indirect factors such as race, ethnicity, the genomic constitution of a population, previous exposure levels to other diseases and the associated immunity developed in that population," the press release detailed, elaborating on the issues with these reports which quoted findings from recent studies.The seroprevalence studies, the government explained, also have another potential concern that the antibody titers may diminish over time, leading to underestimation of true prevalence and the corresponding overestimation of infection fatality rate.Moreover, these reports assume that all the excess mortality figures are Covid-19 deaths, which is incorrect. "Excess mortality is a term used to describe an all-cause mortality figure and attributing these deaths to Covid-19 is completely misleading," the release stated.Further explaining the method of reporting Covid-19 deaths in India, the central government said that the process follows a "bottom-up" approach, as opposed to a top-down system. Districts report the number of cases and deaths to the state governments and to the Union ministry on a continuous basis, the press release detailed, adding that the entire system is run according to guidelines laid down by the ICMR since as early as May last year.These ICMR guidelines are, in turn, issued as per ICD-10 codes recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for monitoring.Notably, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya refuted allegations of the ministry hiding Covid-19 deaths, in his statement at the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The central government only compiles and publishes data sent by the state governments, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-robust-system-govt-refutes-claims-of-undercounting-covid-19-deaths-101626933017457.html
22-07-2021||India||Flag Adoption Day: All you need to know about the Indian Tricolour||Former Union minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday wished the country on Flag Adoption Day. The day is celebrated because the Tricolour was adopted in its present form during the meeting of Constituent Assembly on July 22, 1947."Best wishes to countrymen on #FlagAdoptionDay. On this day in 1947, the Indian Tricolour was adopted as #nationalflag. Our national flag is a symbol of peace, and exhorts us to move forward on the path of sacrifice, prosperity and development," Vardhan said in his tweet posted in Hindi.समस्त देशवासियों को #FlagAdoptionDay की हार्दिक बधाई व शुभकामनाएं!1947 में आज ही के दिन भारतीय तिरंगे को #nationalflag के रूप में अंगीकार किया गया था।शांति का प्रतीक हमारा राष्ट्रीय ध्वज त्याग, बलिदान और समृद्धि व विकास के पथ पर सदैव अग्रसर रहने की प्रेरणा देता है।@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/XFJBCo6gPrThe Tricolour adopted on July 22, 1947, served as the national flag of the Dominion of India between 15 August 1947 and 26 January 1950 and that of the Republic of India thereafter, according to goverment website.The national flag, which is hoisted on Republic Day and other important events, is a horizontal Tricolor of deep saffron at the top, white in the middle and dark green at the bottom in equal proportion. The government-prescribed ratio of width of the flag to its length is two to three.In the centre of the white band is a navy blue wheel which represents the chakra. Its design is that of the wheel which appears on the abacus of the Sarnath Lion Capital of Ashoka (called the Dharma Chakra). Its diameter approximates to the width of the white band and it has 24 spokes.Each colour of the flag has a meaning. The saffron represents strength and courage, the white indicates peace and truth with the Dharma Chakra, and green shows fertility, growth and auspiciousness.According to government website, the first national flag is said to have been hoisted on August 7, 1906, in the Parsee Bagan Square (Green Park) in Kolkata. The flag was composed of three horizontal strips of red, yellow and green.On January 26, 2002, the Indian flag code was modified and after several years of Independence, the citizens of India were finally allowed to hoist the Indian flag over their homes, offices and factories on any day, and not just national days, as was the case earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flag-adoption-day-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-indian-tricolour-101626933405568.html
22-07-2021||India||Income tax dept raids offices of Dainik Bhaskar Group||The income tax department on Thursday morning began searches at premises of the Dainik Bhaskar Group across the country in a suspected tax evasion case, people familiar with the matter said.It did not immediately share details of the case or individuals whose premises or offices were being searched at the time of filing this report. The searches were carried out in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan as well as Delhi.Congress leader Jairam Ramesh quote tweeted a report on the raids and said: “Through its reporting Dainik Bhaskar has exposed the Modi regime’s monumental mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is now paying the price. An Undeclared Emergency as (former Union minister) Arun Shourie has said — this is a Modified Emergency.”Through its reporting Dainik Bhaskar has exposed the Modi regime’s monumental mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is now paying the price. An Undeclared Emergency as Arun Shourie has said — this is a Modified Emergency. https://t.co/EVLHGisGTqAlso Read | Editors Guild of India condemns alleged snooping, seeks SC-monitored probeThe Dainik Bhaskar Group publishes five newspapers with 65 editions in three languages -- Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati.The story will be updated with tax department statement as and when we get it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-dept-raids-offices-of-dainik-bhaskar-group-101626933057258.html
22-07-2021||India||Gurugram executive holidaying in Nainital killed as boulder smashes his car||HALDWANI: A senior executive from Gurugram, Hanumant Talwar, 56, died on Tuesday evening in Nainital when a boulder rolled down the mountain slope and smashed his car. His wife, Meenu, is injured.Police said the accident took place in Bajoon area of Nainital district.Inspector Ashok Kumar, in-charge of Mallital police station, said the couple was headed to the hotel when the accident took place. The boulder crushed the driver’s side of the car.“Hanumant Talwar died on the spot. His wife, who was with him in the car, survived but sustained serious injuries….She was rushed to a nearby hospital where she is undergoing treatment,” said Kumar. Talwar has been consulting on change management for the last few years. Previously, he was managing director and country manager for Convergys – India, UK & China.A person close to the Talwar family in Gurgaon said his wife sustained injuries to her spine. Their friends and relatives are on their way to Nainital to work out the logistics of moving her to Gurugram hospital and bringing him back home, the person said.This is heartbreaking,” the person said, pointing they left the city early on Tuesday on their holiday. They were on their way to Mukteshwar, about 50km from Nainital where they had decided to halt for the night.Kumar said the impact was so severe that they had to summon rescue workers equipped with a metal cutter to pull him out of the car.The police officer said Tuesday’s tragic accident took place at a spot where a boulder had fallen on a vehicle 15 years ago, killing four people.Due to heavy rains, at least 250 roads are blocked in the state due to landslides caused by heavy rains over the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugram-executive-holidaying-in-nainital-killed-as-boulder-smashes-his-car-101626932805242.html
22-07-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 vaccine coverage at 417 million doses so far||India had administered at least 417 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, July 21. Political parties were locked in a war of words over how many people died due to shortage of oxygen supplies while battling Covid during the second wave.The BJP pointed out that the submissions by some of the states showed no deaths occurring due to shortage of oxygen. Maharashtra and Delhi were among the states that countered the claim, While AAP, that heads the government in Delhi, claimed that the Centre lied in Parliament, Shiv Sena, which is a part of MVA government in Maharashtra, said those who lost their loves ones to oxygen shortage should take the Union government to court.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 417,656,752 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 2,083,892 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,004,581 were given the first dose while 95,964 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 130,446,413 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 5,317,567 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-at-417-million-doses-so-far-101626929924042.html
22-07-2021||India||Wife of critical Covid patient wants to bear child, court okays sperm collection||The Gujarat high court on Tuesday allowed a Vadodara hospital to collect the sperms of a Covid-19 patient, who is on life support, as his wife filed a petition in the court saying that she wanted to have his child through in vitro fertilisation method, but he was not in a situation to give consent. After the court allowed the hospital to go ahead with the process, in what has been seen as a significant decision, the hospital on Wednesday said it has successfully collected the sperm from the patient. The court asked the hospital to conduct the process as soon as possible and so within hours of receiving the order on Tuesday, the hospital authorities collected the patient's sperm."The patient's family decided to carry out the procedure. But we needed the consent of the individual on whom the process is to be carried out. Since he is critical and cannot give his consent, we could do so only if the court allowed," Anil Nambiar, zonal director of the hospital said.The man, as submitted by his wife in teh court, was admitted to the critical care unit in the hospital since May 10 and his condition has been worsening by every day. With acute Covid-19 symptoms, his lungs have stopped functioning properly and the man is on the verge of dying. He is also suffering from multi-organ failure. As the family approached the hospital for sperm collection, the hospital authorities said it needed a court order in absence of a written consent letter from the patient.The court heard the case and noted in the order that "interim relief is granted in an extraordinary urgent situation" and it "shall be subject to the outcome of the petition".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-of-critical-covid-patient-wants-to-bear-child-court-okays-sperm-collection-101626929033635.html
22-07-2021||India||Pegasus row: IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to speak in Parliament today||Electronics and information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw will speak in Rajya Sabha on Thursday regarding the alleged compromise of phone data of journalists and politicians.Vaishnaw and another Union minister were among prominent people potentially targeted by Israeli phone hacking software, Pegasus, as per the report of an international investigative consortium. The report sparked a political storm on the first day of the monsoon session which saw the IT minister defend the government.Rejected the reports that suggested India used Pegasus to hack phones of journalists, activists, Opposition leaders, and ministers, Vaishnaw called them nothing but an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”.Also Read | Protesting farmers to launch agitation at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar from todayHe also said it is not a coincidence that the Pegasus report appeared a day before the commencement of the Parliament session. “A highly sensational story was published by a web portal last night. Many over-the-top allegations were made around this story. The press reports appeared a day before the monsoon session of Parliament. This can’t be a coincidence,” Vaishnaw said.He said even the publisher of the report has stated that they cannot say if the numbers in the published list were under surveillance. “Without subjecting a phone to this technical analysis, it is not possible to conclusively state whether it witnessed an attack attempt or was successfully compromised,” he quoted the report to say.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government has denied any involvement.The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, which is headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, will hold a meeting on July 28 to discuss the revelations made by the Pegasus Project, according to a notice uploaded on the Lok Sabha website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-it-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-to-speak-in-parliament-today-101626928963896.html
22-07-2021||NA||Farmers' protest LIVE updates: Agitation begins at Delhi's Jantar Mantar amid heavy security||Farmers protesting against the three contentious agri laws passed by the central government launched an agitation on Thursday at the Jantar Mantar near Parliament in New Delhi. A series of demonstrations against the farm laws are being held by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting farm unions.The farmers' movement was granted permission for the Jantar Mantar demonstration by Delhi lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on the condition that only a maximum of 200 protestors will be allowed till August 9.Protesting farmers have also been asked to provide an affidavit declaring that all Covid-19 norms will be followed and that the movement will be peaceful. The demonstrators were met with heavy security deployment in the area amid the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament.Follow all the updates here:'Only hooligans, not farmers, can indulge in such activities': Union minister Meenakshi LekhiDuring a press conference today, my comment was sought on the Red Fort violence on January 26 and the attack on a media person (at Farmers' Parliament today). In response, I said only hooligans, not farmers can indulge in such activities: Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi pic.twitter.com/MqyI4v8j3XUnion minister Meenashi Lekhi said "only hooligans, not farmers, can indulge in such activities," when asked about her comments earlier, reports ANI.Farmers leaders react to Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi's 'hooligans' remarksSuch a remark is an insult to 80 crore farmers of India. If we're hooligans, Meenakshi Lekhi ji should stop eating foodgrain grown by us. She should be ashamed of herself. We've passed a resolution in 'Farmers' Parliament condemning her statement: Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka pic.twitter.com/LZQiWpOhEXAfter Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi's comments, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said that it was wrong to make such statements and another farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said that the remark was insulting, reports ANI.'They are not farmers, they are hooligans': Meenakshi LekhiThey are not farmers, they are hooligans... These are criminal acts. What happened on January 26 was also shameful criminals activities. Opposition promoted such activities: Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi on alleged attack on a media person at 'Farmers' Parliament' today pic.twitter.com/72OARBh1n0"They are not farmers, they are hooligans... These are criminal acts. What happened on January 26 was also shameful criminals activities. Opposition promoted such activities," Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi said, reports ANI.'Govt made all efforts to stop farmers from protesting': Congress MP Adhir ChowdhuryCongress MP Adhira Ranjan Chowdhury demanded the repeal of the farm laws and said that his party would continue the protests against the farm laws and in support of the farmers. "This government has made all efforts to stop farmers from protesting against farm laws," he said, reports ANI.Watch | 200 farmers reach Jantar Mantar amid heavy security; UP next stop, say leaders'UK parliament debating farmers' issue but not our govt': Yogendra YadavFarmers have come to Jantar Mantar to prove to govt they aren't fools; UK parliament debating our issues, but not our govt: Yogendra YadavYogendra Yadav said that the UK parliament is debating the farmers' issues but the Indian government is not, reports PTI.Delhi police, paramilitary on alert at Jantar Mantar'Farmers to run their own Parliament': Rakesh Tikait"Farmers will run their own Parliament," says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, adding, "Members of Parliament (MPs), irrespective of their parties, will be criticised in their constituencies if they don't raise voice for farmers in the House."Agitation against farm laws begins at Jantar MantarGroup of farmers also reach Jantar MantarA group of 200 farmers also reach Jantar Mantar to protest against farm laws amid heavy police presence.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait arrives at Jantar Mantar in Delhi to join protesting farmersBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait reaches Jantar Mantar as farmers begin their protest against central government's three farm laws.Buses carrying protesting farmers arrive at Jantar Mantar in DelhiBuses, carrying farmers, arrive at Jantar Mantar in Delhi. The protesting farmers will agitate against Central Government's three farm laws here. pic.twitter.com/ru3WfYa63pIf farmers express issues with these laws point-wise, we can discuss it: Agriculture minister"India has witnessed that these farm laws are beneficial and are in the favour of farmers. We have had discussions about these laws. If they express their issues with the laws point-wise, we can discuss it," said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh TomarCongress MPs, including Rahul Gandhi, protest farm laws in Parliament premisesDelhi: Punjab Congress MPs staged a protest in front of Gandhi Statue in the premises of Parliament, over three farm laws pic.twitter.com/nMgRPNjIjpRakesh Tikait on arrangements to tackle Jan 26 Red Fort-like situation"Parliament is just 150 meters away from Jantar Mantar and we will hold our own Parliament sessions there," said BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on being asked about arrangements to tackle situations like the January 26 Red Fort violence. "What do we have to do with hooliganism? Are we miscreants?"Farmers board buses at Singhu border ahead of Jantar Mantar protestsFarmers gather to board the buses at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border, ahead of protest against three farm laws at Jantar Mantar in Delhi pic.twitter.com/S4JFHt6lv4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-july-22-2021-farm-laws-jantar-mantar-delhi-demonstrations-101626927798816.html
22-07-2021||India||Earthquake tremors shake Rajasthan's Bikaner for second day in a row||Bikaner in Rajasthan was shaken by the tremors of an earthquake on Thursday morning, the National Centre for Seismology said. The magnitude of the earthquake was 4.8, the NCS further said.The quake struck at 7:42am at a depth of 15 kilometres, the NCS said on its Twitter handle. It was 413km West-North-West of Bikaner, the NCS update said.Earthquake of Magnitude:4.8, Occurred on 22-07-2021, 07:42:15 IST, Lat: 29.65 & Long: 69.50, Depth: 15 Km ,Location: 413km WNW of Bikaner, Rajasthan, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/EivLs0wMtU pic.twitter.com/EmO5rWJjnnThe epicentre of Thursday's earthquake was in Pakistan, the NCS update said.This comes a day after Bikaner was hit by an earthquake of magnitude 5.3. According to the National Centre for Seismology, tremors were felt at 5:24 am about 343 kilometres West North West of Bikaner at a depth of 110 km on Wednesday.Earlier, an earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter scale hit West Garo Hills in Meghalaya in the wee hours of Wednesday."An earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter scale hit West Garo Hills, Meghalaya at 2:10 am today," the NCS said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-tremors-shake-rajasthan-s-bikaner-for-second-day-in-a-row-101626926479706.html
22-07-2021||India||Editors Guild of India condemns alleged snooping, seeks SC-monitored probe||The Editors Guild of India has condemned the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities and demanded an independent inquiry into it under the Supreme Court’s supervision. It said journalists and civil society members should be a part of the inquiry. The guild said snooping on journalists and civil society activists amounts to “equating journalism and political dissent with terrorism”.It expressed its concerns “over the brazen and unconstitutional act”. Also Read | Pegasus spyware: Khattar questions Amnesty International’s credibility“How can a constitutional democracy survive if governments do not make an effort to protect freedom of speech and allow surveillance with such impunity?” the guild said in a statement on Wednesday. It urged society to self-introspect and question its values. “We may have veered away from the democratic values enshrined in our constitution,” the statement said.The government has maintained that no form of illegal surveillance is possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/editors-guild-of-india-condemns-alleged-snooping-seeks-sc-monitored-probe-101626926563564.html
22-07-2021||India||India reports 41,383 new Covid-19 cases, 507 more deaths||India on Thursday recorded 41,383 new cases and 507 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 31,257,720 and 418,987 respectively, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. As many as 38,652 people recovered in the 24-hour time span, taking the cumulative count of recoveries to 30,429,339, the data showed. The active cases stand at 409,394, an increase from 407,170 cases on Wednesday.Thursday’s case count is 632 less than that of Wednesday’s when 42,015 people were detected Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, the toll on Thursday is 3,491 less than that of Wednesday’s when 3,998 deaths were recorded as Maharashtra reconciled its death count with 3,509 previously unreported fatalities.Also Read| Severity of future Covid-19 waves on kids speculatory, says top paediatricianA total of 450,911,712 samples have been tested for the Covid-19 disease till now, of which 1718,439 were tested in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Thursday.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/jap4HJOWQgMore than 415 million vaccine doses have been administered across the country of which 328,716,212 have received the first dose and the remaining 86,756,243 have received both doses.Also Read| States still say no deaths took place due to oxygen shortageThe Centre and opposition leaders have engaged in a squabble after the former claimed that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were reported by states and Union Territories during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Leaders of opposition parties such as the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) former ally Shiv Sena have strongly criticised the above statement of a Union minister in the Rajya Sabha.However, several states including Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have claimed that no Covid-19 deaths were reported due to the shortage of the life saving gas.Countering the allegations made by opposition parties, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said on Wednesday that health is a state subject, adding no state or UT sent any data regarding deaths specifically due to a shortage of oxygen. “None of them said that a death occurred in their state and Union territory due to shortage of oxygen, there is no data for that. Did the Centre generate this data? No,” Patra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-41-383-new-covid-19-cases-507-more-deaths-101626921608825.html
22-07-2021||India||Supreme Court to deliver judgement on telcos plea on AGR calculation||The Supreme Court will on Thursday pronounce its interim judgement on the petitions of telecom companies like Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea seeking direction for correction of errors in Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) calculation.The court had reserved its order on the issue in July hearing. The judgement will be pronounced by a bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao.The court has already heard submissions of the telecom companies, and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file a detailed response on behalf of Department of Telecom (DoT) on the application filed by Vodafone Idea and Airtel.The court had in September last year granted telecom companies a period of 10 years to clear their pending AGR dues to the central government with 10% payment every year. The deadline given to the company for first installment was March 31, 2021.But the matter came back to the court after the telcos did not submit the amount disputing the calculation done by the DoT and claiming that they have already submitted more than 10% of the amount.Vodafone India's lawyer Mukul Rohatgi said that the company has complied with the undertaking to pay and deposited ₹7,854 crore. The companies together claimed that they have deposited ₹18,400 crore.The companies have also accused the DoT of making arithmetical errors in calculations regarding the AGR dues and want the court to direct the telecom department to consider their submissions.Major telcos, including Vodafone-Idea and Bharti Airtel, owe substantial amounts to the Department of Telecom (DoT).The total liability on Vodafone-Idea is ₹58,254 crore, while Bharti Airtel has to pay ₹43,980 crore.The apex court in its judgment delivered on October 24, 2019, had upheld the interpretation given to the definition of AGR by the DoT and included revenues from various heads for calculation of the dues while imposing a cumulative burden of over 1.69 lakh crore on 16 telcos.The court now has to decide on the amount to be paid by the companies and issues raised by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-deliver-judgement-on-telcos-plea-on-agr-calculation-101626925221987.html
22-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh next stop for farmers' protest, leaders plan to 'isolate' BJP||Farmers protesting against the three contentious agri laws passed by the central government will launch an agitation on Thursday at the Jantar Mantar near Parliament in New Delhi. Ahead of the demonstrations, a farmer leader said that the next stop for the farmers' protest demonstrations will be the state of Uttar Pradesh, where the protestors plan to "isolate" the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and highlight the demand to repeal the farm laws.Also Read | Protesting farmers to launch agitation against agri laws at Delhi's Jantar Mantar from today"Our next stop will be Uttar Pradesh, the heartland of the BJP," said Prem Singh Bhangu, a farmer leader present at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana. "We will totally isolate the BJP".Speaking to news agency ANI, Bhangu said, "We are ready for talks, but there is no alternative other than to repeal the three farm laws."Our next stop will be Uttar Pradesh, BJP's heartland. Our UP mission will begin on Sept 5. We'll totally isolate BJP. There is no alternative other than to repeal three farm laws. We are ready for talks: Prem Singh Bhangu (in Pic 1), Farmer leader at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border pic.twitter.com/K5cbEwFLGyNotably, the protesting farmers have already held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the central government over the contentious agri laws, but the crisis has not yet achieved any resolution. While the government maintains that the laws are pro-farmer, the protestors insist that the laws are repealed and a new law be made to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) for crops.Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur borders since November 2020 with this single demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back.The agitation planned by the protesting farmers at Delhi's Jantar Mantar today is part of the strategy to monitor Parliament proceedings amid its ongoing monsoon session.The government has, however, asked the protesting farmers to provide an affidavit declaring that all Covid-19 norms will be followed and that the movement will be peaceful. The demonstrators will also be met with heavy security deployment in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-next-stop-for-farmers-protest-leaders-plan-to-isolate-bjp-101626923832222.html
22-07-2021||India||Monsoon session: Key bills to be taken up in Parliament today||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will table the Essential Defence Services Bill in Parliament’s lower House on Thursday. The bill seeks to provide for the maintenance of essential defence services for the country’s security. It is being introduced to replace the Essential Defence Services Ordinance that empowers the government to prohibit strikes, lockouts, and layoffs in units involved in providing essential defence services.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill for consideration and passage. The Bill was introduced in Lok Sabha on September 24 last year and seeks to liberalise the Factory Regulation Act of 2011 by widening the scope of entities involved in the factoring business. The key changes include modification in the definitions of receivables, assignment, and factoring business.Ports, shipping and waterways minister Sarbananda Sonowal will introduce the Inland Vessel Bill in Lok Sabha on the third day of Parliament’s ongoing Monsoon. Session. The proposed legislation seeks to replace the Inland Vessels Act, 1917, for the regulation of the safety, security and registration of inland vessels. The Union Cabinet approved the Bill on June 16.Union food processing industries Pashupati Kumar Paras will move the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill for consideration and passage. The Bill seeks to declare the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (Kundli), and the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (Thanjavur) as institutions of national importance.The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill were due to be taken up on the first day of the Monsoon Session on Monday. But the House was adjourned because of protests over the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities.In Rajya Sabha, Union electronics and information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw is expected to make a statement on the Pegasus controversy. Sonowal will move the Marine Aids to Navigation Bill for consideration and passage in the upper House. He introduced the Bill amid commotion in Rajya Sabha over the alleged snooping on Tuesday. The Bill seeks to repeal the Lighthouse Act, 1927, for the development, maintenance and management of marine aids for navigation across the country. It was introduced in the Lok Sabha in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-key-bills-to-be-taken-up-in-parliament-today-101626924883834.html
22-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha panels report best inter-session performance||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu this week informed the House that the Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committees under the Upper House have reported the best performance so far during the inter-session period. He said that seven committees of Rajya Sabha have held 20 meetings during this period over a total duration of 50 hours 38 minutes. The average meeting duration of 2 hours 32 minutes has been the best so far, he said.The Committee on Commerce held the most meetings, six, for 15 hours 51 minutes. The Committee on Education, Women, Child, Youth and Sports held three meetings over 11 hours 16 minutes.Also Read | Centre, states row over O2 deaths in 2nd waveIn terms of average duration of meetings, the Committee on Education topped the hours, clocking 3 hours 45 minutes per meeting followed by the Committee on Home Affairs (2 hours 48 meetings), Committee on Commerce (2 hours 38 minutes) and the Committee on Science and Technology (2 hours 30 minutes).The Committee on Education had the highest attendance (60.21%) followed by the Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture with 54.83%, Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice with 51.78%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-panels-report-best-inter-session-performance-101626924823505.html
22-07-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Doctors leave cloth in woman's stomach during operation||Doctors at Government Medical College here have been accused of leaving a cloth in the stomach of a pregnant woman during a cesarean operation in January this year.The woman, who was admitted to the trauma centre of King George's Medical College in a serious condition, is said to be on a ventilator.Taking note of the matter, the principal of the medical college has formed a three-member inquiry team, which has been asked to give its report at the earliest.According to a complaint by Manoj, a resident of Ramapur North under the Tilhar police station, his wife Neelam (in her 30s) had given birth to a baby girl on January 6 during which a cloth was left in her stomach, said college Principal Rajesh Kumar on Wednesday.He said as soon as he received the complaint, he formed an inquiry committee, comprising Dr Archana, Dr Vibhor Kumar and Nursing Superintendent Sandesh Kumar.He said legal action will be taken against the culprits on the basis of the report.Meanwhile, the woman's husband told reporters that after the birth of their daughter, his wife used to complain of stomach pain.With no relief from treatment by private doctors, he said he got her admitted to a private medical college in Shahjahanpur where a CT scan revealed that a cloth had been left behind in her stomach and it was removed through an operation.She was later admitted to the Lucknow trauma centre after her condition did not improve, he said.The woman's father, Radheshyam, over the phone said her condition is critical.She has been kept on a ventilator, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-doctors-leave-cloth-in-woman-s-stomach-during-operation-101626924183442.html
22-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farmers to hold protests at Jantar Mantar from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Protesting farmers to launch agitation against agri laws at Delhi's Jantar Mantar from todayThe farmers' protests, which have been ongoing at the borders of the national capital for months now, against the three agri laws passed by the central government is set to receive a boost on Thursday. Read moreWidespread and heavy rain to impact west coast and central IndiaThe wet spell over northwest India is likely to reduce from Thursday while heavy rainfall will continue to impact the west coast and parts of central India according to India Meteorological Department. Read moreK'taka CM Yediyurappa calls off July 26 legislative party meetAmid speculations of a leadership change in Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa is learnt to have cancelled the legislative party meeting scheduled on July 26, on the second year of the anniversary of his government. Read moreUS deputy secretary of state to visit China this Sunday, discuss bilateral tiesUS deputy secretary of state Wendy R Sherman will travel to China next week, an official said, as part of the country's ongoing effort to hold candid exchanges with Chinese officials to responsibly manage the "incredibly consequential bilateral relationship". Read more‘He showed maturity of player with experience of 70-80 ODIs’: Akmal calls Indian batsman’s innings ‘unbelievable'Former Pakistan wicketkeeper-batter Kamran Akmal heaped praises on India after they came back to snatch victory in the second ODI against Sri Lanka on Tuesday. Read morePrince George's eighth birthday pic by Kate Middleton pays sweet tribute to Prince PhilipKate Middleton and Prince William's eldest son Prince George is celebrating his eighth birthday today (July 22). A few hours before the special day, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's official social media account shared a never-before-seen picture of the little Prince. Read moreAnurag Kashyap's daughter Aaliyah opens up about MeToo allegations against him: 'It bothered me a lot'Anurag Kashyap's daughter, Aaliyah Kashyap, has said that she was bothered by him being misrepresented after #MeToo allegations were made against him last year. Read moreNational Mango Day: Stories related to the fruit that went viralIt's summer and do you know what that means? It means it is that time of the year when most people become mango people. There is hardly any person who doesn’t love the delicious and juicy fruit mango. And, as an extremely popular fruit, it is fitting that there is a special day dedicated to it. Read moreWatch| ‘200 farmers will hold Kisan Panchayat during Parliament session': Rakesh Tikait﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farmers-to-hold-protests-at-jantar-mantar-from-today-101626922834333.html
22-07-2021||India||Maharashtra: Ajit Pawar says fully vaccinated people should be allowed to go out||Maharashtra's deputy chief minister has said that people who have received both the doses of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine should be allowed to go out. Pawar also said that he will discuss the matter with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray soon."In my opinion those who have received two shots of Covid-19 vaccines should be allowed to go out, in a phased manner. I will speak with the CM on this subject in the next two days," the Nationalist Congress Partt (NCP) leader said on Wednesday.Pawar also said that people of Maharashtra are coming out to take the vaccine and there is no hesitancy.The state government has already given certain relaxations in the Covid-19 curbs as the spread of the infection has slowed down. However, Pawar did not specify what 'going out' meant.He refused to accept the fact that vaccination pace has slowed down in pockets of Maharashtra. Pawar said it depends on the availability of the vaccines and it is the Union government which supplies them."The CM in every video conference with the prime minister raises the demand for supply of vaccine doses in proportion with the state's population," said Pawar.The Maharashtra deputy chief minister's statement comes at a time when the number of fresh Covid-19 cases remains high in the state. On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded 8,159 Covid-19 new cases and 165 deaths.The total number of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra reached 6,237,755, of which Mumbai’s share is 732,582.The state government reconciled the Covid-19 death toll on Tuesday, which pushed the country's death toll to 3,998 in a single day. Out of this, 3,509 fatalities were from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-ajit-pawar-says-fully-vaccinated-people-should-be-allowed-to-go-out-101626923420207.html
22-07-2021||India||Maharashtra records 8,159 Covid cases; state reports vaccine shortage||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 8,159 Covid-19 new cases and 165 deaths. While the number of fresh Covid-19 cases remains high amid experts insisting on vaccinating maximum people to prevent or delay a third wave, the state continues to face a shortage of vaccine. The vaccination drive at civic centres was suspended on Wednesday and most will remain suspended on Thursday, officials said. Mumbai recorded 430 new cases and 13 deaths, with its toll reaching 15,800.The total number of Covid-19 cases reached 6,237,755, of which Mumbai’s share is 732,582.The total number of active cases in Maharashtra currently stands at 94,745 while the total number of deaths since the Covid-19 outbreak has reached 130,918.The state government reconciled 3,509 deaths on Tuesday. Pune leads with 18,312 deaths, followed by Mumbai reporting 15,800 and Thane 10,937 deaths.There are currently 94,745 active cases across the state, of which Pune tops with 15,566 patients, followed by Thane with 12,087 and Sangli with 10,674.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-8-159-covid-cases-state-reports-vaccine-shortage-101626922423248.html
22-07-2021||India||Gujarat: Tribal couple tied to tree, thrashed with sticks for eloping; 9 held||A young tribal couple from a village in Gujarat's Chhotaudepur district was allegedly abducted, tied to a tree and thrashed with sticks as a punishment for eloping, police said on Wednesday.The police have arrested nine men for the alleged attack that took place in Chiliyavant village under the Rangpur police station in Chhotaudepur district on Tuesday, Deputy Superintendent of Police A V Katkad said.A video of the incident, which surfaced on social media, showed some men taking turns to beat the couple, who were tied to a tree, with sticks in the presence of other villagers, the police said.On learning about the incident through the video, the police rushed to the village on Wednesday and arrested the accused on the charges of rioting, kidnapping and illegal confinement based on a complaint lodged by the victim girl, the official said."The couple had eloped on July 18 with an intention of getting married. However, angry villagers eventually traced them to a neighbouring village and brought them back to Chiliyavant on Tuesday morning. The accused tied the duo to a tree and thrashed them with sticks," the DySP said.The victim in her complaint has claimed that the accused were angry because a local tradition bars marriage of man and woman from the same village, it was stated. A similar incident took place in Dhada village under Rangpur police station a month ago, where a tribal couple was assaulted by five men as a punishment for eloping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-tribal-couple-tied-to-tree-thrashed-with-sticks-for-eloping-9-held-101626922102349.html
22-07-2021||India||Widespread and heavy rain to impact west coast and central India||The wet spell over northwest India is likely to reduce from Thursday while heavy rainfall will continue to impact the west coast and parts of central India according to India Meteorological Department.The western end of monsoon trough is running north of its normal position and is likely to remain there for the next two days and shift southwards subsequently. Its eastern end continues to run along its near normal position dipping into North Bay of Bengal. A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low pressure area is very likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards along the monsoon trough in the subsequent 2-3 days.An offshore trough (area of low pressure) is running from the south Gujarat coast to Karnataka coast. It is likely to persist for the next 2-3 days.Also Read | Heat and humidity return to Delhi, more rain only from July 23, says IMDUnder the influence of these systems, the intensity of rainfall over northwest India is likely to reduce further after 24 hours; widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall very likely over western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) and adjoining northwest India (Punjab and Uttar Pradesh) on July 21, with further reduction thereafter. It is likely to increase over the region again from July 25.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to continue over the west coast and adjoining interior areas and Gujarat region during the next 4-5 days. Extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also very likely over Konkan, Goa and adjoining ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra on July 21 and 22.Widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over east and adjoining central India during July 21 to 24. Extremely heavy rainfall (over 20 cm) is also likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha and east Madhya Pradesh on July 22.Moderate to severe thunderstorm with lightning very likely at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours. Strong surface winds (20-30kmph gusting to 40kmph) are likely over Coastal Andhra Pradesh during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-and-heavy-rain-to-impact-west-coast-and-central-india-101626922183292.html
22-07-2021||India||Retrospective: July 22, Chandrayaan-2 and India's lunar ambitions||India's outer space ambitions owe a significant debt to July 22, an important date for the history of the country's scientific and technological feats. It was on this date back in 2019 that Chandrayaan-2, India's second lunar exploration mission, was launched by the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) from the Satish Dhawan space centre at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh.Chandrayaan-2 was launched with the aim of mapping the variations in lunar surface composition, as well as locating and studying the surface of the Moon for the presence of water. The mission consisted of an orbiter, a lander (Vikram), and a rover (Pragyan). Ahead of its launch, the Chandrayaan-2 mission generated significant public interest and media coverage since it came 11 long years after Chandrayaan-1, India's first ambitious lunar probe under the same programme.Also Read | ISRO successfully tests engine for its manned Gaganyaan missionChandrayaan-2, if it were to be successful in its stated ambitions, would have made India the fourth country after the Soviet Union, the United States, and China to achieve a soft landing on the surface of the Moon and the first country to do so on the lunar dark surface. However, the lander crashed on September 6 when it deviated from its intended trajectory due to a software glitch, according to a failure analysis report submitted by Isro.Nevertheless, the Chandrayaan-2 mission was not a complete failure. Even though the lunar lander did not arrive on the surface of the Moon as intended, the spacecraft's orbiter operations remain functional. In an official statement, Isro had said that the Chandrayaan-2 orbiter, with its eight scientific instruments, will continue its seven-year mission to study the surface of the Moon.Also Read | Chandrayaan instrument gives outstanding science results on solar coronaJuly 22 continues to hold immense significance in the history of India's cosmic feats, as the lessons learned from this operation gave a boost to a new lunar exploration mission being studied for launch this year. Chandrayaan-3, India's new proposal in partnership with Japan, does not include plans for another orbiter but is instead looking to re-attempt the landing and launch a rover on the Moon's surface. The Chandrayaan-3 mission is looking at a tentative launch timeline for the first half of 2022, according to the latest reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retrospective-july-22-chandrayaan-2-and-india-s-lunar-ambitions-101626918696961.html
22-07-2021||India||WhatsApp chats reveal Raj Kundra had plan B, lawyer says content not porn | 10 updates||The investigation into the porn racket allegedly being operated by IPL scam-tainted businessman and actor Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra has revealed that Raj Kundra had hatched a plan B as his Hotshots app was taken down by both Google and Apple store. Kundra has been remanded in police custody till July 23. Kundra's lawyer Abad Ponda has reportedly said that the content of the streaming platform in question is vulgar, like many other streaming platforms, but can't be classified as porn, reports said.Here are the latest updates of the police investigation into the case> The crime branch has frozen several bank accounts having deposits of around ₹7.5 crore in connection with the Raj Kundra porn app case.> Another porn app, Nueflicks, has come on the radar as police have found ₹3 crore in a bank account of Madhya Pradesh's Yash Thakur who runs this app. Yash Thakur is in Singapore as of now.> Police have searched Raj Kundra's office and are now going through agreement papers, subscription details, emails, WhatsApp chats etc.> The WhatsApp chats have revealed that Raj Kundra was planning to start a new porn application caled Bollyfame as the content of Hotshots already received strike and the app was taken down by Apple and Google.> On October 11, members of 'H ACCOUNTS' WhatsApp group discussed live revenue of ₹1.85 lakh and movie sale of ₹4.52 lakh, news agency PTI reported.> A WhatsApp group under the name of Bollyfame was formed where Kundra was aiming to launch this new application by February. "...Plan B started max 2-3 weeks new app will be live iOS and Android it's a blessing," Raj Kundra wrote in the WhatsApp group replying to a member who shared a screenshot of Google Play mail on the status of Hotshots app.> But the launch date was delayed after Umesh Kamat, one of the key managers of the racket, was arrested in February.> Apart from Umesh Kamat and Raj Kundra, the WhatsApp group had Pradeep Bakshi, Kundra's brother-in-law, who was officially the owner of the Hotshots app.> WhatsApp chats accessed by the police have revealed the Kundra, though officially not the owner of Hotshots, wanted to shut down the app and remove obscene content to avoid investigation.> Several reports quoted Kundra's lawyer Abad Ponda as saying that the content of Hotshots can not be classified as porn as the movies on the platform do not show "actual intercourse". Like many other adult content web platforms, Hotshots content was also vulgar, but not porn, Ponda has reportedly said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-chats-reveal-raj-kundra-had-plan-b-lawyer-says-content-not-porn-latest-updates-101626918993307.html
22-07-2021||India||Protesting farmers to launch agitation against agri laws at Delhi's Jantar Mantar from today||The farmers' protests, which have been ongoing at the borders of the national capital for months now, against the three agri laws passed by the central government is set to receive a boost on Thursday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) an umbrella body of protesting farm unions, will be holding a series of demonstrations at the Jantar Mantar near Parliament in New Delhi from this day.The farmers' movement was granted permission to hold a demonstration at the site, on the condition that only a maximum of 200 protestors will be allowed till August 9. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait confirmed that a total of 200 farmers under the SKM will daily go to the Jantar Mantar in a bus as has been allowed by Anil Baijal, the lieutenant-governor of Delhi."I, along with eight others (protesting farmers) will leave for the Singhu border, and then will go to Jantar Mantar," Tikait told news agency ANI on Thursday. "We will hold a 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar and monitor Parliament proceedings."I, along with eight others (protesting farmers) will leave for the Singhu border, and then will go to Jantar Mantar. We will hold 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar. We will monitor Parliament proceedings: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait pic.twitter.com/X1CMVfFMghProtesting farmers have also been asked to provide an affidavit declaring that all Covid-19 norms will be followed and that the movement will be peaceful. The demonstrators will be met with heavy security deployment in the area amid the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament.In photos shared by news agency ANI on this day, police officials were seen tightening the security at the Singhu border near the national capital, ahead of the farmers' protest at Jantar Mantar against the three agri laws.Delhi: Security tightens at Singhu border ahead of a farmers' protest at Jantar Mantar against three farm laws amid monsoon session of Parliament Farmers will gather at Singhu border from different protest sites and head towards Jantar Mantar pic.twitter.com/KcQZg1v1e6The protesting farmers have said their demonstrations against the three agri laws passed by the central government will continue till August 13, if the monsoon session of Parliament is to end on that day. However, Delhi's lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal has only allowed the farmers to continue their protest demonstrations till August 9.Notably, this is the first time since the violence at the national capital during a tractor rally on Republic Day, January 26, earlier this year that authorities have allowed protesting farmers' unions to hold demonstrations in the city.Meanwhile, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait asked authorities to reopen roads near protest sites for the ease of local residents, urging that no farmer from the Ghazipur border would go to Delhi "secretly" and they will stick to the permitted protest site at Jantar Mantar.Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act , 2020 , Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act , 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act , 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for crops.However , the government , which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors , has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-to-launch-agitation-against-agri-laws-at-jantar-mantar-from-today-101626915170847.html
22-07-2021||India||Delhi man arrested for vandalising courtroom while shouting 'tarikh pe tarikh'||A Delhi man, a resident of Shashtri Nagar, has been arrested for allegedly breaking all computers and furniture in Delhi's Karkardooma court as the court was only giving dates for the hearing, thus delaying the process of justice. While he was smashing the courtroom, he also shouted Bollywood actor Sunny Deol's iconic dialogue Tarikh pe Tarikh, news agency ANI reported, citing sources. The incident took place on July 17 in courtroom number 66 in the Karkardooma court, the news agency said. 'Justice delayed is justice denied' is a common saying. Now, the case of Shashtri Nagar's Rakesh has been pending before the court since 2006, reports said. During July 17 hearing, not only did he vent out his anger, he did it in a Bollywood way. 'Tarikh par Tarikh', the dialogue is from the Bollywood movie Damini which has become iconic for the courtroom reference. Sunny Deol plays the character of an alcoholic advocate, who reopened a case in the movie and fought for justice. The dialogue has become a part of common parlance to imply delay in anything. Rakesh also smashed the dais of the judge inside the courtroom, police said. Following the ruckus, the staff of the courtroom raised an alarm the police arrested Rakesh. The accused Rakesh was arrested and was presented before a magistrate, who has remanded him to judicial custody.Delhi Police has booked Rakesh under section 186 (voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), Section 353 (assaults or uses criminal force to any person being a public servant) and Section 427 (mischief) and Section 506 (criminal intimidation).(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-man-arrested-for-vandalising-courtroom-while-shouting-tarikh-pe-tarikh-101626911573485.html
22-07-2021||India||Fewer shots given, officials say ‘Eid holiday’ confusion to blame||The Covid vaccination drive in Delhi, which showed signs of picking up pace with an uptick in shots on Tuesday, saw fewer vaccinations on Wednesday. Officials attributed this to the Eid holiday, and to people not being aware that vaccination centres were functioning.A total of 63,265 vaccine doses were administered through 729 centres on Wednesday, in comparison to almost 72,000 doses administered on Tuesday. On Monday, only 25,985 doses were administered in Delhi.“The impact of Eid can be seen on the vaccination numbers. Most people may not have known that vaccination centres were running even on the public holiday. Some centres in hospitals, however, remained closed today,” said a senior official from southwest district.In the last two weeks, the number of shots administered daily crossed the 100,000 mark only twice, and has dipped as low as 10,000.The pace of vaccination has been erratic, with the Delhi government attributing it to a shortage of vaccine doses.“At the beginning of the month, we were unofficially informed that the pace of the vaccination will remain slow because of a lack of doses. We cannot operate all our vaccination sites every day because we are getting fewer doses than we can administer,” said another official from South district.The number of vaccines administered shot up in Delhi after the Centre revised the vaccine procurement policy on June 21, taking up the responsibility of procurement of doses for all states.With a fresh stock of 85,810 Covishield doses on Tuesday, Delhi currently has 108,300 Covishield doses and around 184,000 doses of Covaxin. Only 20% of the Covaxin stock is being utilised for first dose takers to prevent a shortage for those coming in for their second dose.“So far, we have completely immunised less than 10% of our eligible population in India. This is not enough to stop the transmission of the infection in the community and thereby protect those at risk of developing severe disease from death. At least 40-50% of the eligible population has to be completely immunised to achieve that,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fewer-shots-given-officials-say-eid-holiday-confusion-to-blame-101626898492698.html
22-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu asks schools to hold monthly online tests for SSLC and Plus 2 classes||Tamil Nadu school education department has instructed all the schools to conduct monthly tests for all SSLC and Plus 2 students, local newspaper Dinamani reported on Wednesday. With Covid-19 confining all the learning activities to online mode, the school education department this year announced the Plus 2 marks based on the marks students obtained in SSLC and Plus 1 examinations and Plus 2 practical examinations. Tamil Nadu government is yet to decide on the reopening of the schools amid the pandemic but instructed the schools to conduct monthly online tests especially for SSLC and Plus 2 classes.Tamil Nadu school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Monday announced Plus 2 results and the state government declared 100% pass for the academic year 2020-21. The Plus 2 pass percentage was at 92.3% in the academic year 2019-20 and 91.1% in 2018-19 academic year.No student has scored 600 out of 600 in this academic year due to the marks aggregation method. As many as 39,679 students scored between 551 and 600 and as many as 2,22,522 students scored between 451 and 500 marks.As the classes are progressing online, the school education department has sent out a circular to all the schools regarding the examinations. The department has instructed the schools to start preparing the Plus 2 and SSLC students for the final examinations. "The schools should conduct monthly tests without fail. Every month end, the schools should conduct tests from the portions covered through online and television classes," the circulation added.The examinations could be held for 50 marks from the portion covered every month. Schools should start WhatsApp groups for the students. The tests for SSLC and Plus 2 classes should be conducted through WhatsApp and marks obtained in each test should be carefully documented, the circular noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-asks-schools-to-hold-monthly-online-tests-for-sslc-and-plus-2-classes-101626896152262.html
22-07-2021||India||Woman killed after house collapses due to rain in Bidar||Bengaluru: A 33-year-old woman died after her house collapsed due to heavy rains in Bidar district . Parvathi, a resident of Kumarachincholi village in Humnabad taluk, was killed on the spot after one of the walls of her house fell on her. Her husband and two children were injured and are undergoing treatment at a government hospital. A native of Janwad near Bidar, the family of the victim had migrated to Kumarachincholi village in search of livelihood eight years ago. Parvathi was working as agricultural labour on a daily wage basis. Her two daughters are studying in a local government school. The government has announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh to the family. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) on Wednesday said different parts of the state will continue to get rainfall until Thursday night. As per an official communication, the coastal and Malnad regions are expected to receive moderate rain, while some parts may get heavy to very heavy rains in these regions. KSNMDC also predicted light to moderate rain in Bengaluru. It further forecasted that the weather in Bengaluru to be “generally cloudy sky with isolated very light to moderate rains” until Saturday. t also said that there will be light to moderate rains in widespread or scattered areas in the north interior districts of Karnataka. It further said that heavy rains in isolated areas are likely in these districts. The south interior districts of Karnataka are likely to witness light or moderate rains in a scattered and isolated manner over the region. Within this region, Davanagere, Chitradurga, Ramanagara and Tumakuru districts will experience light to moderate rains. The other south interior districts will experience very light to light rains. Last week, KSNDMC had issued red, orange and yellow alerts in several districts of the state. The coastal and Malnad districts, including Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts, were issued a red warning. An orange warning was issued to coastal and northern parts of Karnataka like Haveri, Dharwad and Belagavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-killed-after-house-collapses-due-to-rain-in-bidar-101626896980937.html
22-07-2021||India||Pegasus allegation an international conspiracy to malign India: Bommai||Bengaluru: Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said the allegations of phone tapping using Israeli Pegasus software is an international conspiracy to spread misinformation and controversy to malign the nation. His remarks come a day after an investigative consortium reported on Tuesday that phone numbers linked to a former Karnataka deputy chief minister and associates of two former CMs were potentially targeted for surveillance using Israeli spyware in 2019, prompting the Congress to blame the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the collapse of the state government at the time. “It is a conspiracy involving foreign press where these kinds of misinformation campaigns have been done against India. In past too, many names came up regarding Swiss Bank accounts, now there are cases against its CEO. Using digital platforms, they try to destabilise different countries. Now, the eyes are set on India,” he told the media. Meanwhile, the Karnataka Congress had announced that it will organise a rally from Vidhana Soudha to Raj Bhavan on Thursday in protest against alleged surveillance of phone numbers of key Congress leaders using Pegasus spyware. All Congress MLAs, MLCs, MPs and other leaders would participate in the protest march, and they will submit a memorandum to Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot seeking a probe into the matter, said a communication from the party. Following a direction from Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah, Congress legislative party secretary E Tukaram issued a communication to all legislators instructing them to take part in the protest march. On Wednesday, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar tweeted saying India’s democracy has been hacked. “It’s not our phones; it’s our democracy which has been hacked! We have to reclaim the nation from this autocratic behaviour. Hacking into people’s phones and private lives, using that information for politics, at taxpayers’ expense… these things don’t happen in democracies,” he wrote. The Congress party on Tuesday had demanded a probe headed by the Supreme court judge into the alleged phone tapping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-allegation-an-international-conspiracy-to-malign-india-bommai-101626896926841.html
22-07-2021||India||Pegasus allegations: Phone tapping claims not new to K’taka politics||A political row may have erupted in the state after the Congress on Tuesday accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre of snooping into phones of leaders in the Congress-JD(S) coalition government in 2019 which resulted in the toppling of the government, but snooping in Karnataka politics is not new. The accusations were made after, an online news portal, The Wire, on Tuesday reported that phone numbers of former Congress deputy CM G Parameshwara, and personal secretaries of former CMs HD Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah were selected in 2019 as possible targets of Pegasus spyware, manufactured by Israeli firm NSO group. “In latest revelations, it is categorically substantiated that the snooping (use of Pegasus software) has been used to topple a democratically elected government. The timing of the snooping indicates that their main intention (of using the software) was to topple the government. At the point of time itself we had complained that our phones were under surveillance,” said KC Venugopal, who was the General Secretary of AICC in-charge of Karnataka during 2019. The BJP denied these allegations. Karnataka home minister Basvaraj Bommai said that the allegations were part of an international conspiracy to defame India. However, phone tapping is not new in Karnataka’s politics. The CBI is currently probing into the alleged illegal tapping of phones of politicians, their aides, bureaucrats and other officials during the tenure of former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy. These phone tapping allegations had come to light when three audiotapes of conversations between Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao and someone called Faraz was released to the media in November 2019. It is alleged that these conversations were released by ADGP Alok Kumar, who was replaced by Rao as the police commissioner. A preliminary investigation by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) found that more than 185 persons, including senior MLAs, aides of politicians and top bureaucrats were under surveillance. On 30 August 2019, this case was handed over to the CBI. Playing down the allegations of using Pegasus spyware, Kumaraswamy on Tuesday while speaking to the media said, “ “Even the Income Tax department taps the phones of important people. So, I am not very worried about all this. This is not a new thing.” “I have not done any wrong activities or compromised the security of either the state or the country. It is not required for us to take all this seriously. Several governments have misused their office, not just the BJP but even the Congress has done this before. This has been done for at least 15-20 years now,” Kumaraswamy had said. The investigation has not reached a conclusion so far. In January, this year, the Congress party had accused the BJP government of covering up a CBI report on alleged illegal phone tapping. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson M Lakshman on January 10 had said that the agency is ready with a detailed report and has approached the state government to give its consent to file a chargesheet, but the government has kept it pending for over a month. The CBI didn’t respond to emails sent by the Hindustan Times on the status of the investigation. In 2017, even Congress was accused of tapping the phone of the opposition leaders. Leaders of the Congress and the BJP in Karnataka have been engaged in a war of words over allegations of phone tapping. While BJP leaders have alleged that the Congress-led state government has been listening to their phone conversations, the Congress has levelled the same allegations on the ruling party at the Centre. While the political blame game has sparked a public debate, neither political party has provided any evidence to support their claims. Neither have they approached any authority, including the courts, demanding a probe. Even though these phone tapping cases have not made much political impact, for Ramakrishna Hedge, who was chief minister of the state between 1983 to 1988, phone tapping accusations cost him the chief minister’s post. In 1988, Hegde was heading the Janata Party government while Veerappa Moily was in the opposition. The Janata Party made allegations against Moily, claiming he had approached some Janata Party MLAs to join them. It was later revealed that this discovery was made based on phone tapping authorized by Hegde. The Congress party took up this issue and Subramanian Swamy, who was with the Janata Party, and later defected, accused Hedge of illegal phone tapping of 51 politicians in Karnataka. Even though Hegde denied the allegations, the issue came up in Parliament, with Union minister of communications Bir Bahadur Singh telling the house that indeed phones were tapped in Karnataka and provided evidence for the same. Following this, on August 10, 1988, Hegde tendered his resignation and was succeeded by his party colleague SR Bommai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-allegations-phone-tapping-claims-not-new-to-k-taka-politics-101626896861063.html
22-07-2021||India||‘Enough is enough’: NSO Group says it now won’t reply to media inquiries||The NSO Group, a private Israeli cybersecurity firm that sells the spyware Pegasus, on Wednesday said that it will probe “any credible proof of misuse of its technologies” but added that it will no longer respond to any media inquires on the reports that alleged that phones of prominent personalities in India and across the world were targeted for surveillance using its platform.Terming the reports a “planned and well-orchestrated media campaign led by Forbidden Stories and pushed by special interest groups,” the company said: “ Enough is enough!... Due to the complete disregard of the facts, NSO is announcing it will no longer be responding to media inquiries on this matter and it will not play along with the malicious and slanderous campaign.” An investigation by a consortium of media houses has alleged that phone hacking software Pegasus was used to target potentially thousands of people around the world, including Indian journalists, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, political strategist Prashant Kishor and former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa. The NSO Group, however, said in the official statement that the “list is not a list of targets or potential targets of Pegasus”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enough-is-enough-nso-group-says-it-now-won-t-reply-to-media-inquiries-101626896231408.html
22-07-2021||India||AASU, Ulfa leaders also on Pegasus list||Phone numbers of All Assam Students Union chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharya and leader of the pro-talks faction of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom (Ulfa), Anup Chetia, apart from a Manipur writer were potentially targeted for surveillance in 2018-19 using Israeli firm NSO’s Pegasus software, an investigative consortium reported on Wednesday.Bhattacharya’s phone number was included as a possible target for hacking by the software less than a month before the Union ministry of home affairs announced the reconstitution of a high-level committee to implement a clause of the Assam Accord on July 16, 2019, according to a report by online news portal The Wire, which is part of the 17-member media consortium.Bhattacharya, who was made a member in this committee, could not be reached for a comment. The agreement, signed by AASU and the central government in 1985, forms the basis for notifying March 24, 1971 as the cut-off date to grant citizenship in the state.Chetia said he wasn’t surprised that his name figured in this list. “As a former member of Ulfa, we once indulged in anti-India activities. So, I am not surprised that my name has come up in that list. I am sure my phones are being tracked all the time,” he said.The third person in the list, as reported by The Wire, has been identified as a Manipuri writer based in Delhi, Malem Ningthouja.Meanwhile, officials of companies linked to then global farm tech giant Monsanto were also selected as possible candidates for surveillance. The numbers of Mahyco Monsanto Biotech and Monsanto India officials were allegedly targeted in 2018, when the firms came under the scanner over alleged unauthorised sale of GM seeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aasu-ulfa-leaders-also-on-pegasus-list-101626896058999.html
22-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra planned to launch another app to circulate porn: Cops||Mumbai: Days after businessman and actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra was arrested, the Mumbai Police on Wednesday said that Kundra, his brother-in-law Pardeep Bakshi and their manager Umesh Kamat had plans to launch ‘Bollyfame’, a mobile application to circulate pornographic content from February 20 this year. However, the plan was dropped after Kamat’s arrest on February 7, police said. A crime branch officer said that according on the investigation so far, Kundra and his associates started working on a new app after Apple and Google stores removed some of the apps last year and Maharashtra cybercrime officers booked directors and owners of various over-the-top (OTT) platforms and websites for allegedly showing obscene content. The officer added that the accused even created a WhatsApp group in the name of the proposed application ‘Bollyfame’ and that Kundra had revealed his plans on the group to Kamat and others. As per Kamat’s statement to police, initially they wanted to launch the live streaming in January 2021, but it was postponed till February 20, the officer said. In his statement, Kamat also revealed that Kundra had told them that they would shut down the Hotshot app and remove the obscene contents to avoid the investigation, the officer added. The racket came to light after the property cell of the Mumbai police registered a case on February 4 based on the inputs about filming of porn at a bungalow in Madh Island. The cell raided the bungalow and arrested five persons, including two women who were caught in compromising position. Police claimed to have rescued a young woman, who was allegedly lured by an offer to act in a short film. During the investigation, police also found the alleged involvement of actor and model Gehana Vashisht. Police arrested Kamat after Vashisht revealed that he bought adult contents from her and sent them to the United Kingdom for uploading on Hotshot. Kamat led the police to Kundra. On Tuesday, the property cell inspected Kundra’s office in Andheri and seized the server and several other electronic equipment. Police said they are now scrutinising evidence seized from Kundra’s office including subscription hits, WhatsApp chats, agreement papers, emails and account details. The crime branch has so far frozen various bank accounts with deposits worth around ₹7.5 crore, including ₹3 crore in a bank account of wanted accused Yash Thakur, a native of Madhya Pradesh, currently residing in Singapore. The officer said he was running the app Neuflik. Another police officer said the groups mainly targeted young women coming from outside to the city to try their luck in the film and television industry. Police officers said taking advantage of their desperation and helplessness, the accused allegedly lured them by offering roles in short films or web series. Initially, they would ask them to perform some “bold” scenes, but eventually either offer them more money to act in porn films or threaten them with the help of agreements, if they refused to budge. The officers said the gang has exploited many women and men by making several pornography contents. Kundra, along with one Sourabh Kushwah, according to the remand application, had in February 2019 started a company namely, Arms Prime Media Pvt Ltd. Around six months later, the company developed the mobile app Hotshot, and later sold it to Kenrin Ltd., a London-based entity owned by Kundra’s relative Pardeep Bakshi for $25,000. In December 2019, Kundra resigned from Arms Prime Media, after which, one Sanjay Tripathi, a witness in the case, took it over, police said. The mobile phone app, available only to paid subscribers, was used to upload pornographic content, shot in Mumbai and surrounding areas, police claimed. The remand application added that other accused and witnesses in the case have revealed that the pornographic films shot in Mumbai were transferred to Kenrin, London, from where the obscene content was uploaded on the Hotshot app. Kundra controlled the entire operation of the app through three WhatsApp groups that he had created in the name of “HS,” and that Kundra was the administrator of these WhatsApp groups. Police on Monday night arrested Kundra and one Ryan Thorpe, a Nerul resident and an expert in information technology, who allegedly helped maintain the mobile phone application through two of his associates. Both Kundra and Thorpe are in police custody till July 23 for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-planned-to-launch-another-app-to-circulate-porn-cops-101626896142635.html
22-07-2021||India||Experts say need to raise awareness on Fragile X syndrome||Fragile X syndrome is the most common genetic cause of intellectual disabilities such as autism, speech delays, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and can even lead to seizures in 25% of the patients, according to Fragile X society-India that is trying to raise awareness about the condition. The syndrome is caused by large mutations to the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene that makes a protein needed for normal brain development. It is estimated that nearly 200,000 to 400,000 children in India suffer from the condition, but most remain undiagnosed. In addition, people with smaller alterations to the gene are known as carriers or those with pre-mutation. A diagnosis can be made with a blood genetic testing. “This gene was discovered in the 1990s so it is a much recent finding as compared to other syndromes such as Down’s. There is a lot of research going on the syndrome as well as drugs to directly target the gene. But the early diagnosis is important so that the child and the parents start therapy to deal with the challenges. Also, it gives parents much needed information for planning a future child,” said Debashish Ghoshal, parent advocate at the organisation. The Fragile X Society was formed to support the families of those affected with the syndrome and launched its first clinic in Mumbai in 2013. The society calls for Fragile X syndrome screening in all children diagnosed with intellectual disability so that they may receive latest evidence-based treatments. The families must also receive genetic counselling so that they may plan their future children, the society states. There is no cure for the genetic disorder; however, treatment can help children learn important skills such as learning to walk, talk, and interact with others. In addition, medicine can be used to control certain behavioural problems. “Fragile X syndrome leads to delays in intellectual development, predominantly in boys. It can cause hyperactivity and autism. There is a lot of research going on but there is no cure for the disease. The message here is that families of children with autism must go to a genetic clinic and get them tested. There could be others in the family at risk. Also, if one child has fragile X syndrome, the second is also at risk of having it. So, a genetic test for it can be done at 2.5 months of pregnancy and if the second child also has the mutation, the pregnancy may be terminated,” said Dr Ratna Puri, head of genetics department at Sir Ganga Ram hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-say-need-to-raise-awareness-on-fragile-x-syndrome-101626895961507.html
22-07-2021||India||NCDC launches probe after first bird flu death reported in country||New Delhi: The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)’s surveillance unit in Haryana has launched an epidemiological investigation after an 11-year-old boy from Gurugram was reported as the country’s first documented case and death of bird flu (H5N1) in humans. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, an NCDC team comprising epidemiologists and microbiologists was constituted and immediately visited the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, where the patient underwent treatment, and Gurugram for undertaking the epidemiological assessment. “NCDC received information on July 16 from AIIMS, Delhi, along with a lab report from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. The information was communicated to the IDSP State Surveillance Unit (SSU), Haryana to initiate an epidemiological investigation into the case. The matter was also reported to the animal husbandry department…The state health department and the animal husbandry department officials are also involved in the investigation,” the health ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. The team of doctors and nurses, who treated the patient, is being monitored since July 16 for development of any influenza like illness, with no one being reported symptomatic till date. Contact tracing was undertaken and family members, close contacts and health care workers are under close surveillance. According to the health ministry, none of the close contacts have any related symptoms. Contact tracing, an active search for any symptomatic case, has been carried out in the hospital and the area where the patient resided. The state has been asked to carry out information, education, and communication activities for the general public, and to report any symptomatic case to the health authorities concerned. However, no symptomatic individuals were found in the area. The boy was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in AIIMS, towards the end of June. He developed symptoms of fever, cough, coryza (inflammation of the mucous membrane in the nose), and breathing difficulty, soon after induction therapy for AML. He was diagnosed as AML with febrile neutropenia (low white blood cells) with pneumonia and shock that progressed to cute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The boy was then admitted to AIIMS on July 2, where he suffered from multi organ dysfunction and died on July 12. “Department of microbiology AIIMS received the Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) for respiratory panel testing on 7 and 11 July 2021. The sample has tested Positive for both Influenza A and Influenza B. It was also negative for SARS COV-2 and other respiratory viruses. Subtyping for Influenza A remained inconclusive with available reagents for H1N1 and H3N2 at AIIMS. So, the samples were sent to NIV on 13 July,” said the statement. At NIV, both the samples were tested for Influenza A and Influenza B along with Influenza A seasonal (H1N1, H1N1 pdm09 and H3N2), non-seasonal avian subtypes (H5, H7, H9 and H10) by real-time PCR. The result showed that the sample is positive for A/H5 and Type B Victoria lineage. Whole genome sequencing and virus isolation is in process, the statement added. The animal husbandry department has also not found any suspected cases of bird flu in the area and has enhanced surveillance in a 10km zone as a precautionary measure. Further, epidemiological investigation by NCDC, involving animal husbandry department and State government surveillance unit, is underway and appropriate public health measures have been instituted, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncdc-launches-probe-after-first-bird-flu-death-reported-in-country-101626895960942.html
22-07-2021||India||Bengal CM’s address reaches top Oppn||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s speech at the Trinamool Congress (TMC)’s virtual rally on Wednesday was screened live across various states, including the national capital, as the party aimed to send its message beyond the boundaries of West Bengal.At the Constitution Club of India, a stone’s throw from Parliament, top-ranking leaders of opposition parties, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and former finance minister P Chidambaram, arrived to watch the live screening, people familiar with the matter said.Trinamool Congress leaders said Congress leader Digvijaya Singh, Samajwadi Party’s Ram Gopal Yadav and Jaya Bachchan, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) Tiruchi Siva, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MP Keshava Rao, Sanjay Singh of Aam Aadmi Party, Manoj Jha of Rashtriya Janata Dal, Priyanka Chaturvedi of Shiv Sena, NCP’s Supriya Sule and Balwinder Singh Bhunder of Shiromani Akali Dal were also present at the live telecast.Banerjee returned to power for a third consecutive term in May and the party is now eyeing a bigger role in the national political theatre as the Congress lost its overarching power in the anti-BJP space, experts say.Apart from Delhi, the Bengal chief minister’s speech was telecast live in Tripura, Assam and a few other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-s-address-reaches-top-oppn-101626895738609.html
22-07-2021||India||CAA, NRC will not hurt Indian Muslims: Bhagwat in Assam||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) will not harm Indian Muslims and that a communal narrative was being peddled by some to gain political mileage.At an event in Guwahati, Bhagwat also said that there were organised attempts to increase the Muslim population since 1930 in Punjab, Sindh, Bengal, Assam to establish dominance and turn the country into Pakistan. He said this “plan” was somewhat successful with Partition, but failed to get Assam and other provinces in full.“After Independence, the first prime minister of the country said that minorities will be taken care of, and that has been done so far. We will continue to do so. No Muslim will face any loss due to CAA,” Bhagwat said at the launch of Gauhati University professor Nani Gopal Mahanta’s book on NRC and CAA.Bhagwat insisted the CAA and NRC are not against any Indian citizen. “The (1950) Nehru-Liaquat Pact clearly stated that each country would protect its minorities. India has been following it, Pakistan failed to do so.”The RSS chief said Indians always welcomed outsiders but designs by some to “impose their language, religion and food habits” had led to fears.“Since 1930, there have been organised attempts at increasing Muslim population in a planned manner. The design was to increase population in order to exercise their dominance and slowly turn this nation into Pakistan,” said Bhagwat.“This was true for Punjab, Sindh, Assam and Bengal. The plan worked to an extent as India got partitioned and Pakistan got created. But it didn’t happen entirely as planned and Assam didn’t go to Pakistan, though part of Bengal and Punjab got divided,” he added.The RSS leader, who is on his first visit to Assam after the BJP returned to power in the state in May, said the citizenship law is meant to provide protection to persecuted minorities from neighbouring countries seeking asylum in India.“We reach out to the majority communities, too, in these countries during a calamity.... So if there are some who wish to come to our country due to threats and fear, we will definitely have to help them out,” Bhagwat said.The contentious CAA, which was passed in Parliament in 2019, fast-tracks Indian citizenship to Hindus, Jains, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsis who entered India on or before December 31, 2014, from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan.The absence of Muslims in the list led to fears of exclusionary treatment; in Assam, where the traditional issue has been the influx of outsiders, there were concerns that the law could legitimise the claims of those from outside the state.“The provisions of CAA are meant for those who were persecuted in those countries and came to India for refuge. It is not for those who came to India without facing any persecution,” Bhagwat said.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who was also present at the event, said the reasons behind the protests against the CAA in other parts of the country were completely different from the ones in Assam.“While the former sought inclusion of Muslims on the list of communities mentioned in the legislation (CAA), the protests in Assam were against the legislation itself,” Sarma said.Sarma said the government has a duty towards the persecuted people. “That is why I am a supporter of CAA and will remain one. But at the same time, we need to take measures to protect our Assamese identity and culture.” he said.Separately, in 2019, Assam, at the instruction and under the supervision of the Supreme Court compiled a registry of citizens, also a key charter of the Assam Accord. The result was a roster that excluded around 1.9 million of the nearly 33 million applicants from the NRC. The list was dubbed faulty by most people, citing exclusion of genuine citizens and inclusion of persons with doubtful identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caa-nrc-will-not-hurt-indian-muslims-bhagwat-in-assam-101626895404753.html
22-07-2021||India||U’khand issued 5.3k more death certificates than last yr between Jan and Apr: RTI||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government issued a total of 23,324 death certificates between January and April this year, which was 5,343 more than the corresponding period last year, an RTI reply by the state health services department has revealed. Following this, opposition parties as well as social activists have accused the state government of covering up the true extent of the impact of Covid-19 in the state. The state saw 960 Covid-19 deaths from Feb 2 to April 30 as no health bulletin was issued by state in January in the first four months of the year. The right to information application was filed by the former state secretary of Samajwadi Party, Rakesh Barthwal, who had sought information about the death certificates issued in the state from April 2020 till June this year. The state health services department provided data for the whole of 2020, but for 2021, it could only provide data for the first four months, saying that data after April was yet to come. Of the 23,324 deaths, 13,807 were men and 9,517 women. In 2020, Uttarakhand had issued 62,219 death certificates of which 17,981 were issued from January to April. Of these, 10,520 were for men and 7,461 for women. This January, 5,986 death certificates were issued, followed by 5,424 in February and 5,572 in March. In April, during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of death certificates issued rose to 6,342, which was 2,751 more than the April 2020 figure of 3,591. The most number of death certificates this year were issued in Dehradun (5,659), followed by Haridwar (3,865) and US Nagar (3,337).To be sure, death certificates issued in a period do not necessarily have to correspond with the deaths in the same period. And governments around the country have worked at registering all deaths, something that could explain an organic increase in deaths. Still, the fact that there were a possible 4,383 excess deaths (5343 less 960, the deaths from Covid-19 in the first four months of the year) has been picked up by some. For instance, opposition Congress and social activists have questioned the authenticity of the number of Covid-19 deaths reported by the state government. Congress state spokesperson Garima Dasauni attacked the BJP-led state government, saying, “There is definitely something fishy in the Covid-19 death figures reported by the government. It is not allowing the actual death figures to come out.”She said that the death certificate numbers and the deaths due to Covid-19 don’t add up. “The number of death certificates issued and the total number of Covid-19 deaths reported have a huge difference. With the ongoing pandemic having its second wave peak in April, it is sure that most of the people whose deaths were registered had died of Covid-19. Then how come the reported Covid-19 deaths were so low?” Dasauni said.Prominent social activist Anoop Nautiyal, who has been closely monitoring the pandemic situation in state since its outbreak last year, expressed concern that the true extent of the damage wrought by the pandemic in the state may never be known. “First, it was the backlog Covid-19 deaths not reported by hospitals, and now this. It seems the people of Uttarakhand will never be able to get actual data, which is sad because we as residents of the state deserve much better from our elected representatives,” said Nautiyal, the founder of Gati Foundation, an NGO that fights pollution in Uttarakhand. The government has denied any connection between the death certificate numbers and Covid-19 deaths. “The death certificates are issued as per the rules and regulations on death of any person. It doesn’t mean that all died of Covid-19,” cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal told the media on Tuesday.The Uttarakhand government was caught on the wrong foot recently over alleged fake Covid-19 tests that were carried out in the state during the Mahakumbh in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-issued-5-3k-more-death-certificates-than-last-yr-between-jan-and-apr-rti-101626894520879.html
22-07-2021||India||Opposition in sync on Rajya Sabha; Lok Sabha path still unclear||The Opposition parties have been able to find a collective script for their efforts to take on the government in the Upper House of Parliament, something they demonstrably lacked in the Lower House on the first two days of the ongoing monsoon session.On Tuesday, a few key Rajya Sabha Opposition leaders went into a huddle at 10 am to devise a strategy to balance their demands for a debate on the government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and their protest over rising prices.The result: the Rajya Sabha didn’t work for three hours and then held a smooth debate on the pandemic during which Opposition leaders slammed the Centre and touted the achievements of states governed by their parties on that front.According to two senior Opposition leaders, the Upper House might again go back to protest mode on Thursday, but this will be decided after taking different parties on board.In the Lok Sabha, major Opposition parties have continued protests but without a joint strategy. “There has not been any single meeting of the Opposition parties in the Lok Sabha. No one knows what the other party plans to do,” said Sudip Bandopadhyay, House floor leader of the Trinamool Congress, the second largest Opposition party in Parliament.Congress leader Manish Tewari, a member of the party’s Parliamentary strategy group argued that the government has not offered any discussion on the latest snooping scandal or any other issue. “There is no problem of coordination of Opposition parties in the Lok Sabha. In the Rajya Sabha, the government offered a debate. In the Lok Sabha, they haven’t offered anything so far. So, all parties have launched protests which shows we are all on the same page.”The House records, however, show that parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi and other floor managers have repeatedly offered to discuss any issue on the floor of the House.Tewari also drew a line between the functioning of Rajya Sabha and that of the Lok Sabha. “They are two different houses. One is a council of states while the other one is a House of the people. Strategies can always be different for two Houses,” he said.The lack of coordination among Opposition parties has benefited the ruling dispensation on many occasions in the past. The government passed several bills, including the Triple Talaq bill, the law reorganising J&K as two union territories and the resolution to scrap Article 370 using this.Opposition leaders remained hopeful that a joint approach to issues would emerge with time. With issues such as the Pegasus snooping scandal, price rise, and the faltering economy on the radar of most parties, “a larger coordination is a matter of time, but it may involve a deft handling and require leaders who can rise above their regional considerations to look at the larger picture,” said a senior Opposition leader who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-in-sync-on-rs-ls-path-still-unclear-101626894460872.html
22-07-2021||India||States still say no deaths took place due to oxygen shortage||Officials and ministers in eight states, where reports said an estimated 320 Covid-19 patients may have died due to shortage of medical oxygen, on Wednesday denied the fatalities took place due to the crisis of supply that emerged during India’s second wave of cases.The Union health ministry told Parliament on Tuesday that none of the states had reported any deaths due to lack of oxygen, triggering criticism from multiple opposition leaders and prompting a rebuttal by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday.According to volunteer-driven data collation effort DataMeet, media reports from 20 states suggested there were at least 619 deaths due to oxygen shortage – many of these, however, were disputed with subsequent inquiries attributing the fatalities to other causes.But on Wednesday, officials and ministers in eight states were not willing to link fatalities with oxygen shortage alone, even as some of the leaders from their parties were accusing the Centre of hiding oxygen-linked deaths.In Maharashtra, where 58 deaths were reported, state health minister Rajesh Tope said no death happened due to oxygen shortage.“As far as Maharashtra is concerned, we have never said that any death due to oxygen shortage,” he told a TV channel on Wednesday. The state had, however, faced several short supplies in April and May, which at one point prompted chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to request prime minister Narendra Modi to explore the possibility of pressing the Indian Air Force into duty to arrange for supplies. Maharashtra’s Sanjay Raut on Wednesday was one of the leaders who criticised the Centre over its stand in parliament on Tuesday.In Goa, 83 critically ill people succumbed to Covid-19 between May 10 and May 14. “We can’t put this as a direct answer. People who come to GMC, they are all referred cases because we are a tertiary (care) centre where criticality is high and most of the patients die because of Covid pneumonia where oxygen is a part of the treatment. So we cannot directly say this (disruption in the oxygen supply) is the reason why they have died,” said dean of Goa Medical College and Hospital, Dr Shivanand Bandekar said.During a hearing at the time the deaths took place, the Bombay high court at Goa had said: “We have long passed the stage of determining whether patients are suffering from the lack of oxygen or not. The material placed before us establishes that patients are indeed suffering and even in some cases succumbing for want of the supply of oxygen, in the State of Goa”. In court, the Goa government had admitted that “some casualties may have taken place” due to supply disruption.In Haryana, where 22 oxygen-related deaths purportedly took place, some inquiries were pending, at least one ruled out oxygen shortage as cause of deaths. But in one region – Hisar – a medical board established oxygen shortage as reason for deaths.In Madhya Pradesh, the medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said no one died due to oxygen shortage. “We received at least 10-12 complaints related to deaths due to oxygen supply disruption. Medical experts found the cause of death was other medical complications, not hypoxia,” he said. According to DataMeet figures, reports suggested 65 people died in different hospitals due to lack of oxygen.Similar stand was taken in several states, such as Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.“In fact, we have been praised for our supply of oxygen to other states,” said PK Mohapatra, Odisha’s additional chief secretary (health).Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey said the state was able to manage its oxygen demand with cooperation from the Centre during the peak of the second wave pandemic and there were no deaths because of oxygen issues.“In West Bengal there has been no death due to lack of Oxygen support,” said a top official of the state health department. However, at least two families had raised allegations of lack of oxygen after their patients died at a hospital in Uluberia.Tamil Nadu’s health secretary J Radhakrishnan said there were no direct deaths in Tamil Nadu due to the lack of oxygen even though 13 patients died at the government hospital in Chengelpet district in first week of May when oxygen supply was disrupted overnight.Health activist Amulya Nidhi from Madhya Pradesh said volunteer groups have case studies to show deaths because of oxygen shortage but the government was not ready to face facts. “If they are so sure about it, they should allow an independent team of experts to probe the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-still-say-no-deaths-took-place-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101626894401439.html
22-07-2021||India||Scindia forms key panels to revive the aviation sector||Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, in his first order of business to revive the pandemic-hit aviation sector, formed three key advisory groups on Wednesday. These comprise government officials , industry leaders and other stakeholders who represent a wide array of operations: from airport operators to ground handling units, and from flight training schools to maintenance, repair and overhaul companies.The advisory group on airports headed by Scindia will include the aviation ministry’s secretary and joint secretary; director general of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security; chairman of the Airports Authority of lndia; G B S Raju, chairman of the GMR Group; Jeet Adani, vice president of the Adani Group; and Hari K Marar, MD and CEO, Bengaluru International Airport Limited.Adani and GMR operate airports.The order lays down the mandate for this advisory group: to advise the government on enhancing airport capacity and infrastructure for greater customer satisfaction and better international benchmark ratings. The group will also advise the government on tariffs and other regulatory issues, manpower training, and performance.Another group to deal with issues related to domestic airlines has also been formed and will be headed by General V K Singh (retd), minister of state for civil aviation; the aviation ministry’s secretary; the director general of Civil Aviation; Rajiv Bansal, CMD, Air India; Rahul Bhatia, chairman, Indigo Airlines; Ajay Singh, chairman, SpiceJet; Ness Wadia, director, Go Air; Bhaskar Bhat, chairman, Air Vistara; and Sunil Bhaskaran, CEO, Air Asia and the incoming CEO of Alliance Air Vineet Sood.“The Joint Secretary of DG Division will act as Convener. The Joint Secretary of DT Division will support the Group on the issues related to domestic transport,” the order reads.The joint secretary of DG Division is joint secretary of DGCA and DT stands for Domestic Traffic.The advisory group on airlines will advise the government on ways to enhance domestic and international connectivity, and on matters related to the promotion of passenger and cargo services, passenger facilities during air travel, and manpower training in the aviation sector. It will also suggest ways to safeguard the viability of airlines.The aviation sector was roiled by the pandemic with restrictions on flight operations for some part of last year, and a general reluctance to travel among the public evan with the easing of restrictions, although recent months have seen an increase in passenger traffic. The Indian aviation sector is estimated to have suffered losses worth around $ 8 billion in two years as a direct impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to aviation consultancy and research firm CAPA.“The groups shall meet regularly to deliberate upon issues and resolve challenges facing each sector. Orders have been issued for the same,” the aviation ministry said on Twitter.Airlines have been seeking government stimuli since last year to tide over losses. The aviation industry has also demanded lowering of aviation turbine fuel (ATF) taxes for years. It has sought the inclusion of ATF under the Goods and Services Tax regime as tax uniformity would lead to cost reduction.According to CAPA, airlines in India are estimated to post a consolidated loss of $4.1 billion this fiscal, similar to what they are estimated to have incurred in 2020-21, CAPA noted in a report released last month. Full-service airline Air India and low-cost airline IndiGo are expected to account for $ 4.5 billion of the combined around $ 8 billion of losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-forms-key-panels-to-revive-the-aviation-sector-101626894400818.html
22-07-2021||India||Centre must give a categorical response to Pegasus row: Justice B N Srikrishna||Retired Supreme Court judge Justice B N Srikrishna, who authored the first draft of the data protection bill in 2018, says the Narendra Modi government should probe the alleged phone hacking of ministers, politicians, activists and journalists, and also explicitly state if any of its agencies uses Israeli military-grade spyware Pegasus.Justice Srikrishna, who was appointed by this government to identify and address issues in data protection in India in 2017, described the response of the government, which has thus far denied its involvement in any illegal surveillance as “unsatisfactory”.“Even the French government has ordered an inquiry so we need to do that too,” said Justice Srikrishna. “I am not at all satisfied with the government’s response. They need to give a categorical answer about who’s behind the hacking.”As unearthed by a collaborative investigation involving 17 media organisations, and reported by The Wire, which is one of the 17, the phone numbers of Union ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw and Prahlad Patel, opposition leaders Rahul Gandhi and Abhishek Banerjee, activists, and 38 journalists, including three from HT and one from its sister publication Mint, were potential targets of spyware.While NSO Group, the Israeli firm that makes Pegasus, has maintained that only governments are its clients, India’s IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has called the investigation an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”.Home minister Amit Shah has questioned the timing of the revelations that came out just a day before the start of the monsoon session of Parliament. “Aap chronology samajhiye! (Understand the chronology) This is a report by the disrupters for the obstructers. Disrupters are global organisations which do not like India to progress. Obstructers are political players in India who do not want India to progress,” he had said.“It has nothing to do with timing. That is irrelevant,” said Justice Srikrishna. “An important question is being asked in Parliament and they (government) should answer it. That is how democracy is strengthened. They should give an open answer so that such issues are frankly dealt with.”Opposition parties, especially the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Congress have refused to let Parliament function until the government allows a discussion on the matter. TMC MPs staged a dharna on Tuesday asking Shah for a clarification after one of the reports revealed how TMC national general secretary and MP Abhishek Banerjee’s phone was on the list too along with that of their election advisor Prashant Kishor.A consortium of 17 media organisations, including The Guardian, The Washington Post and India’s The Wire, had said a phone hacking software known as Pegasus was used to target potentially thousands of people around the world. The investigation was based on a data leak of around 50,000 numbers obtained by Amnesty International and Paris-based Forbidden Stories, a non-profit. To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. Amnesty International subsequently forensically investigated 67 of these phones, and found 23 hacked and 14 showing signs of attempted penetration.The Congress has also demanded answers after reports revealed how phone numbers linked to Karnataka’s former deputy chief minister G Parameshwara, and aides of former chief ministers H D Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah were also on the surveillance list in 2019 when the JDS-Congress government collapsed.The prosecutor’s office in France has confirmed instituting a probe into the hacking after the investigation revealed that Morocco allegedly put the number of French president Emmanuel Macron on the surveillance list.“You can’t throw mud at people with allegations. You have to just give clear answers — did anyone in the government buy this software? And second, have they been using it for monitoring people?” Justice Srikrishna said.Pegasus makes it possible for those using the software to intercept all communications on their targets’ device, including stored files as well as messages. The malware also allows for the device’s microphone and camera to be turned on, and its location logs accessed.A spokesperson for the National Cyber Security Coordinator’s office said neither it nor the Computer Emergency Response Team or CERT-IN has the mandate to probe the alleged hacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-must-give-a-categorical-response-to-pegasus-row-justice-b-n-srikrishna-101626893868110.html
22-07-2021||India||High turnout of MLAs as Sidhu rallies support||Newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu met several lawmakers, ministers and leaders on Wednesday, in a significant show of strength by the cricketer-turned-politician who is locked in a bitter conflict with chief minister Amarinder Singh over control of the party.The leaders, including four cabinet ministers, Sidhu’s predecessor Sunil Jakhar, and other senior functionaries, gathered at Sidhu’s residence in Amritsar, before travelling to the Golden Temple and other shrines. Visuals showed large crowds with no masks or distancing at the Sikh holy shrine, with Sidhu surrounded by other leaders.They paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and Akal Takht amid a heavy rush of devotees. The leaders also offered prayers at two prominent local Hindu shrines, Durgiana Temple and Ram Tirath Temple.Sidhu’s camp claimed that at least 62 of the Congress’s 80 MLAs attended the visit but state intelligence agencies put the number closer to 42. The state goes to the polls in early 2022.Sidhu avoided the media but minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “We have not counted how many MLAs have turned up today, nor was it a show of strength. All have come to pay obeisance at Sri Darbar Sahib which is not a place of holding such show.”The development came a day after Singh’s aides said the chief minister won’t meet Sidhu until the latter apologised for his public attacks during the past month. On Wednesday, Sidhu’s associates made it clear that the former minister wasn’t going to budge.“After all he is president of the Pradesh Congress now. Apology for what? People are with Sidhu,” said Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur.Three former Aam Aadmi Party legislators who joined the Congress in Singh’s presence last month, and four newly appointed working presidents -- Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Pawan Goel and Sangat Singh Gilzian – also attended the event.Sidhu was named the state unit chief on Sunday as part of a revamp plan that involved appointing four working presidents from different communities, overriding strong objections by Singh and his loyalists.An upset Singh has not publicly commented on the appointment nor met Sidhu since, indicating that the acrimonious factionalism that roiled the party since May remains unresolved.The Amritsar East MLA will formally take over on Friday in a low-key ceremony attended by Congress general secretary Harish Rawat, who was also part of the three-member central panel tasked with tamping down tensions.Singh has not been formally invited for the event, said a person aware of developments. “It’s an important event and it is the duty of every Congressman to attend it. In the past too, invitations were never sent to anyone in the party for such an event,” said cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who was once a Singh loyalist but now supports Sidhu.Tensions between 79-year-old Singh and Sidhu, who quit the state cabinet after the CM changed his portfolio in 2019, have simmered since then but flared up in May after the government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 case of police firing on a crowd protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book.Sidhu quickly rallied support as leaders opposed to Singh coalesced around him and publicly accused the CM of enabling corruption, prompting the Congress to set up the three-member panel. The panel met around 150 functionaries – including Singh twice -- and submitted its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi on June 10.On Sunday, Sidhu got the coveted post of state unit chief, a position that bestows significant powers to him in an election year. But there has been no public rapprochement between the two warring factions with experts saying the infighting can bruise the Congress in the assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-turnout-of-mlas-as-sidhu-rallies-support-101626893321340.html
22-07-2021||India||Non-local spouses of J&K women get domicile status||The Jammu & Kashmir government has decided to issue domicile certificates to the husbands of local women married to people from outside the state, in a significant move that will allow them to buy land or property in the Union territory, or apply for government jobs.The certificates will be issued by district officials on producing proof of marriage.Commissioner secretary to J&K government, Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, issued an order dated July 20 in which he specified that rules that make spouse of domicile certificate holder eligible for getting the certificate.“In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, read with section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services Act 2010, the government hereby directs in sub-rule (1) of rule 5 of the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate Rules 220, after S.No/Clause 6, the following shall be added,” the order read.Women married to residents of the UT are automatically granted domicile status.After Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was revoked and the region split into two Union territories in August last year, the government in May notified Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020, which specify the conditions and the process to obtain the documents required for applying to jobs and avail other privileges restricted to residents.All people who have resided in the UT for 15 years, or have studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 or 12 examination in an educational institution in the region, and their children, are eligible for grant of domicile status.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) welcomed the decision on Wednesday. “It’s a welcome step and our party’s stand was clear on this,” BJP’s J&K unit spokesperson Altaf Thakur said.The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the order is debatable. “Merits of the impact of individual orders may be debatable, but the bottom line remains who is doing it and how,” said party spokesperson Suhail Bukhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nonlocal-spouses-of-j-k-women-get-domicile-status-101626893320805.html
22-07-2021||India||Centre, states row over O2 deaths in 2nd wave||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and several Opposition parties were locked in a war of words over how many people in India died due to lack of oxygen supplies while battling Covid-19, a day after the Union government told Parliament that no state reported such fatalities.The submission to Parliament brought back focus on a crisis that in part defined the devastation of the second wave, but with little accountability being fixed since. A database of media reports from the time has identified at least 619 deaths that likely occurred because of lack of oxygen, while many more may have taken place outside of inundated hospitals. Still, with most states unwilling, even on Wednesday, to accept that there were deaths on account of oxygen supplies, the Union government’s submission, while insensitive, could well be technically correct. The BJP accused the states of playing politics, and pointed to submissions by some of them to reaffirm that the central government was merely reporting data that states sent to it. “The Centre says that health is a state subject. It says that it just collects the data, it doesn’t generate it. None of them said that a death occurred in their state and Union territory due to shortage of oxygen, there is no data for that. Did the Centre generate this data? No,” said Sambit Patra, BJP spokesperson.Patra in particular pointed to the Congress, the Shiv Sena and the Aam Aadmi Party to accuse the rivals of “playing politics”. “Rahul Gandhi is part of a coalition in Maharashtra and Sanjay Raut said he is shocked. The Maharashtra high court was given an affidavit by the state government where it stated that no death took place due to oxygen shortage,” he said.“On April 23 and 24, Arvind Kejriwal said 21 people died in Jaipur Golden Hospital due to oxygen shortage. He did a press conference and politicised it. This matter went to the high court. The Delhi government formed a committee and a report was submitted — it said patients got oxygen and no there was no mention of a shortage,” he said. Patra’s comments appeared to be targeted at a tweet by Gandhi on Tuesday afternoon, in which the Congress leader said: “The shortage wasn’t only of oxygen; it was also of empathy and facts. The shortage was there then, and it’s there now.”On Wednesday, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, whose party shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra, said people whose relatives died due to oxygen shortage should “take the Union government to court”. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, too, attacked the Centre, saying it was “completely false” to say no one died for want of oxygen. “If no deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage, why did hospitals move high court one after another every day? Hospitals had been saying that oxygen shortage led to deaths. The media, too, flagged this issue daily,” Jain told reporters.The AAP leader said the Delhi government set up a committee to collect data on such deaths and give ₹5 lakh compensation to the families of the deceased, “but the Centre got the panel disbanded through the lieutenant governor”. A day earlier, his cabinet colleague and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accused the Centre of a cover-up following its submission in Parliament. Neither Jain nor Sisodia put a number to deaths in Delhi on account of lack of oxygen. As the controversy raged, officials in eight states – Goa, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh – told HT that there were no deaths due to oxygen shortage in their hospitals. Experts said the controversy was “unnecessary and unfortunate”. “The answers to parliamentary questions are compiled by respective ministries depending on inputs from various states and institutions, which means none of the states actually accepted that there were deaths due to oxygen shortage. The minister, however, could have just said that this is the official record and unofficially, there have been reports of deaths but there was no data,” said Dr MC Misra, former director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Such data is also challenging to collect, Misra added. “Of course, there was shortage of oxygen. This might have led to deaths even before people reached hospitals. There is no way of collecting that data. Then, there were deaths reported in hospitals but even then it is difficult to say whether the people, who were already critical, died because of oxygen shortage. You see, the shortage doesn’t lead to ventilators stopping to work suddenly, but the pressure goes down. In such a situation you can never be 100% certain and hence it is unlikely to be mentioned in a patient’s case sheets,” he said.At least some of the states that issued a denial on Wednesday had registered high profile incidents, some of which ended up in courts. In Goa, for instance, 83 people are reported to have died between May 11 and May 15 when the Goa Medical College & Hospital was running short on supplies. The Goa government admitted issues with supply during submissions to the Bombay high court at the time, which described the situation as grim. When asked to confirm if the deaths were due to the shortage on Wednesday, Goa Medical College & Hospital dean, Dr Shivanand Bandekar said: “We can’t put this as a direct answer. People who come to GMC, they are all referred cases because we are a tertiary (care) centre where criticality is high and most of the patients die because of Covid pneumonia where oxygen is a part of the treatment. So we cannot directly say this (disruption in the oxygen supply) is the reason why they have died.”In Maharashtra, Raut’s colleague and health minister Rajesh Tope told a TV channel on Wednesday: “We never said people died due to oxygen shortage in the state. Many of them had issues like co-morbidities and other illnesses. No death has taken place due to the shortage of oxygen.” In Nashik, at least 24 Covid-19 patients on life support died after oxygen supply was disrupted following an aborted refilling attempt. The hospital’s liquid oxygen tank developed a leak while being refilled, delaying the process and reportedly disrupting supplies to patients, officials had said at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-states-row-over-o2-deaths-in-2nd-wave-101626893260710.html
22-07-2021||India||BJP is turning country into ‘surveillance state’: Mamata||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee, who has been under attack from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over post-poll violence in West Bengal, mounted her counter-offensive on Wednesday, accusing the BJP-led central government of turning the country into a “surveillance state” and appealing to regional parties to come together to form an opposition front to defeat the BJP in 2024 general elections.Banerjee also asked the Supreme Court to take cognisance of allegations that the central government could have used Israeli spyware Pegasus to target prominent politicians, journalists, constitutional authorities and even sitting ministers.“Pegasus is bigger than Watergate,” she said, referring to the Watergate scandal that led to US President Richard Nixon’s resignation in 1974.“I definitely know that my phone was tapped… Only the judiciary can save democracy. Oust spying and save the nation,” Banerjee said in an hour-long virtual address on the TMC’s martyrs’ day, the party’s annual event in memory of 13 party workers killed in police firing on a protest she led as a Youth Congress leader in Kolkata on July 21, 1993. She founded the TMC five years later, in 1998.Over the years, the martyr’s day rally has emerged as a platform from which Banerjee sends out messages and declares future plans. She appeared to have stuck to this format on Wednesday as she issued a public appeal to opposition parties across the country to start working together for the national elections right away and promised free ration across the country if the alliance wins.Mamata Banerjee also suggested that she wasn’t looking for a key role for herself.“I am a worker. I will follow you and your instructions. Chairs do not last forever but love of the people lives on,” she said, a remark seen as her counter to critics who believe that she sees herself as a potential prime ministerial candidate.Like last year, Mamata Banerjee addressed people virtually due to the Covid pandemic but for the first time, giant screens were installed in public places and TMC offices not only in West Bengal but also in states such as Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Tripura.Trinamool leaders have been speaking about plans to expand the party’s footprint to states outside Bengal after her party’s spectacular victory against the BJP in the Bengal assembly elections.Banerjee also made the effort to reach out to her potential audience outside Bengal and didn’t just speak in Bengali but English and Hindi as well.In Delhi, leaders of several opposition parties assembled at the constitution club in the heart of the city to listen to her speech. Among those present were former finance minister P Chidambaram and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar.“I don’t know what will happen in 2024 but we have to start our planning now… We will not be defeated. I am confident we will win,” she said.“Only two and a half years are left until the elections. Let us form an alliance and show the path to the nation,” Banerjee said to her potential allies.Banerjee said her party will invite regional leaders to a rally at Kolkata’s Brigade Parade grounds after the pandemic. For now, Banerjee said, she will be in Delhi on July 27 to 29 and asked Sharad Pawar to convene a meeting. “Mr Prime Minister please don’t disturb us,” she added quickly, a swipe at the Centre over the snooping row.“I cannot call up Sharad Pawar ji, P Chidambaram, the Delhi chief minister or the Odisha chief minister because my phone is tapped. See I have put a plaster on the camera of my phone. Instead of a democratic state you (BJP) want to have a surveillance state,” Banerjee said, holding up her phone which had a brown tape over the lens.“Before the assembly polls, I was in a meeting with our party leaders. My phone was there. They recorded everything,” she said.“Modi ji I am not criticising you as a person but you and Amit Shah ji have only come up with dark laws. You only want violence and disturbance. India is the land of Swami Vivekananda, Nehru, A P J Abdul Kalam and Bhagat Singh. India needs development and integrity. But all we can see is despair and instability,” said Banerjee.The first response to Mamata Banerjee came from the Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh who spent the day at a protest at Rajghat in the national capital to remember the lives of BJP workers killed in Bengal since 2008.“Mamata Banerjee’s government uses Pegasus to snoop on people and opposition leaders. She has a better idea about the technology,” Ghosh said in Delhi as he reiterated the BJP’s attack on the Banerjee government for the violence that followed after TMC’s win in early May.Mamata Banerjee rebutted the accusation in her speech. “Nothing happened after the polls. Some BJP members became NHRC members and submitted (to the Calcutta high court) a biased report,” she said.Referring to her election slogan ‘khela hobe’ (let’s play), Banerjee declared that the TMC will observe August 16 as Khela Divas. “Khela will take place in all states until the BJP is ousted from the country,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-is-turning-country-into-surveillance-state-mamata-101626892840760.html
22-07-2021||India||Farmers get DDMA nod to protest at Jantar Mantar till August 9||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday allowed farmer groups to protest at Jantar Mantar from July 22 to August 9, with a maximum of 200 people in attendance and Covid-19 appropriate protocols in place, even though large gatherings continue to remain prohibited in the national capital in light of the pandemic.The authority’s decision came three days after a Delhi Police delegation met farmer leaders at Singhu border and asked them to reconsider their proposed march to the Parliament on July 22 and a protest that they planned to start on the same day, citing DDMA orders that prohibit religious, cultural, political, sports, academic and other gatherings in the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19.“I am directed to convey the approval of Lieutenant Governor Delhi / Chairperson of Delhi Disaster Management Authority for staggered protest at Jantar Mantar by maximum 200 protesting farmers / member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha everyday from 22.07.2021 to 09.08.2021 between 11 am and 5 pm,” said the DDMA in a letter to the Delhi Police on Wednesday, a copy of which HT has seen.Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal is the DDMA chairperson, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal the vice-chairperson.After the order, Delhi Police stepped up security arrangements at the protest venue, and several senior Delhi Police officers, including police chief Balaji Srivastava, visited Jantar Mantar to check the preparations in place. Between 200 and 300 security personnel are expected to be deployed in and around Jantar Mantar and adjoining roads during the protest.In a statement, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said: “After multiple rounds of negotiations with farmers bodies... and on being assured in writing that they will remain peaceful and with the approval of DDMA, they have been permitted to protest at Jantar Mantar with limited numbers... They will be escorted to the designated location from Singhu border in buses. They have been advised to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour and social distancing... Delhi Police has put in place extensive arrangements to ensure that the protest programme remains peaceful.”Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against three newly enacted farm laws. Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains.Farmer unions are planning to intensify their nearly eight-month-long stir by protesting till the scheduled end of Parliament’s monsoon session, to demand the scrapping of the three farm laws passed in September last year. The monsoon session of Parliament began on July 19 and is scheduled to end on August 13.The protest call was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the agitation against the contentious farm laws.When asked about the current guidelines, which prohibit gatherings, a senior DDMA official, who asked not to be named, said the permission is an “exemption” in the light of “inputs” received from the Delhi Police.The Delhi Police have taken an undertaking from SKM, an umbrella body of about 40 farmers’ groups, that their protest will be peaceful and the 200 protesters at the venue will observe Covid-appropriate behaviour. They will also not attempt to leave the protest site or disrupt Parliament, senior police officers aware of the matter said.The police on Wednesday installed CCTV cameras in and around the protest venue. Except the 200 protesters, who will carry identify cards issued by the SKM, mediapersons and security personnel, no member of the public will be allowed at the protest site, said a senior police officer, who asked not to be named.Another police officer said that an escort team will reach Singhu border on Thursday morning and check five buses and an SUV in which the farmers will travel to Jantar Mantar. The ID cards of the participants, issued by the SKM, will be checked before allowing them inside the vehicles, which the farmers will arrange.“An ambulance will also accompany the police escort team and farmers’ vehicles. The security of the routes that the buses would take will be the responsibility of the district police concerned. After the protest ends, farmers will be escorted back to Singhu border,” the second officer said.Senior Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait group) leader Rakesh Tikait said that a fresh lot of 200 farmers, duly verified by the SKM and with valid ID cards, will visit Jantar Mantar every day, as part of the ‘Kisan Sansad’.“We never said anything about ‘sansad gherao’, but holding a kisan sansad at any place outside Parliament where the public is allowed. The 200 farmers who will participate in the protest will follow all Covid guidelines. It will be a peaceful agitation,” said Tikait.SKM in a press statement said, “From tomorrow, Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s contingents of two hundred farmers each would reach Jantar Mantar to protest against the government, and hold their own Kisan Sansads on each working day of the Parliament, until the monsoon session ends [on August 13]. Preparations are underway for the same...”Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shiv Kumar Kakka, who was part of the nine-member coordination committed that held two meetings with Delhi Police in the last three days, said the police asked them to reduce the number of protesters at the site.“We turned this request down, saying that many farmers groups are part of the agitation, and we have to take two or three representatives from each group,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-get-ddma-nod-to-protest-at-jantar-mantar-till-august-9-101626891520637.html
22-07-2021||India||Centre’s draft plan has little impact on old vehicles in NCR||The Centre’s new draft vehicle-scrapping policy, which will allow owners to use their old vehicles after a fitness test and on payment of a higher fee, will have little impact for owners of vehicles registered in Delhi, unless there are fresh directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) or the Supreme Court.In March, the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) released the first draft of the national voluntary scrappage scheme, under which a private vehicle over 20 years old will have to mandatorily undergo fitness and emission tests, failing which it will be deemed as an End-of-Life-Vehicle or ‘EOLV’, and will be scrapped.For commercial vehicles, the age has been capped at 15 years. Such vehicles will have to pay more for fitness certificates and will also have to pay a “green tax”, which will vary from state to state, depending on their pollution levels. None of the rates have been decided yet and the policy is likely to be implemented from next year.But the National Capital Region (NCR), because of its hazardous pollution levels in winter, is governed by a separate set of norms that will override the Centre’s scheme.What are the rules that govern the use of old vehicles in Delhi?Vehicles in Delhi have been categorised on the basis of their fuel type and assigned a shelf life. Any registered diesel vehicle more than 10 years old, and petrol vehicle over 15 years old cannot operate in NCR. These rules have been laid down in various orders issued by the NGT (2015) and the Supreme Court (2018). This is different from the Centre’s draft policy, where the only distinction is between private and commercial vehicles in determining the age for re-registration, which is dependent on its fitness.Delhi also has its own vehicle scrapping guidelines, issued in August 2018, according to which any vehicle, whether petrol or diesel, has to be mandatorily scrapped once they are above 15 years. In other states, vehicles can be run even after 15 years once it undergoes a fresh fitness test.“Delhi’s motor licensing officers issue no-objection certificates (NOCs) for vehicles that are either above 15 years old, or above 10 years if it is a diesel variant. The vehicles cannot be used in Delhi, but these NOCs can be used in select states to get the vehicle re-registered there. It is illegal to drive any such vehicle without re-registration in that state,” said a senior transport official.States where such vehicles are allowed to be sold and re-registered include Rajasthan, which allows it in all its districts; Bihar (18 districts); Maharashtra (26 districts); Uttar Pradesh (33); West Bengal (all districts but only BS-IV vehicles); Meghalaya (all districts).What are a user’s options if their vehicle is nearing the end of its mandated shelf life?A vehicle owner can use their vehicle till the day the shelf life expires. So, for instance, a nine-year-old diesel vehicle or a 14-year-old petrol one can be used for another year on NCR roads. However, after the shelf period elapses, the options for vehicle owners are few. Once this happens, the best option for an owner is to sell the end-of-life vehicle in another state, and will also result in a better monetary return.“It is better if owners start planning to sell or re-register their vehicles nearing their end-of-life age sooner than when they actually cross 10 or 15 years. That way, they will get more returns and also go through the process easily. Scrapping is an option if one wants to retain the registration number or if a vehicle has crossed 15 years or if it is badly damaged,” said a senior transport official.Is it possible that the rules will change in Delhi or NCR?To address Delhi’s peculiar situation, which is very different from what the draft national scrapping policy envisages, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot on June 16 said the Delhi government was planning to approach the Supreme Court to review its 2018 order prohibiting the plying of 15-year-old petrol and 10-year-old diesel vehicles in Delhi-NCR.Gahlot on Wednesday said, “Our legal team has advised that an appeal can be filed only once the national scrapping policy is notified, because right now, it is still at a formative stage. So, we will file an appeal in the SC once the Centre notifies the policy,” he said.To be sure, it is not clear when the Centre will notify this policy, since it is taking suggestions from state governments.Exceptions in place for vintage cars On July 15, the MoRTH notified fresh amendments to the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 2021 to include a special provision for registration of vintage motor vehicles. All two-wheelers and four-wheelers that are more than 50 years old from the date of first registration, maintained in their original form and have not undergone any substantial overhaul, which includes any modification in chassis or body shell or engine, shall be defined as Vintage Motor Vehicles, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-draft-vehicle-scrapping-plan-has-little-impact-on-old-vehicles-in-delhincr-101626891220640.html
22-07-2021||NA||Highlights: 24 dead, 31 missing as storm strikes fishing ships in Indonesia||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:UK government ups pay rise for health staff in England to 3%The British government has tripled its pay increase offer for more than a million National Health Service employees in England, but unions said the proposed boost was insufficient given an anticipated spike in inflation.4 killed, 20 missing as three boats capsize in dam in PakistanAt least four people died and 20 others went missing after three boats capsized in a dam in northwest Pakistan on Wednesday, officials said.24 dead, 31 missing as storm strikes fishing ships in IndonesiaAs many as 24 bodies were rescued and the search for 31 other missing persons are underway after a storm hit 18 ships in central Indonesia days ago, the province's top rescuer said on Wednesday, ANI reported.Maharashtra reports 8,159 new Covid-19 cases, 165 deaths in last 24 hoursWith 8,159 new Covid-19 cases and 165 deaths in last 24 hours, Maharashtra's tally reached 6,237,755 and the death toll went up to 130,918 total, a bulletin from the state government showed.3 more Rafale jets from France arrive in India: Indian air forceThree Rafale aircraft arrived in India a short while ago, after a direct ferry from #IstresAirBase, France.IAF deeply appreciates the support by UAE Air Force for in-flight refuelling during the non-stop ferry.The Indian air force said that three more Rafale fighter jets from France arrived in India following a non-stop flight. The IAF also thanked the United Arab Emirates air force for in-flight refuelling of the jets.Covid-19 vaccination to begin at government centres in Mumbai from Friday, says BMCThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said that Covid-19 vaccine stock will reach Mumbai tonight and distributed to all vaccination centres tomorrow. It also said that the government vaccination centres and BMC centres would begin inoculation from Friday, reports ANI.Delhi govt grants permission for farmers to protest at Jantar Mantar on July 22The Delhi government has granted permission for farmers to stage a protest at Jantar Mantar on July 22 subject to following all Covid appropriate behaviour. The DelhiDRDO successfully tests indigenous Man Portable Antitank Guided MissileIn a major boost to #AtmaNirbharBharat and strengthening Indian Army, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) successfully flight tested indigenously developed low weight, fire and forget Man Portable Antitank Guided Missile (MPATGM) today 21st July 2021. pic.twitter.com/kLEqrsgoORThe Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) successfully flight tested indigenously developed low weight, fire and forget Man-Portable Anti-Tank Guided Missile (MPATGM).Click here to read moreClCBSE extends last date for finalising class 12 results to July 25Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) extended the last date of finalising the class XII results from July 22 to 5pm on July 25.UNESCO removes Liverpool from list of world heritage sitesThe UNESCO removed Liverpool from the list of world heritage sites, news agency AFP reports.Delhi reports 62 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 62 new #COVID19 cases, 61 recoveries and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,35,671Total recoveries 14,10,066Death toll 25,039Active cases 566 pic.twitter.com/RieJd9LI9jDelhi reported 62 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours. The cumulative cases so far reached 1,435,671 and the death toll climbed to 25,039, reports ANI.IMD predicts intense to very intense spells of rain in MumbaiIntense to very intense spells of rain are expected to occur till 4 pm today in Mumbai, Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts, as per India Meteorological Department's latest bulletin.No data from states/UTs' side on deaths caused by oxygen shortage: PatraCentre says that as no State/UT sent any data regarding deaths specifically due to shortage of oxygen, since none of them said that a death occurred in their State/UT due to shortage of oxygen, there is no data for that. Did the Centre generate this data? No: Sambit PatraSambit Patra addresses criticism after Centre says no death occurred 'due to oxygen shortage'There are 3 things one must pay attention to in the reply given by the Govt. Centre says that Health is a State/UT subject. It says that it just collects the data sent by States/UTs, it doesn't generate data, says BJP's Sambit Patra in a presser after Centre said deaths occurred due to shortage of oxygen.Rain to continue till Friday, but no indication of extreme weather yetMumbai woke up to its fourth consecutive day of rain on Wednesday, recording 23.9mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8:30am (down from 38.4mm recorded in the 24 hours prior)UK Strike Force joins Indian and Quad navies to put a stamp on Indo-PacificThe Queen Elizabeth carrier strike group will today bring the focus on Quad and the Indo-Pacific when the naval force exercises with Indian Navy’s Rajput class guided missile destroyer, an attack submarine and anti-submarine warfare aircraft in the Bay of Bengal while enroute to the contested South China Sea. Read More'Kisan Panchayat': 200 farmers to visit Jantar Mantar everyday from July 22The government is facing opposition's heat inside Parliament over various issues. The Congress and others parties have said that they will not let monsoon session proceed normally unless the government listens to their demands. And now, there is a fresh problem for the government to deal with outside Parliament. Read MoreNearly 200,000 evacuated in central China floodingNearly 200,000 people have been evacuated from a flood-hit city in central China, local authorities said Wednesday, as dams burst and rivers bulged across Henan province under torrential rains."As of 7am on July 21, almost 200,000 people were evacuated in an emergency and 36,000 city residents were affected by the disaster," authorities in Zhengzhou city, Henan province said.Daily cases in India shoots up to 42,015Daily cases of infection in India goes up significantly as 42,015 new cases found in last 24 hours, as per Union health ministry.China flooding 'extremely severe': Xi JinpingChinese President Xi Jinping declared the deadly flooding in central China's Henan province "extremely severe", state media reported Wednesday, as dams burst and rivers swelled beyond embankments."Some reservoirs had their dams burst... causing serious injury, loss of life and property damage. The flood control situation is extremely severe," Xi was quoted as saying, adding events were at a "critical stage".Yellow alert issued for Mumbai; Navi Mumbai, Thane under orange alertOrange alert issued in Navi Mumbai and Thane with intense spells of rain very likely to occur at isolated places; Yellow Alert issued in Mumbai with moderate to intense spells of rain very likely to occur at isolated places: IMDWill the OPEC deal bring petrol, diesel prices down?On July 18, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) reached an agreement to increase its crude production by 400,000 barrels per day on a monthly basis till the halted output is fully restored. OPEC is a cartel of 13 countries which produce 29% of the total crude oil in the world. Read MoreGangotri National Highway blocked after a landslideGangotri National Highway has been blocked after a landslide near the Sunagar area of Uttarkashi district, news agency ANI reported.Delta variant now accounts for 83% of Covid-19 cases in USDelta variant now accounts for 83% of Covid-19 cases in the United States, says Centers for Disease Control and Prevention director Dr. Rochelle WalenskyWestern Canada declares fire emergency as evacuations climbCanada's western province of British Columbia declared a state of emergency Tuesday, with wildfires expected to grow even larger in the coming days due to high heat and winds.Report links Pegasus to Cong-JDS govt fall in 2019Phone numbers linked to a former Karnataka deputy chief minister and associates of two former CMs were potentially targeted for surveillance using Israeli spyware in 2019, an investigative consortium reported on Tuesday, prompting the Congress to blame the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the collapse of the state government at the time. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-21-2020-101626824664667.html
