23-07-2021||India||Police raid residences of 4 criminals, aides in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: The Central Crime Branch police conducted raids and searches at the residences of notorious criminals and their associates in Bengaluru, on Friday. “CCB raids on active and notorious rowdies — Wilson Garden Naga, Cycle Ravi, Silent Sunil, J B Narayan — and their associates are now underway. The residences, 45 in total, of these four rowdy sheeters and their associates, are being searched,” said Sandeep Patil Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). He added that these criminals were involved in several cases of murder, extortion, land-grabbing, and illegal settlement of property disputes among others. During the raid at the residence of Naga, CCB sleuths found ₹2 lakh in cash and a dagger. They also seized weapons, cash, and property documents among other things during the raids at other places. According to a senior CCB officer, the raids are part of the police’s crackdown on rowdies in the city. Police on July 10 had raided around 2,146 homes associated with rowdies, and 1,548 people were taken into detention. During this raid, 561 rowdies were booked under various sections, which was the highest in the history of any raids in the city. Out of the 561 cases, 48 people were booked under the Arms Act for possession of weapons, 84 were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act after illegal drugs were seized and two persons have been booked for planning to execute dacoity. Around 406 were booked under other preventive sections. However, the rowdies raided on Friday were not in the city during the July 10 raid. Police in the city had intensified the crackdown after the city reported one more murder on July 19 after a rowdy sheeter identified as Joseph Babli was hacked to death inside a bank in Koramangala. Two days later, two persons – Pradeep and Ravi – were arrested for the crime. They are said to be close associates of another rowdy sheeter Shiva, who belonged to a rival gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-raid-residences-of-4-criminals-aides-in-bengaluru-101627064948945.html
23-07-2021||India||Govt gears up, rescue ops on as heavy rain batters K’taka||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday took stock of the incessant downpour in the state and directed all district-in-charge and MLAs to return, and oversee relief and rescue operations in their respective constituencies.“I direct all district in-charge ministers and MLAs to be present in their respective districts and constituencies to oversee rescue and relief efforts being carried out by district administrations,” the 75-year-old tweeted. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, the chief minister said he is in constant touch with the administrations in various districts. “I have spoken to all the deputy commissioners (DCs) of the districts where heavy rains have been reported. The DCs have told me that they are releasing water (from the reservoirs) and no damage has been done so far,” he said. Yediyurappa added that deputy chief minister Govind Karjol, who is in north Karnataka, has been directed to keep a watch on the flood-affected areas till July 25. “We are ready to face any situation with all help extended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said. Heavy downpour has been reported across the state and the regions in the coastal and north Karnataka are the worst affected. Following a rise in the water level in Krishna river, the chief minister said he spoke to the deputy commissioner of Belagavi district and directed officials to shift people and domestic animals from the banks of the river to safer areas. Officials on Friday said the shutters of Renuka Sagar Dam in Belagavi district may be opened any time as the water level stood at 2,069 feet against its capacity of 2,079 feet due to the heavy downpour. The inflow of water into the dam was over 33,000 cusecs and the outflow could go up to around 20,000 cusecs, officials said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra opened the gates of Koyna Dam to release around 20,000 cusecs of water into Koyna river, a tributary of Krishna river which flows in northern Karnataka. Parts of the Belagavi-Kolhapur national highway remained shut due to the heavy downpour.Rajashree, a resident of Belagavi district, said the van in which she was travelling along with 10 others were stranded in Nippani after the vehicle got partially submerged in the water. “We were returning home after visiting a relative when the road got flooded. Since it was 11.30 pm, we couldn’t ascertain the depth of the water. The vehicle began moving slowly but soon stopped after water entered it,” she said. It was not until police arrived that the stranded group was rescued. Several buses and vehicles were diverted from Yamagarani checkpost after parts of the national highway got flooded near Nippani. Superintendent of police Lakshman Nimbaragi requested officers in Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Haveri and Dharwad not to allow vehicular movement towards Maharashtra via Belagavi.The incessant downpour in the past two days also resulted in property destruction in some parts of the state. While two schools in Joida and Mungod taluk in Uttara Kannada district collapsed, another three in Dharwad taluk partially came down.Six bridges were also submerged along Krishna river. While Pandora, Kaneri and Kali rivers are overflowing, at least 120 villages in four districts are totally inundated. The water level in Gangavali river that flows within the western part of the state is also on the rise, creating flood-like situation in the low-lying areas of Ankola taluk.A transport link between Yellapur and Ankola was also damaged. Railway services were also impacted due to the heavy rains. Konkan Railway that connects the state to Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka cancelled several trains. All services towards the north were either suspended or rescheduled, according to a Konkan Railway communique.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-gears-up-rescue-ops-on-as-heavy-rain-batters-ktaka-101627064829552.html
23-07-2021||India||BSY reviews pending development projects||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday reviewed development works in the capital city. Talking to reporters he said that until the central leadership gives further orders, he will continue with his responsibilities. Yediyurappa, who also holds the portfolio of Bengaluru Development, conducted rounds and inspected the white-topping, Tender Sure, Smart City and other projects executed by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). He was accompanied by his cabinet colleague R Ashok and other legislators. The CM travelled in a bus on Friday morning, inspected Race Course Road near his official residence and other projects in the city. He drove through Raja Ram Mohan Roy Road, developed under the Smart City project, and inspected the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) work at Minsk Square. Speaking to reporters after inspecting developmental works that are under progress in the city, he said: “I have inspected Smart City, TenderSure and other works which are under progress along with cabinet colleagues, legislators and officials...it is our government’s priority to create world-class facilities in Bengaluru and we will work towards achieving this goal.” He said, 36 works have been taken up under the Smart City project, of which many road works have already been completed, and in the current year, the remaining road work will also be completed. Listing out roads that have been developed under the TenderSure model in the city, he further said, 69 roads of 147 km length is white-topped in order to improve the quality of the city’s main roads. “in coming days we want all the roads in the city to be developed, we will ensure sufficient funds for it, aimed at all round development of the city.” During the inspection, the chief minister also visited the new commercial street, which nearly eight months after it was taken up for redevelopment, was given a new look. The redevelopment of the 458m-long road in one of the busiest areas in Bengaluru was done at a cost of ₹5 crore under the Bengaluru Smart City Limited. The new design has been executed using cobblestones with radiant colours, said BBMP officials in their briefing to the CM. In a review meeting held on June 11, Yediyurappa had pulled up the city civic body officials. “Though I have instructed the BBMP to complete the 27 smart city projects by May 31 before the monsoon sets in, the works are incomplete, as evident from piles of mud and craters on both sides of the roads,” he told the officials during the review. During this meeting, the chief minister had asked BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta by when the pending works would be completed. Bengaluru police too had raised the issue of the delay in the development works with the chief minister during this review meeting, claiming it was slowing down the traffic. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant had told HT that the pending development works in the city is causing a problem. “Most of the roads have some construction work going on and it is further slowing down the traffic in the city. The government assured that this issue will be taken up with civic authorities,” Pant said on Friday. While most of the works still remain incomplete, the BBMP officials told the chief minister that considerable improvement has been made. Instructions were provided to finish the work within the revised deadline, said the chief minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-reviews-pending-development-projects-101627064769992.html
23-07-2021||India||Siddaramaiah seeks SC leader as next CM||Bengaluru: A day after chief minister BS Yediyurappa hinted at a possible exit, former chief minister and senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Friday challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to name a leader from the Scheduled Caste as its next chief minister. “Based on whatever directions are given by the party leadership on (July) 26, I will begin my work. There will be a special event on our government completing two years in power. After attending this event, whatever directions are given by the party leadership, I will abide by it,” Yediyurappa said on Thursday. Reacting to this development, Siddaramaiah on Friday said: “Nalin Kumar Kateel (state BJP president) had challenged to appoint a Dalit as the CM candidate. From our party four SC leaders had been the chief ministers in the past like- Shinde (Sushilkumar Shinde) in Maharashtra, Jagannath Pahadia in Rajasthan and Damodaram Sanjeevaiah in Andhra Pradesh,” Siddaramaiah said. He told reporters in Mangaluru that since there is an opportunity, BJP should appoint an SC chief minister. “Yediyurappa will be removed now, there is an opportunity for them (BJP), let them do it. Anyways the (chief minister’s) seat will get vacant after Yediyurappa’s exit, let them do so if they have love towards SCs. They (BJP) don’t respect social justice, but question others,” he added. Responding to a question on Lingayat seers demanding for Yediyurappa’s continuation as the chief minister, Siddaramaiah said that it was not right on the part of pontiffs to interfere in the internal affairs of any party. “Pontiffs, from whichever community they may be, should not meddle in politics. The mandate and the opinion of the people are most important in a democracy,” he said. Siddaramaiah also said that the Congress party will not allow the defectors to return to the party. The statement comes after six, who had joined the BJP after quitting the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019, on Thursday went into the chief minister’s cabin after the cabinet meeting with some paper, leading to speculations of them resigning. “I have already clarified on it in the Legislature party meeting, and I’m committed to keeping my word,” Siddaramaiah said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar in Mangaluru reiterated his stand that those who want to come back to the Congress may submit applications. “Let us discuss it after they apply. There are many who wish to come to the party fold. I do not wish to name them,” he said. However, one of the turncoat MLAs and current health minister Dr K Sudhakar dismissed the rumours of resignation. that H “Why should we resign? We have come to BJP accepting Yediyurappa’s leadership and party’s principles and ideology, and we will abide by the party high command’s decision,” he said. “After the cabinet meeting my colleagues and I, as usual, met the Chief Minister at his chamber and came out. I inquired with the Chief Minister about the ongoing developments (about his exit), to which he said- he will abide by the direction the high command will give him on July 25 and let’s build the party together,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-seeks-sc-leader-as-next-cm-101627064768957.html
23-07-2021||India||‘No delay in initiating purchase pacts with domestic Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers’: Centre||There has been no delay in entering into purchase agreements with domestic Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers and advance payments have been made for the supply orders, minister of state of health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar told Parliament on Friday.The minister’s written reply came in response to an unstarred question raised by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress’s Mala Roy on whether the government has taken note of a significant delay in entering into advance purchase agreements with vaccine manufacturers, thereby affecting the pace of the vaccine rollout.Pawar also said that a total of 1.35 billion (135 crore) Covid-19 vaccine doses are expected to be available in the country between August and December.On being asked whether the government aims to inoculate the entire adult population by the end of the year, the minister said it is an ongoing process guided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) based on scientific evidence.She said ₹9,725.19 crore has been spent so far on the vaccination programme, in the form of procurement of vaccines and the operational costs.The Congress responded on Twitter by saying that it exposed the government’s lies. “Modi Govt’s lies exposed in reply to Shri Rahul Gandhi’s question in Parliament on #Vaccination: Govt says - 1. No fixed Timeline can be indicated for completion of vaccine drive ! 2. Only 9,725 Crore spent on #COVID19 Vaccination drive against budget of 35,000 crore,’’ tweeted Congress leader Randeep Surjewala.While replying to another question, which was posed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Dayanidhi Maran, the minister of state claimed, “ The government is not facing any issues in procurement and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines.”She also said in her reply that the government has “taken many steps to augment the domestic manufacturing capacity of Covid-19 vaccine”.Dr Pawar said that the government is providing support to Bharat Biotech and three Public Sector Enterprises (PSES) under Mission Covid Suraksha, the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission. Financial assistance is being given to one of the domestic vaccine manufacturers for ‘at-risk manufacturing’, paying manufacturers in advance against supply orders placed and streamlining regulatory norms for approval of vaccines.Dr Pawar’s previous statement that there were no records of oxygen-related deaths during the second wave caused a furore with the Opposition moving a breach of privilege notice against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-delay-in-initiating-purchase-pacts-with-domestic-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturers-centre-101627063689428.html
23-07-2021||India||Odisha prosecutor with a record for getting corrupt convicted sacked for bribery||Bhubaneswar: Odisha’s anti-corruption department has sacked a special public prosecutor who was allegedly caught red-handed accepting a bribe of ₹1 lakh earlier this month, a senior government official said on Friday.Odisha’s director of vigilance YK Jethwa said the government has terminated the services of Ashutosh Mishra, special public prosecutor of a vigilance court in Kalahandi.Jethwa said he was caught accepting a ₹1 lakh bribe from an assistant sub inspector of police who was chargesheeted in a corruption case.Vigilance officials searched Ashutosh Mishra’s house in Bhawanipatna town of Kalahandi after his arrest and was found to own assets worth Rs. 85 lakh. He was later also charged with possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, the department said after his arrest on July 3. This is the first case in Odisha vigilance in which a prosecutor was arrested for demanding money.Mishra had served as a prosecutor in Kalahandi for nearly 11 years. Officials said Mishra had among the highest rate of convictions as a special public prosecutor over the past decade and had received many appreciation letters in this context.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-prosecutor-with-a-record-for-getting-corrupt-convicted-sacked-for-bribery-101627063570581.html
23-07-2021||India||Blaze of hope for India as Tokyo flame is lit||The Tokyo night sky lit up as the outer rim of Japan’s National Stadium exploded in a shower of blue and white sparks, and the most unusual Olympic Games in decades were declared open.Inside the stadium, which can seat up to 68,000 people but where the stands were empty, spotlights picked out isolated athletes — one running on a treadmill, one on a cycling machine — to signify the tribulations the roughly 11,000 athletes at Tokyo 2020 have had to endure to get to this moment. Lockdowns, quarantines, the cancellation of entire sporting seasons — training through it all, often alone at home, in the hope of making it to a Covid-era Olympics, which, for long, were under threat of not happening at all. In keeping with the times, the ceremony itself was quicker and quieter than usual — instead of the usual torrent of celebrity performances and high-wire acts, it involved relatively low-key dance routines and fewer songs. When there was a pause in the music, the stadium was first engulfed in eerie silence, before noise from the hundreds of protesters gathered outside, demonstrating against the Games, seeped in.Then it was time for the athlete’s parade, where everyone who walked out was unified by a common accessory — the face mask. Boxer Mary Kom and India hockey captain Manpreet Singh carried the Indian flag, followed by a small group of 16 athletes from the 207-strong contingent, the largest ever. This is the first time each nation nominated not one but two flag-bearers (each contingent was encouraged to name one man and one woman). The ceremony ended with Japan’s tennis star Naomi Osaka lighting the flower-shaped Olympic cauldron, jogging up the steps of a temporary Mount Fuji erected in the stadium.Many from the Indian contingent were not just missing from the opening ceremony because of Covid-19 protocols, but also because the first full day of competition on Saturday is packed with action.Action, and anticipation. There has never been an Olympics where India has the opportunity to win not one, but a handful of medals on the first day. Consider the Indians in action in the medal events on Saturday: Elavenil Valarivan and Apurvi Chandela in 10m Air Rifle, where they have rotated the world No. 1 tag amongst themselves over the last two years. Valarivan, making her Olympic debut, is the number one seed in Tokyo in her event. That event will be closely followed by men’s 10m Air Pistol where India’s two shooters — Abhishek Verma and Saurabh Chaudhary — are seeded 1 and 2. “On paper looks so, so good,” Abhinav Bindra, India’s only Olympic gold medallist (10m Air Rifle), told HT earlier this month. “A gold medal match between India A vs India B would be wonderful,” he said. In fact, India won more medals in the 2019 shooting World Cup cycle than powerhouses such as Russia and China, an unprecedented feat (the 2020 cycle was sunk by the pandemic). But wait, there is no time to breathe: at around the same time as the men’s pistol, Mirabai Chanu will be competing in the 49kg weightlifting event, where she holds the world record for the clean & jerk, and is ranked No 2 in the world. The medal events for India conclude with Deepika Kumari, the No. 1 ranked woman archer in the world, pairing with first-time Olympian Pravin Jadhav in mixed team archery. At no other time in India’s weary history at the Olympics have there been more Indians ranked within the global top 3 in their sports going into the Games. This day could go one of two ways for India. Medals are won on the day, of course, which means that despite the trail of superb performances these athletes bring to the Olympic stage, there is a possibility that there will be no medals. If that happens, it may lower the morale of the entire contingent. But if performances go according to plan, it may also set an unprecedented tone for India’s Olympic campaign: one of great self-belief and determination, a state of mind that could open the gates for what could possibly be India’s best haul ever at the Games. In this, the eerily quiet atmosphere of Tokyo 2020 may even help Indian athletes, many of whom are on this stage for the first time (of the 15-strong shooting team, 11 are Olympic debutants). “You feel the aura and the atmosphere that exists in an Olympic arena and in an Olympic competition. In that sensory overload you are going to cognitively decline and that’s going to affect your performance,” Bindra had said earlier. “But here, you’re pretty much locked into your room and are going to compete. So it’s much closer to a normal tournament that you’re used to, so it should play up to our advantage,” he said. In Rio, India had to wait till almost the end of the Games — the 12th day — for the first medal, which came from an athlete flying under the radar till then, Sakshi Malik. This time, things could unfold very differently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blaze-of-hope-for-india-as-tokyo-flame-is-lit-101627063089324.html
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus issue continues to rock House||The Rajya Sabha suspended Trinamool Congress member Santanu Sen for the rest of the ongoing monsoon session for “unruly and unbecoming behaviour” a day after he snatched papers from information technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw who was reading a statement on the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus to target politicians, activists and journalists. But Sen refused to leave the chamber, adding to the ongoing disruptions, and forced repeated adjournments. The House can’t function if a suspended MP remains present as the member is barred from participating in proceedings. In last year’s monsoon session, eight Rajya Sabha MPs were suspended under the same rule for the unruly protests against the three contentious bills on agriculture reforms. As the opposition-led protests over allegations of snooping, farm laws and fuel price hike continued, little business could be transacted in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. But amidst this chaos , the Lower House gave an extension to the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019. The panel’s report is now expected to be tabled in the first week of the 2021 winter session. PP Chaudhary of the BJP was also appointed as its chairperson last evening. The seat fell vacant after the appointment of the previous chairperson, Meenakshi Lekhi, as a minister this month. According to PRS Legislative Research, “Private Member’s Business was scheduled in the Lok Sabha and more than 200 Private Members’ Bills were listed for introduction on Friday”. These included bills on population control and a bill to regulate Indian intelligence agencies. But the Lok Sabha was adjourned earlier in the day. Union minister V Muraleedharan moved a motion for Sen’s suspension, saying the TMC lawmaker’s behaviour had brought “disrepute” to the house. Naidu allowed the motion, which was subsequently passed in the House. Sen refused to leave the House even as he was asked to exit multiple times by Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. TMC’s chief whip, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, objected to the motion, saying it was not on the list of business of the House. Roy said TMC was given no time to prepare.“We have had no opportunity to react to the government’s motion to suspend Shantanu Sen,” he said. Naidu countered Ray’s objections. He said the motion was approved as it was a question of the “dignity of the House”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-issue-continues-to-rock-house-101627063088783.html
23-07-2021||India||At least 50 dead in rain-related incidents in western India||At least 50 people were reported dead and thousands displaced because of heavy rains in coastal Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa in the past 24 hours even as India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for the entire western coast predicting heavy rains over the weekend.The entire western coastal region from Maharashtra to Kerala has received very heavy rainfall in the past 24 hours, leaving 47 people dead in Maharashtra (36 in a landslide in Raigard district). Eleven people on board a bus had a narrow escape as they were rescued just before the vehicle got washed away into a river in Kolhapur district of Maharashtra early on Friday, police said.At 9 pm on Thursday, the IMD warned that “very intense spells of short duration” would occur over parts of the western coast. As predicted, the areas received very heavy rainfall with some areas receiving up to 600 mm of rainfall in four to five hours. Mahabaleshwar, a hill station in Maharashtra’s Satara district recorded the highest ever rainfall in its history with 600mm in 24 hours.Many regions in Goa and North Karnataka received up to 300 mm with Valpoi in Sattari receiving 296.2 mm and Belagavi in Karnataka receiving 278 mm of rainfall, respectively. The IMD has predicted heavy rainfall in the next five days.Even though Maharashtra bore the maximum brunt of the rainfall, three persons died in northern Karnataka and one in Goa as villages in the coastal region got submerged in rainwater and authorities had to open gates of the dam to release excess water.Dr Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority said parts of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dharward, Haveri, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada are facing the brunt of floods due to incessant rains over the past few days.The rivers Krishna, Cauvery, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Kapila (Kabini) and many others in Malnad and coastal Karnataka are in spate, said the KSDMA officer.Details shared by him showed that 131 villages in 18 Taluks are badly hit, affecting 16,213 people. While three people lost their lives, two are missing, he added. Sixty-five bridges, 10 schools and a primary health centre were damaged, while 291.03 km of roads were washed away.So far, 8,733 people have been evacuated to safety and about 4,964 people are staying across 80 relief camps. Landslides were reported in eight places, including Virajpet in Kodagu district and Arabail Ghat in Uttara Kannada district, the officer said.Karnataka chief minister, BS Yediyurappa, who reviewed the flood situation with top officials on Friday, directed all district in-charge ministers and MLAs to oversee relief work in their areas. He said the government would extend all necessary support to relief and rescue efforts and assist farmers who suffered losses due to the untimely rain and hailstorms.In Goa, the overnight heavy rainfall inundated houses, leaving hundreds of stranded homes flooded, communication lines snapped and rail and road traffic disrupted. Chief Minister Dr Pramod Sawant inspected the areas flooded due to incessant rains in various parts of Bicholim taluka, another of the affected taluks and directed the officials to provide immediate assistance to people in distress. 23 people in Harvalem in Bicholim were rescued and brought to safety.A bridge in Paikul Sattari washed away cutting the village off from the mainstream while at least three incidents of houses collapsing after being inundated by floodwaters were reported from different parts of Goa.In a related incident, the engine and a passenger coach of the Mangaluru Jn-Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Express Spl (which was running o­n the diverted route via Madgaon-Londa-Miraj due to overflow of Vashishti River between Chiplun and Kamathe), suffered a derailment between Dudhsagar-Sonaulim section along the steep slope of the Western Ghats.“No passenger casualty has been reported (no injury/death). The passengers of the affected coach have been shifted to other coaches. The train is being pulled back to Kulem, and has crossed Sonaulim at this time,” the South Western Railway, which operates the railway line said, in a statement.Roads connected Goa, North Karnataka and parts of Maharashtra have also been cut off due to landslides halting the flow of traffic. Several villages in Valpoi, Bicholim, Pernem and Ponda talukas were cut off after the roads leading to the villages got affected.Traffic on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway remained suspended on Friday after part of the stretch witnessed inundation near Shiroli under Kolhapur district and Yamgarni village in Belgaum district. This prompted local police to block the vehicular traffic from crossing the stretch.According to Kolhapur Superintendent of Police Shailesh Balkawade, water has started coming on the highway near Shiroli village. “As a part of precaution, the road has been closed for vehicular traffic,” said Balkawade. “Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. Our people have faced immense hardship due to continuous and heavy rainfall in Sattari,” health minister Vishwajit Rane, who represents the Valpoi constituency, said.However, the release of excess water in dams in Maharashtra and Karnataka brought some relief in flooding areas even though it caused a scare among people downstream. Both Maharashtra and Karnataka governments warned people living downstream of rivers to be cautious of the sudden flow of water from the dams. About 2.5 lakh cusec of water was released from Almatti dam in Karnataka on Friday afternoon.In northern India, rains continued in parts of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. Three children drowned in swollen rivers in Haldwani and Rudrapur areas of Kumaon in two separate incidents, police said. Although no casualty was reported from Himachal, rains caused landslides leading to blockade of traffic on several roads, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-50-dead-in-rain-related-incidents-in-western-india-101627062971689.html
23-07-2021||India||Over 60 killed as west India hit by heavy rain||At least 61 people were killed and more than 120 others were missing on Friday after heavy rain pummelled the Konkan and Western Maharashtra region for two days, triggering landslides and flooding several villages where rescue operations were mounted.The hardest hit were villages in Raigad, where a portion of a hillock flattened most of the Taliye village late on Thursday. At least 32 houses were buried and, as on Friday evening, 36 bodies were pulled out from the debris.“Around 80-85 people are missing. Many are still trapped under debris. NDRF (national disaster response force), local agencies and others are carrying out rescue operations,” said Maharashtra’s urban development and PWD minister Eknath Shinde.Another landslide in a different Raigad village, Kevanale, killed 11 people district officials said.In Satara district, seven people were killed in multiple landslides and 30 more were still missing. In Ratnagiri’s Posare village, three persons were killed after a portion of hillock gave away while 14 persons were still reported missing.“Unexpected very heavy rainfall triggered landslides in many places and flooded rivers,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told journalists in the afternoon.Four people were killed when a house collapsed in a slum in state capital Mumbai on Friday.Parts the state received up to 59.4cm of rainfall over 24 hours, forcing authorities to evacuate people from vulnerable areas as they released water from dams that were threatening to overflow, Reuters reported. Some of the people who were rescued on Friday were stranded on rooftops and even on the top of buses.“There are reports of landslides in other parts of the state and my appeal to everyone is to stay safe. Those living in risky terrain should move to safer places,” said Thackeray.The meteorological department has issued red alerts for several regions in the state, indicating that heavy rainfall will continue for the next few days.State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said villagers at Taliye were alerted and moved to safer locations earlier in the week in anticipation of heavy rain following the India Meteorological Department’s red alert. “But the locals moved back to the same place before the landslide,” said Wadettiwar.Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari confirmed around 32 houses were buried under soil, and 10 people survived with moderate injuries. “Based on the information from locals and survivors, we can say almost 30-35 people are still feared trapped. We have pressed more rescuers into service to search people trapped under the debris,” said Choudhari.Raigad district guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said while the landslide occurred on Thursday, rescue operations could begin only the following day due to lack of visibility.In Satara, landslides were reported at Ambeghar, Mirgaon, Dhokawale, Devrukhwadi – Kondhawale, Renganwadi, and Hombardi.“We have recovered six bodies so far, while 30 persons are still missing. The search operation is underway on war-footing though heavy rains in many parts are creating hurdles” said Satara district collector Shekhar Singh.“At Ambeghar, four houses were buried under soil following a landslide and there are 16 people feared trapped, while in Mirgaon, three houses were affected and 12 people are feared trapped. Separately, four persons have been reported missing at Dhokawale,” said Singh.Satara superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Bansal said the continuous rains have also flooded the roads, cutting several of these villages off and making rescue work difficult.Patan, along with neighbouring Mahabaleshwar, received record rainfall on Thursday. According to IMD, Mahabaleshwar recorded 60 cm rainfall within 24 hours ending Friday morning, a record for the hill station.Several states and regions along the West coast have been hit hard. Road connectivity in Goa and north Karnataka have been cut off and traffic on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway was suspended on Friday after part of the stretch was inundated near Shiroli under Kolhapur district. This prompted local police to block the vehicular traffic from crossing the stretch.In Goa, the overnight heavy rainfall inundated houses, left hundreds stranded, snapped communication lines and disrupted rail and road traffic.In Karnataka, parts of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dharward, Haveri, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada were inundated. The rivers Krishna, Cauvery, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Kapila (Kabini) and others in Malnad and coastal Karnataka were in spate due to heavy rains, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-60-killed-as-west-india-hit-by-heavy-rain-101627062308736.html
23-07-2021||India||Kerala CM Vijayan tightens Covid-19 restrictions; State, central government offices to function with reduced attendance||The Kerala government on Friday announced additional Covid-19 related restrictions in the state as the test positivity rate (TPR) continued to increase in the past few days. The new restrictions came as the state already had announced weekend restrictions to control the transmission of the virus.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday asked central and state government offices to function with reduced attendance. “In the context of the Covid spread, Central and State Government Offices, Public Offices, Public Sector Undertakings, Companies, Commissions, and Corporation offices in Category A and B local bodies can function with up to 50 per cent of staff and up to 25 per cent in Category C areas. Only essential services will operate in Category D. The remaining 50 per cent staff A and B places and 75 per cent in C, and officers from all sectors should be involved in Covid prevention activities,” news agency ANI quoted Vijayan as saying. Vijayan also directed the district collectors to take responsibility for the allocation of work.Also read | Kerala imposes complete lockdown on July 24, 25; mass Covid-19 testing planned at districts with high positivity rate﻿“Since only essential services operate in the D category, the vast majority of employees will be part of the preventive measures. Areas with a high prevalence of the disease are considered clusters. At the same time, a micro-containment system will be introduced,” he said.Stressing on the need for vaccination against Covid-19, Vijayan also said his government could inoculate 60% of the people if adequate supply is maintained by the Union government. “To avoid the possibility of the Covid third wave, we are speeding up vaccination. If we get an adequate number of vaccines from the Centre, at the pace of vaccination carried out in the state, 60% of Kerala's population can be vaccinated,” he addedOn Friday, 17,518 people tested positive for the disease in Kerala while 132 more succumbed to their illness. So far, 3,235,533 cases have been reported and the death toll stood at 15,871, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The average test positivity rate stood at 12.1% for the past three days. Also, the positivity rate was found to be above 10% in 11 districts, among which, Malappuram had the highest at 17%.Meanwhile, a campaign to immunise pregnant women in the state against Covid-19 is underway, CM Vijayan said, and so far about 40,000 women have been inoculated. “So far, 17,709,529 people have been vaccinated. Of these, 12,464,589 received a single dose of vaccine and 5,244,940 have received both doses,” he further said.Experts warned about Kerala’s lockdown model and also the relaxation given by the state government for three days on July 18, 19 and 20 on the occasion of Bakrid. The Supreme Court too had said the relaxations were “totally uncalled for” warning the government against an increase in the number of cases. Following this, the state government on Wednesday had announced two days of complete lockdown over the weekend on July 24 and 25. Also, the health department was directed to conduct mass testing across the disease on Friday.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-vijayan-tightens-covid-19-restrictions-state-central-government-offices-to-function-with-reduced-attendance-101627061790030.html
23-07-2021||India||Second wave not over: Health min says 9 states have more than 10k active cases||The health ministry on Friday asked citizens to strictly adhere to Covid-19 preventative measures as the second wave of Covid-19 is still not over and there are at least nine states which have more than 10,000 active Covid-19 cases.Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry while hosting an orientation-cum-interaction session for officers and field reporters with UNICEF stressed on the need of exercising caution as the nation recovers from the second wave of Covid-19.Agarwal while addressing the event underlined that the fight against the pandemic is a long-drawn battle and said that there is no scope for complacency in the fight against Covid-19. He said that the virus will strike back as soon as people become complacent. Agarwal also asked members of the media to play a positive role and encourage people to get vaccinated. He said that the media can play a huge role in helping people overcome vaccine hesitancy by busting myths and fake news.Agarwal said that the nation has been able to record higher recoveries and lower the total number of active cases with a focus on containment and clinical management. He also emphasized that mental health during the pandemic should be addressed and asked mediapersons to address it by engaging with subject experts from state and at national level. He also said that community-led positive initiatives and role models are necessary for vaccinating large numbers of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-wave-not-over-health-min-says-9-states-have-more-than-10k-active-cases-101627059704866.html
23-07-2021||India||A $1.2 million deal, 20 lakh subscribers: Mumbai Police's new revelations about Raj Kundra's business||The Mumbai Police on Friday made some new revelations about the functioning of the porn racket which was allegedly being run by Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband businessman Raj Kundra. Seeking an extension of his police custody, which was granted by the district court on Friday, Mumbai Police revealed some of the findings of its investigation.Here are the latest findings of the police investigation:> The Hotshots app, the paid porn-streaming app which is at the centre of the alleged racket, had 20 lakh subscribers.> Earlier, the Mumbai Police revealed that from WhatsApp chats they have come to know that Kundra was planning to take Hotshots down last year before it was blacklisted by Google Play Store and Apple for its objectionable content. Now Police have revealed that Kundra had plans to sell 119 adult films to an individual for a sum of $1.2 million. This was an international deal. Police are yet to find out whether the deal was materialised.Mumbai Police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in Raj Kundra porn app case> A South Africa-based sports betting firm transferred money into Kundra's bank account which has raised the suspicion whether the money earned from Hotshots was also being channelised to online sports betting.> Mumbai Police informed the court on Friday that it wants to probe the transactions between Raj Kundra's Yes Bank account and the United Bank of Africa.> Between August 2019 and November 2020, Hotshots earned a net profit of GBP 4,000 to 10,000 per month.> After Mumbai Police began the investigation, the employees were asked to remove all data related to the Hotshots app.> Actor Shilpa Shetty was also a director at Raj Kundra's firm for some time. Hence, a team of the investigating officers on Friday went to her residence and recorded her statement. Earlier, Mumbai police told that Shilpa Shetty prima facie had no link with Kundra's porn racket. During Friday's visit, Police seized a laptop from the residence, reports said. Raj Kundra on Friday moved the high court against the order of police remand till July 27. In his plea, it was said that Hotshots' content was not pornographic as it did not deal with explicit sexual action. The content was vulgar like many online streaming platforms, his lawyer said. In the plea, his lawyer termed his arrest as illegal as he was not served a notice and was arrested on the pretext of interrogation. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-1-2-million-deal-20-lakh-subscribers-mumbai-police-s-new-revelations-about-raj-kundra-s-business-101627059878304.html
23-07-2021||India||'Can't be speculated': What health ministry said about Delta and Covid 3rd wave in Lok Sabha||The Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2, which was first found in India in October 2020 and has now become one of the reasons for the present global resurgence of Covid cases, was discussed in Parliament on Friday as minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha that it can't be speculated whether Delta can drive another wave in India.Delta was one of the major reasons for the second wave of the pandemic which swept the country in April-May, but whether the variant alone can bring another wave can't be speculated, the minister said. The surge in cases is also dependent on available susceptible populations, including a host of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions like vaccination, the minister said in her written reply."Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to be more transmissible than other variants of concern. However, it cannot be speculated that this variant by itself can give rise to third wave of COVID-19 in the country since the surge in cases is also dependent on available susceptible population including host of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions including vaccination," the minister said.'Two reasons may drive third wave'In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said the third wave may occur either because of mutations in the virus or due to the available pool of a susceptible population. "There is however no scientific evidence either from India or globally, to show that children get disproportionately infected with Co-19 including the Delta variant. Children, if infected, generally remain asymptomatic or exhibit mild symptoms and do not get a severe disease," Mandaviya stated, giving details of the preparedness of the Centre to fight a possible third wave.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-be-speculated-what-health-ministry-said-about-delta-and-covid-3rd-wave-in-lok-sabha-101627056911189.html
23-07-2021||India||Bharat Biotech cancels Covaxin deals with 2 Brazil firms after graft row, says will work with govt regulator||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Friday announced that it has terminated the memorandum of understanding regarding its anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin with Brazil's Precisa Medicamentos, but the company will continue to work with the government healthcare authority Anvisa to get all the required approvals for the use of Covaxin in Brazil. The decision comes after the Brazil government suspended the deal to procure 20 million doses of Covaxin facing graft allegations.Both the Bolsonaro government in Brazil and India's Bharat Biotech faced a massive controversy over the Covaxin deal as whistleblowers from Brazil's health ministry alleged that though Pfizer was offering its vaccines at a lower price, the government was dealing with Bharat Biotech.The Bolsonaro government denied any wrongdoing as the government said it had not paid anything to Bharat Biotech, which the vaccine maker confirmed and said that it did not send any vaccine to Brazil.For selling Covaxin in Brazil, Bharat Biotech entered into an agreement with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C. The agreement was signed on November 20, 2020, before it was granted emergency authorisation in the country. Bharat Biotech earlier said that it got 'emergency use approval' on June 4, but later it was clarified that on June 4, Anvisa authorised exceptional import of Covaxin vaccine by the ministry of health for distribution and use under controller conditions."The Company has terminated the said MOU with immediate effect. Notwithstanding such termination, Bharat Biotech will continue to work diligently with ANVISA, the Brazilian drug regulatory body to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin," Bharat Biotech said in a statement.After the Brazil government cancelled the deal, Bharat Biotech clarified that its international price was already in the public knowledge. The global pricing was set between $15-20 and it offered Covaxin to the Brazil government at a rate of $15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-cancels-mou-with-brazil-s-precisa-says-will-work-with-govt-regulator-101627054273770.html
23-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in Raj Kundra porn app case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai Police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in Raj Kundra porn app caseA team of Mumbai Police, which is investigating the alleged porn racket case involving businessman Raj Kundra's Hotshots app, on Friday recorded Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's statement regarding the case. Read moreGovt expects all beneficiaries above 18 years to be vaccinated against Covid-19 by December 2021The Union government on Friday informed Parliament that it is expected that all beneficiaries in India above 18 years of age will be vaccinated against the disease by December 2021. Read moreIs reopening schools in India risky now? What experts, government saidSeveral states have declared dates to reopen schools in July-August after over one year of online classes. This reopening is for the second time after the pandemic struck in March 2020. Read moreAll eyes on Elavenil and Saurabh as Indian shooters launch medal quest in TokyoOn Saturday, July 24, 2021, the Shooting competitions of the Tokyo Games get underway with two of the 15 finals lined up and four Indian shooters on show. Read moreShilpa Shetty urges fans to watch Hungama 2 as Raj Kundra gets sent to jail, says 'film shouldn’t suffer'Shilpa Shetty has urged her fans and followers to watch her movie, Hungama 2. Up for release on Disney+ Hotstar on Friday, Hungama 2 marks Shilpa's comeback to acting after many years. Read moreTokyo Olympics 2020: Tweet about wood used to make the logo impresses peopleThe Olympic Games have officially began in Japan’s Tokyo after being delayed by a year due to the coronavirus pandemic. This is, however, not the first time the capital city has hosted Olympics. Read moreAmazon Prime Day Sale 2021: Smartwatches under ₹5,000 that can track your SpO2 levelsIt has been more than a year since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, and the fight against the novel virus is far from over. Even though people are getting vaccinated worldwide, there is an increased concern triggered by the latest reports about the virus mutating. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-police-record-shilpa-shetty-s-statement-in-raj-kundra-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101627052872722.html
23-07-2021||India||PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of those killed in Maha landslides||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a relief of ₹2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who died due to the landslide in Maharashtra’s Raigad. The Prime Minister’s Office said that those who have been injured in the landslides.The Maharashtra government announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh for the kin of people who died in landslides in the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also expressed grief at the loss of lives.President Ram Nath Kovind also expressed his condolences and said he was saddened by the news of the loss of lives due to the heavy rainfall in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Satara districts.Several politicians including Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi also extended their condolences towards those who lost their lives in the landslide. Rahul Gandhi appealed to party workers to assist in relief and rescue work in the region.At least 36 people were killed in a landslide in Taliye village on Friday and the same amount of people are feared to be trapped in the debris. The incident occurred on Thursday evening where at least 32 houses were destroyed in the landslide.In Chiplun, water levels rose up to 12 feet after the region received 24 hours of uninterrupted rain causing the Vashishti river to overflow. The rescue operations undertaken by the NDRF are going on. NDRF officials have said that the rescue operations will continue for some time.At least 129 people have died due to rain-related incidents in Maharashtra over the last two days. An official of the Maharashtra government told news agency PTI that most of the deaths are from the Raigad region. At least 27 people died in Western Maharashtra's Satara district and fatalities were reported from Gondia and Chandrapur as well.No relief is in sight as the India Meteorological Department issued a red alert earlier today for Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg and Pune, Satara and Kolhapur all of which have been pounded by incessant rain in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-those-killed-in-maha-landslides-101627052827257.html
23-07-2021||India||Howrah to New Delhi in 12 hours, trains to run at 160 kmph in Bihar, UP under 'Mission Raftaar'||Trains passing through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand on the existing Howrah-New Delhi rail route will run at a speed of 160 kilometres per hour, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. The infrastructure for increasing the average speeds of passenger trains on the Howrah-Delhi route is being improved as a part of ‘Mission Raftaar’ announced in the Railway Budget 2016-2017.Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer for East Central Railway, told Live Hindustan that the speed of trains on the Grand Chord railway section will increase from 130 to 160 kmph. After the completion of the ongoing project under ‘Mission Raftaar’, the distance between Delhi and Howrah could be covered in just 12 hours.An estimated ₹6,975 crore will be spent on the improvement of infrastructure for achieving such high speed on the 1,500 km long Grand Chord rail section, reported Live Hindustan. In the current financial year, the ECR has reportedly been allocated ₹408 crore for maintenance work.In 2019, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved two projects for raising the speed to 160 kmph on New Delhi- Mumbai and New Delhi-Howrah routes. These corridors are part of Golden Quadrilateral and Diagonals of Indian Railways which carry 52% of total passenger traffic and 58% of total freight traffic.The action plan to improve mobility and increase average speeds of passengers and freight trains includes removal of speed restrictions, construction of Road Over Bridges and Road Under Bridges, right powering of trains and replacement of conventional trains by Main Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) trains and Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) trains, according to the then minister of railways Piyush Goyal in a written reply to Lok Sabha in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/howrah-to-new-delhi-in-12-hours-trains-to-run-at-160-kmph-in-bihar-up-under-mission-raftaar-101627052292465.html
23-07-2021||India||Govt expects all beneficiaries above 18 years to be vaccinated against Covid-19 by December 2021||The Union government on Friday informed Parliament that there was no fixed timeline at present for the completion of the Covid-19 vaccination drive due to the “dynamic and evolving” nature of the disease. However, the government also said it is expected that all beneficiaries in India above 18 years of age will be vaccinated against the disease by December 2021.“The COVID-19 vaccination is an ongoing and dynamic process, which is being guided by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID- 19 (NEGVAC) on the basis of concurrent scientific evidence. In view of the dynamic and evolving nature of COVID-19 pandemic, no fixed timeline at present can be indicated for the completion of vaccination drive, however, it is expected that all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha.Also read | Govt’s expert group in talks with Pfizer for their vaccine, says Union health ministerMandaviya further said that as per the latest guidelines for vaccination, all citizens above 18 years of age are entitled to free vaccination at all government centres. He said this in reply to a question about whether the government has decided to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to the entire population free of cost on a priority basis.The revised guidelines for the implementation of the national Covid vaccination programme came into effect on June 21 in India. Following this, the government of India procured 75% of the doses produced in the country by the vaccine makers, while the remaining 25% was allowed to be provided directly to direct hospitals.States and Union territories are allotted vaccine doses based on their target population, consumption pattern and vaccine wastage, the minister further said. He also said that 34.83 crore doses of the vaccine have been given free of cost by the centre to the states.When asked if states had kept up the pace of vaccination and about vaccine wastage, the minister said that between May 1 and July 13 this year, 249,000 doses of the vaccine have been wasted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-expects-all-beneficiaries-above-18-years-to-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19-by-december-2021-101627052460179.html
23-07-2021||India||Mumbai Police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in Raj Kundra porn app case||A team of Mumbai Police, which is investigating the alleged porn racket case involving businessman Raj Kundra's Hotshots app, on Friday recorded Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's statement regarding the case, news agency ANI reported. On Friday, Kundra's police custody was extended till July 27, against which Raj Kundra has moved the high court. The police team visited the Juhu residence of the Bollywood actor to record her statement.The investigation into a porn racket which began in February this year snowballed into a major controversy after Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra was arrested on July 20. It has been alleged that in collaboration with a UK-based company, which is owned by Raj Kundra's brother-in-law, Raj was operating a paid, porn streaming platform. It has also been alleged that young women have been exploited by the racket on the promises of acting roles.'No direct sexual act shown': Raj Kundra moves high court, says arrest over porn film allegation illegalSeveral Bollywood personalities have given statements in favour and against the app.Following Raj Kundra's arrest, joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe said on Tuesday that Shilpa Shetty did not have an active role in the operation of Hotshots. "We have not been able to any find any active role (of Shilpa Shetty) yet. We are investigating. We will appeal to the victims to come forward and contact the Crime Branch Mumbai and we'll take appropriate action," Bharambe had said.So far, 11 people have been arrested in connection with the case. It has been alleged that Kundra had an inkling of a possible investigation against him and was planning to wrap up the functioning of Hotshots and launch another streaming app. The Anti-Corruption Bureau of Maharashtra said they have received emails alleging that Raj Kundra has been evading arrest by bribing Mumbai Police. Reports said he has paid  ₹25 lakh to police officials as a bribe.Raj Kundra, however, has not admitted to any wrongdoing and has moved the high court against his police remand till next Tuesday. His lawyers have said that the content of Hotshots are vulgar like many other streaming apps, but can't be classified as pornography as they don't deal with an explicit sexual act.Since Raj Kundra's arrest, Shilpa Shetty did not make any official statement. She was off social media as well. On Friday, she posted a quote by American author James Thurber that read, "Do not look back in anger; or forward in fear but around in awareness. We look back in anger at the people who've hurt us, the frustrations we've felt, the bad luck we've endured. We look forward in fear at the possibility that we might lose our job, contract a disease, or suffer the death of a loved one. The place we need to be is right here, right now—not looking anxiously at what has been or what might be, but fully aware of what is. I take a deep breath, knowing that I'm lucky to be alive. I have survived challenges in the past and will survive challenges in the future. Nothing need distract me from living my life today."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-record-shilpa-shetty-s-statement-in-raj-kundra-porn-app-case-101627049677692.html
23-07-2021||India||Is reopening schools in India risky now? What experts, government said||Several states have declared dates to reopen schools in July-August after over one year of online classes. This reopening is for the second time after the pandemic struck in March 2020. Educational institutes which were reopened after the first wave shut physical classes with the advent of the second wave which, according to health ministry data, is now on the wane.But is it wise to reopen schools now amid the apprehension of a possible third wave?Many health experts have expressed their views regarding this issue and said schools can be reopened judiciously in places where the Covid positivity rate is low. Physical classes are important and hence schools should reopen, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has said, but there has to be a balance, he said."I think we have to balance things out. There is a number of children who have missed out on schools for a very long time as they do not have the excess to computer and therefore they are not able to get the quality of education. Therefore, having physical classes is important also schools are not only important from an education point of view, but for building a child's character for social interaction, for interaction with peers, the physical school has a much bigger role to play than what can be done through virtual classes," Dr Guleria said to ANI.Reopening schools after 2nd wave of Covid: List of states that announced dates"We can do it in an alternate manner so that the crowd is less. We can do surveillance; children can be monitored. If they have any symptoms they can stay at home. If the positivity rate continues to be low schools can continue, if it rises then the school can be shut down," the AIIMS chief said.What did the government say?In June, the government had said that schools should reopen when the majority of the staff are vaccinated. Dr Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research recently said that schools can reopen starting with the primary sections. All support staff, including bus drivers, will have to be vaccinated first.But why primary schools? Dr Bhargava explained that children can handle viral infections better than adults and seropositivity reports have shown that children have equally been exposed to the infection like adults.Since children are better at handling viral infection, some Scandinavian countries did not even suspend physical classes, Dr Bhargava said. Are states following this advice?States which have already announced the reopening of schools have done it for senior students keeping their board exams in mind. Most of the states are reopening schools for classes 9,10,11,12 -- and not for primary sections.What about the third wave?It is apprehended that the possible third wave of the pandemic may affect children more as this age group was not infected much in the earlier two waves. Experts have confirmed that this speculation does not have any scientific backing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-reopening-schools-in-india-risky-now-what-experts-government-said-101627048660031.html
23-07-2021||India||Mizoram forms boundary commission to handle border disputes with Assam||The Mizoram government has constituted a boundary commission to deal with demarcation of the state’s border with Assam. A government notification issued on Thursday said the boundary commission will be chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Tawnluia and will have Home Minister Lalchamliana as vice chairman.The boundary commission’s formation came at a time when Mizoram and Assam ahead of a visit by Home Minister Amit Shah to the northeast to try and sort out the various border disputes.State home department secretary was made member secretary. The commission which will have the state home department secretary as its member-secretary, will consider the various aspects of the Mizoram-Assam border imbroglio, the notification said.The commission will also have one member each from leading NGOs, recognised political parties, Joint Action Committee on Inner Line Reserve Forest Demand apart from three ministers, chief secretary, additional chief secretary and Director General of Police (DGP), it said.Prominent citizen and former Lok Sabha member C.L Ruala and former state home secretary Lalbiakzama were also appointed as members of the commission. Meanwhile, a senior police officer said on Friday that the situation at Aitlang hnar and Buarchep areas in Kolasib district along the Mizoram-Assam border remained tense.Mizoram Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Northern Range) Lalbiakthanga Khiangte told PTI that both the states forces are now camping on the border areas, face to face, and warned a serious confrontation could take place at any time if either side tried to make any advances. He however said that Assam police had not made any advances since a standoff on July 10. Khiangte said that people living along the inter-state borders on Mizoram side are now living a normal life and none of them have had to leave their villages as a result of the confrontation.The Mizoram-Assam border issue is also likely to be discussed during a meeting of chief ministers, chief secretaries and DGPs of all Northeastern states to be presided over by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Shillong on Saturday, according to Khiangte. Three Mizoram’s districts- Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit share a 164.6 km long inter-state border with Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts.Tension along the inter-state border flared up in June, when Assam police allegedly seized Aitlang hnar about 5 km from nearest border village Vairengte in Mizoram accusing the neighbouring state of encroaching on its territory, according to Mizoram police officials. Both states have accused the other of encroaching on their lands. Standing crops and betel nut trees belonging to a Mizo farmer were allegedly destroyed during a claimed “eviction” by Assam police and officials at Buarchep near Phainuam village on July 10.A grenade was allegedly hurled on an Assam government team visiting the border by suspected miscreants from Mizoram on July 10. However, the allegation was denied by Mizoram claiming it was a case of an earthmover’s tyre bursting. The chief secretary-level meeting held in New Delhi on July 9 had ended inconclusively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-forms-boundary-commission-to-handle-border-disputes-with-assam-101627045909068.html
23-07-2021||India||Reopening schools after 2nd wave of Covid: List of states that announced dates||The Andhra Pradesh state government on Friday said that the schools in the state would open for the academic year 2021 - 2022 on August 16. The decision was taken following a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The reopening of schools was delayed due to the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 infections in the country.Earlier on July 7, state education minister Audimulapu Suresh made a similar announcement that schools would be reopened from August 16. The minister also announced the commencement of online classes from July 12.After the second wave of Covid-19, several state governments have announced their decisions on reopening education institutions. Here is a list of the states and the announcements made by them -Himachal Pradesh - Schools would be allowed to reopen from August 2 for classes 10 and 12, while students of classes between five and eight would be allowed to visit schools for clearing their doubts about the subjects. The decision was taken following a state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday, news agency PTI reported citing an official spokesperson.Gujarat - The Gujarat government has allowed the physical reopening of schools in the state for classes nine to 11 from July 26. However, only half the seating capacity would be allowed in schools. Also, attendance is not mandatory and students willing to attend the classes are required to submit a consent form signed by their parents. Meanwhile, online classes will also continue, according to the government’s latest order. Meanwhile, the schools had already opened for class 12 students in the state on July 15.Odisha - The Odisha government on July 18 decided to reopen schools for classes 10 and 12 from July 26. School and mass education department secretary Satyabrata Sahu said that a comprehensive standard operating procedure for reopening schools would be issued, HT had previously reported.Haryana - On July 16, schools in the state were reopened for classes nine to 12, following strict Covid-19 protocols. The students were also required to submit written permissions from parents for attending the classes physically. Also, attendance was not mandatory and online classes continued.Tamil Nadu - In its order extending the Covid-19 lockdown in the state on July 16, the Tamil Nadu government had allowed only teachers to attend schools for student admissions, distribution of textbooks, preparation of academic syllabus and other such administrative activities. However, the order made no mention of reopening schools for students.Rajasthan - Schools in Rajasthan will reopen from August 2, the government said in an official statement on July 22 (Thursday). “In the cabinet meeting held today, it has been decided to open all the schools of the state from August 02,” school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted. However, there was no mention of the classes for which the reopening has been announced.West Bengal and Delhi have no immediate plans to resume physical classes, the governments have said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reopening-schools-after-2nd-wave-of-covid-list-of-states-that-announced-dates-101627046524937.html
23-07-2021||India||Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project's location survey, geotechnical investigation done, says Ashwini Vaishnaw||The ministry of railways has completed the location survey and geotechnical investigation for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail (MAHSR) project, railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said in the Rajya Sabha on Friday. This is the only bullet train project sanctioned in the country and is being executed with financial and executive assistance from the government of Japan.The Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which has been formed to implement the project has concluded the final location survey and geotechnical investigation and finalised the alignment. Statutory clearances relating to wildlife, Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) and forest clearance have also been obtained, the ministry said.The newly inducted railways minister, Ashwini Vaishnaw, reviewed the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project on July 13 after assuming office. “All matters were reviewed with an aim to ensure that no stone is left unturned to achieve the objective,” a senior official told Hindustan Times.The project which will connect the two cities through a high-speed rail network was scheduled to be completed by December 2023 but has been delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic and the slow land acquisition. “The ongoing pandemic and slow land acquisition process in Maharashtra is adversely affecting the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High-Speed Rail project. The revised timelines will be worked out after assessing the exact impact of the pandemic on the entire project, land acquisition, and tender finalisation in the state of Maharashtra,” a top railway official told HT.As per the government’s latest statement, the consent agreement has been signed for 1046 hectares of the 1,396 hectares of the required land. The 508.17km rail corridor project will comprise 348.04km in Gujarat, a 155.76km stretch in Maharashtra, and 4.3km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The entire project work has been divided into 27 contract packages, including a training institute at Vadodara. At present, 07 packages have been awarded and 10 more have been invited.The ministry has also assigned the work for survey and preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the seven High-Speed Rail (HSR) corridors to National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) which include Chennai-Bangalore-Mysore and Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad routes of South India, Vaishnaw informed the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbaiahmedabad-bullet-train-project-s-location-survey-geotechnical-investigation-done-says-ashwini-vaishnaw-101627044917415.html
23-07-2021||India||HC quashes UP Police notice in Twitter case, says amounts to ‘arm-twisting'||The Karnataka high court on Friday quashed the notice issued by the Uttar Pradesh police to Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari and said that the notice was malafide. The court allowed the Ghaziabad police to question Maheshwari through virtual mode either in his office or at his residential address in Bengaluru.The single bench of Justice G Narendar said the notice under Section 41(A) CrPC should be treated as Section under 160 of CrPC. The Uttar Pradesh police sought Maheshwari’s personal appearance as part of its investigation over a video which the Uttar Pradesh police alleged was shared with the aim of creating communal disharmony.Justice Narendar said that the Ghaziabad police did not place any material which would demonstrate even the prima facie involvement of the petitioner. The court also maintained that the provisions of the statute under Section 41(A) CrPC should not be permitted to turn into ‘tools of harassment’.“In the background of the fact that section 41(a) notice was issued by malafide, the writ petition (filed by Maheshwari seeking quashing) is maintainable. Accordingly, the notice under section Annexure A notice shall be read as section 160 of the CrPC,” the court said.“The action of the respondent (Ghaziabad police) trying to invoke section 41(A) of the CrPC gives no doubt in the mind of court that the same has been resorted to as an arm-twisting method as the petitioner refused to heed to the notice under section 160 of the CrPC,” the court further added according to news agency PTI.Ghaziabad Police issued a notice under Section 41-A of the CrPC on June 21 asking the Twitter India MD to report at the Loni Border police station on June 24. Maheshwari moved the Karnataka high court which, on June 24, restrained the Ghaziabad Police from initiating any coercive actions against Maheshwari. Justice Narendra said that police can examine Maheshwari in virtual mode.Ghaziabad police also booked Twitter Inc, Twitter Communications India Pvt. Ltd.(Twitter India), news website The Wire, journalists Mohammed Zubair and Rana Ayyub, along with Congress leaders Salman Nizami, Maskoor Usmani, Shama Mohamed and writer Saba Naqvi over the circulation of the video where an elderly person was thrashed by five youths and was forced to chant slogans earlier in June. Police say that the video was shared with the aim of creating communal unrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-quashes-up-police-notice-in-twitter-case-says-amounts-to-armtwisting-101627044016687.html
23-07-2021||India||Remain prepared for third Covid-19 wave: Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday asked officials to remain prepared for the third Covid-19 wave likely to hit the state by August-end. “Though...(the) positivity rate has been under control in the state for the last few weeks, the situation is yet to improve in some districts. Health care is the top priority and if the third wave comes by the end of August, as predicted by scientists, the state will have to deal with the situation. Considering this, the officials should remain alert,” he said after a review of the Covid situation.Odisha on Friday reported 1,917 Covid infections, taking the number of active cases to 19,261. The number of deaths rose to 5,377 with 69 fresh fatalities.Patnaik said even though the pandemic situation is under control, this is no time for complacency. “Only by remaining alert, we will be safe. Therefore, people should strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines and not crowd places.” He said the state government is emphasising on investing in human resources along with strengthening the health care infrastructure. “The district administration has a responsibility to ensure that people are able to access health care without any hassle. It is the core responsibility of everyone, including police station inspectors, block development officers, sub-divisional police officers, sub collectors, superintendents of police and district collectors to ensure that there is no problem in health care delivery right from district headquarter hospitals to the community health centres in blocks,” he said.Patnaik said Odisha has spent around ₹2,004 crore to support the poor, especially small farmers, construction workers, tribal families, Scheduled Castes, tribal students and street vendors during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remain-prepared-for-third-covid-19-wave-patnaik-101627043347505.html
23-07-2021||India||Maharashtra districts to receive more rain tomorrow, decline only after July 26||Several districts in Maharashtra were battered by heavy rain on Friday, which led to a landslide in Raigad, killing 36 people. Several have been missing after the landslide incident. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced ₹2 lakh ex gratia for families of the landslide victim.The rain situation will persist in Maharashtra for a few more days, the Indian Meteorological Department has said. Maharashtra districts will continue to receive rainfall as the offshore trough at the mean sea level running from Maharashtra coast to North Kerala coast will only weaken from July 26.Maharashtra: At least 36 killed in Taliye landslide, 22 feared trapped in SataraStates which will receive rainfall in the coming daysIn its afternoon bulletin, the IMD said the well-marked low-pressure area lying over the Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts is likely to move slowly west-northwest wards during the next two days.> Konkan, Goa, Ghat area of Madhya Maharashtra are likely to receive fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely during next 2-3 days. Then rainfall will gradually reduce.> Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls likely to continue over Gujarat till July 23 with an increase from July 24. It is likely to increase to fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls between July 24 and 26 and isolated extremely heavy falls also likely over Gujarat region on July 25.> Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over east and adjoining central India from July 23 to July 25 with gradual reduction thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over West Madhya Pradesh on July 23 and 24. East Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha are likely to receive rainfall on July 23.> The IMD has predicted an increase in rainfall activity over northwest India over the western Himalayan region from July 25 and over adjoining plains from July 26. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Uttarakhand on July 25 and 26 and over west Uttar Pradesh on July 26.Delhi, on the other hand, will receive very light rainfall at isolated places till July 25. Rainfall in Delhi may increase after July 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-districts-to-receive-more-rain-tomorrow-decline-only-after-july-26-101627042367604.html
23-07-2021||India||Official triggers row by mentioning Bengal Class 12 topper’s religion, not name||Political and religious organisations have called for the removal of West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE) head Mahua Das for mentioning the religion and not the name of the Class 12 state board exam topper.“The highest marks obtained this year is 499. A Muslim girl secured the marks. She is a Muslim lady from Murshidabad,” said Das on Thursday. On Friday, the West Bengal State Chhatra Parishad, a student organisation, staged a protest against Das. A scuffle broke out between the police and another set of protesters outside Das’s office.In a statement, the Bengal Imams Associations said: “It is very shameful and unfortunate. We condemn this. Instead of naming the student, she chose to highlight her religion.” The association has urged chief minister Mamata Banerjee to remove Das.Tapas Roy, a ruling Trinamool Congress spokesperson, said this could have been avoided. “She could have referred to the girl as a candidate or a student.”The student’s wing of the Congress also demanded either Das should apologise or be removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/official-triggers-row-by-mentioning-bengal-class-12-topper-s-religion-not-name-101627040527316.html
23-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi calls Pegasus project a 'treason' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.It’s treason, no other word for this: Rahul Gandhi on Pegasus projectCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah of using Pegasus spyware against “India, its institutions and its democracy”, and said that the only word for this is “treason”. Read More2 weeks after Turkish prisoner escapes, Tripura forms inquiry committeeTwo weeks after an undertrial Turkish prisoner escaped from a government-run hospital, the Tripura government constituted an inquiry committee to probe the case. Read MoreChinese prez visits Tibet for the first timeChinese President Xi Jinping visited the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) this week, the first time as the country’s head, beginning his two-day tour at a strategic border city near the Sino-India boundary in Arunachal Pradesh, on Wednesday. Read MoreSanju Samson among 5 to get ODI caps; joint-most debutants for India in their 47-year history of One Day InternationalsTeam India captain Shikhar Dhawan on Friday won the toss and elected to bat first in the third and final ODI against Sri Lanka in Colombo. Read More100-year-old woman shares her life’s ‘secret.’ Wholesome video wins heartsA video of a 100-year-old woman sharing meaningful life lessons has captured the attention of netizens. Read MoreNokia looks to provide 4G link to budget phone buyers, launches 110 4G; set to take on Micromax Bharat 1, Intex Aqua A4HMD Global is looking to cover as many market segments as possible and for that, it is launching smartphones across price points. Read MoreFitness Friday: Sameera Reddy says she lost 9 kg in new post, Tahira Kashyap cheers for herActor Sameera Reddy took to Instagram today to share a fitness update with her followers. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-calls-pegasus-project-a-treason-and-all-the-latest-news-101627039579851.html
23-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border dispute: Assam Police camping at two locations along border||Assam Police on Thursday said that it is camping at two locations along the interstate boundary with Mizoram. The development comes amid tensions between both states regarding a border dispute near Hailakandi district. Assam Police officials also denied reports that civilians have left their homes out of fear.Cachar Superintendent of Police Nimbalkar Vaibhav Chandrakant said that police officials from both states were camping along the interstate border. “Both the Assam Police and the Mizoram Police are now camping in that area. As a result, some people have left the place, but it is not due to any threat from the Mizo forces,” Chandrakant was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He also said that Assam Police officials are camping at Khulicherra and Dholakhal.Chandrakant said that Assam Police is fully capable of protecting their border. He further added that the police are there to protect the citizens of Assam and their property. Responding to reports of people leaving earlier, he said that residents belonging to the Muslim community who work as daily wage labourers, were working on areas owned by Mizoram and were returning due to Eid festival with their belongings. He added that these people were citizens of Assam as per the voter list of Cachar.“This is the land of Assam. We are strongly defending our post and rebutting any attempt to encroach on our land. Discussions are on at a higher level and I am sure that a solution will be achieved soon,” Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli who visited the area earlier this week said.Spike in tensions between both statesThe tension between both states along the interstate border with Mizoram and Hailakandi escalated after Assam Police conducted a drive to clear land allegedly encroached by some persons across the border. The Assam government team which visited the area on July 10 was attacked by an IED by unidentified persons. Explosions were also heard from across the border on July 11.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma earlier this week said that the situation along the interstate border with Mizoram is ‘fragile’. He also said that it will take some time for both the states to resolve the issue. “The situation with Mizoram, however, is not conducive. We are not seeing eyeball to eyeball in Hailakandi district (bordering Mizoram). The situation is fragile. It will take some time with Mizoram,” Sarma said on Tuesday. Sarma will meet his counterparts as chief ministers of the northeastern states will come together in Shillong for the North East Space Applications Centre (NESAC) meet which will be chaired by Union minister Amit Shah. Sarma said that some headway can be made with Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh during the talks to resolve the border disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-dispute-assam-police-camping-at-two-locations-along-border-101627036977014.html
23-07-2021||India||No delay in purchase agreements with domestic Covid vaccine manufacturers: Govt||There has been no delay in entering into purchase agreements with domestic Covid vaccine manufacturers and advance payments have been made for the supply orders, minister of state of health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar told Parliament on Friday.The minister’s written reply came in response to an unstarred question raised by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Trinamool Congress’s Mala Roy on whether the government has taken note of a significant delay in entering into advance purchase agreements with vaccine manufacturers, thereby affecting the pace of the vaccine rollout. Pawar also said that a total of 1.35 billion [135 crore] Covid vaccine doses are expected to be available in the country between August and December.Also Read | Acknowledge the brutality of the second waveOn being asked whether the government aims to inoculate the entire adult population by the end of the year, the minister said it is an ongoing process guided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) on the basis of scientific evidence.She said ₹9,725.19 crore has been spent so far on the vaccination programme, in the form of procurement of vaccines and the operational costs.The Congress responded on Twitter by saying that it exposed the government’s lies. “Modi Govt’s lies exposed in reply to Shri Rahul Gandhi’s question in Parliament on #Vaccination: Govt says - 1. No fixed Timeline can be indicated for completion of vaccine drive ! 2. Only 9,725 Crore spent on #COVID19 Vaccination drive against budget of 35,000 crore,’’ tweeted Congress leader Randeep Surjewala.Pawar’s previous statement that there were no records of oxygen-related deaths during the second wave caused a furore, and the Opposition moved a breach of privilege notice against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-delay-in-purchase-agreements-with-domestic-covid-vaccine-manufacturersgovt-101627039627182.html
23-07-2021||India||'No direct sexual act shown': Raj Kundra moves high court, says arrest over porn film allegation illegal||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband, businessman Raj Kundra, arrested on the charges of making pornographic films in Mumbai, on Friday moved the high court after the magistrate court extended his police custody till July 27. News agency ANI reported that Kundra's lawyer approached the high court saying that his arrest in the first place was not legal.According to reports, Kundra's lawyer has said that in the 4,000-page chargesheet that the Mumbai Police has filed against Kundra and others involved in the alleged porn racket, there is no specific mention of pornography, an allegation that Kundra's another lawyer Abad Ponda earlier raised. Ponda had earlier said that the arrest did not follow the due procedure as he was not issued a proper notice of appearance under Section 41A o the CrPC. Ponda also contested that the videos that Raj Kundra apparently made for Hotshots, the video-streaming app, owned by a UK firm, were vulgar but not pornographic, as they did not explicitly show the sexual act.In the plea moved in the high court after the local court extended Kundra's police custody, Kundra's lawyer said his arrest by the Mumbai Police is illegal as he was arrested on the pretext of recording a statement. He was not issued a proper notice of appearance under Section 41A of the CrPC, the petition challenging the magistrate court order said."Notice in the matter where FIR is registered on 05.02.2021, the Charge sheet is filed on 03.04.2021 and they could have easily served notice and could have allowed the Petitioner to appear and give his statement and if the Petitioner failed to do so the consequences would had followed. However, if the Petitioner did appear then under Section 41A (3), he should not be arrested at all, is the mandate of law," the plea said, as reported by Livelaw.The plea also said that the content in question "does not depict direct explicit sexual acts and sexual intercourse but shows only material in the form of short movies which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of the persons at best."The plea also found some holes in the provisions that have been invoked against Raj Kundra. Kundra has been booked under sections sections 354(C) (Voyeurism), 292 (sale of obscene content), 420(cheating) of the IPC and Sections 67, 67A (transmission of sexually explicit material)of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate did not consider that the police have wrongly invoked IPC provisions where Information Technology Act applies, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-moves-to-high-court-says-arrest-over-porn-film-allegation-illegal-101627037143475.html
23-07-2021||India||‘Avoid crowd, non-essential travel, maintain appropriate behaviour’: Dr Guleria on delaying third Covid-19 wave||With the looming threat of the third wave of Covid-19 infections, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr Randeep Guleria, on Friday suggested three measures for the public to follow in delaying the impending danger. “For the next few months, until a larger part of our population gets vaccinated (against Covid-19), we should avoid crowd, non-essential travel and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour. With this, I think we can delay and also flatten the third wave,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Guleria as saying.Further, Dr Guleria said that the virus will not mutate much in the coming months. He also referred to the fourth national serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and said that a “reasonably” good amount of immunity against Covid-19 has been observed in the Indian population.Also read | 'Delta variant continues to be dominant variant in new Covid cases': INSACOG“We can not predict how the virus will behave but it seems that the virus will not mutate so dramatically in the coming months. As per the serosurvey, there is a reasonably good amount of immunity in the population,” he said.The fourth national serosurvey, to find the prevalence of antibodies against Covid-19 in the population, was conducted during the last weeks of June and the first week of July this year by the ICMR. The results were released by ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bharghava on July 20. He said that one-third of the population didn’t have antibodies against the disease which meant that roughly 400 million people were still vulnerable to the disease. The findings also showed that people who were fully immunised with two shots of the vaccine had more antibodies than those that were not vaccinated or had received only one dose of the vaccine.Meanwhile, several news reports earlier in the month showed crowds flocking tourist attractions in some states after the Covid-19 restrictions were beginning to ease across the country. Apart from Dr Guleria, several health experts, the Union ministry of health and family welfare and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have all warned against crowding in tourist destinations.India suffered a deadly second wave of Covid-19 infections, during which the number of daily new infections went past 400,000 cases every day and the number of fatalities stayed above the 4,000-mark. However, the daily cases have declined since then and on Friday, over 35,000 people tested positive while 483 people lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-crowd-non-essential-travel-maintain-appropriate-behaviour-dr-guleria-on-delaying-third-covid-19-wave-101627035898959.html
23-07-2021||India||12 central varsities including Jammu, Haryana and Karnataka get new VC. Full list of universities here||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday signed on the appointment of vice-chancellors across 12 central universities in the country, the Union ministry of education said in a statement.The Central varsities that will be getting a new Vice-Chancellor include central university of Haryana, Jammu University, Jharkhand university, Karnataka university and Tamil Nadu university.President Kovind serves as the visitor of India's Central universities.President Ram Nath Kovind approves the appointment of Vice-Chancellors of 12 Central Universities: Ministry of Education pic.twitter.com/oYDGX5y8mGHere is the list of varsities for which President Kovind has given a nod:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-central-varsities-including-jammu-haryana-and-karnataka-get-new-vc-full-list-of-universities-here-101627032745585.html
23-07-2021||India||Govt’s expert group in talks with Pfizer for their vaccine, says Union health minister||An expert group constituted by the Indian government is holding talks with Pfizer for access to their Covid-19 vaccines, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday. “An expert group of the Indian government is still in talks with Pfizer over COVID vaccine supply," the minister said in the Lok Sabha.The US State Department spokesperson Ned Price told PTI on July 14 that the country was ready to send both Pfizer and Moderna vaccines “expeditiously” and was waiting for India's nod. Mandaviya did not elaborate if the current talks had any connection to the 3-4 million doses of Moderna and Pfizer that the country is set to receive from the US as a donation or is a separate talk for commercial import. The US has decided to donate 80 million doses of vaccines through the global vaccine initiative COVAX.Price also told the news agency that the doses have not been shipped yet because the Indian government was reviewing its legal provisions related to accepting vaccine donations. "Once India works through its legal processes, our donations of vaccines to India will proceed expeditiously. We would need to refer you to the Government of India on the status of its discussions with COVAX, which, in this case, is helping to facilitate that delivery,” he had said.Also Read: Govt aims to inoculate all above 18, no time for politics: Health minister in LSIndia has also been offered 7.5 million doses of Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine through the COVAX programme, but it remains unclear when the jabs will arrive in the country as a consensus on the indemnity clause is yet to be reached. Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul recently said the government is working actively with Moderna to see how its vaccine can be imported and made available in the country.Both Pfizer and Moderna want the indemnity clause so as to protect themselves from any future lawsuits that might arise from the vaccine’s administration.India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme has been regularly discussed during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. While informing the Lok Sabha that ₹9,725.15 crore has been spent by the government on the vaccination drive, Mandaviya also said, "There has been no delay in entering into purchase agreements with the domestic vaccine manufacturers. Advance payments have also been made to manufacturers for the supply orders placed with them,"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-expert-group-in-talks-with-pfizer-for-their-vaccine-says-union-health-minister-101627033861221.html
23-07-2021||India||What is 'right to be forgotten' that ex-MTV Roadie Ashutosh Kaushik has sought from court?||Television personality Ashutosh Kaushik who shot to fame in 2007 after winning MTV Roadies and then Bigg Boss in the next year has recently approached the Delhi high court seeking his 'right to be forgotten. In legal parlance, this means he wants his digital data to be deleted from Google and any other online platform. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the ministry of information and broadcasting, Google LLC, Press Council of India and Electronic Media Monitoring Centre to respond to the petitioner’s invocation of the rights to privacy.What is right to be forgotten? Is there any such provision in Indian law?This is not the first time that someone has approached the court seeking this right.For example, an American citizen of Indian origin, Jorawar Singh Mundy, approached the Delhi high court a few months ago saying that he was not getting a job because of an old case, details of which were available on Google. The Delhi high court allowed an interim right to be forgotten to the person.Read: Reality show winner invokes ‘right to be forgotten’, moves HCThere is no such provision in Indian laws but Section 20 of the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 says that an individual has the right to restrict or prevent the disclosure of their personal data under certain conditions, including when such data has served the purpose for which it was collected or is no longer necessary for the purpose. This Bill is yet to become law.What Orissa high court said on right to be forgottenAccording to reports, the Orissa high court in 2020 mentioned the issue of the right to be forgotten and said that if there is no such right to erase electronic data in specific cases, then "any accused will surreptitiously outrage the modesty of a woman and misuse the same in cyberspace unhindered." This was regarding a case where the accused uploaded videos of his former partner that he surreptitiously recorded .Why Asutosh Kaushik wants to be forgottenAsutosh Kaushik wants his drunk driving videos dating back to 2009 to be removed from online platforms. For driving under the influence of alcohol and without a helmet, he was arrested. Asutosh Kaushik presently runs a YouTube channel and he tied the knot last year during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-right-to-be-forgotten-that-ex-mtv-roadies-ashutosh-kaushik-has-sought-from-court-101627032270426.html
23-07-2021||India||Amid furore over oxygen-linked deaths, C’garh to audit Covid fatalities||The Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh will audit Covid-19-related deaths amid the controversy over the fatalities caused by the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic, state health minister T S Singh Deo said on Friday while insisting the Centre never sought such data.The decision comes days after opposition parties accused the Union minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar of misleading Parliament by saying no state reported such fatalities. The Congress on Thursday moved a breach of privilege motion against Pawar for allegedly misleading Parliament over the deaths. To be sure, no state has so far said there have been deaths on account of a shortage of oxygen during the brutal second wave of the pandemic in April and May, and while the minister’s statement can be targeted for its insensitivity, it is technically correct. Deo comments echoed comments of ministers in various states that have maintained that while their own province saw no deaths caused by oxygen shortage, others did. Deo said Chhattisgarh is a state with surplus oxygen, but added that in states such as Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, people died due to lack of oxygen. Deo said the oxygen production capacity of Chhattisgarh is 388.87 MT and the peak consumption reported was 180 MT on April 26.But the minister added that his government wants to behave responsibly. “So, we are going to audit each and every Covid-19 death. For Chhattisgarh, we are responsible and hence we will... bring out the truth. We are also open for inputs from the citizens.” He asked NGOs, members of civil society, and journalists to bring any relevant information to the government’s notice.“I also urge the central government to conduct a similar audit,” he added. The Bharatiya Janata Party has maintained health is a state subject and that the Centre just collects the data from the states, and does not generate it.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain this week also attacked the Centre, saying it was “completely false” to say no one died for want of oxygen. “If no deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage, why did hospitals move high court one after another every day? Hospitals had been saying that oxygen shortage led to deaths. The media flagged this issue daily,” Jain told reporters.The Delhi government has pointed out that it set up a committee to collect data on such deaths but the Centre got the panel disbanded through the lieutenant governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-audit-deaths-death-due-to-o2-shortage-101627030806619.html
23-07-2021||India||Mobile number on Aadhaar card can now be updated at one’s doorstep: Centre||Aadhaar card, which is the unique identification given by the Centre, is an extremely crucial document for all citizens of the country as it is used for a number of governmental and non-governmental transactions. It is important for citizens to keep the details in the card updated at all times as even the slightest of errors can stall their work.In view of this, the Centre has announced that resident Aadhaar cardholders can get their mobile number updated in the card at the ease of their doorstep.Also Read| Link Aadhaar with mobile number in five easy steps: A step-by-step guide“Now a resident Aadhaar holder can get his mobile number updated in Aadhaar by the postman at his doorstep. India Post Payments Bank (@IPPBOnline) launched today a service for updating mobile numbers in Aadhaar as a Registrar for Unique Identification Authority of India (@UIDAI),” the ministry of communications posted on Twitter on Tuesday.Now a resident Aadhaar holder can get his mobile number updated in Aadhaar by the postman at his door step. 👉👉@IPPBOnline launched today a service for updating mobile number in Aadhaar as a Registrar for @UIDAI . pic.twitter.com/TGjiGhHPeGThe service will be available in 650 branches of India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) and 146,000 postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks have been enabled to provide a range of banking services equipped with smartphones and biometric devices, according to an official statement. As of now, IPPB is only providing mobile update service and will very soon also enable child enrollment service through its network, it added.Also Read| Aadhaar update: How many times changes in details can be made? ExplainedDr Saurabh Garg, the chief executive officer of UIDAI, said the provision will immensely help the residents as once their mobile is updated in their Aadhaar, they can avail a number of the authority’s online update facilities and also several government welfare schemes.“The mobile update service of UIDAI through the ubiquitous and accessible network of post offices, postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks will help in actualising IPPB’s vision of serving the underserved and unbanked areas, and bridging the digital divide,” J Venkatramu, MD and CEO of IPPB, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-number-on-aadhaar-card-can-now-be-updated-at-one-s-doorstep-centre-101627029879464.html
23-07-2021||India||Deeply distressed: Venkaiah Naidu on ruckus in Parliament||Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said he was “deeply distressed” by the ruckus in Parliament. “I rise in deep anguish from the course of events in the first three sittings of the august House. I am not able to understand why the House is not allowed to discharge its responsibilities as mandated by the Constitution,” said the chairman. The chairman pointed out that the only business that could be done in the past three sittings was a four-hour discussion on the government’s management of Covid-19 and a one-hour reply from the health ministry. Also Read | TMC MP suspended from Rajya Sabha for tearing minister’s papersTalking about Thursday when TMC MP Santanu Sen snatched IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw’s statement regarding Pegasus spyware row and tore it, Naidu said, “I’m deeply distressed by the course of events in the House. Unfortunately, proceedings of the House hit a new low with papers being snatched from the minister and torn into pieces. Such actions are a clear assault on our Parliamentary democracy.”When he was interrupted while speaking, he reprimanded the MPs and asked him not to test his patience as they have done in the past three sittings. “Three weeks from now, we will be entering the 75th year of our Independence. The spirit of the celebration should not be marred by a dysfunctional Parliament. I appeal to the leaders to enable the smooth functioning of the House,” he appealed. Past three days of the session were marred by chaos with the Opposition protesting over a wide array of issues, from the Pegasus row to farm bills to the Centre’s management of the Covid crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-distressed-venkaiah-naidu-on-ruckus-in-parliament-101627030206574.html
23-07-2021||India||Low pressure in Bay of Bengal, rainfall predicted over Tamil Nadu in next 4 days||hinThe low-pressure area in the north-western Bay of Bengal will result in moderate and light rainfall in 17 districts of Tamil Nadu for the next four days starting from Friday, reported Tamil newspaper Dina Thanthi on Friday. Tamil Nadu is witnessing widespread rainfall after the southwest monsoon arrived along the western coast. Some of the districts, especially those bordering the Western Ghats, are receiving consistent rainfall starting from July.The regional meteorological center at Chennai has predicted heavy, moderate, and light rainfall across 17 districts due to the low pressure in the Bay of Bengal on Friday. Coimbatore and the Nilgiris districts will receive heavy rainfall as the effect of southwest monsoon is aggravated by low pressure in the Bay of Bengal. Districts bordering the Western Ghats like Theni, Dindigul, and Tenkasi districts will get rains while moderate rainfall is likely in districts like Erode, Salem, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Tiruappathur, Vellore, Ranipet, Tiruvallur, Chennai, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, and Kanyakumari.Heavy rains in Coimbatore and the Nilgiris may cause landslides; people in these districts and travelers are warned. The center has predicted sporadic rainfall on Saturday in the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Theni, Dindigul, and Tenkasi districts bordering the Western Ghats, coastal districts of Northern Tamil Nadu, and Union Territory Puducherry. On July 25 and 26, coastal districts of Northern Tamil Nadu and Union Territory Puducherry will get light showers, the center forecasted.The low pressure will cause heavy wind action ranging 50 kilometers per hour in Coastal Tamil Nadu, Gulf of Mannar, Coastal Kerala, and Karnataka as well as Lakshadweep Sea. The regional center warned fishermen not to venture into these areas.Some areas of Tamil Nadu received copious rainfall in 24 hours by Thursday morning. Avilanji in the Nilgiris received 12 centimeters, Bandalur received 7 centimeters, Gudalur and Naduvattam received 6 centimeters, Chinnakallar, Valparai and Melkudalur received 5 centimeters rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-in-bay-of-bengal-rainfall-predicted-over-tamil-nadu-in-next-4-days-101627028819144.html
23-07-2021||India||High rainfall batters Karnataka; railways, road and airways disrupted, houses and few schools submerged||The ongoing heavy to very heavy rain in Karnataka has lashed as many as 13 districts in the state, disrupted transport services, including road and rail traffic, and caused floods in 22 rivers. A report published in Prajavani today stated that Dharwad, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi districts have been among the worst affected. There has been heavy to very heavy rainfall here that has ravaged the region. Due to the opening of many reservoirs following heavy rains in Marathwada region, rivers in Northern Karnataka have experienced heavy flooding. This has caused interruption of railway, road and air travel.The adverse effect of heavy rains has been seen far and wide in the state. Due to heavy rains, two schools in Joida and Mundgod taluk in Uttara Kannada district have collapsed. Another school in Dharwad taluk, including 3 government schools have partially collapsed in rural areas.In addition, heavy rain in Chikodi and Nipani taluk of Belagavi have caused heavy flooding in the Krishna river and its tributaries. Rajapura barrage of Maharashtra is releasing 58000 cusecs per day into the river following heavy inflow from the ghat areas. Doodh Ganga river is also in spate and releasing 19,000 cusecs in the river into the lower riparian course.As a consequence of heavy inflow in the rivers, 6 bridges have been submerged in the Krishna river course. Pandora, Kaneri, Kali rivers are under heavy flooding and 120 villages in 4 districts are inundated.Remarkably, Kali river has also experienced heavy inflow. This is for the first time in the last few years that the river has released 40,000 cusecs into its course. Besides, Gangavali river is also in spate and creating flood situation in low lying areas in Ankola taluk . A transport link has been severed between Yellapur and Ankola consequently.Railways have not been spared either by the effect of incessant and heavy rainfall. Konkan Railway that connects Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka has cancelled many trains. According to a Konkan railway communique, several trains going North have been suspended or rescheduled due to heavy influx of water, on Chiplun river railway bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-rainfall-batters-karnataka-railways-road-and-airways-disrupted-houses-and-few-schools-submerged-101627028327905.html
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus list: Pakistan seeks UN probe into reports of PM Imran Khan’s name||Pakistan on Friday accused India of being behind efforts to hack a phone number once used by Prime Minister Imran Khan using the Pegasus spyware and called for an investigation into the matter by UN agencies.The spokesperson of Pakistan’s Foreign Office said in a statement that Islamabad intends to bring the matter to the attention of “appropriate global platforms”, but didn’t give details.According to reports by a global consortium of media outlets that examined a leaked database of 50,000 phone numbers selected for surveillance by clients of the Israeli company NSO Group, the developer of Pegasus, a number once used by Khan and those of dozens of diplomats in India were among potential targets of the spyware programme.Also Read | Plea filed in SC seeking SIT probe into charges of snoopingBoth The Washington Post and Le Monde reported on Monday that the number once used by Khan had been selected by a NSO client for surveillance.“Not surprisingly, Pakistan is the most scrutinised country,” Le Monde said in its report.“The numbers of Imran Khan and several of his ambassadors in India appear on the list as potential targets,” the report added, without giving details.Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesperson alleged India was using the Israeli spyware to “hack the phones and computers of journalists, judges, diplomats, government officials, rights activists, and global leaders including Prime Minister Imran Khan”.“We have noted with serious concern recent international media reports exposing Indian government’s organised spying operations against its own citizens, foreigners as well as Prime Minister Imran Khan, using an Israeli origin spyware,” the spokesperson said.“We condemn in strongest possible terms India’s state-sponsored, continuing and widespread surveillance and spying operations in clear breach of global norms of responsible state behaviour,” he added.The spokesperson further said: “We are closely following these revelations and will bring the Indian abuses to the attention of appropriate global platforms.“In view of the gravity of these reports, we call on the relevant UN bodies to thoroughly investigate the matter, bring the facts to light, and hold the Indian perpetrators to account.”There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the allegations made by Pakistan. The Indian government has so far denied all wrong-doing and also not confirmed or denied whether it licensed the Pegasus spyware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-for-probe-by-un-agencies-into-reports-of-pm-imran-khan-s-name-on-pegasus-list-101627027807942.html
23-07-2021||India||Govt aims to inoculate all above 18, no time for politics: Health minister in LS||Union health minister Manuskh Mandaviya on Friday reiterated Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks that the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should not be politicised and said it is the Centre’s aim to vaccinate every citizen in the country who is above 18 years and it is not the time to do politics.Also Read| Five vaccines, 19 trial sites among Covid projects supported by CentreAddressing the Lok Sabha, which witnessed opposition uproar on several issues including the handling of the coronavirus pandemic, Mandaviya said, “I want to place some facts in front of you (Speaker Om Birla). Till now, PM Modi, in accordance with a federal structure to fight the Covid crisis on a collective basis, has held discussions with states and chief ministers 20 times. Work was done on a time to time basis on the suggestions provided by them (states).”PM has said many times not to politicise vaccination programme. It's our aim to vaccinate every 18+ citizen in the country. This is not the time to do politics: Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/ALjG6kazXQAs opposition parties and state governments earlier said that “health is a state subject” and states should be taken into confidence, the Centre agreed that from May 1 that states could purchase 25 per cent of doses, private firms could also purchase 25 per cent of the doses and the Centre would buy the remaining 50 per cent doses for inoculating the country’s population, Mandaviya said. “The Centre also agreed to help those states which had taken out tenders for procuring the 25 per cent doses,” he added.The health minister also informed the Lower House that an expert group of the Centre is still in talks with Pfizer for vaccine supplies, adding talks are also continuing with other manufactures such as Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).Also Read| Six months into India’s vaccination drive: What is right and what is notPointing out that India is running the biggest vaccination program under the leadership of PM Modi, Mandaviya appealed to all opposition parties to cooperate and answer back to those who are spreading rumours about the program.India has so far administered 423,417,030 doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 of which 54,76,423 doses were administered in the last 24 hours.As several states have flagged and continue to raise the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses, health minister Mandaviya said last week that useless statements were being made to create panic among people and the availability of jabs has gone up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-aims-to-inoculate-all-above-18-no-time-for-politics-health-minister-in-ls-101627027575695.html
23-07-2021||India||Watch: Navjot Sidhu takes charge as Punjab Congress' chief, takes stage in cricketer style||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday took the reins of Congress' Punjab unit as the party president in the presence of chief minister Amarinder Singh, marking the end of a bitter infight. The cricketer-turned-politician, who was appointed as the Punjab unit chief on Sunday by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, was seen getting up from his chair, warming up with a batting move he displayed during his time as a cricket player and heading towards the dais to address party workers as Amarinder Singh looked on.#WATCH: Newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu mimics a batting style as he proceeds to address the gathering at Punjab Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh. (Source: Punjab Congress Facebook page) pic.twitter.com/ZvfXlOBOqiAfter taking charge at the state Congress headquarters, Sidhu said there is no difference between an ordinary worker of the party and its state unit chief. "Every Congress worker in Punjab has become the chief of the party's state unit from today," the Amritsar (East) MLA said.Even as Sidhu and Amarinder Singh managed to put the issue aside and come together for the Punjab Congress unit's reshuffle, the two leaders were not seen talking during the ceremony and while getting photos clicked.Capt Amarinder recalled the Patiala ties with Sidhu and said: “I was commissioned in the army, the year Sidhu was born. When my mother asked me to enter politics, his (Sidhu’s) father helped me. I used to go to his house when he was about six years old.”Sidhu met the chief minister hours before the ceremony at Punjab Bhawan over a cup of tea in what has been termed as a cordial meeting between the two. This was the first time in nearly four months that Sidhu and Singh met each other.The Congress party has attempted the reshuffle ahead of the assembly elections scheduled for next year. The party is eyeing to retain power in Punjab as other players like the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) try to gain ground. The Congress party is fiercely backing farmers protesting the three central farm laws in the state, amping up the pitch against the BJP-led government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-takes-charge-as-punjab-congress-chief-takes-stage-in-cricketer-style-101627026108243.html
23-07-2021||India||Mahabaleshwar records its highest single day rainfall ever||Mahabaleshwar, a hill station in Maharashtra’s Satara district located in the Western Ghats, has recorded the highest rainfall ever in its history with 60cm in 24 hours. Recording 20cm or more in 24 hours is classified to be “extremely heavy” rain by India Meteorological Department (IMD). Between 8.30am on Thursday and 8.30am on Friday, Mahabaleshwar recorded rainfall which is three times that threshold. Other parts of the west coast also recorded exceptional rain and flooding during the past 24 hours with Kolhapur - 40cm; Londa - 38cm; Belagavi - 34cm; Betul - 28cm; Shivamogga - 27cm; Uttar Kannada - 24cm; Sanguem and Hoshangabad - 21cm each; Sanquelim -18 cm; and Kodagu -17cm. Also Read | Mumbai under orange alert, to receive lesser rain than last 4 daysMahabaleshwar recorded its second highest rainfall of 49.7cm on August 11, 2008. Its third highest rainfall of 48cm was reported on Thursday, July 22, 2021. Fourth highest rain, of 43.9cm, was recorded on July 7, 1977.The offshore trough at mean sea level running from Maharashtra coast to north Kerala coast which is causing very heavy rains over the west coast is likely to weaken from July 26. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over the west coast during the next 2-3 days with reduction thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls (over 20cm) are also very likely over Konkan, Goa and the adjoining ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra during July 23 and 24 with reduction thereafter and over coastal and south Interior Karnataka from July 23. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are likely to continue over Gujarat till July 23 with an increase from July 24. It is likely to increase with isolated heavy to very heavy falls on July 24 to 26 and isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Gujarat from July 25. The monsoon trough at mean sea level runs south of its normal position. It is likely to continue to remain south of the normal position for 2-3 days. A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to the mid-tropospheric level. It is likely to move slowly west-northwest wards during the next two days. The IMD warned that there is likely to be an increase in rainfall activity over northwest India and Western Himalayan region from July 25 and over the adjoining plains from July 26. “We need to monitor and forecast these events better as climate change is bringing in more of these short spells of heavy rains. We have better data for the cities, but fewer over the ghats,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahabaleshwar-records-its-highest-single-day-rainfall-ever-101627026306344.html
23-07-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Flood water starts receding in Maharashtra Chiplun and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Flood in Maharashtra’s Chiplun: Water starts receding, rescue ops continueWater started receding in most parts of Chiplun in Ratnagiri on Friday after rain wreaked havoc, even as rescue operations were started in the Konkan town of Maharashtra.Read more.TMC MP suspended from Rajya Sabha for tearing minister’s papersTrinamool Congress (TMC) member Santanu Sen was on Friday suspended from Rajya Sabha for the remainder of the Monsoon Session for “unruly and unbecoming behaviour” a day after he snatched papers from information technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw while he was reading a statement on the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus to potentially target politicians, activists and journalists.Read more.Covid-19 patient dies days after high court's nod to sperm collectionA 32-year-old Covid-19 patient in Gujarat's Vadodara has died days after the high court allowed a city hospital to collect his sperms following his wife's petition saying she wanted to bear his child artificially. "Read more.Cold war ends as CM Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu meet, sip tea togetherPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday met Navjot Singh Sidhu at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh ahead of a ceremony to appoint the cricketer-turned-politician as the chief of the Congress' state unit, signalling a thaw in the relationship between the two leaders.Read more.Vikrant Massey recalls lying about dating 'pretty girls' because he was 'absolutely unattractive' as a schoolkidVikrant Massey has recalled spreading rumours about dating girls who wouldn't give him the time of day, and eventually being confronted by one of them. Vikrant recently appeared in the Netflix film Haseen Dillruba, and then in 14 Phere, which debuted on ZEE5 on Friday.Read more.Rubina Dilaik in ₹2k crochet bralette and lace shorts keeps it casual and chicBigg Boss 14 winner Rubina Dilaik is cooking up a storm on social media with her latest craftcore look, and we are swooning. The star slipped into a crochet ensemble for a recent photoshoot and proved why this hand-knit essential is the go-to for warm sunny days when you want to keep things casual and fun.Read more. Watch: Rio de Janeiro lights up 2016 Olympic flame as 2020 Games beginRio de Janeiro re-lighted the 2016 Olympic flame as the 2020 Games began. The flame will burn throughout the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. Rio de Janeiro Mayor Eduardo Paes was seen carrying the torch. In 2016, Rio de Janeiro was the host city for the Olympics. Tokyo is hosting the 2020 Olympics. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-flood-water-starts-receding-in-maharashtra-chiplun-and-all-the-latest-news-101627024612926.html
23-07-2021||India||TMC MP suspended from Rajya Sabha for tearing minister’s papers||Trinamool Congress (TMC) member Santanu Sen was on Friday suspended from Rajya Sabha for the rest of the ongoing Monsoon Session for “unruly and unbecoming behaviour” a day after he snatched papers from information technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw while he was reading a statement on the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus to potentially target politicians, activists and journalists.Union minister V Muraleedharan moved a motion for Sen’s suspension saying the TMC lawmaker’s behaviour brought “disrepute” to the house. Sen refused to leave the House even as he was asked to exit multiple times by Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu. Naidu earlier allowed the motion, which was subsequently passed in the House. TMC’s chief whip, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, objected to the motion, saying it was not on the list of business of the House. Roy said TMC was given no time to prepare.“We have had no opportunity to react to the government’s motion to suspend Shantanu Sen,” he said.Naidu countered Ray’s objections. He said the motion was approved as it was a question of the “dignity of the House”. TMC lawmaker Derek O’Brien raised the issue of “hooliganism” by members of the ruling party. Naidu refused to entertain the allegations and adjourned the Rajya Sabha until 12:30. Sen continued to refuse to leave the House even after it resumed, prompting the deputy chairperson Harivansh to ask him to leave.Sen snatched the papers from the minister, tore them, and flung them in the air amid a heated exchange with Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. The TMC alleged that Puri abused Sen and complained to Harivansh. Sen said he was surrounded and threatened.Also Read | Plea filed in SC seeking SIT probe into charges of snoopingHarivansh asked the members to desist from unparliamentary behaviour, before adjourning the House for the day on Thursday.The government sought Sen’s suspension under Rule 256 (2). The rule says a lawmaker, who “disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the Council” through “wilful” disruptions can be suspended from the House for up to the remainder of the parliamentary session if the Rajya Sabha chairman “deems it necessary”. Once the motion is moved, there can be no debate or adjournment allowed, the rule says. Last year, the same rule was applied to suspend eight opposition members from Rajya Sabha for a week after their protests against the farm laws.Protests have rocked Parliament over the alleged targeting of phones with military-grade spyware, the controversial farm laws, and income tax raids on the premises of a newspaper group. They have forced repeated adjournments and allowed little business in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcmp-suspended-from-rajya-sabha-for-tearing-minister-s-papers-101627024626726.html
23-07-2021||India||India speeds up Green approvals as environmentalists call foul||India’s Environment Ministry has almost halved the time it takes to clear projects, cheering companies hit by the pandemic and worrying green activists concerned the increased pace may come at a cost.It took an average of 84 days to clear a project in 2021, compared with 162 days the year before, according to data shared by the ministry. That’s a result of cutting down needless processes and setting timelines for assessment panels, according to Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, the top bureaucrat in the ministry who took charge last year.The increased pace comes several years after the ministry was accused of deliberately stonewalling projects, causing delays that slowed down the economy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowed to change that and in his seven years in office the Environment Ministry has brought in a series of policy changes in the country’s environment regulations that have been welcomed by industry.“Lots of changes have been made, which save a good amount of time,” said A.K. Singh, joint president for sustainable development at cement maker Birla Corp. “If a project gets held up, it really hits the economy directly.”However, environmentalists say the pendulum may have swung too far. They say that the ministry is rushing through assessments and going soft on polluting coal-fired power plants as Modi’s government proposes to ease laws that were formed as a result of the world’s deadliest industrial disaster more than three decades ago.One area of concern is the field of expertise of those involved in assessment committees, according to Ritwick Dutta, a New Delhi-based environment lawyer. Assessments can be weakened if people from unrelated areas are involved as they might not be able to ask appropriate questions, such as professors of electronics and automotive engineering in a panel on river valleys and hydropower projects, he said.“Chasing speed over quality of assessments can pose grave risks,” Dutta said. “It’s an environment risk as well as a business risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-speeds-up-green-approvals-as-environmentalists-call-foul-101627019431792.html
23-07-2021||India||Covid-19 patient dies days after high court's nod to sperm collection||A 32-year-old Covid-19 patient in Gujarat's Vadodara has died days after the high court allowed a city hospital to collect his sperms following his wife's petition saying she wanted to bear his child artificially. "The hospital had informed us that they had extracted the sperm of my client's husband shortly after the high court gave a go-ahead for it on Tuesday evening. But he passed away on Thursday," Nilay Patel, the woman's lawyer, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. "Further hearing in the case is scheduled today," Patel also said.The wife of the man, who was on life support at Sterling Hospital after suffering from multi-organ failure following coronavirus infection, moved the high court on Tuesday. The woman said she wanted to have the man's child through in vitro fertilisation method or Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) procedure but he was not in a condition to give consent for the collection of his sperm.She said in her plea citing doctors that his chances of survival were slim and approached the court after the hospital demanded a court order to collect his sperm.Also read | Guj HC orders collection of critical Covid patient's sample as wife wants childJustice Ashutosh J Shastri granted an urgent hearing to the woman and directed the hospital to collect the man's sperm as soon as possible and store it appropriately. In its order on Tuesday, the high court said that "interim relief is granted in an extraordinary urgent situation" and it "shall be subject to the outcome of the petition".Further hearing about the granting permission for IVF/ART procedure has been scheduled on Friday.Anil Nambiar, zonal director at Sterling Hospital, told reporters on Wednesday that doctors successfully extracted the man's sperm on Tuesday night, within hours of receiving the court's order."The patient's family decided to carry out the procedure. But we needed the consent of the individual on whom the process is to be carried out. Since he is critical and cannot give his consent, we could do so only if the court allowed," Nambiar told the media on Wednesday, reported PTI.Nambiar also said that the IVF procedure will be carried out after the court allows it.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-patient-dies-days-after-high-court-s-nod-to-sperm-collection-101627021191921.html
23-07-2021||India||Flood in Maharashtra’s Chiplun: Water starts receding, rescue ops continue||Water started receding in most parts of Chiplun in Ratnagiri on Friday after rain wreaked havoc, even as rescue operations were started in the Konkan town of Maharashtra.According to Chiplun district collector B R Patil, illegal constructions along the Vashisthi river and discharge from the Kolkewadi dam could have led to flooding. Downpour in Mahabaleshwar, which recorded 60cm rainfall in 24 hours ending Friday morning, triggered floods in Vashishti river which flows through Chiplun before merging into the Arabian Sea. “There has been illegal construction along the river and the release of water from Kolkewadi dam and torrential rains flooded the entire city.We can call it a partially man-made disaster . Once the flood water recedes, a probe will be ordered into the illegal constructions. Food packets are being distributed to those stranded on different floors of various buildings,” he added.The four National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams along with, Coast Guard, the navy and the army began rescue operations on Friday morning after the situation improved partially. The NDRF teams reached the town but water didn’t let the rescuers enter. Also Read | Mumbai under orange alert, to receive lesser rain than last 4 days“We have requested for six additional teams of NDRF personnel and army columns to aid us in our rescue and relief work. The navy teams will be reaching today while the coast guard is already helping us in the operations,” said Patil. The Western Naval Command in Mumbai has deployed five teams to Chiplun following a request by the district administration. Each team will have five rescue team members, and a boat, and can save between 5-7 adults. Two helicopters of the Indian Air Force helicopters have been deployed for rescue operations of people stranded in Chiplun and Khed towns in the district. More than 80% of the town with a population of 70,000 has been submerged due to the rise in the water level of river Vashishti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-in-maharashtra-s-chiplun-water-starts-receding-rescue-ops-continue-101627021565543.html
23-07-2021||India||Cold war ends as CM Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu meet, sip tea together||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday met Navjot Singh Sidhu at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh ahead of a ceremony to appoint the cricketer-turned-politician as the chief of the Congress' state unit, signalling a thaw in the relationship between the two leaders.The meeting ended the speculations around Amarinder Singh's presence at the event where Sidhu will be formally handed over the reins of the Congress party's Punjab unit. Shortly after the two leaders who were embroiled in bitter infighting met, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the 'Punjab crisis' has been resolved.The leaders, swarmed with other party leaders, were seen exchanging few words as Singh looked and pointed at his watch while speaking to Sidhu.Singh on Thursday invited the party's MLAs, MPs and senior functionaries from the state for high-tea.Even though Sidhu arrived at the venue first, he left for a brief period after Amarinder Singh reached Punjab Bhawan. He later rejoined the gathering and went into the room to greet the Punjab chief minister. Both the leaders then sat together for a tea alongside All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. Senior Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present.The two leaders managed to reach a truce and the first signs emerged on Thursday when two of the four newly-appointed working presidents of the state, Congress Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian, extended a formal invite to the chief minister at his farmhouse in Mohali's Siswan for the Friday's ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by more than 55 legislators.Additionally, Sidhu also reached out to Amarinder Singh, asking him to join the installation ceremony and said that he had no "personal agenda", reported PTI.The party witnessed the first step marking the end of the "Punjab crisis" after Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday appointed Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit.Tensions between the two Congress's stalwarts in Punjab soared in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident.Sidhu attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the issue of alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police-firing incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-war-ends-as-cm-amarinder-singh-meets-navjot-sidhu-sip-tea-together-101627018351087.html
23-07-2021||India||PM Modi pays tributes to freedom fighters Tilak, Azad on their birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to freedom fighters Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Chandra Shekhar Azad on their birth anniversary and recalled their contributions towards India’s freedom struggle.Taking to Twitter, Modi said Bal Gangadhar Tilak was a firm believer in Indian values and ethos, adding his views on education and women empowerment continued to motivate people. “I bow to the great Lokmanya Tilak on his Jayanti. His thoughts and principles are more relevant than ever before in the present circumstances, when 130 crore Indians have decided to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat that is economically prosperous and socially progressive,” he wrote on the microblogging site.Lokmanya Tilak was a firm believer in Indian values and ethos. His views on subjects such as education and women empowerment continue to motivate several people. He was an institution builder, nurturing many top-quality institutions which have done pioneering work over the years.Bal Gangadhar Tilak, a teacher, independence activist and social thinker, was the first leader of India’s independence movement. Regarded as the “Maker of Modern India” by Mahatma Gandhi and “The father of the Indian unrest” by the British, Tilak was one of the strongest advocates of Swaraj or self-rule and is seen as the first political leader who appreciated the importance of identity issues. One of his most famous quotes is “Swarajya is my birthright and I shall have it!”.While paying tributes to the revolutionary Chandra Shekhar Azad, Prime Minister Modi said he was a futuristic thinker and dreamt of a strong and just India. “Remembering the valiant son of Bharat Mata, the remarkable Chandra Shekhar Azad on his Jayanti. During the prime of his youth he immersed himself in freeing India from the clutches of imperialism. He was also a futuristic thinker, and dreamt of a strong and just India,” PM Modi tweeted.Remembering the valiant son of Bharat Mata, the remarkable Chandra Shekhar Azad on his Jayanti. During the prime of his youth he immersed himself in freeing India from the clutches of imperialism. He was also a futuristic thinker, and dreamt of a strong and just India.Born in 1906, Chandra Shekhar Azad, was a part of Mahatma Gandhi’s non-cooperation movement. Associated with a string of revolutionary incidents to target the colonial British regime, he vowed never to be captured by the police and remain “azad” (free). In 1931, Azad died at a young age of 24 as he shot himself after being surrounded by the police in Uttar Pradesh's Allahabad, now known as Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-freedom-fighters-tilak-azad-on-their-birth-anniversary-101627017267716.html
23-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 420 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 420 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, July 22. Citing limited supply, Delhi government said Covishield jabs will be reserved for those due for their second dose until July-end.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 422,826,035 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,886,103 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 2,362,689 were given the first dose while 214,281 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 132,960,281 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 5,540,162 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases drop to 35,342; nearly 500 deaths in 24 hoursMadhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.As many as 35,342 new Covid cases and 38,740 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Friday.The cumulative positive cases now stand at 31,293,062, including 30,468,079 recoveries and 405,513 active cases. The country’s Covid death tally has reached 419,470, including 483 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-420-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101627017665337.html
23-07-2021||India||Stakeholders consulted before pension rules amendment: Minister||Union minister Jitendra Singh has said intelligence and security organisations were consulted before the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules were amended last month to bar former officials from publishing materials related to the “sensitive information” post-retirement without prior permission.“Prior to amendment, it was up to the concerned official to decide whether the published material falls in the prescribed prohibited categories or not. In case, the official feels that the material he is going to publish does not fall in the prohibited category then he could publish the material without any prior approval of the Government,” Singh told Parliament on Thursday. He added in case the officer publishes something under prohibited categories, a loss to the country would already have happened. “To prevent such situations, the current amendment has been made.”Also Read | Singh was responding to a question from Trinamool Congress member Santanu Sen on whether stakeholders were consulted before the amendment to the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules.Former Army chief Ved Prakash Malik said knowing how the government functions, either the permission will not come, or it will take a very long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stakeholders-consulted-before-pension-rules-amendment-minister-101627015684910.html
23-07-2021||India||Parts of NW India to receive heavy, widespread rain during next 2-3 days: IMD||There is likely to be a wet spell over parts of northwest India from July 23 to 26, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The western end of monsoon trough has moved slightly southward but still runs north of its normal position. It is likely to shift to the normal position during the next two days. Its eastern end now runs south of its normal position dipping to eastcentral Bay of Bengal. Due to shifting of the trough, widespread rain with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on July 23 and enhanced rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls on July 25 and 26 over these areas. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over plains of northwest India during the next two days with enhanced rainfall activity thereafter and very heavy falls over Uttar Pradesh is likely on July 25 and 26.A low pressure area is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move west-northwestwards along the monsoon trough during the next two days. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over east and adjoining central India during July 23 - 24 with reduction thereafter. An off-shore trough at mean sea level is running from south Gujarat coast to Kerala coast. It is likely to persist during the next two days. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over the west coast during the next two days with reduction thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-nw-india-to-receive-heavy-widespread-rain-during-next-2-3-daysimd-101627015205173.html
23-07-2021||India||Security tightened around Jantar Mantar as 'Kisan Sansad' enters Day 2||Barely two kilometres away from the ongoing monsoon session at Parliament, security remained heightened around Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Friday as 200 farmers hold their 'Kisan Sansad' or farmer's parliament for a second day to protest against the three agricultural laws.The early visuals from the heart of the national capital showed thick barricading by Delhi Police on Friday morning at the designated protest site ahead of the arrival of farmers to continue their agitation. Security personnel from the Delhi Police, Rapid Action Force (RAF) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were seen armed with anti-riot gear in the area.On the first day of the farmers' parliament, police used barricades along with metal detectors been placed on either side of the Jantar Mantar and two water cannons have also been stationed.Additionally, the security has been heightened at the Singhu border - a protest site at Delhi's entry point used by the farmers for nearly eight months now. The Delhi Police personnel have also escorted the farmers to the Singhu border to and back from Jantar Mantar.The farmer protesting against the three farm laws since November last year have said that the current agitation is being held to reiterate to the government that they are continuing to hold it after the union lost close to 600 people in the last eight months.The Kisan Sansad will run alongside the monsoon session till August 13 - the last day of Parliament.Farmers on Thursday said their parallel parliament will discuss the 42 anti-farmer laws brought by the Centre after 2014 and also pass a resolution declaring that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is anti-farmer.The demonstration comes almost six months after violent protests broke out in parts of Delhi during a tractor rally carried out by farmers on January 26.The farmers' protests are the longest such demonstration in decades of independent India. Farmers have maintained that the laws, forced in by the government, essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government marketplaces, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The farmers claim these laws will benefit big corporate houses. The government has, however, tried to allay these fears and even said that it is ready to discuss changes to the law. The government has made it clear that it won’t scrap these laws and held at least 12 rounds of talks with the agitating farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-tightened-at-jantar-mantar-singhu-border-as-farmers-protest-enters-day-2-101627009644576.html
23-07-2021||India||Only 'symbolic snan' in Haridwar on Guru Purnima, devotees need negative Covid-19 report||Guru Purnima celebrations in Uttarakhand's Haridwar this year will be limited to only a symbolic snan on Sunday in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and warnings of a likely third wave, reported news agency ANI citing officials. Only devotees with a negative RT-PCR report carried out in the last 72 hours will be allowed to participate, officials said."In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and a possible third wave, only a symbolic 'snan' will be held in Haridwar on July 24 on the occasion of Guru Purnima. Only 'Shri Ganga Sabha' and 'Teerth Purohit' to participate in the snan," the Haridwar district administration said on Saturday, according to ANI."Devotees will be allowed in Haridwar if they produce a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours, but they won't be allowed in the snan," it added.More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-symbolic-snan-in-haridwar-on-guru-purnima-devotees-need-negative-covid-19-report-101627012497316.html
23-07-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases drop to 35,342; nearly 500 deaths in 24 hours||India on Friday saw a slight dip in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as it recorded 35,342 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's data showed. The country, however, saw its daily deaths spike after 483 fatalities were recorded by the health ministry, taking the toll to 419,470 so far.Active cases of Covid-19 also decreased by 3,881 and were logged at 405,513, accounting for 1.3 per cent of the total cases India has recorded. As many as 38,740 recoveries were witnessed in the last 24 hours, taking the number to 30,468,079 so far.A total of 16,68,561 tests were carried out on Thursday to detect the infection, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,29,39,545. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.12 per cent -- it has been less than three per cent for 32 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.14 per cent.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,04,68,079, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34%, the data stated.The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 423.4 million.Researchers from the Center for Global Development, Washington DC, and Harvard University scientifically analysed data and concluded that an estimated 4.9 million people in India may have died from Covid-19. The report was based on estimating “excess mortality”, the number of extra people who died compared with pre-crisis figures. India, however, denied the study findings and said that the case fatality rate in the country remained largely unchanged during the peak of second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-to-35-342-nearly-500-deaths-in-24-hours-101627013013046.html
23-07-2021||India||Guru Purnima to be observed tomorrow: Know significance, time, tithi||Guru Purnima, a festival dedicated to all academic and spiritual gurus (teachers), will be celebrated on July 24 this year. On this day, students pay respect to their teachers for sharing their lessons and knowledge. Guru Purnima is celebrated on the full moon day in the Hindu month of Ashadha, which is from June to July.Who celebrates Guru Purnima?Traditionally, Buddh Purnima has been celebrated by Buddhists. It commemorates Gautam Buddha’s first sermon to his first five disciples in Uttar Pradesh’s Sarnath. However, Hindus and Jains also celebrate this festival to revere their teachers.Significance of Guru PurnimaGuru Purnima marks the relationship between students and teachers.In today’s time, it has been said that teachers play the most important role in the lives of students. Apart from imparting education and teaching other co-curricular and non-curricular skills, teachers also familiarise students with values and life skills that help them deal with the outside world once they become adults.Schools, colleges and other educational institutions across India celebrate Guru Purnima by organising various events to thank the teachers in bringing out the best in students.TithiThe Guru Purnima Tithi this year will begin at 10.43am on July 23 and end at 8.06am on July 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guru-purnima-to-be-observed-tomorrow-know-significance-time-tithi-101627008562789.html
23-07-2021||India||Cyclones, floods in India among Asia’s top ten deadly disasters in past 50 yrs||Top ten disasters in Asia during 1970 and 2019, both in terms of deaths and economic losses, included cyclone and flooding events in India, according to data released by World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) on Friday. The biggest disaster in Asia in terms of deaths was recorded in Bangladesh during cyclone Bhola in 1970 when an estimated 300,000 persons were killed. The worst disaster in terms of economic losses was recorded in China during 1998 floods causing an approximate loss of 47.02 billion USD. Tropical cyclones that affected India in 1977 killing 14,204 people; in 1999 killing 9,843 people and in 1971 killing 9,658 people figure in the top ten list in terms of deaths. India’s 2014 floods figure in the list of costliest disasters with a loss of approximately 16.90 billion USD. In Europe, in comparison, the top ten disasters were dominated by extreme temperatures causing massive loss of lives and floods in terms of economic losses. Super cyclone Amphan which made landfall in the Sunderbans near the India-Bangladesh border last year is estimated to be the costliest tropical cyclone on record in the North Indian Ocean with economic losses of approximately US$14 billion, WMO said last year. Citing data from the forthcoming WMO Atlas of Mortality and Economic Losses from Weather, Climate and Water Extremes (1970-2019) which will be released ahead of the United Nations General Assembly in September, WMO said over the 50-year period, weather, climate and water hazards accounted for 50% of all disasters (including technological hazards), 45% of all reported deaths and 74% of all reported economic losses at global level. WMO also said on Friday that recent flooding events in China; heat waves in North America are clearly related to climate crisis and that no country developed or developing will be spared from its impacts. Of the top 10 disasters, the hazards that led to the highest lives lost globally during the period have been droughts (650,000 deaths), storms (577,232 deaths), floods (58,700 deaths) and extreme temperature (55,736 deaths), according to the Atlas. As far as economic losses are concerned, the top 10 events globally include storms (US$ 521 billion) and floods (US$ 115 billion), according to an excerpt from the Atlas. “Weather, climate and water-related hazards are increasing in frequency and intensity as a result of climate change. The human and economic was highlighted with tragic effect by the torrential rainfall and devastating flooding and loss of life in central Europe and China in the past week,” said WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas. In the past week, Mumbai and other parts of India’s west coast also reported unprecedented rains. Landslides killed at least 31 persons in Mumbai on July 18; and at least 74 people were killed in lightning strikes in 24 hours on July 12 and 13 in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh. “Recent record-breaking heatwaves in North America are clearly linked to global warming,” said Taalas, citing a rapid attribution analysis that climate change, caused by greenhouse gas emissions, made the heatwave at least 150 times more likely to happen. “But increasingly, heavy rainfall episodes also bear the footprint of climate change. As the atmosphere gets warmer it holds more moisture which means it will rain more during storms, increasing the risk of floods. No country – developed or developing – is immune. Climate change is here and now. It is imperative to invest more in climate change adaptation, and one way of doing this is to strengthen multi-hazard early warning systems,” he added. According to WMO, the German national meteorological service, DWD, said up to two months’ worth of rainfall fell in two days (July 14 and 15) on soils that were already near saturation in the most affected regions of Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg. Switzerland and Austria were also hit by severe flooding. About 100 to 150mm rain was recorded in 24 hours between July 14 and 15. The DWD weather station of Wipperfuerth-Gardeweg (North Rhine-Westphalia) recorded 162mm followed by Cologne-Stammheim (North Rhine-Westphalia) with 160mm, Kall-Sistig (North Rhine-Westphalia) with 152mm and Wuppertal-Buchenhofen (North Rhine-Westphalia) with 151mm. Some parts of the central Chinese province of Henan received more accumulated rainfall between July 17 and 21 than the annual average. The national meteorological observation station in Zhengzhou reached 720mm – compared to its annual average of 641mm. “Climate change is exacerbating the climate crisis with an increased frequency and intensity of hydro-meteorological disasters across the globe. An analysis by CEEW suggests that more than 97.51 million people in India are exposed to extreme flood events, and the frequency of associated flood events (like landslides, heavy rainfall, thunderstorms, sea-level rise, etc.) have increased 20-fold. These numbers are a grim reminder of the state of vulnerability, and ignoring these signals only compounds the chronic and acute risks that we will face in the near future. India needs a proactive climate risk mitigation strategy with a broad focus on building back faster and better. Enhanced investment in an improved emergency response framework and climate-proofing of infrastructure that accounts for multi-hazards can build resilience. Restoring and reviving the natural ecosystems should be a national imperative that needs renewed political, financial, and technological focus,” said Abinash Mohanty, Programme Lead, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclones-floods-in-india-among-asia-s-top-ten-deadly-disasters-in-past-50-yrs-101627012985312.html
23-07-2021||India||5 dead in Raigad landslide triggered by heavy rains||As Maharashtra continues to get battered by heavy rainfall, a fatal landslide in the state's Raigad district on Thursday night claimed the lives of five people, reported news agency ANI on Friday, citing the district collector."Five people died in the Raigad district due to landslides and floods," district collector Nidhi Chaudhary told ANI. She added that the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been informed, as authorities continue to attempt headway in the disaster rescue operation.Five people died in Raigad district due to landslides and floods: Nidhi Chaudhary, District Collector, Raigad#Maharashtra"The NDRF team is having trouble reaching the affected villages as roads are submerged underwater," the Raigad district collector was quoted as saying by the news agency.Also Read | Maharashtra rains: PM Modi assures of full support to CM Uddhav ThackerayThe Ratnagiri and Raigad districts of Maharashtra have been battered by torrential rains over the past 24 hours, resulting in a flood-like situation. Following an emergency meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, NDRF rushed two teams to Ratnagiri's Khed and Chiplun areas to tackle the critical situation due to high tide and heavy rain.As of Friday morning, a team of NDRF managed to evacuate and shift residents of the Chikhli village to safer places.#WATCH | Maharashtra: National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team shifts people from Chikhali in Kolhapur district to safer locations. Several parts of the state are facing floods due to incessant rainfall. (Source: NDRF) pic.twitter.com/H0SZH9wWteMeanwhile, Raigad's guardian minister Aditi Tatkare said the Maharashtra government has sought assistance from the Centre and the Indian Army to rescue the people trapped in Mahad.The Western Naval Command of the Indian Navy, based in Mumbai, has mobilised flood rescue teams and helicopters for assistance, based on a request from the Maharashtra government. Seven naval rescue teams from Mumbai departed by road for deployment to Ratnagiri and Raigad on Thursday, ANI reported.Moreover, the armed forces are also helping in airlifting marooned personnel from the Raigad district. A Seaking 42C Helo chopper from INS Shikra, docked in Mumbai, departed for rescue at Poladpur in Raigad during the early hours on Friday. Two more NDRF teams have been mobilised for rescue operations -- one each for Khed in Ratnagiri and for Mahad in Raigad -- from the disaster management body's Pune headquarters. Additional flood rescue teams have been kept on standby for immediate deployment, should the need arise.The national forecasting agency India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued red and orange alerts for several regions in the state and said they are set to receive heavy rainfall in the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-five-dead-in-raigad-landslide-triggered-by-heavy-rains-101627009772305.html
23-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: 2 militants killed in J-K's Sopore and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two militants killed in overnight gunfight in Kashmir’s SoporeTwo militants were killed in an overnight gunfight in north Kashmir’s Sopore village, police said on Friday. This is the second such exchange of fire this week. Police said they had information about presence of two to three militants in the area. Read moreSchools, educational institutions in Rajasthan to reopen from August 2The Rajasthan government has announced all schools and other educational institutions in the state will reopen from August 2 amid an improvement in the overall situation of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read moreMaharashtra mulls further relaxations in curbs, records 7,302 fresh Covid casesAmid increasing pressure from various quarters to provide further relaxations in Covid-19 curbs in the state, the Maharashtra government is expected to take a decision over opening suburban train services for a few more categories in the next few days. Read moreCIA may now deploy 'China specialists' to compete with BeijingThe United States has to come to terms with the fact that it is no longer the "only big kid" on the geopolitical block, said Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director William Burns has said. Read moreChutzpah review: Varun Sharma’s new SonyLIV show has nothing that is scroll-stoppingWith the ubiquity of social media, millions across the world are seduced by the lure of a virtual world which promises instant validation in the form of likes, comments and retweets. Read more'The debate in itself is wrong': Shoaib Akhtar explains what Babar 'needs' to do to 'beat Virat and surpass him'Shoaib Akhtar has given his view on the comparison between India captain Virat Kohli and Pakistan skipper Babar Azam, saying that despite all the comparisons that are being drawn between the two players, the debate surrounding the two is wrong. Read morePriyanka Chopra's backless polka dot shirt dress in new pics is worth ₹1 lakhActor Priyanka Chopra Jonas gave a glimpse of her breezy summer wardrobe recently as she shared several pictures of herself dressed in a pretty printed ensemble. Read moreWatch how Tiger Shroff got 'action ready' for Heropanti 2Bollywood actor Tiger Shroff gets ready for his upcoming movie Heropanti 2. The actor, who started off his career with Heropanti, will now be seen in the action sequence. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-2-militants-killed-in-j-k-s-sopore-and-all-the-latest-news-101627010794498.html
23-07-2021||India||Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill to be taken up in Parliament today||Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Pashupati Kumar Paras are scheduled to move the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill and National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill in Parliament on Friday. The first proposed legislation seeks to widen the scope of factoring, and the second aims to declare the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (Kundli), and the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (Thanjavur) as institutions of national importance.The two bills were scheduled to be taken up earlier this week but could not be because of protests over the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities.Union ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and Smriti Irani will also table Marine Aids to Navigation Bill and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill for passage.Several private members’ bills are also expected to be taken up including one related to compulsory teaching of Sanskrit language in schools by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Sudhakar Tukaram Shrangare. Hans Raj Hans, another BJP member, is scheduled to table a bill seeking enhanced compensation for the families of soldiers killed in the line of duty.Saugata Roy of the Trinamool Congress is expected to introduce a private member bill related to the preservation of secularism and communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factoring-regulation-amendment-bill-to-be-taken-up-in-parliament-today-101627011244915.html
23-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in overnight gunfight in Kashmir’s Sopore||Two militants were killed in an overnight gunfight in north Kashmir’s Sopore village, police said on Friday. This is the second such exchange of fire this week.Police said they had information about presence of two to three militants in the area. A cordon-and-search operation was launched in Warpora village in Sopore on Thursday evening. They said the operation turned into a gunfight when militants started firing at the forces. “Two militants have been killed,” confirmed Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar, adding that one of the militants was identified as Fayaz Ahmad War who was allegedly involved in many killings of civilians and security force personnel.Also Watch | Kargil Diwas: Army organises motorcycle rally, musical evening at Udhampur HQOn Monday, top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Ishfaq Ahmad Dar alias Abu Akram, who deserted the ranks of Jammu and Kashmir Police about four years ago, was among the two militants killed in in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.Police said the commander was involved in the killing of four cops in 2018 in south Kashmir’s Zanipora village.Last Friday, two militants were neutralised by security forces at Alamdar Colony in Danmar area of Srinagar. So far, 83 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year, including some top commanders belonging to different militant groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-militants-killed-in-overnight-gunfight-in-kashmir-s-sopore-101627010044462.html
23-07-2021||India||Foreign secretary Shringla to begin 2-day UK visit, roadmap 2030 on agenda||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla is set to embark on a two-day visit to the United Kingdom (UK) on Friday to further India's bilateral ties with the nation as per Roadmap 2030, a 10-year diplomatic coordination strategy between New Delhi and London, the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) said. According to an official release, the foreign secretary will discuss a host of issues with his counterparts in the UK, including the implementation of the said roadmap and the evolving situation in Afghanistan.Also Read | UK Strike Force joins Indian and Quad navies to put a stamp on Indo-Pacific"During the visit, the foreign secretary will meet with his counterparts and conduct a detailed review of bilateral relations with particular focus on the implementation of the 2030 Roadmap," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing on Thursday.Roadmap 2030 for India-UK future relations was launched during the virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his English counterpart Boris Johnson in May. The partnership agreement envisions "revitalised and dynamic connections" over the next decade between the two countries in the spheres of trade, investment, technology, climate action, and health. Moreover, the plan aims to boost India-UK defence and security cooperation in the Indian Ocean and the Indo-Pacific regions.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will be conducting a detailed review of the bilateral ties between India and the UK with a focus on this 10-year roadmap, the external affairs ministry said. It is understood that the evolving situation in Afghanistan is also likely to figure in Shringla's engagements in London."He will also discuss regional and global issues of mutual interest," MEA spokesperson Bagchi said while speaking of Shringla's upcoming visit to the UK.India and the UK recently conducted a joint drill for over three days in the Bay of Bengal as part of efforts to enhance interoperability and naval cooperation. Britain's largest warship, the 65,000-tonne aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike task group conducted complex maritime exercises with the Indian Navy as part of the country’s moves to enhance its profile in the Indo-Pacific and to foster defence ties with nations across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-shringla-to-begin-2-day-uk-visit-roadmap-2030-on-agenda-101626997039552.html
23-07-2021||India||Six months into India’s vaccination drive: What is right and what is not||India launched its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16. Six months into it, there has been visible improvement on most fronts: the pace has picked up, and the gender and urban-rural gaps are reducing. Still, more needs to be done if India wants to achieve its stated target of vaccinating its entire adult population of 940 million by the end of 2021.Daily jabs are off their peak, but still higher than beforeIndia’s vaccine supply policy has gone through several phases. In the first three, vaccinations were opened up to healthcare workers, front-line workers, and those over the age of 60 years or over the age of 45 years but with co-morbidities. In all three, the vaccines were sourced and supplied by the Union government -– to the states and to private centres. Starting April 1, vaccinations were opened up to those over the age of 45. In this phase too, vaccines were procured and allocated to states and private centres by the Union government. Starting May 1, India opened up vaccinations for everyone over the age of 18. This happened even as supplies remained constrained. States were allowed to procure up to 25% of the vaccines made locally for this; private hospitals were allowed to buy another 25%; and the remaining 50% was sourced by the Union government for distribution to the states for healthcare and frontline workers and those over the age of 45 years. After a messy month-and-half when supplies played truant, and demand soared, the Union government took over the sourcing of 75% of the vaccines starting June 21 (the private sector continued to procure and administer 25%). The seven-day average of new doses administered reached an all-time high of 6.39 million on June 26, a number that India could never hope to sustain because it translates into a supply of 191.7 million a month (and in July, according to the health ministry, the supply is expected to be 135 million doses). The numbers fell subsequently, reaching just 3.42 million on July 12. However, in the past week, the pace of vaccinations has increased again. While it is still short of the peak of 6.39 million, it is significantly higher than what it was before.But the current pace needs to increase to meet the December 31 deadlineThe Union government has set a target of vaccinating India’s entire adult population by December 31. As of 6pm on July 22, 87.8 million people have been fully vaccinated and 242.2 million people have received at least one dose. India’s adult population, as on March 1, according to a projection by the National Commission on Population is 940 million. This means that 65% of the adult population has not received even one dose of vaccines until now. As the share of people who have been given their first dose of vaccine increases, future vaccine supplies will have to be reserved for administering second doses. Even if the current rate of administering first doses to 4.32 million people (as on July 20) daily is maintained, the target of vaccinating the entire population by December 31 will not be met. However, supplies are expected to increase significantly starting August, making it possible for India to accelerate it drive.Vaccination in rural districts is increasingUrban India had a head-start in terms of vaccinations. While this is to be expected, it is self-defeating. An HT analysis based on merging the 754 districts listed on the Co-Win app with the 640 districts in the 2011 census shows that almost three-fourth (72.8%) of India’s population lived in rural districts with at least 60% of the population living in rural areas. On July 21, the seven-day average of new doses administered per million population in rural districts was 2,799. This number was 4,477 for the urban districts where the share of rural population was less than 40%. To be sure, things have improved on this front. The ratio of seven-day average of new does per million in urban and rural districts was 2.76 on June 6, against 1.60 on July 21.Dr Shahid Jameel, director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, said while the reduction in gap between rural and urban areas in the pace of vaccination is welcome news, the gap needs to be reduced further. This is because, he said, the results of the latest sero-prevalence survey shows that the Covid-19 infection could spread just as readily in rural areas as urban areas.More women are getting vaccinated nowOn June 8 an HT analysis pointed towards a male-bias in India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme. Things are improving on this front too now.After the vaccination drive was opened up for all adults on May 1, the ratio of fresh first doses per million men and women (7-day average) peaked on May 25 at 1.348. It has been falling since then and was at 1.079 on June 24.A change in design of the gender-wise data on vaccination from June 25 -– we now have data on total doses instead of the first dose -- does not allow us to keep track of this ratio anymore. However, there is no evidence to suggest that the trend towards gender equality in vaccination has reversed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-months-into-india-s-vaccination-drive-what-is-right-and-what-is-not-101626986375355.html
23-07-2021||India||SC says ‘very unlikely’ it will cancel bail of student activists held in riots||Frowning upon “hypersensitivity in political matters”, the Supreme Court on Thursday said it is “very unlikely” to send back to jail three student activists, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were arrested in May last year for allegedly instigating the February 2020 Delhi riots.The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta made the observation while hearing appeals filed by the Delhi Police against the grant of bail to the three by the Delhi high court in June when it asked whether the police will confine the case to interpretations of certain provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) by the Delhi high court, or would also appeal the bail.“We are here on both aspects. We want the bail orders to be set aside,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Delhi Police in the matter, told the court.To this, the bench retorted: “Very unlikely...but you can try.”The court also recorded in its order that the Delhi Police wanted the bail orders to be quashed apart from other comments made by the high court on the interpretations of the UAPA Act. Delhi HC had interpreted the UAPA Act to hold that the law can be invoked only for offences limited to defence of India and for activities carried out during war. The HC defined what constituted a “terrorist activity”, noting UAPA could apply only when activities led to widespread violence threatening the defence of the country.During the proceeding, justice Kaul, speaking for the bench, further expressed his displeasure at repeated interruptions from Mehta and additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, who also appeared for the police, when the judge sought to get clarifications on the issues being pressed by the Delhi Police.As Mehta said that even a single observation from the bench can have a huge impact because of wide reportage, justice Kaul said a judge cannot be stopped from asking questions.“We don’t understand hypersensitivity in political matters. Can I be precluded from asking questions? Whenever I want to ask something, either you (Mehta) say something or Lekhi interrupts. What is this? We want to segregate the issues and that is why it is important for us to know what you want. Do you want to argue on the interpretations of the law or do you also want to take them back in custody?” justice Kaul asked Mehta.Mehta replied that the Delhi Police would press for both. Lekhi, on his part, claimed the high court had undone UAPA by interpreting the Act in a particular manner and argued that its order must go in entirety.Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Siddharth Aggarwal, who were representing the student activists, asked for four weeks to put in their replies to the appeals filed by the police, along with the copy of the charge sheet in the case. The court gave them time and adjourned.The court, which on June 18 directed that the bail orders in this case would not be treated as a precedent in any other case or relied upon in any court proceeding, also observed that bail proceedings could not become final adjudicatory proceedings and that provisions of an Act were not to be debated extensively in a bail matter.At this, Sibal pointed out that there are some cases in which both sides argue on facts as well as on statutory provisions and therefore, bail orders end up interpreting the law too.The bench, however, clarified that it was not inclined to hear a bail matter for hours together and hence, the lawyers should endeavour to limit their arguments mostly to the facts of the case when they argue it later.Over 750 FIRs were filed and several people arrested for the communal riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, leaving 53 people dead and several hundreds injured.Kalita, Narwal and Tanha are named in one of these FIRs, accused of orchestrating the blocking of roads in an area where riots broke out. Narwal and Kalita have been granted bail in two other cases, in which they were accused of unlawful assembly and inciting riots. Tanha received bail in another case that alleges he was part of a “premeditated conspiracy” to orchestrate the riots.On June 18, the apex court said it was staying “the effect of the high court order” but clarified that the three activists, who had been released from prison, would remain out on bail . The court accepted Mehta’s submissions that the high court orders could impact several other cases under UAPA pending before different courts.A high court bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani on June 15 ordered the release of the three student activists on bail, describing the charges against them as “hyperbole” and ruling that it would be “a stretch” to “say that the protest affected the community at large for it to qualify as an act of terror||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-says-very-unlikely-it-will-cancel-bail-of-student-activists-held-in-riots-101626985231560.html
23-07-2021||India||First doses of Covishield halted as supplies dry up||Covishield jabs at government centres will be reserved for those due for their second dose of the vaccine until July-end, the Delhi government said in an order on Thursday, citing a limited supply of doses. The order noted that beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group who began receiving shots in May are due to be eligible for their second dose.“Vaccination of 18 to 44 cohort began on May 1, 2021, and with the completion of the 84-day interval for the second dose of Covishield, many of them will become eligible for the second dose in the coming weeks. In view of a limited supply of vaccines, all slots –for online booking and walk-in … in government Covid vaccination centres will be reserved for the second dose with immediate effect till July 31,” said health and family welfare department director Monika Rana in the order.This is the first time Covishield doses have been limited in this manner, since the vaccination drive began in the Capital. On June 6, the Delhi government stopped administering first doses of the Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin, owing to a shortage of stocks. Later, on July 12, as stocks stabilised, it reserved 20% of the vaccine for first doses.The move is likely to further slow the pace of vaccination in Delhi, with the number of first doses in the city already falling behind the number of second doses administered. The Centre’s CoWin dashboard on Thursday showed that as of 5pm, 25,662 second doses were given in the city, as compared to 21,597 first doses.On Thursday, as of 5pm, Delhi administered 47,259 vaccine doses, fewer than even the number of vaccinations a day before when 63,265 jabs were administered. The number of operational vaccination centres also dropped from 729 on Wednesday to 660 on Thursday, as Covishield stocks dried up. There are 1,374 vaccination centres in the city.As on Thursday morning, the Delhi government said it had 65,460 Covishield doses in stock. It was not immediately clear if the government received any fresh stock till the time of going to print.The state also had 245,590 doses of Covaxin as on Thursday morning.“With the district receiving fewer Covishield doses, there are days when we administer more Covaxin shots now. This is probably why more second doses are being given,” said an official from the West district.An official from East district said, “This is being done because we have limited number of Covishield doses and everyone who got the shot in May will need their second dose. This had happened with Covaxin too.”“At the beginning of the month, we were unofficially informed that the pace of the vaccination will stay slow because of a lack of doses. We cannot operate all our sites every day because we are getting fewer doses than we can administer,” an official from south district said.Delhi’s vaccination rates have been erratic since June 21, when the Centre took over control of purchasing and distributing vaccines to states, a change from the earlier policy, when states were buying doses for those aged between 18 and 45 at a separate, higher price.In the three weeks since then, vaccinations peaked on June 26, when the city administered over 207,000 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. In fact, Delhi vaccinated over 200,000 in a day on three occasions in four days between June 26 and 29.However, they have also dipped precipitously on weekdays — most government vaccination centres are shut on Sunday, falling to a low of 22,353 on July 7, a Wednesday.Delhi adds 49 new Covid infections, 1 more deathMeanwhile, the city on Thursday added 49 new cases of Covid-19.The state government’s daily health bulletin on Thursday showed that one person died of the viral infection, taking the Covid-19 toll in Delhi to 25,040.The test positivity rate, a crucial metric to understand the scale of infection spread in a region, remained below the 0.10% mark on Thursday. Of the 58,502 samples collected, just 0.08% returned positive, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-doses-of-covishield-halted-as-supplies-dry-up-101626984518882.html
23-07-2021||India||HC to TN: Can’t buy buses that aren’t disabled-friendly||In a push for the rights and independence of people with disabilities in their commute, the Madras high court on Thursday restrained Tamil Nadu from purchasing any new bus to its fleet in the public transport system unless such buses were disabled-friendly as prescribed by law.The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the interim injunction on a batch of pleas that have been pending before the court for years including from as far back as 2005. One of the petitions in the case had sought to restrain the state from acquiring any further bus unless it conforms to the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017 and under the latter, Rule 15 in particular. Rule 15 mandates that every establishment complies with the specified standard as indicated in a notification issued by the Government of India on September 20, 2016.The state submitted to the court that there are certain practical difficulties, particularly in finding resources not only to acquire the more expensive buses but also to create the road infrastructure required for such sophisticated buses. The state sought more time to indicate a roadmap but the court rejected it and said that implementing this policy shouldn’t be delayed any further.“... there may be no room to manoeuvre and little scope for the court to delay the implementation of the policy as reflected in the statute and the laws made thereunder,” the court said in its orders. “In other words, (the) State will not acquire any new bus for use thereof as part of the public transport system unless such bus meets the standards indicated in the notification of September 20, 2016.”The matter has been posted to August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-to-tn-can-t-buy-buses-that-aren-t-disabledfriendly-101626982981187.html
23-07-2021||India||DVAC raids former minister, AIADMK says political agenda||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Thursday conducted searches in more than 20 premises linked to former AIADMK transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar. From Thursday morning, the team raided 20 places in his native in Karur district and searched his Chennai residence. By evening DVAC sleuths conducted searches in three additional places including a private company, a residence of his associate and at his personal assistant’s house. A case under Section 13(2) r/w 13(1)(b) and 12 r/w 13(2) r/w 13(1)(b) of the PC (Amendment) Act, 2018 was registered against Vijayabhaskar, his wife Vijayalakshmi and his brother Sekar, DVAC said in a statement. “During the search proceedings, net cash of ₹25,56,000, sale deed documents, documents pertaining to investments made in insurance policies and documents related to transactions in the business firms in which M R Vijayabhaskar is a partner and other incriminating documents were seized,” DVAC.Vijayabhaskar’s lawyer Selvam in Chennai told reporters that they were cooperating with the agency. “They asked for accounts. We have given them,” he said. The AIADMK condemned the DMK government over the raids and called it a political vendetta. “The DMK hasn’t even completed 90 days in government but with an intention to register a false case they are raiding former minister Vijayabhaskar’s residence,” AIADMK’s coordinator O Panneerselvam told reporters outside the party headquarters. He was flanked by former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and other leaders. “The AIADMK is ready to face any major avenging act of the DMK. We will face any legal action. “The DMK government has to stop such anti-democratic activities. It is with political vendetta that they are raiding a party which has governed for the last 10 years for people’s rights and livelihood. Such raids carried out soon after they have come to power will not do any good to the political situation in the state.”This is being seen as DMK’s first strike against the AIADMK as one of the DMK’s election promises is to establish a special court to try graft charges against AIADMK ministers from the previous regime. When the DMK was in the opposition, they had submitted corruption charges against top cabinet ministers including former chief minister and deputy chief minister Edappdi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam to governor Banwarilal Purohit. The DMK government had appointed IPS officer P Kandaswamy, to head the DVAC as its chief. He is a low-key officer who is most known for leading the team in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that arrested present Union home minister Amit Shah when he was Gujarat minister in 2010 for his alleged involvement in the Sohrabuddin encounter case. Vijayabhaskar was appointed as transport minister after the party was elected in the 2016 assembly elections. Vijayabaskar lost the recently held assembly elections to DMK’s Senthil Balaji who was formerly with the AIADMK. Balaji, who is now electricity minister, was accused in a job scam when he was the transport minister between 2011 and 2015. Following J Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016, he joined the rebel camp led by V K Sasikala’s nephew, TTV Dhinakaran camp and he was one of the 18 disqualified MLAs. But he subsequently joined the DMK in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dvac-raids-former-minister-aiadmk-says-political-agenda-101626982921155.html
23-07-2021||India||Madurai official suspended after road repair order ahead of RSS chief Bhagwat’s TN visit||Chennai: After an internal circular from a Madurai civic official to his juniors asking them to fix roads ahead of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s visit began circulating on social media, he was shunted out from the post. S Shanmugam, an assistant commissioner of the Madurai Corporation, had issued a circular on July 20 directing zonal officers to repair roads, fix streetlights and keep the routes, which Bhagwat was scheduled to take, clean. He also instructed them not to take up any repair works during the RSS Sarsanghchalak’s visit from July 22 to 27 in the district. This quickly turned into a political controversy after S Venkatesan, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Lok Sabha MP from Madurai constituency, tweeted the circular and sought explanation from the district administration. “Under which government rules has this circular been issued?” Venkatesan tweeted. The ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) allies such as the Left and the Congress sought action against the official for issuing the circular. Shanmugam, who had been on deputation at the Madurai Corporation, has been sent back to his parent department in the district’s revenue office. Following the controversy, Madurai Corporation commissioner KP Karthikeyan issued a press note, explaining that the circular was issued as part of routine arrangements made for any VVIP with Z-plus security cover as per protocol. Bhagwat was provided with Z-plus security cover by the UPA government in 2012, and it was further extened to a countrywide Z-plus security cover of 60 commandos from the CISF in 2015. A senior official in Madurai pointed out that though they were only following the protocol, the contents of the letter caused the problem. “If there is a pothole and his vehicle gets stuck, it is a breach of security protocol, so we were only following routine procedures that we are meant to follow for anyone with Z+ security,” the official said, not wishing to be named. “But the circular made it sound like some extraordinary work. Also, the circular was not sent to higher ups for approval, so we have demanded an explanation from the official,” the official added. Civic chief Karthikeyan signed an order relieving Shanmugam from duty on July 21 evening and sought an explanation for why he issued this circular without the approval of senior officials. Bhagwat is in Tamil Nadu as part of his annual tour. “He will review the organisational work done by Sangh during the last one year and is planning for expansion in the next three years,” said B Narasimhan, state secretary of the RSS. “He will also review Covid-19 relief activities carried out by Sangh volunteers teaming with other organisations during the second wave.” As part of his visit, Bhagwat will spend three days in Vellore and visit Chennai on August 2. He is expected to interact with NGOs and social media influencers. The RSS is the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is working towards gaining ground in Tamil Nadu where it doesn’t enjoy the popularity as in other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madurai-official-suspended-after-road-repair-order-ahead-of-rss-chief-bhagwat-s-tn-visit-101626982862429.html
23-07-2021||India||With no new movie releases, single-screen theatres in Karnataka struggle to survive||Bengaluru: With no new movies available for screening, theater owners in Bengaluru are a concerned lot despite the state government allowing theatres to operate at 50% capacity. With film producers not keen on releasing their movies until 100% occupancy at theatres is announced, theatres owners are left in the lurch. The government on July 18 had allowed the reopening of cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, rangamandiras, auditoriums and similar places of entertainment. However, the order said that they will be allowed to operate at only 50% seating capacity and strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the concerned departments. Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association president KV Chandrasekhar said even though the government’s decision to reopen theatres come as a relief, they have not received any word from any producers on releasing movies. “The single-screen theatres in the state depend on a lot of Kannada movies. No producers have announced any movie for this week or for that matter next weekend. So, many theatres still remain shut,” he said on XX According to the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, Karnataka has around 630 single-screen theatres and around 260 multiples theatres. More than 1200,000 employees work at these establishments. Chandrashekar said that most of the theatres have been paying their employees half their salaries during the lockdown. “The minimum salary of an employee at a single screen theatre is around ₹13,000 to 14,000. With no movies running and without a clear picture about when big movies will release, these theatre owners are running into losses,” he said. An office-bearer of the Kannada Film Producers Association (KFPA), said on the condition of anonymity that film producers were facing their own problems. “It is a difficult situation; we are still not sure if people will come to theatres because of the fear of the third wave. We are not sure if the movies will get enough audience if they are released now. If you look from the exhibitor’s side also, if people don’t come to theatres, they won’t make any money either,” said the official. He said that in the coming days, meetings will be held with concerned authorities on how the situation can be improved. Meanwhile, a distributor based in Bengaluru said that during the lockdown, producers have an affinity towards the online streaming platforms. “If you look at last year, a lot of movies are getting premiered on the OTT platforms and most of the producers are making handsome profits. In fact, there are many movies now, that are made only for streaming,” said the distributor, who didn’t want to be named. However, the official at KFPA said that streaming can’t be an alternative for theatres. “Most of the movies in our industry are made for theatre experience. “These movies make money when people come to the theatres, there are buyers for these movies online because these are mass movies. So, finding a solution to make people get back to theatres is important,” he said. Karnataka government on July 8 had ordered a complete waiver of property tax on single-screen theatres for the financial year 2021-22, after the Karnataka State Film Exhibitors Association submitted a detailed memorandum to CM BS Yediyurappa, citing the problems faced by the industry during the lockdown. Chandrashekar said that despite this announcement from the government, the benefit of this wavier will take time to reach the pockets of some theatre owners. “Most of the theatre owners had paid their property taxes in time and the announcement came much after this. It takes times for these refunds to come to people’s accounts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-no-new-movie-releases-single-screen-theatres-in-karnataka-struggle-to-survive-101626982741172.html
23-07-2021||India||116 booked for violating Covid norms during Shah rally: Police to HC||Bengaluru: The Belagavi police on Thursday told the Karnataka high court that 116 people have been booked for violating Covid-19 norms during a rally led by union home minister Amit Shah on January 17. The report comes after the HC, on June 18, pulled up the Belagavi police commissioner over the First Information Report (FIR) filed regarding a violation of Covid-19 norms during Shah’s rally. The court questioned why the Belagavi police had named only six persons in the FIR and questioned why a thousand others, (including Shah) were not booked. Following this, the bench had directed the officer in-charge of the APMC yard police station at Belagavi city to file the investigation report carried out in a sealed cover by July 19. “On what basis the commissioner has made a statement that only six persons were there at the rally who were not wearing masks? In the rally of thousands, he is bold to say only six persons were not wearing masks. Can anyone believe this?” asked a division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj on June 18. The comments came after advocate general Prabhuling K Navadgi said that Belagavi police have filed an FIR in the case regarding the violation of Covid norms during the rally at Belagavi on January 17. The FIR was filed after the HC had pulled by Belagavi police on May 25 for failing to register a case against BJP leaders in connection with a rally that was held in the city in January where Covid-19 protocols were flouted. At the rally, held in the run-up to the Lok Sabha by-election to the Belagavi seat, Covid protocols were flouted with people not even wearing masks or maintaining social distance. During the hearing, the commissioner had filed an affidavit stating that only fines were collected from certain persons for violation and no FIR was registered. Dissatisfied with this response, the court had observed: “Reading the affidavit as a whole, we find that the commissioner approached the matter very casually. The large gathering took place in Belagavi where rules regarding the wearing masks and social distancing were thrown to the wind. But the commissioner seems to be satisfied with the recovery of the fine amount.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/116-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-during-shah-rally-police-to-hc-101626982501142.html
23-07-2021||India||As BSY hints at exit, buzz over the next CM begins||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who till now strongly denied all reports of his resignation, on Thursday, in a statement hinted that he may not remain in the chief ministerial post after July 26, the day his government completes two-years in office. This has led to fresh speculations in the state on who would be the next chief minister. When asked, if he had suggested a replacement for chief minister, Yediyurappa simply said, “I will not make any suggestion (on successor)… who should be made (the next CM) is left to the central leadership. I’m not naming any one, there is no need for it also.” While the leaders in the BJP claim that the decision will come from the central leadership of the party, there are some names doing rounds in the political circles. HT spoke with several leaders in the party to get an idea of the names that have been doing the rounds. All leaders, including some ministers, insisted that such decisions are not made at the state level.About the possible candidates, a state minister said a Lingayat chief minister is on the cards. “The party knows the importance of the Lingayat community. We have seen in the last three days how Lingayat seers have rallied behind Yediyurappa. We are hearing some names of (Murugesh) Nirani and Arvind Bellad,” said the leader who didn’t want to be named. Nirani and Bellad are Lingayat leaders from north Karnataka, which is the heartland of the community. Nirani, a three-term MLA from Bilgi constituency, is currently the minister for mines and geology. Nirani is from the Panchamasali sub-sect of the Lingayat community, the largest sub-sect in the Lingayat community. Since there has been a demand for a chief minister from this community and from north Karnataka, he stands a good chance, a party leader said. However, some leaders claimed that the Lingayat community didn’t want Nirani to be the chief minister. “He is a businessman, and the community wants someone who is a political figure and who would stand with the community,” said an MLA from north Karnataka. Bellad is second time MLA but he is yet to get a cabinet position. While being a Lingayat leader puts him on the list of probable candidates, his lack of experience may work against him. At the same, there are talks within the party that a non-Lingayat leader could be selected for the top post since the names of Prahlad Joshi, CT Ravi and CN Ashwath Narayan were also doing around in the political circles. Joshi, who led the party in 2013, when the Yediyurappa left the BJP to form another party, is currently serving as the union minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal, and Mines. However, the state hasn’t had a Brahmin chief minister since 1988 and Joshi is a Brahmin from north Karnataka. CT Ravi and Ashwath Narayan, who are from the Vokkaliga community, which is the second-largest vote bank in the state, are on the list of probable candidates. “There has been a talk in the party to move away from its dependence on the Lingayat community. Having a chief minister from the Vokkaliga community will help us break into the vote bank. And leaders like Ravi and Ashwath are young. They are good choices,” said a senior leader who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-bsy-hints-at-exit-buzz-over-the-next-cm-begins-101626982441130.html
23-07-2021||India||Cong in a fix over floor strategy||The Congress’s decision to revive protests in Rajya Sabha on Thursday after allowing a smooth debate on the Covid-19 pandemic underlined the party’s dilemma and divergent views on floor strategy.A senior Congress leader claimed a section of the central leadership was not happy with the party leaders’ decision to participate in a debate on the Covid-19 situation in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The top Congress leadership wanted its Rajya Sabha unit to continue protests. The Congress in Lok Sabha has been participating in protests over price rise, Pegasus snooping charges and farm laws.In the last session too, the Rajya Sabha unit of the Congress had applied breaks on its protests and allowed House to resume business. The leaders argued that the House of the people and the council of states can have different strategy.This time too, the Congress’s decision to participate came after much deliberation internally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-in-a-fix-over-floor-strategy-101626981975378.html
23-07-2021||India||Cabinet approves central university in Ladakh||In a slew of decisions, the Union Cabinet on Thursday approved the setting up of a central university in the union territory of Ladakh, while also giving its nod to an integrated multi-purpose infrastructure development corporation.The decision was taken at the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an aim of addressing regional imbalances in higher education level and stimulating the intellectual current within the broader society of Ladakh.“Cabinet approves establishment of a Central University in the Union Territory of #Ladakh,” Jaideep Bhatnagar, principal director general of the Press Information Bureau (PIB), tweeted on Thursday.In a press release, the Union government said, “The Cabinet also approved the creation of one post of Managing Director, for the corporation in the pay scale of ₹1,44,200- ₹2,18,200 level.”“The authorised share capital of the Corporation will be ₹25 crore and recurring expenditure will be around ₹2.42 crore per year. It is a new establishment. Presently, there is no such similar organisation within the newly formed UT of Ladakh,” the release added.The government said that the approval has the potential to generate employment as the corporation will be undertaking various developmental activities. “Corporation will work for industry, tourism, transport and marketing of local products and handicraft. Corporation will also work as main construction agency for infrastructure development in Ladakh,” the press release added.“The establishment of corporation will result in inclusive and integrated development of the Union Territory of Ladakh. This will, in turn, ensure socio-economic development of the entire region and population of the Union Territory. The impact of development will be multi-dimensional. It will help in further development of human resources and better utilisation thereof. It increases domestic production of goods and services and will facilitate their smooth supply. Thus, the approval will help in realising the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat.”The Cabinet also approved a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme for specialty steel. The duration of the scheme will be five years, from 2023-24 to 2027-28. “With a budgetary outlay of ₹6,322 crore, the scheme is expected to bring in investment of approximately ₹40,000 crore and capacity addition of 25 MT for speciality steel. The scheme will give employment to about 525,000 people, of which 68,000 will be direct employment. Speciality steel has been chosen as the target segment because out of the production of 102 million tonnes steel in India in 2020-21, only18 million tonnes value added steel/speciality steel was produced in the country,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-central-university-in-ladakh-101626982023652.html
23-07-2021||India||MP moves motion against new IT rules||A Rajya Sabha MP has moved a proposal to strike down the contentious new social media and intermediary guidelines, notified by the government in February. The motion that has been accepted is a rarely used statutory one, moved by Communist Party of India MP Binoy Viswam.“This House resolves that the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, issued under clause (z), (zg) of sub-section (2) of Section 87 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 published in the Gazette of India dated the 25th February, 2021 vide Notification No. G.S.R. 139(E) dated the 25th February 2021 and laid on the Table of the House on 25th March 2021, be annulled. This House recommends to Lok Sabha that Lok Sabha do concur in this Motion,” the motion states.If voted and adopted by Rajya Sabha, it will then go to the Lok Sabha to decide whether they want to initiate a debate.“All laws provide that rules made under the cabinet be scrutinized by Parliament. Individual MPs can move a motion either asking for the striking down of a rule or amending the rule made by the government under a law. The motion is then debated and voted upon in the House. If the MPs motion is approved by the House then it requires to be approved by the other house for the rule to be either completely negated or amended,’’ said Chakshu Roy, Head of Legislative and Civic Engagement, PRS Legislative Research.The new rules for social media intermediaries, over the top platforms and digital news media publishers have been cleared as a “subordinate legislation”: a power essentially invoked by the government to ratify new rules.“Subordinate legislation is the legislation made by an authority subordinate to the legislature… Most of the enactments provide for the powers for making rules, regulations, bye-laws or other statutory instruments which are exercised by the specified subordinate authorities...,” the RS Website sates.These rules do not necessarily have to be debated by the Parliament; they only have to be placed at floor of the house||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-moves-motion-against-new-it-rules-101626981636750.html
23-07-2021||India||No urgency in hearing pleas on whatsapp privacy||There is no urgency in hearing pleas challenging WhatsApp’s new privacy policy as the instant messaging provider has already made a statement that it would “not transfer data” to Facebook till the personal data protection bill is finalised, the Delhi high court said on Thursday.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh was also informed by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, that they would not block anyone who is not accepting their new privacy policy.“We said we will not block,” Sibal stated. Taking note of the submission, the court said, “They have already made a statement that till the personal data protection bill is not finalised, they will not transfer. There is another matter before this court in which they have made the statement. This is not so urgent,” and deferred the pleas challenging WhatsApp’s privacy policy.The pleas have contended that the updated privacy policy violates users’ right to privacy under the Constitution and they can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt to not share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps. The company had pushed back the deadline for new privacy policy launched in January this year which allowed it to share some data about users’ interactions with business accounts with its parent company Facebook.On July 9, when the court was hearing a plea by WhatsApp and Facebook against a probe by the Competition Commission of India into its privacy policy, the instant messaging platform had told the court that till the data protection bill came into force, it would not compel users to opt for its new privacy policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-urgency-in-hearing-pleas-on-whatsapp-privacy-101626981028194.html
23-07-2021||India||IT raids premises linked to Dainik Bhaskar, UP channel||The income tax (IT) department on Thursday conducted raids at the premises of the Dainik Bhaskar Group across the country in a suspected tax evasion case, officials familiar with the matter said.The search operations spanned 32 locations in multiple cities consisting of residential and business premises of various office bearers of the Dainik Bhaskar group in Mumbai, Delhi, Bhopal, Indore, Jaipur, Korba, Noida and Ahmedabad. Subsequently, the IT teams also raided a regional news channel, Bharat Samachar, based in Lucknow and premises of its state head Virendra Singh and editor-in-chief Brajesh Mishra.The income tax department or its policymaking body, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), didn’t officially comment.But an officer with direct knowledge of developments said, “A search under section 132 of income tax act is being carried out in Dainik Bhaskar group offices as there are allegations of huge tax evasion by the group by claiming bogus expenses and purchases using shell entities. The group has floated several paper companies for this purpose, with their employees as shareholders and directors.”“The money siphoned off in this manner is routed back into various personal and business investments, in the form of share premium and foreign investments through Mauritius-based entities. The family members’ names also figured in Panama leaks case,” the officer added.“The DB group is involved in various sectors, including media, power, textiles and real estate, with a group turnover of more than ₹6,000 crores per annum. The group has more than 100 companies including the holding and subsidiary companies,” said a second IT officer.Opposition parties alleged that the raids were an attack on journalism and was being done to scare the journalists. They added that raids on Dainik Bhaskar were carried out for its reportage on Covid-19 mismanagement by the Narendra Modi government during the second wave in April and May.“Through its reporting Dainik Bhaskar has exposed the Modi regime’s monumental mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is now paying the price...,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted.Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh too chimed in, terming it an attack on journalism. Singh alleged that PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah were using the investigative agencies as weapons against the media.He also raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha.BJP leader and Union minister Anurag Thakur rejected the allegations. “Agencies are doing their own work and there is no interference...One should take complete information and, in its absence, sometimes many issues come up that are far from the truth...,” he told reporters at a cabinet briefing.Apart from Ramesh and Singh, other opposition leaders too criticised the tax raids on media houses. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi: “Income tax raids conducted on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar are an attempt to scare the media. Their message is clear-- those who speak against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will not be spared,” Kejriwal said in his tweet posted in Hindi.”Founded by Ramesh Chandra Aggarwal in 1958 in Bhopal, Dainik Bhaskar has a strong presence in the Hindi heartland, with 65 editions in 12 states. It is published in three languages, Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati.During the peak of the second wave, the newspaper published a series of articles to show the actual scale of devastation on account of the pandemic and on the undercounting of deaths in many states including UP, Rajasthan and Gujarat. There was no official statement from Bhaskar group but it ran a lead story on its website saying “the government is scared of true journalism”. “Government exerts pressure on Bhaskar Group, which showed actual figures of Covid-19 deaths and bodies floating in the Ganga river,” the story said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-premises-linked-to-dainik-bhaskar-up-channel-101626980719205.html
23-07-2021||India||India, China most vulnerable to climate crisis, pollution||New Delhi: India and China are among the five countries most vulnerable to climate change and air pollution, a first- of-its-kind research assessing the combined risks of the two factors said on Thursday.The world’s two fastest developing economies have witnessed a spurt in particulate matter induced air pollution levels in the past two decades and a simultaneous increase in frequency of extreme weather events such as extreme rainfall, frequent cyclones and heat waves .On Wednesday, extreme rainfall over the week had flooded many parts of Henan province in central China, leaving 33 persons dead. Several other regions of China have faced flooding this week even as north America is witnessing extreme heat wave.“Deaths resulting from toxic pollution are highest where the distribution of toxic pollution is greatest and, critically, also where the impacts of climate change pose the greatest risk,” the study, titled Global Distribution and Coincidence of Pollution, Climate Impacts, and Health Risk in the Anthropocene, said, in a specific reference to India and China.For at least 30 years, the scientists on the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) have assessed the impact of human induced climate change even as bodies such as the World Health Organisation have focused on the health impact of rising air pollution globally.Scientists at University of Notre Dame found a “strong and statistically significant” link between the two hazards and said the countries which are at most risk from climate change are also the countries with highest risk from toxic pollution.A vital difference between climate change and air pollution is that green house gases that causes global warming are considered non-toxic whereas air pollutants such as particular matter or nitrogen dioxide are toxic.“It is not surprising to find that these risks are highly correlated, but this study provides the data and analysis to inform policy, data and analysis that were previously lacking,” Debra Javeline, an associate professor of political science at the university said in a statement.To make the study useful for policymakers, the authors ranked 177 countries on “Target”, a measure that combined a country’s climate impact risk, toxic pollution risk and its potential readiness to mitigate these risks. China is the world’s leading total GHG emitter and India is on track to join it at the top and they are the two top ranked countries in terms of toxic air pollution.Based on these criteria, the study ranked Singapore, Rwanda, China, India, Solomon Islands, Bhutan, Botswana, Georgia, the Republic of Korea and Thailand as the top 10 countries at risk from the two factors combined. “The top one-third of countries at risk of toxic pollution and climate impacts represent more than two-thirds of the world’s population, highlighting the magnitude of the problem and unequal distribution of environmental risk,” researchers wrote in the paper published on peer-reviewed scientific journal PLOS One.On India and China, the two largest countries, with a combined population of over 2.5 billion people, the study said they have relatively high Proportion Mortality ranks --- India ranked 5th and China 13th with 23.5% and 17.9% of annual deaths associated with toxic pollution, equaling 2.3 and 1.9 million premature deaths annually, respectively.The study also pointed out that the two countries have come up with national pollution reduction policies to reduce pollution deaths. In case of China, it said, its National Plan on Air Pollution led to 40% reduction in pollution levels.“The improved air quality resulted in significant corresponding reductions in respiratory disease and cardiovascular disease mortality rates,” the study said.he paper also said that by mitigating toxic pollution in large countries with high populations such as China and India, neighbouring countries will also benefit.Anumita Roy Chowdhary of Centre for Science and Environment said the study provides broad parameters linking air pollution and climate change and insights on how tackling both with singular policy instrument can be co-beneficial. “We know that reducing air pollution helps in managing green house gas emissions and vice-versa. The study, however, analyses the capability of 180 countries to deal with twin environmental problems,” she said.Notre Dame University’s postdoctoral research associate Drew (Richard) Marcantonio said the idea of ranking (Target) is to highlight where action can be taken to reduce risks to human health and whether it can be done through incentives or sanctions. “A range of measures can be used to promote risk reduction such as trade incentives, be they negative or positive incentives, or other policy and regulatory enforcement mechanisms.”BOX: RankingTop five: Singapore, Rawada, China, India, Solomon Islands||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-most-vulnerable-to-climate-crisis-pollution-101626980821614.html
23-07-2021||India||JPC head to seek time to submit report on data protection bill||The new chair of the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) studying the personal data protection law is set to move a motion on Friday to seek time till winter session to submit the panel’s report, the revised list of business for the House said on Thursday.Bharatiya Janata Party MP PP Chaudhary was appointed the new head of the JPC on Thursday after the previous chair, Meenakshi Lekhi, along with several other members, were included in the government as ministers.The panel’s report on the personal data protection bill was expected in the monsoon session.“That this House do extend upto the first week of the Winter Session of Parliament, 2021, the time for presentation of the Report of the Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019,” the revised list of business for Parliament states.The draft law was introduced in parliament in December 2019 and is meant to provide the legal framework for the right to privacy of Indian citizens. But it was soon referred to a JPC to iron out several contentious issues.Members of the committee, people aware of the process, and legal experts say replacements will now need to be appointed before the JPC report can be tabled.“The draft report remains to be circulated among members of the panel,” said a person aware of the developments, asking not to be named.The JPC got an extension first till the Winter Session last year, then until the first week of the second half of the Budget Session this year, and finally until the Monsoon Session this month. The committee has met various stakeholders, including industry representatives and civil society members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jpc-head-to-seek-time-to-submit-report-on-data-protection-bill-101626980820999.html
23-07-2021||India||TMC govt failed to probe post-poll clashes’ complaints: HC||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court observed on Thursday that the Mamata Banerjee-administration failed to properly investigate complaints of post-poll violence seen in West Bengal after the results of the assembly elections were announced in early May.Its response came after the state argued that it is equipped to investigate the violence.“Today, the state is asking for a role which does not belong to it. The proceedings have become adversarial because the state has failed to properly investigate,” the bench said.Violence broke out in various parts of the state hours after the Trinamool Congress trounced the Bharatiya Janata Party to secure a third consecutive term on May 2. The BJP has alleged that its workers and supporters were targeted in the post-poll violence. The West Bengal government has denied the charges, and has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of using central agencies and the office of the governor to target it.A seven-member panel of the National Human Rights Commission, set up on the high court’s order in June to look into clashes after the results, submitted its report on Tuesday. The report recommended a CBI probe and asked for trials to be held outside the state.“It is nothing but a politically motivated report. We do not give credence to the NHRC report” said Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior advocate, appearing for the West Bengal government. He also said whatever is there in the report is not the gospel truth.Advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, counsel of a deceased BJP supporter, however, pressed for a probe by an independent agency.“Today the state whose inaction has triggered the entire litigation wants to now investigate on its own. An independent agency is called for...,” he said.The report had said that at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged in the state between May 2 and June 20. Out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% are currently in jail, according to the panel.The court on Thursday directed the state government to file its reply on the NHRC report by July 26. The matter will be heard again on July 28.The NHRC counsel told the court that Raju Mukherjee, who was a part of the seven-member panel, received complaints even on Thursday in which police were allegedly threatening people to withdraw complaints.The NHRC report also recommended setting up court-monitored SIT with a special public prosecutor, trial in fast-track courts and deployment of central forces to protect victims.“One of the members of the panel was a member of the BJP’s student’s wing. Check his social media. He wrote in the report whatever the BJP instructed him...,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP’s state unit said, “The NHRC panel was appointed by a five-judge bench of the high court and not by any political party...The report has quoted the statistics provided by the DGP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-govt-failed-to-probe-post-poll-clashes-complaints-hc-101626980760982.html
23-07-2021||India||Plea filed in SC seeking SIT probe into charges of snooping||Terming the Pegasus spying scandal a “serious attack” on Indian democracy, the judiciary and on the security of the country, a petition has been filed by a lawyer in the Supreme Court demanding a court-monitored investigation by a special investigation team (SIT) to identify those responsible for snooping on opposition leaders, activists, journalists and judges among a host of other persons.The petition filed by advocate Manohar Lal Sharma said, “The Pegasus scandal is a matter of grave concern and a serious attack upon Indian democracy, judiciary and country security. The widespread and unaccountable use of surveillance is morally disfiguring.” It is yet to be admitted.The petition has named Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a respondent along with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) without making the Union of India as a party. Sharma earlier approached the CBI for registering a first information report (FIR) into allegations of Pegasus spying but this was not done, the petition stated.Sharma, who is known for being the first to file petitions on major issues, made a two-fold demand to the top court. He sought a probe by a SIT under the supervision of the top court into the revelations and prosecute all accused persons who bought the Pegasus software and allegedly snooped on Indian citizens for criminal breach of trust (IPC Sections 408, 409), criminal conspiracy (IPC Section 120B), read with Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act 1923 (penalty for spying) and relevant provisions under the Information Technology Act 2000.Sharma, a serial petitioner has been previously reprimanded and fined by the court by the petitions, some of which have been dismissed in minutes.He further requested the top court to declare buying of Pegasus software for snooping to be “illegal” and violative of a person’s right to life and privacy protected under Article 21 and said, “Buying of Pegasus software without approval (of Parliament) contra to the Art. 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution is a criminal breach of trust and also attracts Sections 408, 409 and 120-B of IPC.”Articles 266(3), 267(2), 283(2) provide that any amount to be spent or withdrawn out of the Consolidated Fund of India or the Contingency Fund maintained by states should be in accordance with law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pleafiled-in-sc-seeking-sit-probe-into-charges-of-snooping-101626980642458.html
23-07-2021||India||Clearing encroachments duty of state, not ours: SC||Clearing encroachments cannot be left to the judiciary as the state must take responsibility and act against them, the Supreme Court said on Thursday.The top court made the remarks while hearing a matter related to Mahakaleshwar temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain district wherein, in September 2020, it had ordered the removal of all encroachment within 500 metres of the temple along with a slew of other directions for the temple’s maintenance and repair.“The state cannot shut its eyes to its responsibility under law. Why do you (state) permit such encroachments to take place and then leave it for the court to pass orders? Why has this court been asked to step in and then you (state) say that we are throwing encroachers out because of the court order?” a bench of justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi said.“We see this happening day in and day out. Everytime an encroachment comes up, there is a public interest litigation (PIL). We issue a notice on the PIL and then political considerations come in. You (state) are under responsibility to clear the encroachment in the first place. Why cannot these political people (in government) take a decision?” the bench asked Mishra. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clearing-encroachments-duty-of-state-not-ours-sc-101626980098125.html
23-07-2021||India||MP proposes 5-year furlough for govt employees to save expenditure||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government is considering a scheme to save as much as ₹6000 crore by offering its employees in non-essential departments a furlough as long as five years at half-pay, a state official said.During the period of paid leave, the employees are free to work elsewhere or start their own businesses . After the furlough, they have an option to retire or return to work.According to a senior MP finance department official who asked not to be named, the proposal for the scheme has been readied. The state is reeling under a debt of ₹2.53 lakh crore and revenues have plunged by up to 30% because of Covid-19’s adverse impact on economy.“We have sent the proposal for the chief minister’s approval,” added the official. There is an estimate that about 70,000 to 100,000 employees will avail this benefit. State finance minister Jagdish Deoda confirmed that the scheme is part of the government’s plan to save expenditure.“We all know that lockdown left a negative impact on government revenue. So, we are trying to increase the revenue from many other sources and also trying to cut the expenditure. This scheme is a part of this plan,” he said.The department has proposed that government employees and officers in non-essential departments would be allowed to take leave for three to five years at half-pay. “The government employees will be allowed to take up another (private sector) job or business during this period. They will not get any increments or extra allowances during this period, but this leave period will not break their service,” the finance department official added.However, employees facing departmental inquiry or who are under suspension will not be allowed to avail the scheme. Employees of essential departments such as home, health, education and revenue will not be part of the scheme, the official said. A second government official said an internal survey showed that those earning less than ₹1 lakh, or above the age of 50 years, were excited by the scheme. It is not for the first time that such a scheme is being introduced in the state. In 2002, then chief minister, Digvijaya Singh, had introduced a similar scheme to reduce government expenditure. The scheme was withdrawn a year later in 2003, when the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power, replacing the incumbent Congress.In an effort to shore up its finance, the state government set up a public asset management department in September 2020 for the efficient management and rationalization of public assets, including monetization of unused properties. Through tenders, the state government has auctioned at least 22 properties in the state to generate ₹500 crore.MP Congress Committee spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “Former chief minister Digvijaya Singh always use to think in advance and that’s why his government introduced this [scheme] 18 years ago. But I have a serious doubt on the motive of the state government of introducing the scheme as this scheme can be misused by officer, who are close to the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-proposes-5-year-furlough-for-govt-employees-to-save-expenditure-101626979620803.html
23-07-2021||India||Farmers hunker down at Jantar Mantar, demand repeal of farm laws||Busloads of farmers arrived in the national capital on Thursday from various states to protest three contentious agricultural laws during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament after authorities decided to let them in. On the first day of their protests, they held a ‘kisan sansad’ or ‘farmers’ parliament’ at Jantar Mantar — Delhi’s designated spot for protests — demanding the government scrap the laws immediately.The three agricultural laws passed by the Modi government in September last year have been at the heart of massive protests by farmers since November. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of 40 farm unions, had declared on July 7 that farmers would march into the national capital to protest outside Parliament while it is in session.On Thursday, there was heavy police deployment all around Jantar Mantar, the historic 18th-century observatory in the city and the site where nearly 200 farmers have hunkered down for their protest, a few hundred metres from the Parliament complex. The current Parliament session, which began on July 19, will run till August 9, and so will the farmers’ sit-in.Iron barricades and baton-wielding policemen, including women personnel, formed a two-layer security cordon around the protest site, guarding its main entry points. Apart from several companies of personnel from Delhi Police, Rapid Action Force and Central Reserve Police Force — all armed with anti-riot gear — deployed in and around Jantar Mantar, nearly 5,000 security and traffic personnel also fanned out across central Delhi in view of the ongoing Parliament session and the approaching Independence Day celebrations, senior police officers said.On January 26, a farmers’ rally in the capital on Republic Day had turned violent, with cultivators on tractors clashing with riot policemen and laying siege to the 17th-century Red Fort. Police had used water cannons and teargas after repeated clashes broke out.“Those were not farmers but conspirators,” said Rakesh Tikait, an influential farm leader, adding: “When genuine farmers protest, it will be disciplined and peaceful as you will see. We will not rest till the government gives in to our demands.”Prominent farm leaders from the SKM addressed hundreds of farmers who carried colourful placards and chanted anti-government slogans. They include Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, Rakesh Tikait and Balbir Singh Rajewal of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Hanan Mollah of Communist Party of India (Marxist), and Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union.The ‘farmers’ parliament’ began with a ceremony to pay tributes to over 500 farmers who have died during the course of the nine-month-long protests. The SKM says 584 farmers have died so far, but the government had told the Parliament on Wednesday that it did not have any records of farmers’ deaths.“The United Kingdom’s parliament has found it fit to debate our issues but not our Parliament. Farmers have come here to prove that they can’t be fooled. These laws are designed to exploit farmers,” said Yogendra Yadav, a prominent critic of the government, addressing the farmers.Yadav was referring to British MPs discussing the farmers’ protests in India in the House of Commons in March, which India has officially rebuked. Following this, the external affairs ministry had summoned the British High Commissioner in Delhi.“We held a kisan sansad today where we demanded that the government immediately withdraw the three laws beginning with the APMC Act,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.The protesting farmers’ contingent also included actor Sonia Mann, a popular face in Punjabi music videos. She was holding a placard that said, “MSP legal right”, a reference to the farmers’ demand for a legal right to assured prices for their produce.The farmers are demanding repeal of three farm laws that, together, seek to allow agrobusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming.“If they (farmers) express their issues with the laws point-wise, we can discuss it,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Thursday. On July 19, he had said the government was ready to discuss all issues except the demand for scrapping of the laws.The Modi government has said the three reform-oriented laws were necessary to modernise the country’s antiquated farm sector. Farmers say the new measures will leave cultivators at the mercy of big food corporations.Farm unions, largely from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding protests at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border).On January 13 this year, the Supreme Court temporarily suspended the three laws and formed a panel of experts to examine them. The panel has submitted its report to the court, which has yet to take it up.“In a country like India, it is always easier to do reforms that affect elite sections, such as financial reforms. Hard reforms affecting sectors, such as labour or agriculture, will always be tricky because it involves the masses,” said KK Kailash of the University of Hyderabad.Farm unions say the new laws will force them to sell to corporate giants with greater bargaining powers at poor prices instead of government-run markets, which offer assured prices for cereals.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said the government won’t stop the MSP system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-hunker-down-at-jantar-mantar-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-101626979321616.html
23-07-2021||India||Verma, Asthana, Anil Ambani in Pegasus list: Report||Phone numbers belonging to the former chief of the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI), his then deputy, and a third CBI officer, were selected as possible targets for surveillance through the Pegasus spyware, as were those used by industrialist Anil Ambani, and Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama’s associates, reports said on Thursday.According to The Wire, numbers linked to the three people and several others in their close circle were among a database of 50,000 phone numbers possibly selected for surveillance by agencies that were also clients of Israel-headquartered NSO Group, which makes the Pegasus spyware.The Wire, which is part of the consortium of media organisations that analysed the database, said the database included Verma’s phone number, the personal telephone number of his wife, daughter and son-in-law soon after he was ousted as CBI chief on October 23, 2018 after a rare open dispute with his deputy Rakesh Asthana. The number of Asthana and of a third CBI official, AK Sharma, were also placed on the list, the report said.HT reached out to Verma, Asthana and Sharma but did not receive a response immediately.“The numbers of Asthana, Sharma, Verma and his family members figure in the leaked database for a short period. By the second week of February, 2019, by which time Verma had finally retired from government service, this entire cluster of persons ceased being of interest to the government agency which had added them to the list,” the report said.Anil Ambani and a senior official of the Reliance ADA Group, corporate communications chief Tony Jesudasan and his wife, were also added to the list of phones purportedly shortlisted for targeting. These numbers figure at a time when the central government’s decision to purchase 36 Rafale jets was subjected to public scrutiny, with questions being raised as to how the offset partner -- Ambani’s firm -- was chosen, the report released late on Thursday night said.The report added that there were other numbers of people connected to the defence or aerospace industries. These were Dassault Aviation’s representative in India, Venkata Rao Posina, former Saab India head Inderjit Sial and Boeing India boss Pratyush Kumar -- their numbers appear in the leaked database at different periods of time in 2018 and 2019.The report clarifies that the presence of a number on the list does not mean it was snooped upon. That conclusion can only be drawn after a forensic analysis of the phone is conducted.The Guardian, which is among the consortium of media organisations reporting on the Pegasus Project, on Thursday stated that a person close to the Dalai Lama was also part of the list. “(The) Indian government, which hosts the Tibetan leader, suspected of being NSO client that selected numbers,” the report stated.“The phone numbers of a top ring of advisers around the Dalai Lama are believed to have been selected as those of people of interest by government clients of the NSO Group. Analysis strongly indicates that the Indian government was selecting the potential targets,” the report said.“Senior advisers to the Dalai Lama whose numbers appear in the data include Tempa Tsering, the spiritual leader’s long-time envoy to Delhi, and the senior aides Tenzin Taklha and Chhimey Rigzen, as well as Samdhong Rinpoche, the head of the trust that has been tasked with overseeing the selection of the Buddhist leader’s successor,” the report added. The report in The Wire, however, said that “the phone numbers indicate that the targets may have been selected by an unknown India-based client of the NSO Group”.The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.The list database was first obtained by France-based nonprofit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices of at least 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of these 37, 10 were in India.On Monday, reports revealed that aside from 38 journalists, former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi, two of his aides, political strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Union minister Prahlad Patel were also allegedly hacked. The list also included 11 members of the friends and family, along with the number of the woman who accused former Chief Justice of India Rajan Gogoi of sexual harassment.Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who defended the government in Parliament hours, was also named as a potential hacking target on July 19.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government denied any involvement. The opposition, however, has called for a probe into the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verma-asthana-anil-ambani-in-pegasus-list-report-101626979200830.html
23-07-2021||India||Ruckus mars Vaishnaw’s RS statement on Pegasus||The parliamentary disruption caused by a Trinamool Congress MP’s move to snatch and tear a statement being read out by Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on the Pegasus spyware controversy triggered a war of words on Thursday, with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also planning to move a suspension motion against the TMC leader.The Union communications and information technology minister was addressing the Rajya Sabha on allegations of illegal spying on activists, politicians and journalists by the central government, when TMC’s Shantanu Sen snatched the papers off Vaishnaw’s hands, tore them and flung them into the air.With his speech cut short, the minister said he was placing a copy of his statement on the table of the House, while marshals were forced to intervene as BJP and TMC leaders engaged in an argument. Eventually, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh rebuked lawmakers from their “unparliamentary” behaviour before adjourning the House for the day.The chaotic scenes prompted the BJP to mount an offensive against the TMC and people aware of the matter said that the government may seek Sen’s suspension from the upper house of Parliament under Rule 256(2) on Friday. The norm states that a lawmaker, who “disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the Council” through “wilful” disruptions can be suspended from the House for up to the remainder of the parliamentary session if the Rajya Sabha chairman “deems it necessary”. Once the motion is moved, there can be no debate or adjournment allowed, the rule says.Last year, the same rule was applied to suspend eight opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha for a week after their protests over the contentious agriculture laws.The motion is likely to be moved when the House meets on Friday.Later in the day, BJP president JP Nadda also accused the opposition of creating “obstacles” in the country’s development journey by disrupting Parliament to “save” its political existence.Separately, the TMC MP Sen alleged that he was surrounded by BJP leaders in the House, and that Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri verbally abused him after live proceedings were closed off due to adjournment.“The Union minister (Puri) threatened and abused me. He was about to assault me when my other colleagues came to my rescue,” alleged Sen at a press conference in Delhi.Puri has so far not commented on the issue.TMC chief whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, also at the briefing, added that Vaishnaw’s statement was full of lies.Opposition parties have been demonstrating during the monsoon session of Parliament, demanding that the government initiate a probe into the Pegasus row after media reports -- citing leaked documents -- said this week there may have been attempts to hack into the mobile devices used by journalists, activists, ministers and political leaders including Congress’s Rahul Gandhi. The Pegasus software by Israel-based NSO Group has previously said it only caters to government clients.In Thursday’s statement, IT minister Vaishnaw reiterated the government’s stand that many over-the-top allegations had been made by the reports. “There is no factual basis to these allegations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruckus-mars-vaishnaw-s-rs-statement-on-pegasus-101626979141649.html
23-07-2021||India||India cannot have two parallel legal systems for rich, poor: SC||While noting that India cannot have separate legal systems for the rich and poor, the Supreme Court on Thursday cancelled the bail granted to the husband of a Madhya Pradesh BSP legislator in connection with the murder of Congress leader Devendra Chaurasia.The top court also said that the Madhya Pradesh high court order granting bail to Govind Singh, husband of BSP MLA from Patharia in Damoh, Ramabai Singh, was a failure to “protect the sanctity of justice” and directed that the accused be transferred to another jail in the state for fair trial.Singh, who was arrested in March this year and granted bail later, is facing at least 28 cases with regard to various crimes committed by him. Somesh Chourasia, son of Devendra who was killed in 2019, had moved the top court against the high court’s refusal to set aside the bail granted to the accused.“India cannot have two parallel legal systems, one for the rich and the resourceful and those who wield political power and influence and the other for the small men without resources and capabilities to obtain justice or fight injustice. The existence of a dual legal system will only chip away the legitimacy of the law,” a bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and Hrishikesh Roy observed.“Unfortunately, the high court failed in its duty to ensure that the sanctity of the criminal justice process is preserved. This court has had to step in to ensure that the rule of law is preserved,” the bench added.The influence that the accused in the present case exerted over the police and state administration became clear after the court learnt that despite facing criminal antecedents and evading arrest in a murder case, Singh was provided security by the state police on July 11, 2020. It was only after the Supreme Court questioned this decision that the security was withdrawn by the state in January this year.The court reminded the state of its duty under Article 50 to take steps to maintain strict compartmentalization of the judiciary and executive. “There is no gainsaying that the judiciary should be immune from political pressures and considerations,” the bench said, asking the state machinery to avoid transgressing into “governmental lawlessness” and the judiciary from being wary of launching into a diatribe against the State authorities without due care and reflection.The court also took note of the lack of infrastructure and protection given to trial court judges, saying subordinate judiciary judges are made targets when they stand up for what is right and are at the mercy of the high court for transfers and postings which makes them vulnerable.“The colonial mindset which pervades the treatment meted out to the district judiciary must change. It is only then that civil liberties for every stakeholder – be it the accused, the victims or civil society – will be meaningfully preserved in our trial courts which are the first line of defense for those who have been wronged,” the bench said.Referring to additional sessions judge (ASJ) in Damoh allegations that he was under tremendous pressure while conducting the trial, the bench said: “A judiciary that is susceptible to such pressures allows politicians to operate with impunity and incentivises criminality to flourish in the political apparatus of the state. An independent and impartial judiciary is the cornerstone of democracy.”“Independence of judiciary is independence of every judge and this independence must begin by protecting the district judiciary which acts as the first line of defence for people who are wronged. If the faith of the citizen in the administration of justice has to be preserved, it is to the district judiciary that attention must be focused as well as the higher judiciary,” the judgment read.In February this year, the ASJ had expressed serious apprehensions that the accused and Damoh superintendent of police had colluded to “frame serious charges” against him after a lady police officer, in a letter to the high court, accused him of humiliating in the court. The top court directed the chief justice of the high court to enquire into the matter within a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-cannot-have-two-parallel-legal-systems-for-rich-poor-sc-101626978663889.html
23-07-2021||India||Will abide by party brass decision: Yediyurappa||“I’m going”, is the between-the-lines message Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers in Karnataka have taken away from a series of statements issued by Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa since Wednesday night, partially resolving the will-he-won’t-he debate that’s only intensified since the 78-year-old leader’s return from New Delhi last week.The lack of information over the decision taken during Yeddyurappa’s Delhi visit (if one was indeed taken) and the ultimatums issued by some Lingayat mutts against his removal -- the CM has the solid backing of the religious bodies -- led to uncertainty in the BJP camp. But following Yediyurappa’s statements, senior leaders in the party also have begun talking about a change of leadership with more clarity.On Wednesday night, Yediyurappa tweeted asking his followers not to indulge in any protests. “I’m privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics and behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics and not indulge in protests or indiscipline that is disrespectful and embarrassing for the party.”This was followed by a statement on Thursday, where he said that he would abide by any decision taken by the party leadership. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said that everything will become clear after the event on July 26, commemorating the second-year anniversary of his government.“Amit Shah and our national president (JP) Nadda have immense faith in me. As you know, no one above the age of 75 years is given any posts or positions by the party. But considering my work, the national leadership has given me the opportunity to be in power till 78. I will finish two years as chief minister on (July) 26. My aim is to strengthen the party and bring our government back to power once again,” Yediyurappa said.He added that there will be a special programme to commemorate two years of the government. “Based on whatever directions are given by the party leadership on (July) 26, I will begin my work. There will be a special event on our government completing two years in power. After attending this event, whatever directions are given by the party leadership, I will abide by it,” he added.Talking to the reporters on Thursday evening, Yediyurappa said he will remain the CM if the party wanted. “If they ask me to remain the CM for some time, I will do so. If they say no, I will work to strengthen the party in the state. Tomorrow (Friday) I’m going to inspect all the development works happening in Bengaluru. So, I will do my duty till the last minute. Let’s see what happens now,” he told reporters.Asked about the multiple meetings with seers of the Lingayat community, which is the largest vote bank for the BJP in the state, he said they have given him their blessings. “Hundreds of mutt heads have met me and blessed me. I can never the support they have given me. With their blessing, I will carry out the task given to me by the national high command… I request all party workers not to create any problems and stand with me. Whatever protests have happened in my support are not right,” he added.Reacting to his statement, Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashok, who is a close associate of the chief minister told HT that he will go by whatever the chief minister has said. “We will listen to what he (Yediyurappa) has said. We are loyal workers of the party, who will follow what is said by our national president. I have worked in the BJP for more than 40 years. Since we have grown up in the party, following the orders of the party is within us. The chief minister has clearly said that on (July) 26, whatever our national president orders will be followed. We will also accept it ,” he said.Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he has faith in Yediyurappa to unite the party before the next elections and everyone is together in supporting him. “We can’t speculate (on central leadership’s decision). When he (the CM) returned from New Delhi, he had said regrouping the party and ensuring a win in the next election was his responsibility. About the decision (change of chief minister), we have a tradition of the central leadership taking a decision after consulting everyone… everyone in our party is together.”Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah said that he already knew that Yediyurappa was going to be replaced. “Yediyurappa has been running a corrupt government. I have been saying that Yediyurappa will be replaced. I had information about this for a while now. No one believed me and now, I have been proved right. But I don’t believe that removing Yediyurappa will not bring a non-corrupt government to Karnataka, because BJP is a corrupt party,” said Siddaramaiah.Following the reports of the possible change of leadership, BJP ministers who had moved to the party from the Congress and JD(S) held a meeting on Wednesday. On Thursday, K Gopalaiah, Karnataka excise minister and one of the lawmakers who had joined the BJP from JD(S), resulting in the fall of the Congress-JD(S) alliance, said that the chief minister has given a clear message.“We have all heard his statement and he has made himself very clear.” When asked whether defectors will suffer if Yediyurappa is removed from the top post, he said: “We have given our resignations and come to the BJP. We are all BJP now. We are a family. There is no question of us being outsiders. There is no need for us to worry now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-abide-by-party-brass-decision-yediyurappa-101626978662419.html
23-07-2021||India||Missing out on deaths is unlikely: Govt on reports of excess Covid fatalities||New Delhi: The Centre on Thursday refuted reports that claimed India’s actual Covid-19 death toll could be in millions, far higher than the official toll of 419,043.In their study published this week, researchers from Center for Global Development, Washington DC, and Harvard University scientifically analysed data and concluded that an estimated 4.9 million people in India may have died from Covid-19. The report was based on estimating “excess mortality”, the number of extra people who died compared with pre-crisis figures.But the government argued its case using the case fatality rate. A statement released by the ministry of health and family welfare said the case fatality rate, as on December 31, 2020, stood at 1.45%. “...even after an unexpected surge observed in the second wave in April-May 2021, the case fatality rate today stands at 1.34%,” the statement read.The government conceded that some cases could go undetected, but given the “robust and statute-based” death registration system in India, “missing out on deaths is unlikely”.The health ministry also informed that the reporting of daily new cases and deaths in India follows a bottom-up approach, where districts report the number of cases and deaths to the state governments and to the ministry constantly.“As early as May 2020, to avoid inconsistency or confusion in the number of deaths being reported, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued ‘Guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India’ for correct recording of all deaths by States/UTs as per ICD-10 codes recommended by WHO for mortality coding,” the statement from the ministry further read.As regards the reports of massive under-reporting of deaths due to Covid-19, the ministry clarified that these were quoting findings from recent studies and using age-specific infection fatality rates of the US and European countries to calculate excess deaths in India based on sero-positivity.“The extrapolation of deaths has been done on an audacious assumption that the likelihood of any given infected person dying is the same across countries, dismissing the interplay between various direct and indirect factors such as race, ethnicity, genomic constitution of a population, previous exposure levels to other diseases and the associated immunity developed in that population. Furthermore, the sero-prevalence studies are not only used to guide strategy and measures to further prevent the spread of infection to the vulnerable population but are also used as another basis to extrapolate deaths,” the ministry said, adding that the studies also have another potential concern that the antibody titers may diminish over time, leading to underestimation of true prevalence and corresponding overestimation of the infection fatality rate.“The reports also assume that all the excess mortality figures are Covid deaths, which is not based on facts and totally fallacious. Excess mortality is a term used to describe an all-cause mortality figure and attributing these deaths to Covid-19 is completely misleading,” the statement read.The health ministry said that it has been advising all states and Union territories to follow guidelines while recording deaths. It has also emphasised the need for a robust reporting mechanism to monitor deaths down to the district level, the ministry said, adding that it has advised the states to conduct thorough audits in hospitals and report deaths that may have been missed.“During the peak of the second wave, the entire health system was focused on effective clinical management of cases requiring medical help, and correct reporting and recording could have been compromised which is also evident in a few states such as Maharashtra, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh reconciling their number of deaths recently,” the statement read.In addition to this reporting, the government said, the robustness of statute-based civil registration system ensures that all births and deaths in the country are registered. This is a time-consuming process and the numbers are usually published the following year, but it ensures that no deaths are missed, the government said.In his speech in Parliament on Tuesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, “The Centre compiles and publishes the data that is sent to it by the state governments. Our job is to publish that data and nothing else.” He also said that the government didn’t instruct anyone to disclose fewer deaths and positive cases.Frontline health workers said they saw more lives being lost to the second wave of Covid-19 than the first one.“One of the main reasons for that could be that people were reporting late to a hospital, leading to Covid-19 related complications that became difficult to treat. Not all cases are fit to undergo home quarantine, and if there are danger signs visible such as dip in oxygen saturation levels, high persistent fever, breathing difficulty, etc., then the patient needs to be rushed to a hospital as fast as possible,” said a senior doctor at a Covid-19 designated hospital on condition of anonymity.He, however, said, the overall mortality rate doesn’t seem to have seen a massive jump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-out-on-deaths-is-unlikely-govt-on-reports-of-excess-covid-fatalities-101626977941535.html
23-07-2021||India||Uproar in Parliament on Pegasus, farm laws||Massive protests rocked Parliament on Thursday over the alleged targeting of phones with military-grade spyware, the controversial farm laws, and income tax raids in a newspaper office, forcing repeated adjournments and allowing little business to be done in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha.Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Santanu Sen snatched papers from information technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw while he was reading a statement on the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus to potentially target politicians, activists and journalists in the Rajya Sabha. Earlier, a few other MPs rushed to the Well of the House with their phones to protest against the alleged snooping.Officials indicated that on Friday the government might seek Sen’s suspension from the House.In the four days of the Monsoon Session of Parliament since Monday, only a debate on the Covid-19 pandemic in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday can thus far be counted as substantive business, underlining the Opposition’s emphasis on protests over discussions on the other issues. Strategists in the Opposition camp hinted that protests will continue on Friday.The government and the chairmen of both Houses repeatedly urged protesting MPs to participate in debates. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla told them, “You should raise issues related to problems faced by people, then debate on those issues to find a solution. But you are flouting the decorum of the House.” Similarly, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu could be heard saying, “Members seem to be not interested in discussing people’s issues.”Rajya Sabha functionaries told HT that the government offered to debate the economic situation of the country and that it could be taken up early next week, a sign that the Opposition might allow the Upper House to function, at least in part. “Four hours have been allotted for the debate on the economic situation. It will be taken up sometime next week,” said a senior Rajya Sabha official.Efforts are also on to end the impasse. “Naidu asked the government’s managers to sit with opposition party leaders for prioritising legislative business and discussions on opposition’s issues. He also asked the floor managers to discuss and decide which bills should be referred to committees for scrutiny,” added the functionary.On Thursday morning, even before the proceedings started, the Congress staged a dharna in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws that were passed last year but sparked massive protests. The agitation coincided with the gathering of farmer leaders in central Delhi’s Jantar Mantar for the same cause.As soon as proceedings started in the Rajya Sabha, Congress leaders such as Digvijaya Singh and KC Venugopal tried to raise the issue of income tax raids at the offices of Hindi newspaper Dainik Bhaskar but they were not allowed to as no notice to the effect had been served. The Shiromani Akali Dal continued to protest against the farm laws while Trinamool Congress (TMC) remained focused on the Pegasus row. A TMC MP, Abhishek Banerjee, was on the list of people potentially targeted by the software, an investigative consortium reported this week.Around 2pm, as Vaishnaw rose to speak, TMC Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen snatched papers from the minister, tore them and flung them in the air. A heated exchange was also seen between Sen and Union minister Hardeep Puri. The TMC alleged that Puri abused Sen and complained to the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. Sen said he was gheraoed and threatened.Deputy chairman Harivansh asked the members to desist from unparliamentary behaviour, before adjourning the House for the day. “You do not want a discussion on an issue you have been agitated about...this is undemocratic,” he said.Government functionaries indicated late on Thursday that it might push for Sen’s suspension for his “unruly behaviour”.Rule 256 of the Upper House says, “The chairman may, if he deems it necessary, name a member who disregards the authority of the chair or abuses the rules of the council by persistently and willfully obstructing the business thereof.”“If a member is so named by the chairman he shall forthwith put the question on a motion being made, no amendment, adjournment or debate being allowed, that the member (naming him) be suspended from the service of the council for a period not exceeding the remainder of the session,” the rule added. Last year, the same rule was applied against eight Opposition MPs in the Upper House after unruly protests over the farm bills.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) condemned Sen’s behaviour. “TMC has a long history of working against the dignity of Parliament. Making noise, tearing papers are their culture. The BJP strongly opposes this,” BJP chief JP Nadda tweeted.TMC’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay blamed the government. “For the Opposition, Pegasus is the biggest political issue. The minister read a half-baked statement and ran away without taking a few questions. The problem is there is a total breakdown of communication between the government and the Opposition. The government has not offered to hold a debate on it.”A top government functionary refuted the Opposition’s claims and said, “The government had discussed the situation with the Opposition in meetings with both Lok Sabha Speaker and the Rajya Sabha chairman. The Opposition is not interested in any discussion.”The Pegasus row erupted on Sunday night after an international investigative consortium reported that India was among countries that used Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software to potentially target politicians, journalists and activists.The first report alleged that 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide, including Financial Times editor Roula Khalaf, and reporters from the Wall Street Journal, CNN, New York Times, and Le Monde. Subsequent reports said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and two sitting Union ministers – including Vaishnaw -- were on the list of potential targets.A highly invasive malware, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.To be sure, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. In the absence of digital forensics of specific devices, it is not possible to conclusively establish that the phones linked to these numbers were hacked.The allegations roiled Parliament. The government as well as the BJP refused any wrongdoing and insisted that India had a well-established protocol for tapping telephones and it was used only for national security. But the Opposition called for a separate probe into the charges.The three farm laws, enacted last year, promised major reforms in the agriculture sector but farmers, primarily from Punjab and Haryana, launched massive protests blocking arterial highways in the national capital. The farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices – charges refuted by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uproar-in-parliament-on-pegasus-farm-laws-101626977520671.html
23-07-2021||India||Brick structure unearthed in Tamil Nadu’s Korkai may date back to 2,000 years||The ongoing archaeological excavation at Korkai region in Tamil Nadu’s Tuticorin district, 623km from Chennai, threw light on a 2,000-year-old brick structure, local media Dinakaran reported on Thursday. The seven-layer brick structure since evinced the interest among archaeology enthusiasts in the state.Finding its mention in Sangam literature for its pearl fishery, Korkai was the ancient port city that dates back to the early Pandya dynasty. In the present day it is a small village in Srivaikuntam taluk of Tuticorin district. It is believed that the ancient city once situated at the banks of Thamirabarani river ended up inland, six kilometres from the sea, due to river sedimentation and the receding water.In addition to the existing excavation works, Tamil Nadu state archaeology department also commenced excavation work at three places in the state, including Korkai. In the Korkai region, excavation trenches have been dug at Korkai, Sivagalai and Adichanallur. The excavation work commenced on February 26 after the state government sanctioned ₹29 lakh for the project.The archaeologists dug 17 trenches at Korkai from where they found cast iron material, glass beads, and signs of industrial activities. The recent addition is the seven-layered brick structure indicating that it was a settlement area of the ancient civilisation.Between 1968 and 1969, the Tamil Nadu government undertook archaeological research at Korkai and surrounding areas. It was the first time since the archaeology department was formed that the government commissioned excavation works. Research conducted in the past established that Korkai was an archeologically significant place with 2,800 years of history. The literature and archaeological evidence suggest that Korkai was the hub of export and import of goods with other ports of ancient civilisations.It could be noted that the department recently unearthed a sword, possibly dating back to 2,500 years, and a large clay pot that could be a burial urn at Mayiladumparai in Krishnagiri district where the excavation work is currently underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brick-structure-unearthed-in-tamil-nadu-s-korkai-may-date-back-to-2000-years-101626975302272.html
23-07-2021||India||Fake story created on tapping: Lekhi||Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi on Thursday said a “fake story” about the illegal tapping has been “crafted, created and circulated” amid demands by the opposition parties for a probe into the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities. The opposition lawmakers sought an explanation over the matter and disrupted Parliament proceedings on Thursday.Lekhi said NSO, the manufacturer of Pegasus, has denied that the list out in the media is indeed that of its customers. “The published story (about the targeting) is based on a list of numbers available in a directory. Second, Amnesty International has denied this. The company whose product is Pegasus has claimed that these claims are uncorroborated and do not tally with its customer base.”Also Read | Pegasus row: UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu detained during rallyAmnesty International, however, maintained that it stands by the findings related to the alleged targeting and said the data is irrefutably linked to potential targets of NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware.Lekhi said 10 countries have been named for using the spyware and asked whether the opposition in any of these places reacted as it has in India. She said the fake narrative has been created to “malign India” and “undermine institutions” on the basis of reports that “are not based on evidence”. Other countries are Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Hungary, India, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Morocco, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, according to the reports.“These kinds of stories are floated to undermine Indian institutions and stop the Data Protection Bill that is set to become the law of the land. This is to desensitise the public of the credibility of the structures and to malign the image of our country.” She said there is a pattern in controversies surrounding the government.“Whenever something right and good is supposed to happen in the country, this kind of conduct is indulged in…There is a chronology.” w Lekhi said the JPC report on Data Protection has been submitted to the Lok Sabha Speaker. Lekhi said the government is serious about the data safety of Indians. “Repeatedly, these narratives are built to damage the reputation of India. They want to damage the ecosystem protective of the Indian people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-reports-are-false-fabricated-meenakshi-lekhi-101626954299271.html
23-07-2021||India||Cong moves privilege motion against MoS||The Congress on Thursday moved a breach of privilege motion against the minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar for allegedly misleading Parliament over deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.She told Parliament on Tuesday that no state reported such fatalities and triggered a war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Opposition parties. Her submission brought back the focus on a crisis that in part defined the devastation of the second wave. HT on Thursday cited a database of media reports from the time and reported it has identified at least 619 deaths that likely occurred because of lack of oxygen. Many more deaths may have taken place outside of inundated hospitals. In the same report, HT also pointed out that almost all states continue to deny that they saw any deaths on account of a shortage of oxygen. Also Read | No factual basis to reports about alleged use of spyware: Vaishnaw in RSThe Congress accused Pawar of distorting facts with the “intention to mislead and deceive the August House” over the actual number of deaths due to lack of oxygen during the second wave.“This amounts to a breach of privilege and contempt of the House and the minister is guilty of contempt,” said Congress lawmaker K C Venugopal said. Pawar made the submission in response to Venugopal’s question in Rajya Sabha.HT reached out to several BJP leaders for comment on the issue but did not get any response.Venugopal said everyone saw how people died due to a shortage of oxygen including in the national capital. In a letter to Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu, Venugopal cited examples of deaths reported due to oxygen shortage. He referred to a newspaper report and added between May 11 and 15, 83 deaths due to acute oxygen shortage were reported at the Goa Medical College. He also cited similar instances in places such as Karnataka and Haryana, where the government ordered an investigation into at least 19 deaths due to oxygen shortage between April 5 and May 1.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, too, attacked the Centre, saying it was “completely false” to say no one died for want of oxygen. “If no deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage, why did hospitals move high court one after another every day? Hospitals had been saying that oxygen shortage led to deaths. The media, tolagged this issue daily,” Jain told reporters.The AAP leader said the Delhi government set up a committee to collect data on such deaths and give ₹5 lakh compensation to the families of the deceased, “but the Centre got the panel disbanded through the lieutenant governor”.The BJP has maintained health is a state subject and that it just collects the data from the states, not generate it.According to Parliamentary rules, if individuals or authority violate or disregard any of the privileges, powers and immunities of the House or members or committees thereof, they are liable for punishment for breach of privilege or contempt of the House. The House has the power to determine what constitutes the breach of privilege and contempt. The penal jurisdiction of the House in this regard covers its members as well as strangers and every act of violation of privileges, whether committed in the immediate presence of the House or outside of it. A person found guilty of breach of privilege or contempt of the House “may be punished either by imprisonment, or by admonition (warning), or reprimand”, according to chapter 16 of Rajya Sabha rulebook. Two other punishments may also be awarded to the members for contempt--suspension and expulsion from the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/o2-deaths-cong-moves-breach-of-privilege-motion-against-minister-for-statement-101626952019151.html
23-07-2021||NA||Highlights: 3 more test positive for Zika virus in Kerala; tally at 44||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.In the last 24 hours, India reported 41,383 fresh Covid-19 cases and 507 fatalities due to the viral disease, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Thursday morning. With this, the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally has risen to 31,257,720 including 30,429,339 recoveries, 418,987 deaths and 409,394 active cases.Also on Thursday, farmers protesting against the three contentious central farm laws held a "Kisan Sansad" at Jantar Mantar, very close to the Parliament where the monsoon session is currently going on.Follow all the updates here:3 more test positive for Zika virus in Kerala; tally at 44Three more people have tested positive for the Zika virus in Kerala. The total number of Zika virus cases in the state is 44: Kerala health minister's officeRajasthan to open all schools from August 2Rajasthan school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra announces all schools in the state, across all classes, will reopen on August 2.PM Modi speaks to Maharashtra CM over heavy rainsSpoke to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray and discussed the situation in parts of Maharashtra in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. Assured all possible support from the Centre to mitigate the situation. Praying for everyone’s safety and well-being. @OfficeofUT"Spoke to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray and discussed the situation in parts of Maharashtra in the wake of heavy rainfall and flooding. Assured all possible support from the Centre to mitigate the situation. Praying for everyone’s safety and well-being," tweets PM Modi.NIA arrests two persons from Bihar over alleged terror plot in J&KNational Investigation Agency (NIA) says it has arrested two persons from Bihar in a case relating to a conspiracy hatched by members of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, an offshoot of Jaish-e-Mohammed, to carry out terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir with an intention to "threaten the sovereignty, integrity & security of India."Schools in Gujarat to reopen at 50% capacity from July 26Gujarat govt announces reopening of schools for classes 9-11 at 50% strength from July 26. Students willing to attend need to submit consent form signed by parents.Telangana reports 648 new Covid-19 cases and three deathsTelangana reports 648 new #COVID19 cases, 3 deaths and 696 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 9,857Total cases: 6,39,369Death toll: 3,774 pic.twitter.com/eKdLPLBJEpTelangana reports 648 new Covid-19 cases, 696 recoveries and three deaths.PM Modi hails PLI scheme for specialty steelToday’s Cabinet decision will ensure all-round development of Ladakh and provide a range of opportunities to the dynamic youth there. https://t.co/WjWwZnpumT"The Steel sector will get an impetus with this crucial Cabinet decision," tweets prime minister Narendra Modi on the Production-linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for specialty scheme announced today.7302 new Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths in MaharashtraMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases and toll fall to 7302 and 120 respectively. Mumbai reports 389 fresh infections and 10 deaths.Schools to reopen in Himachal PradeshHimachal Pradesh cabinet decides schools will reopen for classes 10th, 11th and 12th from August 2 in strict adherence with Covid-19 norms. Students of classes 5th and 8th would be allowed to visit schools for doubt clearances from August 2.1 more arrested in Sagar Dhankar murder caseDelhi Police Special Cell arrests one Surjeet Grewal in the Sagar Rana murder case. Grewal, a close associate of wrestler Sushil Kumar, who is the main accused in the case, disclosed that Kumar first scolded and beat up Vikas, Brahmachari and Ravinder at Chhatarsal Stadium.Kerala's fresh Covid-19 cases drop to 12,818; 122 new deathsKerala reports 12,481 new Covid-19 cases and 122 related deaths, day after reporting 17,481 infections and 105 deaths. Test positivity rate at 12.38%.Andhra reports 1843 new Covid-19 cases; Goa sees 97 fresh casesAndhra Pradesh reports 1843 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths recorded in Andhra in the past 24 hours; active cases reach 23,571. Goa reports 97 new cases of Covid-19, 5 deaths and 129 recoveries; active case tally at 1376.'Shocking incident': MEA on abduction of Afghan diplomat's daughter in PakistanThis is a shocking incident. However, since Pakistan's interior minister has dragged India into it, I would like to say that even by their standards, Pakistan's denial of the victim's account is stooping to a new low": MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on abduction of the daughter of an Afghan diplomat in PakistanEarthquake strikes ImphalEarthquake of magnitude 3.5 on the Richter scale occurred 21 km east of Imphal in Manipur at at 1628 hours: National Center for SeismologyMamata Banerjee to visit Delhi on SundayWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Delhi on July 25; also says prime minister Narendra Modi has given her appointment for a meeting though doesn't mention the date of the meeting.Will quit when directions come: Karnataka CM YediyurappaTill now I've not been asked to resign. When the directions come, I'll quit and work for the party. I've not recommended any name. The party high command has not said anything to me. Let's see what will happen after July 26: Karnataka CM BS YediyurappaMaharashtra CM chairs emergency meet to review flood situationMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray held emergency meeting to take stock of flood situation in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts caused due to torrential rains in the last 24 hours. He has directed Disaster Management units and departments concerned to stay vigilant and start rescue ops: CMOUnion cabinet approves central university for LadakhThe Union cabinet has approved a central university for Ladakh, as well as Ladakh Integrated Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (LIIDCO): Union I&B minister Anurag ThakurPolice have detained UP Congress chief Ajay Lallu, alleges CongressUttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Lallu was detained as he came out to lead a march to protest Pegasus software phone tapping issue, says party spokesperson Ashok Singh.Bombay HC dismisses Anil Deshmukh's plea seeking quashing of FIRBombay High Court dismisses a plea of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh seeking quashing of FIR against him registered by CBI in a corruption case.Hyderabad Police bust interstate ganja smuggling racketThe Special Operations Team (SOT) of Hyderabad police busts interstate ganja smuggling racket. One drug peddler arrested in Saroornagar; 320 kg of ganja, one Mahindra Bolero vehicle, one mobile phone, worth ₹40 lakh seized.Delhi reserves Covishield stock only for 2nd dose till July 31Due to limited supply of vaccines, slots for online booking and walk-in vaccination at govt CVCs administering Covishield will be reserved only for the second dose till July 31 with immediate effect: Delhi govtAAP to field candidates in all seats for Uttarakhand assembly elections: SisodiaManish Sisodia addresses a press conference in Roorkie, Uttarakhand. During the presser, Sisodia asked people of Uttarakhand if Retired Colonel and AAP leader Ajay Kothiyal should be the state's chief minister."AAP to field candidates in all seats for Uttarakhand assembly electionsUttarakhand lacks quality education, faces electricity problem. AAP will change this if its wins the election," he said in the conference.Madagascar president survives assassination attemptMadagascar president survives assassination attempt, reports AFP citing prosecutorsIran opens new oil export terminal bypassing strait: RouhaniIran opens new oil export terminal beyond Strait of Hormuz, reports AFP quoting president Hassan Rouhani.Secretary Blinken to meet PM Modi, Afghanistan, Quad and Indo-Pacific on agendaUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval in New Delhi on July 27-28 with Af-Pak, Indo-Pacific and vaccines on top of the agenda. All official meeting are scheduled on July 28. Read MoreDelhi has a total of 1,734 cases of Mucormycosis: MoS in Rajya SabhaA total of 1,734 cases of Mucormycosis has been reported in Delhi, says MoS Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar in Rajya Sabha.Rahul Gandhi stage protest against farm lawsRahul Gandhi along with other Congress leaders stage protest over three farm laws in Parliament.India administers more than 43.79 crore vaccine dosesMore than 43.79 crore (43,79,78,900) vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs so far. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 40,59,77,410 doses as per data available at 8 am today: Union Health MinistryTaliban victory not ‘foregone conclusion’, says top US generalThe top US military leader on Wednesday expressed doubts if a Taliban victory is imminent in Afghanistan, contrary to a reported intelligence assessment. Read MoreActive cases in India rise for 2nd consecutive dayActive cases in India registered an increase for the second consecutive day and were recorded at 4,09,394, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.Uttar Pradesh next stop for farmers' protest, leaders plan to 'isolate' BJPFarmers protesting against the three contentious agri laws passed by the central government will launch an agitation on Thursday at the Jantar Mantar near Parliament in New Delhi. Read MoreFarmers begin to leave for Delhi ahead of Jantar Mantar protestFarmers gather to board the buses at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border, ahead of protest against three farm laws at Jantar Mantar in Delhi pic.twitter.com/S4JFHt6lv4India reports 41,383 new Covid-19 cases; 507 fatalities take death toll to 418,987India's Covid-19 tally rises by 41,383 new cases. More than 500 fatalities take death toll to 418,987.Back to back earthquakes hit Rajasthan, says NCSThe National Center for Seismology (NCS), confirmed on Thursday that back to back earthquakes of magnitudes 5.3 and 4.8 have hit Rajasthan.Thane's Bhiwandi area waterlogged due to heavy rainfall#WATCH | Maharashtra: Waterlogging at Thane district's Bhiwandi area due to heavy rainfall pic.twitter.com/anRdwWFORHSevere waterlogging was seen at Bhiwandi area in Thane district of Maharashtra due to heavy rainfall, news agency ANI reported on Thursday.K'taka CM Yediyurappa calls off July 26 legislative party meetAmid speculations of a leadership change in Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa is learnt to have cancelled the legislative party meeting scheduled on July 26, on the second year of the anniversary of his government. Read moreGetting vaccinated 'gigantically important', says US President Joe BidenUnited States President Joe Biden said on Wednesday that it is 'gigantically important' for American citizens to get themselves vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "We have a pandemic for those who haven't gotten the vaccination — it's that basic, that simple," Biden said on the CNN town hall.Heavy rains lash Mumbai, several areas waterloggedMumbai continued to witness heavy rainfall on Thursday due to which several areas in the city were waterlogged. The Railways has halted local train services between Umbermali and Kasara. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, on Wednesday predicted heavy rains Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, and Raigad districts. Read moreBrazil records 54,517 new Covid-19 cases, 1,424 more deathsBrazil's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 19,473,954 after 54,517 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the national ministry of health said on late Wednesday. As many as 1,424 succumbed to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 545,604, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-22-2021-101626915338858.html
23-07-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Centre to bring privilege motion against TMC MPs||The monsoon session of Parliament enters its third day today and both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha have been adjourned thrice as opposition parties continue to target the central government over several issues including farmers' protest, coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the income tax raids on the Dainik Bhaskar group and the Pegasus hacking controversy.The Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 4pm today while the Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till Friday 11am.Also Read| Pegasus row: IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to speak in Parliament todaySeveral important bills are expected to be tabled in Parliament today including the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021; the Factoring regulation amendment bill, 2020 and the Inland vessels Bill, 2021.Track LIVE updates on farmers protests at Jantar Mantar hereMeanwhile, farmers who have been protesting against the farm laws since November last year, are holding protests at Jantar Mantar from today. The farmer groups earlier said that they would hold a 'Kisan Parliament' till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will visit Jantar Mantar daily.Follow all the updates here:Centre to bring privilege motion against TMC MPs for their misbehaviour with IT minister Ashwini VaishnawThe central government will bring privilege motion against TMC MPs who misbehaved with IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw while he was reading the statement on 'Pegasus' report in Rajya Sabha today, ANI reported citing sources.Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am tomorrowAfter Rajya Sabha was adjourned earlier in the day, now Lok Sabha has also been adjourned till 11am tomorrow.Verbal feud ensued between TMC MP and Hardeep Singh Puri after RS adjournedAfter Rajya Sabha was adjourned, a verbal feud ensued between TMC MP Shantanu Sen and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri after the latter snatched papers from IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw while he was speaking on 'Pegasus report, and tore it.Rajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrowRajya Sabha has been adjourned till tomorrow amid uproar by the Opposition MPs, which started as soon as IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw rose to speak about 'Pegasus' report.Both houses adjourned for the third timeThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 4pm today while the Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till Friday 11am.Both houses adjourned till 2pm as Oppn uproar continuesThe Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have once again been adjourned till 2pm.Buses carrying protesting farmers arrive at Jantar Mantar in DelhiBuses, carrying farmers, arrive at Jantar Mantar in Delhi. The protesting farmers will agitate against Central Government's three farm laws here. pic.twitter.com/ru3WfYa63pLok Sabha session resumes amid uproar by Oppn partiesThe session in the Lower House of Parliament has resumed, however opposition parties continue their protest over several issues.Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha adjourned till 12 noon amid uproar by Oppn partiesBoth houses of Parliament has been adjourned till 12pm.Rahul Gandhi, other Cong MPs hold protests against farm lawsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi and other MPs of the party are protesting against Centre's three new farm laws in Parliament.Cong MP gives adjournment motion in Lok Sabha on farmers' issueAhead of the farmers protest at Delhi's Jantar Mantar, Congress MP K Suresh on Thursday gave an adjournment motion on the farmers' issue in the Lower House of Parliament. "The rights of farmers to their land and produce are sacrosanct and needs to be protected. The anti-farmer legislations by the government must be repealed and farmers be heard," Suresh wrote to the secretary general of the Lok Sabha.Farmer protest to begin at 11am, area around Jantar Mantar turns into a fortressThe Delhi Police has barricaded the entire area around Jantar Mantar, ahead of a planned protest by the farmers, who have been pushing for the repeal of three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. Read moreCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over Pegasus projectCongress MP Manish Tewari on Thursday gave an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over Pegasus project.CPI MP moves privilege motion in RS against Centre's reply on Covid deathsCommunist Party of India (CPI) MP Binoy Viswam on Thursday moved a privilege motion notice in the Rajya Sabha against the reply of Minister of state of health Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar’s that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were specifically by states and Union Territories (UTs) during the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India."Beyond being absolutely disrespectful to the hundreds who suffered this avoidable demise, the Government has tried to mislead the Parliament with its response and thereby broken parliamentary privilege," Viswam wrote in the notice.Important bills to be taken in Parliament todaySeveral important bills will be tabled in Parliament today. Union minister Rajnath Singh will table the Essential Defence Services Bill in Lok Sabha; Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill for consideration and passage and Sarbananda Sonowal, the newly appointed ports, shipping and waterways minister, will introduce the Inland Vessel Bill in the Lower House. Read moreI-T minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to speak in Parliament at 2 pmElectronics and Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to speak in Parliament at 2 pm today pic.twitter.com/ysRJBcNHB4Union minister of Information Technology (I-T) Ashwini Vaishnaw will speak in Parliament at 2pm. The minister might make an announcement on the Pegasus project. Read more'Will monitor Parliament proceedings', says Rakesh TikaitI, along with eight others (protesting farmers) will leave for the Singhu border, and then will go to Jantar Mantar. We will hold 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar. We will monitor Parliament proceedings: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait pic.twitter.com/X1CMVfFMghBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who has left for the Singhu border, said on Thursday that he along with eight other protesting farmers will hold a 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Manta. "We will monitor Parliament proceedings," Tikait told news agency ANI. Security tightens at Singhu border ahead of farmers protest at Jantar MantarDelhi: Security tightens at Singhu border ahead of a farmers' protest at Jantar Mantar against three farm laws amid monsoon session of Parliament Farmers will gather at Singhu border from different protest sites and head towards Jantar Mantar pic.twitter.com/KcQZg1v1e6Ahead of the farmers protests at Jantar Mantar, security has been tightened at the Singhu border. The protesting farmers will gather at Singhu border from different protest sites and head towards Jantar Mantar, news agency ANI reported. Opposition in sync on Rajya Sabha; Lok Sabha path still unclearThe Opposition parties have been able to find a collective script for their efforts to take on the government in the Upper House of Parliament, something they demonstrably lacked in the Lower House on the first two days of the ongoing monsoon session. Read moreFarmers to hold protests at Jantar Mantar from todayFarmers who have been protesting against the farm laws since November last year, will hold protests at Jantar Mantar from today. The farmer groups earlier said that they would hold a 'Kisan Parliament' till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will go to Jantar Mantar daily. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101626912256250.html
