24-07-2021||India||Silver medal, golden girl||First day, first medal. That’s the piece of history Mirabai Chanu wrote for India as she thrust a 115kg barbell up above her with the practiced ease of a world beater. At the Tokyo International Forum, early in the morning of the first day after Olympics was declared open, Chanu won the silver in 49kg women’s weightlifting with a combined total of 202kg. It marked the first time that India has won a medal on the opening day of an Olympics, signalling what may turn out to be a landmark Games for the Indian contingent. Chanu lifted 87kg in snatch and 115kg — just four kilos less than her own world record — in the clean & jerk, behind only China’s Hou Zhihui’s total of 210kg. Zhihui is the world record holder in the category. Chanu’s coach Vijay Sharma’s booming voice resonated through the hall, as the diminutive lifter from Manipur ran to the backroom after her lifts to wrap herself around her 6ft2 father figure. Chanu is now only the second weightlifter from India to win an Olympic medal, after Karnam Malleswari won bronze at the 2000 Sydney Games. Someone from the coaching staff handed her a phone — on the other end was Jeremy Lalrinnunga and other teammates at their training base in Patiala, screaming and dancing with joy. Chanu broke into a jig herself. “Balle balle kiya!” she said, laughing. After the medal ceremony, Chanu came out to the media area, the silver around her neck. She held it and kissed it. “Medal bahut bhari hai, (the medal’s quite heavy),” she said, beaming throughout. “I wanted to win the gold, I tried, but I will accept the silver. “I am very happy, I have been dreaming of this for the past five years. I am very proud of myself right now. The first thing I will do is party!” she said. “Could not have asked for a happier start to @Tokyo2020! India is elated by Mirabai Chanu’s stupendous performance... Congratulations to her for winning the silver medal in weightlifting. Her success motivates every Indian,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.“Congratulations to #MirabaiChanu for our country’s first medal on the very first day. India is proud of her daughter,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote on Twitter.If not for Chanu, this day could have gone very differently. Or rather, along more familiar lines. Indian athletes were involved in three other medal events on the opening day. In each of these, the Indians were strong contenders — Saurabh Chaudhary and Abhishek Verma, both ranked in the top three in the world, in 10m air pistol; Elavenil Valarivan (seeded No. 1 for Tokyo 2020) and world record holder Apurvi Chandela in 10m air rifle; and women’s world No. 1 archer Deepika Kumari and Praveen Jadhav in mixed team archery. Yet, it was not their day, sparking fears that this could be yet another Olympics where India would have to wait anxiously for a medal. Five long yearsAt the 2016 Rio Games, where Chanu had made her Olympics debut, everything had gone wrong for her. Of the six attempts given to lifters — three in snatch, three in clean & jerk — she had managed to complete just one lift in snatch. Three months ago at the Asian Championships, she had almost relived that horror, with two no-lifts in snatch. It’s the kind of thing that ends careers. Not for Chanu. “We have spoken so many times about that day in the Rio Olympics in these five years,” said coach Sharma. “Every time I would tell her that she is now a different athlete. It is that incident that has brought us where we are today,” he added. In Tokyo, if she was still haunted by those memories of Rio, she did not show it. From the moment her event started, Chanu’s body language was confident and relaxed. On her ears she wore gold earrings in the shape of the Olympic logo, gifted to her by her mother after her Rio experience. For her first attempt — 84kg in snatch — she stepped to the stage and bowed to the bar. Then, in one clean motion, Chanu had cleared the lift. She flashed her big smile. She was in control. She was ready to script her extraordinary tale of redemption. For her next lift, she cleared 87kg with comfort. She beamed. Only Zhihui, who also holds the world record for snatch, was lifting more. Chanu could not finish her last snatch, where she attempted 89, more than she had ever done. It didn’t matter much, because next up was clean & jerk, which Chanu has made her own. She cleared 110kg on her first attempt with such consummate ease that it looked like she was in training. By the time she was going for her second lift, set at 115kg, the entire field except Zhihui had already fallen away. In the end, the 7kg difference between Chanu’s best snatch (87kg) and Zhihui’s best (94kg) decided the medal. “The amount of discipline and commitment she has shown is extraordinary. You see how mentally strong she was today. That comes only with great hard work,” Sharma said. “During these rough times of the pandemic, when lives have come to an abrupt halt and mere survival has become an isolating task, victories such as yours will serve as a small reminder of the joy that hope and perseverance can bring,” read a letter addressed to Chanu by Abhinav Bindra, India’s only Olympic gold medallist. From Rio to the silver in Tokyo was a journey that involved meticulous training, a psychologist, fixing a bad back and realigning her posture with the help of Aaron Horschig, a former weightlifter who is now a renowned physical therapist and strength coach in the US, winning the world championship in 2017, gold at the 2018 Commonwealth Games, a bronze at the 2020 Asian Championships and becoming the world No 1. In a way, a medal in Tokyo was always within her strong grasp. But when it came — on a day when India were contenders in three other medal events but did not win in any of them — Chanu’s joy was infectious and may just be what the young Indian contingent needs as inspiration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silver-medal-golden-girl-101627151056337.html
24-07-2021||India||Faced many challenges but satisfied with work during tenure: K’taka CM||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday said he faced various challenges from the day his tenure began but he was satisfied with the developmental work he did.The 78-year-old’s statement comes against the backdrop of increased speculation over his political future, with a section of party leaders hinting that he was likely to be replaced as the chief minister.“From the day I took charge as the chief minister till now, I had to face several challenges like natural disasters that the state had never faced in the past and the corona pandemic, which ravaged lives. Now once again there is a flood-like situation,” Yediyurappa said. He added that despite facing these challenges he was able to carry out developmental works, in the Shivamogga district and his Shikaripura constituency.“I am satisfied that in the last two years we put maximum efforts into the development of Shivamogga district. The projects that are being inaugurated are evidence for it. I feel proud to say that through all-around development, I have made honest efforts to pay back to the people of Shivamogga district, and more specifically Shikaripura taluk, which gave me political birth,” he said.“I’m going”, is the between-the-lines message Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers in Karnataka have taken away from a series of recent statements made by Yediyurappa. He had visited Delhi last week to meet party leadership but sidestepped questions about the buzz over a leadership change in the state.On Wednesday night, he tweeted asking his followers not to indulge in any protests. “I’m privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP… I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics and not indulge in protests or indiscipline that is disrespectful and embarrassing for the party.”This was followed by a statement on Thursday, where he said that he would abide by any decision taken by the party leadership. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said that everything will become clear after the event on July 26, commemorating the second-year anniversary of his government.“Amit Shah and our national president (JP) Nadda have immense faith in me. As you know, no one above the age of 75 years is given any posts or positions by the party. But considering my work, the national leadership has given me the opportunity to be in power till 78. I will finish two years as chief minister on (July) 26. My aim is to strengthen the party and bring our government back to power once again,” Yediyurappa said.The CM has the solid backing of the Lingayat mutts, which in the past have issued ultimatums against his removal. Seers from the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community are scheduled to hold a religious convention on Sunday during which they could push for the continuation of Yediyurappa’s tenure, political observers said.“This will be the first of its kind [convention] and deliberation on a host of issues that are faced down by various communities in the state will be discussed. Besides, discussions on the present political scenario could also be held,” Sri Dingaleshwar Swami, the seer of Balehosur mutt, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faced-many-challenges-but-satisfied-with-work-during-tenure-k-taka-cm-101627150816356.html
24-07-2021||India||Toll from floods, landslides in Maharashtra touches 112||MumbaiAt least 112 peoplehave died and 99 others are still missing in Maharashtra, officials said on Saturday after days of heavy rain in the Konkan and Western Maharashtra region triggered flooding and landslides in several districts.Nearly 135,313 people were evacuated from vulnerable areas in nine districts that were hit by landslides and floods on Thursday and Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said.“A total of 112 people have lost their lives due to heavy rains till Saturday morning (in Maharashtra). These include 52 in Raigad, 13 in Satara, four in Mumbai and nearby areas, one in Pune, 21 in Ratnagiri, seven in Kolhapur, 12 in Thane and two in Sindhudurg. 99 people are missing till Saturday morning,” the deputy CM said. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, however, put the death toll much higher. “138 deaths have been reported due to floods and other rain-related incidents,” he said, earlier in the day.The toll is likely to increase, with heavy rainfall stalling rescue operations in several areas. Till Saturday evening, a team of the police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) alone, recovered at least 86 bodies — 47 in Raigad district’s Taliye village, 28 bodies in Satara district and 11 in Ratnagiri.According to official data, 890 villages in nine districts have been affected since Thursday.The state government “will see no such incidents happen in the future”, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said after a visit to Taliye village in one of the worst-hit Raigad district. “The state government will see no such incidents will happen in future and even if they happen, no human life will be lost in future. In order to achieve this, the state government will have to rehabilitate all the villages located at hillslopes and foothills. The residents of such villages will be resettled at safer places,” Thackeray said after reviewing the ground situation in Taliye. A portion of a hillock flattened most of the Taliye village late on Thursday, burying at least 32 houses. Till Saturday, the landslide claimed 49 lives. At least 50people are still feared trapped under the debris.The chief minister said the state government will also prepare a water management scheme to reduce the instances of flooding. “We have started working on formulating a water management scheme to overcome the flood situation in the state. It will ensure management of excessive water collected in catchment areas of dams due to heavy rains which often result in floods following discharge from dams,” Thackeray said.Western Maharashtra’s Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts, which are among the worst affected by the flooding, also saw massive devastation due to flooding in 2019. Teams of the local administrations and the State Disaster Relief Force, along with NDRF, Coast Guard, Navy and Army, are undertaking rescue operations in the affected areas. The NDRF has enhanced the number of its teams from 26 to 34 for the operations, a spokesperson said Saturday.“In view of the severity of the situation, additional eight NDRF teams have been airlifted from Kolkata and Vadodara base which are being deployed in affected areas of Maharashtra,” the spokesperson said.The force is tracking the India Meteorological Department’s weather forecast and the Central Water Commission’s report with regard to Mumbai and coastal districts of the Konkan region in Maharashtra that are witnessing heavy rainfall since the last few days, the spokesperson said, after residents in several areas complained about the slow pace of the rescue work. Apart from the rescue operations, the administration is struggling to restore water and electricity supply and arrange food and medicines in affected areas.The government is planning to distribute ration kits, including rice, pulses and kerosene in the affected areas, the deputy CM told mediapersons. Pawar also announced a financial assistance of ₹5 lakh each to the kin of the victims, while the Central government has announced ₹2 lakh each. While flood water in many Konkan areas is receding, the discharge of water from dams led to further overflowing of some rivers and rise in flood water levels in many areas of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts, officials said.IMD, meanwhile, has forecast a reduction in rainfall intensity over the next 24 hours. “Further reduction in rainfall intensity is very likely along the west coast, including Konkan, Goa and adjoining interior Maharashtra, during the next 24 hours,” the IMD said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-from-floods-landslides-in-maharashtra-touches-112-101627150458209.html
24-07-2021||India||Cinemas, spas, pools to open with restrictions||New DelhiMultiplexes, swimming pools, spas, auditoriums and entertainment parks will be allowed to open in the national capital from Monday, while the Delhi Metro and public buses will operate with 100% seating capacity, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Saturday, effectively relaxing most restrictions after a decline in Covid-19 cases following a deadly fourth wave of infections in the national capital.In an order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, DDMA also relaxed the cap on the number of guests at weddings and funerals. Previously, up to 50 people were allowed in weddings, while 20 were permitted in funerals. From Monday, 100 guests will be allowed for both gatherings.Under a lockdown that was imposed on April 20, when the city was well into its fourth wave of infections, a curfew was imposed except for specific activities (such as going to buy groceries and medicines, or for going to a hospital or airports/railway stations). The lockdown restrictions were gradually eased with the decline in infections.Cinema halls, multiplexes, auditoriums and assembly halls will be allowed to run with 50% seating capacity. Swimming pools and entertainment parks have also been allowed, while sports complexes can be opened for members, even as no spectators will be allowed. Religious places will continue to remain prohibited for visitors. Business-to-business exhibitions can also be held from Monday, but such events will be restricted to business visitors only, according to the order.Spas have been allowed to open with a set of guidelines. The order said that all employees, especially the masseuse, should either get both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine or should undergo RT-PCR tests every fortnight. It also said that clients will have to sign an undertaking of being Covid-19-negative. Personal protective equipment (PPE) apart from face shields and masks will have to be worn by the therapist/masseuse if the treatment is of more than 30 minutes. Covid-appropriate behaviour will have to be strictly followed as is to be done in any other place, failing which the owner of the spa will face sealing and penal action under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act.Buses and the Delhi Metro are currently operating with 50% seating capacity. While this has been increased to 100%, no standing passengers will be allowed, the order said.Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), said that from Monday, all Metro coaches will allow around 50 people as against the existing rule of 25 people per coach. “DMRC will be further examining the revised guidelines issued today and if needed, detailed guidelines from the operational point of view will be worked out and communicated accordingly. As standing travel is still not permitted by the authorities, entry at stations will also continue to be regulated through identified gates as per the ongoing practice,” he said.DDMA has also lifted the 50% cap at gymnasiums and yoga centres. With Saturday’s order, nearly everything will be open from Monday in the national capital. Parks, restaurants, weekly markets and other markets were previously allowed to function.“It is further directed that the market trade associations, banquet halls, marriage hall associations, gymnasiums and yoga institute association, other trade associations and resident welfare associations shall also be responsible for ensuring compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviours by all shops, malls, markets, market complexes, offices, weekly markets, clinics, banquet halls/marriage halls and residents within their respective areas,” the order said.Delhi’s Covid-19 situation has been improving over the recent weeks. On Saturday, Delhi reported one Covid-19 death and 66 fresh infections. This comes days after the Capital recorded no daily death from Covid-19 for the first time since March 2, a landmark after the brutal fourth wave of infections between April and May that left thousands dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cinemas-spas-pools-to-open-with-restrictions-101627150457051.html
24-07-2021||India||Teenage girls thrashed by 15 men for speaking on mobile phones in Gujarat||Two girls, both in their teens, were allegedly verbally abused and thrashed by a group of people, including their relatives, for speaking on mobile phones at Gujarat’s Dahod district, police officials told news agency PTI on Saturday. The incident which happened over a month ago on June 25 came to the police’s notice after the video went viral on social media. The police registered an FIR in this regard on Friday after the mother of one of the girls lodged a complaint.The girls, aged 13 and 16 years, were allegedly beaten by a group of at least 15 men who objected to the girls’ speaking over the mobile phones, a police official from Dhanpur told news agency PTI. The video showed a group of men abusing the two girls who were visibly frightened as those men surrounded them. After threatening those two girls, they began thrashing them, according to news agency PTI. HT could not verify the authenticity of the video.Police said that no complaint was lodged for almost a month but once the video came to the notice of the cops, they informed the girls’ family and an FIR was registered against 15 accused who hailed from Bhuvera and neighbouring Alindra villages at the Dhanpur police station, the police official said.The accused were booked under sections 143 and 149 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 504 (insult causing to break public peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and also under relevant provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The police further added that efforts are on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teenage-girls-thrashed-by-15-men-for-speaking-on-mobile-phones-in-gujarat-101627147964531.html
24-07-2021||India||UAPA can’t remain in current form, sedition law must go: Ex-SC judges||Former Supreme Court judges Aftab Alam, Madan B Lokur, Gopala Gowda and Deepak Gupta on Saturday expressed concern over the misuse of anti-terror legislation in India while stressing it was time to do away with the law on sedition in the country.The remarks came amid outrage over the death of 84-year-old activist Stan Swamy, who was arrested under the anti-terror law in the Elgar Parishad case last year. He died in Mumbai earlier this month while his bail plea on health grounds remained pending before the high court there.Speaking at an online public discussion organised by NGO Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR), the retired judges were unanimous in holding that the death of the tribal rights activist was an instance of how the anti-terror law was being misused.Swamy was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, (UAPA) for his role in what the National Investigative Agency (NIA) said was an alleged Maoist conspiracy that led to caste clashes near Bhima Koregaon village four years ago.Justice Lokur said Swamy’s demise was a result of “soft torture”. “...Why could he not be given medical treatment earlier? Isn’t that torture? It is soft torture. It is not physical torture where you beat up a person. But it is certainly a form of torture.”Justice Alam said: “Where has this most draconian law in world’s largest democracy taken us? The results are all there for us to see; it stares us in face in death of Swamy without a trial.”Justice Gupta said: “Father Stan Swamy, 84 years old, suffering from Parkinson’s disease... I mean are we not human? Have we lost all touch of humanity that this man required bail even if there is Sections 43D or 43E of UAPA?”“What is the purpose of bail? The purpose is that he should not influence and run away from justice. Court had adequate means to place such restrictions if Stan Swamy was granted bail. But what stands in way was Section 43D of UAPA,” the retired Supreme Court judge added.Section 43D(5) of UAPA makes the grant of bail extremely difficult. It lays down that an accused charged under UAPA shall not be released on bail if the court thinks there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such a person is prima facie true. The Supreme Court’s 2019 judgment in the case of Zahoor Ahmed Shah Watali also laid down that a court cannot go into the merits of a case or scrutinise admissibility of evidence at the time of deciding a bail plea, thereby lowering the bar for courts to examine the veracity of agency’s case.A few weeks back, Assam leader Akhil Gogoi walked out of jail after spending 17 months behind bars in connection with a case under UAPA against him over violent protests against a contentious citizenship law.The former judges said that Section 43(D)(5) of UAPA needed to be either amended or given a completely different interpretation by the Supreme Court, since it had become a tool to keep people incarcerated without trials.“Grant of bail is rendered almost impossible until the end of the trial which could take generations, a wholly unconstitutional interpretation of UAPA that strikes at the root of the fundamental right to life, personal liberties and speedy trial guaranteed under the Constitution. The Supreme Court judgment in Watali case needs to be reconsidered,” said justice Gowda.Justices Gowda and Gupta maintained that a law should be there to deal with terrorist activities but a vague definition of “terrorist activity”, as provided under UAPA, had to go.About sedition, as provided under IPC Section 124A, the retired judges said there was no place for the sedition law since the offence was already punishable under various laws.“.... This law should be shown the door as soon as possible,” said justice Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uapa-can-t-remain-in-current-form-sedition-law-must-go-ex-sc-judges-101627148628551.html
24-07-2021||India||Faced challenge since day 1, says Karnataka CM Yediyurappa ahead of possible exit||Though nothing has been confirmed officially, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has now made it amply clear that his days as the state's chief minister are numbered. On Saturday, he said he faced several challenges from the day he took charge as the chief minister but he also expressed satisfaction over his term for he thinks he made honest efforts to better the lives of the people."From the day I took charge as the Chief Minister till now, I had to face several challenges like natural disasters that the state had never faced in the past and the corona pandemic, which ravaged lives. Now once again there is a flood-like situation," Yediyurappa said.July 26 could be his last day as the chief minister, he hinted earlier as he had said that he would do whatever the national leadership instructs him on July 25, which is tomorrow, on the eve of the completion of two years of the BJP government in Karnataka.'Supreme leaders will decide': Pralhad Joshi on if he would replace Yediyurappa"I am satisfied that despite all these (challenges), I have been able to take steps to improve the living standard of the people and their financial position. ...I thank the people for their support in facing the challenge," the chief minister said.Yediyurappa's long political career began as Purasabha president in Shikaripura, was first elected to the Legislative Assembly from Shikaripura in 1983 and went on to win eight times from there. This is his fourth stint as Karnataka's chief minister.This stint was mired in controversies as several BJP leaders have declared open rebellion against Yediyurappa and brought corruption charges against him. The "interference" of his son BY Vijayendra in the administration is also another strong allegation against the Yediyurappa government. Raghavendra is Shivamogga MP.After relinquishing the CM's chair, he will work for the party, Yediyurappa has said. "PM Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, and Nadda have a special love and faith towards me. You are aware that no position has been given to those who have crossed 75 years of age," the 77-year-old leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faced-challenge-since-day-1-says-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-ahead-of-possible-exit-101627147214829.html
24-07-2021||India||Flood fury: With water receding in some regions, threat of diseases looms large||After receiving heavy rain for two days, there was let up in the downpour in Goa, north Karnataka and parts of Telangana with no major loss of life reported, officials said. Flood water started receding in most of the places in the southern states even though power supply remained disrupted in many regions.This week, around 140 people are said to have died because of heavy rains in India’s western coastal states and close to 1,50,000 people are in make-shift camps in three worst-hit states of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka where hundreds of villages are flooded.Officials said that the flooding seen in northern Karnataka and Goa was the worst since 1982, the heaviest rain in living memory. While in Karnataka, local ministers toured the flood-affected areas, in Goa, chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the flood-affected areas and assured compensation within fifteen days.Rain affected Goa and Karnataka have sought immediate Central assistance to carry out rehabilitation works. Goa sought ₹500 crore and Karnataka ₹1,000 crore. According to official estimates, more than 700 houses have been destroyed in Goa and more than 2,000 in Karnataka.Both Karnataka and Goa governments on Friday issued directions for restoration of power supply and road connectivity hit by several landslides in the two states. Work has also started to restore traffic on the Mumbai-Mangalore highway which was breached and blocked by landslides at several places.In Goa and Karnataka, both the ruling BJP and opposition Congress asked its workers to provide relief to the affected people. “Devastation caused by floods has caused huge losses. We demand [that] @goacm must give immediate cash compensation and a one month quota of essential commodities to the affected. Appreciate efforts of @IYCGoa to reach out to the needy with a helping hand,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat stated.As the water receded, the fear of water-borne diseases has also gripped the region.Karnataka health and medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar instructed health officials to take all precautions to prevent the outbreak of any disease in the flood-hit regions of the state. The health staff was instructed to spray disinfectant in places that are affected by floods, according to an official release.In Goa, CM Sawant instructed district officials to spray disinfectant in villages to prevent the spread of water-borne diseases and create awareness among people.“The second wave of Covid is not over yet. Ensure free masks and sanitisers are distributed to people in flood relief centres,” Sudhakar told the officials.The MeT department has predicted that the region will see reduced rainfall during the weekend as compared to the previous two weeks, which could provide relief to people and help government authorities restore essential services. The weather department has predicted heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours in Madhya Pradesh and parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-fury-with-water-receding-in-some-regions-threat-of-diseases-looms-large-101627146138933.html
24-07-2021||India||'Mumbai, Delhi practically free of Covid': India asks UK to review ban on travellers||In its latest outreach to foreign governments over the issue of easing travel restrictions for Indians, India has asked the United Kingdom to review the travel ban on Indians as the pandemic situation in India is improving. Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, who went to the UK on a two-day visit met UK foreign officials and said Mumbai, Delhi are "practically free of Covid"."Mumbai, Delhi, big cities are practically free of COVID. But we can’t rest on that situation because we are constantly vigilant, telling our citizens to take precautions so that we don’t have a third wave,” said Shringla, as reported by news agency PTI.Citing the example of France which has recently recognised Covishield as a valid vaccine, Shringla said, "I briefed them [UK officials] on the COVID situation in India. I pointed out that France had cleared visitors from India without quarantine if they are double vaccinated and have a negative test. The US has upgraded India in the travel scheme, encouraged the UK to do the same and they took note of it."India to Canada: Speed up study permits before new semester starts in SeptemberThe United States has recently lowered its travel advisory for India from no travel to reconsider travel. This is not regarding Indians travelling to the US as that is still restricted; this advisory is for US citizens wanting to travel to India. But the easing implies that India's improving Covid-19 situation has already been noticed internationally.India is on UK's red list which means Indians can't visit the United Kingdom and returning citizens have to undergo a compulsory 10-day quarantine to get entry.“The EU has said they will leave it to individual member states to decide and 14 EU countries have already recognised Covishield, two of them have also recognised Covaxin suo moto. We are now asking all countries that you recognise our vaccine certification on a mutual reciprocal basis, recognising the integrity of that process,” Shringla said on Covishield and Covaxin being recognised in European countries.Recently, Canada, the United Arab Emirates have extended flight ban from India. The flight ban was imposed when cases in India surged during the second wave of the pandemic. The ministry of external affairs said it is pursuing the issue of international travel with countries and there have been some positive steps.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-delhi-practically-free-of-covid-india-asks-uk-to-review-ban-on-international-flights-101627143055495.html
24-07-2021||India||Fresh security alert for Indians in Afghanistan, warns of ‘serious threat of kidnapping’||India on Saturday issued a fresh security alert for its nationals in Afghanistan amid a surge in violence and fighting between Afghan forces and the Taliban, warning them to avoid non-essential travel as they face a “serious threat of kidnapping”.The security advisory from the Indian embassy in Kabul reiterated many of the concerns in an earlier alert issued on June 29 and said the security situation in Afghanistan “remains dangerous in several provinces”. “Terror groups operating in Afghanistan have escalated violent activities including the targeting of civilians. Indian nationals are not exceptions, and they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping,” the advisory said.The alert warned of targeted attacks such as “roadside IED blasts and magnetic IEDs against civilian vehicles”, and called for caution during all vehicular movements. “All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are advised to exercise utmost vigilance and caution with regard to security at the workplace, place of residence and also during movement to their places of work. It is recommended that all types of non-essential movements be avoided,” the advisory stated.The advisory contained a new section calling on Indian media personnel travelling to Afghanistan to contact the public affairs and security wing of the embassy for a “personalised briefing including specific advice for the locale they are travelling to. It added, “This will not only help media persons make a better assessment of the risks involved but also make it easier for the embassy to render speedy assistance if needed.”This was a response to the killing of Indian photo-journalist Danish Siddiqui by the Taliban last week. The Pulitzer Prize winner was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban at Spin Boldak, a border crossing with Pakistan in Kandahar province. Siddiqui was on an assignment embedded with Afghan security forces at the time.Indian nationals were also warned to strictly avoid travelling outside the main cities and movements during peak commuting hours. The advisory reiterated an earlier call for Indian companies operating in Afghanistan to make special security arrangements for Indian employees deployed at project sites. “While travelling on roads, maintain distance from possible targets like military convoys, vehicles of govt ministries/offices, high ranking officials, law enforcement agencies, and avoid visiting crowded markets, shopping complexes, mandis, restaurants and other public places. All essential movement may please be kept as discrete as possible,” the advisory said. Authorities in New Delhi have been closely monitoring all security-related developments in Afghanistan since the US administration announced plans to pull out all troops from the country by August. India evacuated some 50 diplomats and security personnel from Kandahar in Indian Air Force aircraft on July 10 after Taliban fighters seized key areas around the southern city. Currently, only the Indian embassy in Kabul and a consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif are fully functional. According to the external affairs ministry’s data, there are around 3,100 Indian nationals in Afghanistan, mostly engineers and staff working on hundreds of development projects. India is the largest regional donor in Afghanistan, with pledges of around $3 billion.The Taliban has enhanced efforts to wrest control of territory from Afghan government forces as the US continues withdrawing its forces from Afghanistan. The Taliban have said that civilian and non-military foreign nationals, diplomats, embassies and workers of humanitarian organisations won’t “face any problems or security risks” from the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-security-alert-for-indians-in-afghanistan-warns-of-serious-threat-of-kidnapping-101627142119407.html
24-07-2021||India||India lodges strong protest with Pakistan over drone activities in Jammu region||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday lodged a strong protest with its counter-parts Pakistan Rangers over drone activities in the Jammu region at a sector commander level meeting between the two border guarding forces, officials said.The sector commander level meet, the first after renewed truce deal of February 24 this year between the two DGMOs, was held at Suchetgarh along the International Border in RS Pura sector of Jammu district.“Today, at the request of Pakistan Rangers, a sector commander level meeting was held between Border Security Force and Pakistan Rangers on International Border in Suchetgarh area,” said a BSF spokesperson. The BSF delegation was led by Surjit Singh, DIG, Border Security Force while the Pakistan Rangers delegation was led by Brig Murad Hussain, sector commander Pakistan Rangers, Sialkot Sector.“During the meeting, commanders of both the border guarding forces, discussed various issues with main emphasis by BSF delegation on Pakistan’s drone activities, terrorists’ activities by Pakistan from across the border, digging of tunnels by Pakistan and other issues related to border management,” said the spokesperson. “A very strong protest was lodged by BSF delegates regarding drone activities by Pakistan authorities in the Jammu area,” he added.On June 27, two drones dropped explosives on the Indian Air Force station that left two personnel injured. Since then, there has been no let-up in drones hovering over defence installations in the Jammu region.On Friday, police shot down a 5-kilogram IED laden hexacopter in Kanachak area along the border in the Akhnoor sector.“It was decided to re-energize instant communication between field commanders, whenever required, to resolve the operational matters,” said the spokesperson. The meeting was held in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere and both the side agreed for expeditious implementation of the decisions taken in the earlier DG level talks and committed to each other to maintain peace and harmony at the International Border, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lodges-strong-protest-with-pakistan-over-drone-activities-in-jammu-region-101627141097241.html
24-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Emirates extends flight ban to UAE from India, 3 other countries and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Emirates extends flight ban to UAE from India, Pakistan, two other countries till July 28In line with the UAE government directives, the country's flagship carrier Emirates has extended its suspension of flights to Dubai from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka till July 28. Read moreRainfall intensity to decrease along western coast in next 24 hours: IMDThe India Meteorology Department (IMD) on Saturday said that the intensity of the rainfall along the western coast of India may decrease over the next 24 hours bringing relief to rain-battered Maharashtra and Goa. Read moreJEE-Main aspirants from districts hit by heavy rain, landslides to get another chance to appear for testUnion minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday announced that students of Maharashtra who will not be able to appear for JEE Mains exam on July 25 and July 27 because of the heavy rains and landslides will get another opportunity. Read more'Farmers know how to teach a lesson': Rakesh Tikait's fresh warning to CentreFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday once again warned the Centre over the three legislations against which the farmers are holding protests. He said that farmers know how to teach a lesson to people who ignore them. Read moreIndia Predicted XI for 1st T20I against Sri Lanka: Padikkal set for debut, Dravid and Dhawan mull mystery spinner optionWith reports doing the rounds that Prithvi Shaw and Suryakumar Yadav are set to leave for England for the Test series, Devdutt Padikkal has a golden chance to make his India debut in the first T20I against Sri Lanka on Sunday. Read moreTisca Chopra apologises for congratulating Mirabai Chanu with Indonesian weightlifter’s pic, calls it ‘genuine mistake’Tisca Chopra apologised for making a huge gaffe on Saturday as she congratulated Indian weightlifter Mirabai Chanu for winning the silver medal in the 49 kg category at the Tokyo Olympics. Read moreWhatsApp multi-device support: Good news for Apple iPhone users, feature arrives on iOSWhatsApp’s upcoming multi-device functionality feature enables users to use their WhatsApp account on up to four connected devices. And importantly, they will not require the primary device, the smartphone, at all. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-emirates-extends-flight-ban-to-uae-from-india-101627136092708.html
24-07-2021||India||Rainfall intensity to decrease along western coast in next 24 hours: IMD||The India Meteorology Department (IMD) on Saturday said that the intensity of the rainfall along the western coast of India may decrease over the next 24 hours bringing relief to rain-battered Maharashtra and Goa. The IMD in its bulletin also said that the rainfall activity will increase from July 25 over the north Indian plains and hills from July 25.“Further reduction in rainfall intensity is very likely along the west coast, including Konkan, Goa and adjoining interior Maharashtra, during the next 24 hours,” the IMD said. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls will most likely continue over the west coast including Maharashtra on July 24 followed by isolated heavy rainfall, IMD said.The forecast comes as a relief for people in Maharashtra which has seen more than 10 deaths in the last 48 hours and extensive loss to property. The rains have also submerged villages and essential roads and highways. Gujarat will receive scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls until July and will reduce rainfall after that. East Rajasthan is likely to receive widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls till July 26 and is likely to reduce thereafter.Rainfall activity will increase in north India from July 25. “Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls (are) likely over Uttarakhand during July 25-28; Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh during July 26-28, and Punjab and east Uttar Pradesh on July 27 and 28,” the IMD said. Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand will receive isolated extremely heavy rainfall on July 27 and July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-intensity-to-decrease-along-western-coast-in-next-24-hours-imd-101627140004283.html
24-07-2021||India||Can people with high sugar level take Covid-19 vaccine? Here's what doctor says||People with high blood sugar level can get vaccinated against Covid-19 as there is no link between the vaccine and the sugar level, AIIMS Bhopal director Dr Sarman Singh has recently said in an interview with All India Radio. Keeping blood sugar levels in control is desirable for overall well being, but the Covid-19 vaccine will not interfere with the blood sugar level of an individual, Dr Singh said.In the wake of several post-covid complications that have been reported during the second wave of the pandemic, doctors have alerted people with high blood sugar as it increased the chance of mucormycosis infection.शुगर लेवल बढ़ा हुआ है, तो क्या वैक्सीन ले सकते हैं?#Unite2FightCorona | #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/kpHOGN76eH"Vaccine has no connection with sugar level. If the sugar level can be controlled, it is better to take such measures. But if your sugar level is very high, then it may happen that the pain at the injection site may remain longer," Dr Singh said.People with high blood sugar are also at a greater risk of contracting an infection from the vaccination site, the doctor said.A few sporadic incidents of blood sugar level increasing after vaccination has been reported from a few hospitals. Reports said a few patients witnessed a higher blood glucose level for almost a month for which some even required medical intervention. But there have not been enough cases to link the increase in blood sugar levels with vaccines. And not all patients who witnessed an increase required medical intervention to bring blood sugar level down.In its guideline, which was issued in March this year, the Indian Council of Medical Research said that people with diabetes are not at a greater risk of getting Covid-19, but they are in general at the risk of contracting an infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-people-with-high-sugar-level-take-covid-19-vaccine-here-s-what-doctor-says-101627136416946.html
24-07-2021||India||Indian scientists develop material that repair itself on mechanical impact||Scientists in India have developed material that may soon make it possible for damaged electronic components to repair themselves. The department of science and technology on Saturday said that researchers from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Kolkata collaborated with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, to develop piezoelectric molecular crystals that repair themselves with the electrical charges generated by the mechanical impact on them.Daily use devices often break down due to mechanical damage, which decreases the life of the equipment and increases maintenance costs. In autonomous spacecraft, human intervention for the repair and restoration of an electronic component damaged by a mechanical impact is not possible. In such cases, minimal damage could leave costly equipment useless.Keeping such necessities in mind, scientists have developed piezoelectric molecular crystals that generate electricity under mechanical impact.“The piezoelectric molecules developed by the scientists called bipyrazole organic crystals recombine following mechanical fracture without any external intervention, autonomously self-healing in milliseconds with crystallographic precision,” the department said.Due to this unique property, the broken pieces of the component acquire electrical charges at the crack junction and the damaged parts attract each other for precise autonomous repair. The methodology for self-repair was initially developed by the IISER Kolkata team led by professor C Malla Reddy and professor Nirmalya Ghosh.The duo used a custom-designed state-of-the-art polarization microscopic system to probe and quantify the perfection of the piezoelectric organic crystals, said the DST. Professor Bhanu Bhusan Khatua and Dr Sumanta Karan of IIT Kharagpur separately studied the performance of the new materials for fabricating mechanical energy harvesting devices.“The material may find application in high-end micro-chips, high precision mechanical sensors, actuators, micro-robotics, and so on. Further research into such materials may eventually lead to the development of smart gadgets that self-repair cracks or scratches,” the department added.The study was published in the journal Science earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-scientists-develop-material-that-repair-itself-on-mechanical-impact-101627135269288.html
24-07-2021||India||'Farmers know how to teach a lesson': Rakesh Tikait's fresh warning to Centre||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday once again warned the Centre over the three legislations against which the farmers are holding protests. He said that farmers know how to teach a lesson to people who ignore them."The Kisan Parliament has awakened the deaf and dumb government. The farmer also knows how to run Parliament and teach a lesson to those who neglect him in the village. Nobody should forget that," Tikait, the spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said in a tweet posted .किसान संसद से किसानों ने गूंगी -बहरी सरकार को जगाने का काम किया है। किसान संसद चलाना भी जानता है और अनदेखी करने वालों को गांव में सबक सिखाना भी जानता है। भुलावे में कोई न रहे ।#FarmersProtest #FarmersProtest_AtParliamentHe also called on the farmers to be united "to save the soul and freedom of India".Tikait's comments came on the third day of farmers' protest near Parliament where monsoon session is being held. The sit-in, which the protesters call 'Kisan Sansad' began at Jantar Mantar on Thursday amid heavy security.The idea behind organising the 'Kisan Sansad' was to show that the agitation is still alive, farmer leaders said. The farmers have been protesting at Delhi border sites - Sighu, Tikri and others - for nearly eight months demanding the scrapping of the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year.As part of latest initiative, a group of 200 farmers, wearing identification badges and with flags of their unions in hand, visit Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the contentious farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).The plan is to hold agitation at Jantar Mantar till the end of the monsoon session on August 13 and observe the proceedings of Parliament. Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has, however, given farmers permission to hold protests at the site till August 9.Tikait had earlier said that farmers will protest against members of Parliament, be it of the ruling party or the opposition, in their constituency if they failed to raise their issues in Parliament.He also said that the farmers will pass a motion at the 'Kisan Sansad' on the cancellation of the three contentious farm laws.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions, has been spreading the protest against the three laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.This is the first time since the violence in the national capital during a tractor rally on January 26 (Republic Day) that the authorities have granted permission to the protesting farmer unions to hold a demonstration in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-know-how-to-teach-a-lesson-rakesh-tikait-s-fresh-warning-to-centre-101627129953791.html
24-07-2021||India||ED may file case against Raj Kundra for financial irregularities||The Enforcement Directorate may file a case against Raj Kundra under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and Foreign Exchange Management Act as the case revolving around an alleged porn racket has aspects of financial irregularities as well, news agency ANI has reported. The ED may take action anyandter Mumbai Police officially inform the central agency to probe the financial aspect of the case-- as that is the procedure.The crime branch of Mumbai Police arrested Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband, businessman Raj Kundra on July 20 in connection with an alleged porn racket operating in Mumbai. In association with a London-based firm, Raj Kundra's company, owned by Kundra's brother-in-law, used to run an online streaming application that allegedly made porn videos. Kundra was sent to police custody till July 23, which now has been extended to July 27.A $1.2 million deal, 20 lakh subscribers: Mumbai Police's new revelations about Raj Kundra's businessAs Mumbai Police are investigating the case, several aspects are coming up. Police have said that the charges against Kundra and his associates are for making pornographic films and cheating people with the promises of Bollywood roles. Police have received complaints from women actors who have said that they were promised Bollywood roles and were forced to do those porn movies.The financial aspects are also being probed, regarding which the Enforcement Directorate can launch a separate investigation. Most of Kundra's transactions were with foreign firms and hence the ED may invoke charges under FEMA against Kundra.What are FEMA and PMLA?The Foreign Exchange Management Act relates to external trade, payment etc. Under this Act, foreign exchange related offences are civil offences.As the name suggests, the Prevention of Money Laundering Act is to prevent money laundering. Under this act, the authority can confiscate property obtained for the laundered money.What are the financial irregularity charges against Raj Kundra?Mumbai Police have revealed that Raj Kundra was planning to sell 119 adult films to a foreign indivisual for a sum of $1.2 million. Police are also suspecting that the money earned through Hotshots app might be channelised into online betting as a South Africa-based sports betting firm transferred money into Kundra's bank account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-may-file-case-against-raj-kundra-for-financial-irregularities-101627127200642.html
24-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Caste-based census will aid welfare says Nitish and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nitish Kumar reiterates demand for caste-based censusBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday reiterated his demand for a caste-based census, saying it will help in better decisions for the people’s development and welfare. Read More'Supreme leaders will decide': Pralhad Joshi on if he would replace YediyurappaUnion minister Pralhad Joshi, whose name is doing the rounds as a successor of Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, on Saturday said no one has spoken to him about this and he was not aware that BS Yediyurappa has been asked to resign or not. Read More'Afghanistan situation dangerous': Indian embassy in advisory for its nationalsThe embassy of India in Afghanistan has issued a security advisory for its nationals living in the war-torn country. Read MoreAlia Bhatt slays the post pandemic fashion in a plus size black T-shirtT-shirts are subject to the whims of the fashion elite but Bollywood celebrities like Kareena Kapoor Khan, Alia Bhatt and other Tinsel Town divas, stylists and fashion lovers alike have taken a liking for oversized tees this summer. Read MoreYou can train like an Olympian with Snapchat’s new AR lensThe Tokyo Olympics have just kicked off and India won its first medal today. Saikhom Mirabai Chanu won silver in weightlifting in the women’s 49kg category. Read More‘Twitter’s magic has worked’: Anand Mahindra reconnects with friend after 52 yearsIf you follow Anand Mahindra on Twitter, chances are you’ve seen his recent post where he shared a throwback image from his school days. Read MoreAshutosh Kaushik says he lost out on marriage proposals due to his videos: ‘Ladki wale dekh lete the’Reality television star Ashutosh Kaushik, who won MTV Roadies 5.0 and Bigg Boss 2, has approached the Delhi High Court seeking removal of certain pictures, videos and articles from the internet, citing his ‘Right to be Forgotten’. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nitish-kumar-restates-demand-of-caste-based-census-and-all-the-latest-news-101627124557508.html
24-07-2021||India||'Supreme leaders will decide': Pralhad Joshi on if he would replace Yediyurappa||Union minister Pralhad Joshi, whose name is doing the rounds as a successor of Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, on Saturday said no one has spoken to him about this and he was not aware that BS Yediyurappa has been asked to resign or not. Emphasising that he does not answer hypothetical questions with if and buts, Joshi said, "There is no high command in the BJP but national leadership. We got different leaderships from time to time. There was Rajnath Singh, after which Nitin Gadkari came, who was succeeded by Amit Shah and now J P Nadda is there. In the present situation, we have supreme leaders in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. They will decide."Joshi, however, is aware of the speculation going on in the media. "No one has spoken to me about it (succeeding Yediyurappa). It's only the media, which is discussing it. As no one has spoken to me, there is no need to react to it," he said, as news agency PTI reported.After refuting rumours of stepping down for weeks, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has recently hinted that the party's national leadership might have some different role for him. If there is a shift in power in Karnataka, it will happen after July 26 following the event of the BJP government completing two years in Karnataka. Yediyurappa has also hinted that he is likely to get any instruction from the national leadership on July 25.The speculative change in power in Karnataka will trigger a severe reaction from the Lingayat community as it has already warned that if Yediyurappa, Lingayat strongman, is removed from the CM's post, the party will have to risk losing the Lingayat community's support.Seers of the Lingayat community who have recently met Yediyurappa will hold a convention in Bengaluru on July 25. "We will discuss the current situation in Karnataka. All seers have given their blessings to him (Yediyurappa). Every government should work on its shortcomings," Dingaleshwara Swami, Balehosur Mutt, told ANI.Apart from Pralhad Joshi, few other names are also there in the guessing game that is going on in full swing after Yediyurappa met PM Modi, Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh in Delhi last week. The list of the probables includes CT Ravi, BL Santosh, Murugesh Nirani, Arvind Bellad etc.Pralhad Joshi has been the MP of Dharwad, a city in northwest Karnataka, since 2004. He had also served as the BJP's state unit president from July 2012 to January 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-leaders-will-decide-pralhad-joshi-on-if-he-would-replace-yediyurappa-101627123304939.html
24-07-2021||India||In a first, Oxygen Express to supply LMO to Bangladesh||An Oxygen Express train of the Indian Railways will supply 200 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to Bangladesh, the Ministry of Railways informed on Saturday. This is the first instance of an Oxygen Express being pressed into service to transport LMO to a neighbouring country or operate on foreign land, the ministry further noted."Indian Railways' Oxygen Express service is set to embark on its journey to Bangladesh. This is the first time ever that it has been put into operation to a neighbouring country. Today, an indent was placed at Tatanagar in Chakradharpur Division under the South Eastern Railway to transport 200 MT of LMO to Benapole, Bangladesh," a press release from the Railways ministry stated. The release also highlighted that the said capacity of oxygen was stored across 10 containers, the process of loading which was completed at 9:25am on Saturday.The ministry's official Twitter handle shared a short clip of the train embarking on its journey, as well as images of containers being loaded on it.pic.twitter.com/PUsaFKKbXQOxygen Express trains were announced in April and began operations on the 24th of that month, as hospitals from across the country reported an acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen amid the devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. According to official figures, a total of 480 such trains have supplied more than 35,000 MT of LMO to various states, till now.Previously, India has donated anti Covid-19 vaccines to Bangladesh under its "Vaccine Maitri" initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-oxygen-express-to-supply-lmo-to-bangladesh-101627121343320.html
24-07-2021||India||'Afghanistan situation dangerous': Indian embassy in advisory for its nationals||The embassy of India in Afghanistan has issued a security advisory for its nationals living in the war-torn country. The advisory comes in the wake of the withdrawal of American and NATO troops from Afghanistan and advancement of the Taliban.The embassy has asked Indians staying, visiting and working in Afghanistan to exercise utmost vigilance at all times. They have also been asked to avoid all non-essential travel as security situation in Afghanistan remains dangerous."This advisory reiterates advice of 29th June 2021, which remains valid for all India citizens. Security situation in Afghanistan remains dangerous in several provinces. Terror groups operating in Afghanistan have escalated violent activities including targeting of civilians. Indian nationals are not exceptions, and they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping," the Indian embassy said in the advisory."While traveling on roads, maintain distance from possible targets like military convoys, vehicles of government ministries/offices, high ranking officials, law enforcement agencies, and avoid visiting crowded markets, shopping complexes, mandis, restaurants and other public places," it further said.The embassy also talked about targeted attacks, which include incidents of roadside IED blasts and magnetic IEDs against civilian vehicles.Travelling outside the main cities should be strictly avoided, the embassy advisory said, asking Indians to register with the on the website: https://eoi.gov.in/kabul/ or by email to paw.kabul@mea.gov.in.The US and NATO are on the verge of completing their final troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. The country's interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said the situation not only demanded containment of the influx of refugees from Afghanistan but also the entry of armed army personnel and terrorists into neighbouring Pakistan.Meanwhile, more than 30 Taliban terrorists were killed and 17 other suffered injuries in Afghan Air Force airstrikes in Jawzjan and southern Helmand province on Friday.These airstrikes took place as Afghanistan is witnessing a surge in violence as the Taliban have intensified their offensive against Afghan forces and civilians with the complete pullback of foreign forces.The Taliban now control about half of the 419 district centres in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-embassy-issues-security-advisory-says-situation-in-afghanistan-dangerous-101627121389105.html
24-07-2021||India||What went wrong in Bharat Biotech's Covaxin deal with Brazil? All you need to know||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Friday cancelled its agreement with two firms for the supply of Covaxin as the Brazilian government had cancelled the deal following graft allegations. On Saturday, Brazil suspended the proposed clinical studies that the Indian vaccine maker was about to undertake in the country. This all happened in a chain reaction after the Brazilian government suspended its deal with Bharat Biotech to procure 20 million doses of Covaxin.Here is what went wrong in Bharat Biotech's Covaxin deal in BrazilIn November 2020, Bharat Biotech entered into an agreement with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C. Precisa, Bharat biotech's partner providing assistance, guidance, and support with regulatory submissions, licensure, distribution, insurance and conduct of phase III clinical trials, among others.Since Precisa was representing Bharat Biotech in Brazil so far and will not do so from now on, the clinical trial has to be suspended naturally.Graft allegation or partnership problem?The Bolsonaro government faced allegations of corruption regarding its agreement with Bharat Biotech which is still under investigation. Whistleblowers from Brazil's health department said there was pressure from higher authorities regarding the Bharat Biotech deal. It was also alleged that Pfizer was giving vaccines to Brazil at a cheaper rate. Following this, the deal was cancelled and the Brazilian government said that there was no corruption as no money was paid to Bharat Biotech. Bharat Biotech also confirmed that it has neither received any advance payment from the Brazilian government nor supplied any vaccine.Precisa is a Brazil-based firm while Envixia is registered in Dubai.As Bharat Biotech has now distanced it from these two firms, it has also brought some allegations without pointing any finger to any firm particularly. "We have recently been informed that certain letters purported to have been executed by executive of the company are being circulated online. We would like to emphatically state that these documents have not been issued by the company or its executives and therefore vehemently deny the same," Bharat Biotech said in the statement, issued on Friday.What now? Is Covaxin approved in Brazil?When the deal was on, it was claimed that Bharat Biotech's Covaxin received approval from Brazil's health regulator Anvisa on June 4. But later it was clarified that on June 4 Anvisa authorised exceptional import of Covaxin vaccine by the ministry of health for distribution and use under controller conditions.Now that the deal stands cancelled, Bharat Biotech said it will work with Anvisa diligently to complete the regulatory approval process."There are two processes of the company related to the regularisation of Covaxin in Brazil- an application for authorisation for emergency use and a protocol for conducting clinical research in that country. Based on the communication made by Bharat Biotech, Anvisa will reassess the processes underway at the Agency and adopt the relevant measures," Brazil's health regulator said, as quoted by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-went-wrong-in-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-deal-with-brazil-all-you-need-to-know-101627119810764.html
24-07-2021||India||4 men held in Uttarakhand’s Almora after locals accuse them of ‘love jihad’||Four Muslim men were arrested after locals at Bagwalipokhar in Uttarakhand’s Almora found them with a Hindu girl at a restaurant on Friday, a police officer said.The officer said the four aged between 19 and 27 are residents of Haridwar and Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. He added one of the four befriended the girl through social media a few months ago. “He along with the other three friends came to Bagwalipokhar area on Friday evening to meet the girl. ...he called the girl to a local restaurant where its owner, after seeing them, informed the locals...,” said the police officer.The officer added the locals arrived at the restaurant and accused the four of “love jihad”, the term some Hindu groups use to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. The groups use the term to describe what they believe is an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriage. The officer said the locals and some Hindu groups informed the girl’s father, who told them that the four allegedly lured his daughter to abduct her. He added the four were taken to a local police station, where the father lodged a complaint.Ajay Lal Shah, a local police officer, said they booked the four for “abduction and molestation” and also under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The four were due to be produced before a local court on Saturday, said Shah.Earlier on Wednesday, communal tension erupted in Uttarakhand after some Muslim labourers were accused of offering namaz at the Badrinath temple premises in a social media post that went viral. Police booked the 15 and their contractor, who worked about a kilometre away from the temple for gathering at one place in violation of Covid-19 protocols. In their primary investigation, police said they did not find any evidence that they offered namaz on Badrinath temple premises. No arrest has been made so far in the case and police were carrying a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-men-held-in-uttarakhand-s-almora-after-locals-accuse-them-of-love-jihad-101627117213865.html
24-07-2021||India||PM Modi wishes Olympic silver medalist Mirabai Chanu, says 'could not have asked for a happier start'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that the entire country is elated at weightlifter Mirabai Chanu's achievement, who won a silver medal in the 49kg category at the Tokyo Olympics. This marked an end to India's 21-year wait for a weightlifting medal at the Olympics.Chanu, 26, lifted a total of 202kg (87kg and 115kg) to better Karnam Malleswari's bronze in the 2000 Sydney Olympics and opened India's account in Tokyo.While China secured the gold medal with Hou Zhihui's victory target of 210kg (94kg and 116kg), Aisah Windy Cantika of Indonesia took home the bronze with an effort of 194kg (84kg and 110kg).PM Modi said on Twitter that Chanu's feat will inspire the future generations."Could not have asked for a happier start to @Tokyo2020! India is elated by @mirabai_chanu's stupendous performance. Congratulations to her for winning the Silver medal in weightlifting. Her success motivates every Indian. #Cheer4India #Tokyo2020," the prime minister tweeted.Sports Minister Anurag Thakur and his predecessor Kiren Rijiju too congratulated the weightlifter for bagging a medal for India on the first day of the competitions here."India's 1st medal on day 1 ! @mirabai_chanu wins SILVER in women's 49kg weightlifting! India is so proud of you Mira !," Thakur wrote on his twitter handle.Former sports minister Rijiju said: "India strikes first medal at Olympic #Tokyo2020 Mirabai Chanu wins silver Medal in 49 kg Women's Weightlifting and made India proud Congratulations @mirabai_chanu! #Cheer4India."Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also wished Chanu in a tweet and said, "Congratulations to #MirabaiChanu for our country’s first medal on the very first day. India is proud of her daughter."Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also took to Twitter to wish the silver medallist and said, "Congratulations to @mirabai_chanu for winning silver medal in weight lifting. This is first medal for India in Tokyo Olympics. Every Indian is proud of you."India's lone Olympic gold medallist and former shooter Abhinav Bindra too took to the social networking platform to wish Mirabai."Many many Congratulations to @mirabai_chanu on winning India’s first medal at #Tokyo2020. Such An inspiring performance that will be remembered for a long time to come and will inspire generations. Well done."Cricket stars including batting legend Sachin Tendulkar, Virender Sehwag, VVS Laxman and Gautam Gambhir, also were not left behind as they congratulated the Manipuri lifter for her success."MIRABAI CHANU! Absolutely amazing display of weightlifting. The way you have transformed yourself after your injury and clinched a historic silver for #TeamIndia is absolutely stupendous," Tendulkar tweeted."Ghazab. Bhartiya Naari Sab par Bhaari. #MirabaiChanu , remember the name. Thank you for making us all proud @mirabai_chanu, and winning us a Silver at the Olympics. Many more to come. #Tokyo2020," wrote Sehwag, known for his witty tweets."Congratulations #MirabaiChanu on making us proud and bringing us glory. Our first medal at the #TokyoOlympics2020 , a Second place medal in the Women's 49kg weightlifting . Super Proud," Laxman said.Gambhir added: 1.3 billion Indians proud of #MirabaiChanu! जय हिंद."Olympic medallist wrestler Sakshi Malik and double Commonwealth Games gold medallist lifter Satish Shivalingam too were effusive their praises for Mirabai's feat."Mirabai Chanu wins silver Medal in 49 kg Women's Weightlifting and made India proudFlag of India Congratulations @mirabai_chanu! #Cheer4India #Tokyo2020," Sakshi wrote on her twitter page.Shivalingam said he got emotional while watching Mirabai creating history in Tokyo."History create ho gaya. Itna aasan nahi hota (History has been created. It was not easy), it is a very very big thing. I had tears in my ears. It will be difficult for anyone to emulate this performance," he said.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-olympic-silver-medalist-mirabai-chanu-says-could-not-have-asked-for-a-happier-start-101627112524806.html
24-07-2021||India||Trinamool Congress nominates ex-Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar to Rajya Sabha||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday nominated former chief executive officer of Prasar Bharati Jawhar Sircar to the Rajya Sabha. In a post from its official Twitter handle, the ruling party in West Bengal announced its decision to nominate Sircar in the Upper House of Parliament."Mr. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service & was also the former CEO of Prasar Bharati," Trinamool noted in its tweet. "His invaluable contribution to public service shall help us serve our country even better!"We are delighted to nominate Mr. @jawharsircar in the Upper House of the Parliament.Mr. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service & was also the former CEO of Prasar Bharati. His invaluable contribution to public service shall help us serve our country even better!The Trinamool's Rajya Sabha seat was left vacant after its former lawmaker Dinesh Trivedi jumped ship to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the West Bengal assembly elections earlier this year. Although there were speculations abound regarding the party's nomination to the Rajya Sabha, the TMC dispelled all rumours on Saturday by nominating Jawhar Sircar for the post.Jawhar Sircar spent more than four decades serving the government in various capacities. After joining the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in 1975, Sircar made a name for himself in tackling issues like communal riots across the districts of Bardhaman and 24 Parganas in West Bengal.Jawhar Sircar was elevated to the Union ministry of culture as the secretary, a post he served till 2012. Following his stint at the culture ministry, Sircar became the CEO of India's public broadcaster, Prasar Bharati, where he served till 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-nominates-ex-prasar-bharati-ceo-jawhar-sircar-to-rajya-sabha-101627114018490.html
24-07-2021||India||Illegal arms license case: CBI launches multiple raids across J&K, Delhi||IRavi Krishnan KhajuriaThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday conducted raids at multiple locations, including premises of bureaucrats, in Jammu and Kashmir, and Delhi in connection with its probe into a case related to illegal issuance of arms licenses.The CBI registered the case in 2018 a year after Rajasthan's Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) unearthed the scam and made arrests in connection the issuance of the licences in violation of norms. According to the ATS, over 3,000 permits were illegally granted allegedly in the name of army personnel.Magistrates in Jammu and Kashmir are accused of issuing the licenses in bulk allegedly based on forged documents to non-residents between 2012 and 2016 "in lieu of monetary consideration", people aware of the matter said.The Jammu and Kashmir Police initially probed the case before it was handed over to the CBI.A CBI spokesman said the agency is conducting searches at around 40 locations in Jammu, Srinagar, Udhampur, Rajouri, Anantnag, Baramulla, Delhi including the official and residential premises of certain public servants including Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Kashmir Administrative Serice Officers. The raids were also being conducted on premises of gun dealers, the spokesman added.People aware of the matter said the CBI has collected documents pertaining to the issuance of armed licences across 22 districts of Jammu and Kashmir.“During investigation and scrutiny of documents, the role of certain gun dealers was found, who in connivance with the public servants...allegedly issued such illegal arms licenses to the ineligible persons. It was also alleged that the persons who got these licenses were not residents of the places from where the arms licenses were issued. The investigation is continuing,” the spokesman said.IAS officer Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said his official residence in Srinagar was also searched on Saturday. “With reference to media reports I’ve to confirm that CBI did search my residence & found nothing incriminating in ongoing arms license probe. Media friends may note the probe covers 4 years across all districts. I am fully answerable to CBI for my tenure. Stats from my tenure are below” he tweeted while citing the number of arms licences issued by him as deputy magistrate of Reasi, Udhampur, and Kathua between 2012 and 2016.The CBI in December 2019 carried out searches at over a dozen locations in Srinagar, Jammu, Gurgaon, and Noida in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-arms-license-case-cbi-launches-multiple-raids-across-j-k-delhi-101627114273700.html
24-07-2021||India||Vaccinated for Covid a month ago, Taliye’s hope of recovery buried in landslide||A small hamlet in Sahyadris, Maharashtra's Taliye was looking at life with hope after most villagers were vaccinated against Covid-19 last month but little did they know that another calamity in the form of a landslide following heavy rains will flatten their homes and crush the dreams of a recovery under the slush deposited in the village.According to local administration, there are around 42 houses in the village and most were buried under the soil after a portion of the nearby hillock gave away on Thursday evening. The locals, with the help from a team of National Disaster Response Force and police have so far pulled out 36 bodies with around 50 still missing.A nine month old and another eleven month old infant are among those missing. Theirs mothers, according to Sunetra Pawase, a nurse working at local preliminary health centre, were found dead during the search and rescue operation.“The entire village was vaccinated last month. We have done two deliveries in this village. A nine month and one eleven month infant are still missing. I have seen all the small children from the village. There was a small girl in this village who used to come with me while I would visit the village. Yesterday I saw her dead, lying on her stomach which is very painful,” said Pawase.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will be visiting the landslide affected Taliye village on Saturday afternoon.Earlier on Friday, Thackeray asked people to move to safer locations to protect against heavy rains lashing the region.“The Taliye incident is unfortunate. There are landslides reports in other parts of the state and my appeal to everyone is to stay safe. Those living in risky terrain should move at safer places,” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinated-against-covid-a-month-ago-taliye-s-hope-of-recovery-buried-in-landslide-101627113554219.html
24-07-2021||India||'Vacate carbon space', India urges G20 nations with high greenhouse gas emission||India has urged the group of 20 developed nations (G20) with per capita greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions above the world average to reduce the levels which will support the developmental aspirations of the developing nations.The request was conveyed by Union minister of power and new and renewable energy, R K Singh, at G20 energy and climate joint ministerial meeting 2021 on Friday. The minister addressed the meeting virtually."The Minister concluded with a vote of thanks and urged those G20 nations which have per capita GHG emissions above the world average to reduce their per capita GHG emissions and bring them down to the world average over the next few years which will vacate the carbon space to some extent and support the developmental aspirations of the developing nations," the government said in a release.Singh encouraged the G20 nations to take immediate steps in this direction so that the world community stays on the right track to leave a better planet for our future generations.Singh apprised the delegates from the G20 countries of the significant progress made by India in meeting its Nationally-Determined Contribution (NDC) targets while staying committed to meeting its climate goals under the Paris Agreement.The Union minister also said that India has already achieved 38.5 per cent installed capacity from renewables and when the renewable capacity under construction is also accounted for, the share of renewables in the installed capacity goes well over 48%, which is way above the commitments made under the Paris Agreement.Meanwhile, energy and environment ministers from G20 nations failed to agree on the wording of a key climate change commitment in their final communique, Italy's ecological transition minister Roberto Cingolani said on Friday.The failure to agree to common language ahead of that gathering will be seen as setback to hopes of securing a meaningful accord in Scotland.The G20 meeting was seen as a decisive step ahead of United Nations climate talks, known as COP26, which takes place in 100 days' time in Glasgow in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vacate-carbon-space-india-urges-g20-nations-with-high-greenhouse-gas-emission-101627112479782.html
24-07-2021||India||Hopes of finding survivors in landslide-hit Maharashtra villages fade||The hopes of finding survivors in Maharashtra’s Taliye, where a portion of a hillock flattened most of the village late on Thursday and buried at least 32 houses, were fading away as the rescue operation was stalled due to heavy rain on Saturday. Loose mud prevented National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from resuming digging to look for around 50 residents, who remain missing. Locals said the rescue operation was progressing slowly due to bad weather and difficult terrain earlier even as 36 bodies were pulled from debris until Friday evening.Sandhya Malusare, who lost her mother, father, and six other relatives, said she survived since she lives in a neighbouring village. “This is the biggest tragedy of my life and I have lost many of my family members. ...the administration is very slow in carrying out the rescue and search operations.” Mahendra Pol, a resident, said the locals do not have the wherewithal to carry out the evacuation, search and rescue operations. “Fortunately, my family members were saved...but others were unlucky. Yesterday (Friday) and the day before (Thursday), there was a slow rescue process while today (Saturday) it has not even started properly.” Taliye is one of the hardest-hit areas in Maharashtra, where the toll from landslides and flooding went up to 138 on Saturday while 90,000 people have been evacuated from seven districts in the aftermath of heavy rain this week.The locals said they have been left to fend for themselves. “Even police are helpless, and many villagers are missing. The government is not sensitive. Police are also at a distance and not visiting the spot. The rescue operation has been delayed and the government officials are insensitive to our pain and anguish. Whatever bodies have been recovered was due to the efforts of locals,” said a resident.The NDRF said they were facing issues related to access and logistics. “...three teams of 25 persons are carrying out search operations. ...the area is waterlogged and very remote. Approach and access to the village are tough and difficult. It is a mud hillock and since we are working, there is a risk of the mudslide. So, we are working very carefully to avoid another tragedy,” said NDRF commandant Anupam Shrivastava.Collector Nidhi Choudhari said the additional collector, three tehsildars and NDRF is carrying out operations at the spot. “It involves a tough terrain as it (the village) is surrounded by Valleys from both sides. The road to the village was washed away. It is nature’s fury and unimaginable for us. There were access issues yesterday (Friday) and we had to clear the landslide debris to reach the village. The challenge is that we have to trace the bodies.”Choudhari said the district has nine extremely landslide-prone and 80 mild landslide villages. “This village (Taliye) is not among them. We have conducted the geological survey of the district and the village does figure on the landslide-prone village. We conduct studies to find out the vulnerable villages and plan accordingly to make life safe for the villagers as part of our disaster management preparedness.”The opposition parties have also criticised the government over the slow rescue operation.Bharatiya Janata Party leader Pravin Darekar said around 40-50 persons are still missing, and the administration has failed to respond to the situation. “Heavy rainfall, waterlogging, and disrupted connectivity are hampering the operations in the village. The tragedy must be viewed seriously by the state and the administration must ensure timely relief and evacuation of the victims .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hopes-of-finding-survivors-in-landslide-hit-maharashtra-villages-fade-101627111873712.html
24-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnataka permits worship places to reopen from Sunday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Karnataka allows places of worship to reopen, processions still bannedThe Karnataka government on Saturday gave further relaxations in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs, allowing places of worship to open from Sunday. However, these establishments will have to strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour and Standard Operating Prcedures (SOPs) issued by the concerned departments, an order from the state government said. Read moreCovaxin for kids: Covid-19 vaccine trial results may be out by September, says AIIMS chiefBharat Biotech's Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine trials for children are currently underway and its results are likely to be out by September, said Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Read moreThackeray to visit flood-affected Mahad, Taliye; over 100 killed, 90,000 rescuedMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday will visit the flood-affected area Mahad by helicopter from Mumbai. He will also visit Taliye village where 40 houses were buried due to landslide. Read moreTokyo Olympics 2020: Weightlifter Mirabai Chanu wins silver medal in women's 49kg categoryMirabai Chanu on Saturday won a silver medal in the women's 49 kg weightlifting competition to open India's counter at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. The Manipur athlete lifted a total weight of 202 kgs to win the medal. Read moreWATCH: Why Tokyo 2020 may be India's best Olympics everMasaba Gupta reveals 'one thing' she came to know only after mom Neena Gupta's book was releasedFashion designer-actor Masaba Gupta has revealed the 'one thing' she wasn't aware of until her mother actor Neena Gupta's autobiography Sach Kahun Toh was released. Taking to Instagram on Friday, Masaba conducted an Ask Me Anything session. Read moreOla Electric scooter customers to get 'Hypercharger' support in 400 citiesOla Electric scooter customers will get charging support from its Hypercharger setup installed in 400 Indian cities with over 100,000 locations/touchpoints. Read moreRanveer Singh experiments with retro fashion in Gucci’s ₹2.7 lakh tracksuitGucci and Ranveer Singh have become synonyms in Tinsel town and the recent set of pictures of v’s live wire are enough to back our claim. After triggering a meme fest with his snazziest look where he channelled actor Jared Leto and Gucci's creative director Alessandro Michele, Ranveer left fans gushing over his dapper form in a block pattern sweatshirt and shades from the Italian fashion brand and is now back to raising the bar of men’s fashion goals in tracksuit style. Read moreNeena Gupta posts video of herself eating at a restaurant, it’s highly relatableA post shared by actor Neena Gupta about visiting a restaurant has now created a chatter online. If you are someone who misses eating out, then there is a high possibility you will relate to her reaction while visiting an eatery. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnataka-permits-worship-places-to-reopen-from-sunday-and-all-the-latest-news-101627108787004.html
24-07-2021||India||TMC MP not the 1st to get suspended for remainder of Parliament session||Trinamool Congress parliamentarian Shantanu Sen’s suspension from Rajya Sabha for the remaining duration of the monsoon session is being hotly debated politically. While according to the Rules of procedure and conduct of business in Lok Sabha, the speaker is empowered to suspend a member from the house if he considers his or her conduct “grossly disorderly” or if the member “disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the House by persistently and wilfully obstructing the business,” however, in Sen’s case, chairman Venkaiah Naidu ruled in favour of the suspension motion moved by the ruling party MP and minister of state for parliamentary affairs V Muralidharan. This was then passed by voice vote.Sen’s suspension was sought under Rule 256, which says a lawmaker, who “disregards the authority of the Chair or abuses the rules of the Council” through “wilful” disruptions can be suspended for the remaining session if the Rajya Sabha chairman “deems it necessary”.Here’s a look at some other instances of MPs facing this censure:Delhi Riots: Following the Delhi riots of 2020, seven Congress MPs were suspended for “unruly behavior.” These included Raj Mohan Unnithan, TN Prathapan, Dean Kuriakose, Benny Behanan, Manickam Tagore, Gaurav Gogoi and Gurjeet Singh Aujla. They had forcefully snatched papers from other lawmakers during the Budget Session of the Parliament.Farm laws: A ruckus over farm laws, which the Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu described as “unruly behavior” and an “insult to the deputy chairman,” eight opposition MPs including Congress’ Rajeev Satav, Syed Naseer Hussain and Ripun Bora, AAP’s Sanjay Singh, CPI(M)’s KK Rajesh and Elamaram Kareem, and TMC’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen were suspended in September last through a motion against “bringing disrepute” to the House, approved through a voice vote.Singh was suspended earlier as well in February for “sloganeering” against the same laws.Sabarimala, Cauvery River, and special status to Andhra Pradesh: In January 2019, nearly 45 members from parties including AIADMK, TDP, and Congress were suspended following in-house protests over a proposed dam on river Cauvery, special state status to Andhra Pradesh and the Sabarimala issue respectively. They were suspended by Speaker Sumitra Mahajan on the pretext of “wilfully obstructing the proceedings of the House.”Protests over Telangana: 18 MPs were suspended following a ruckus over the creation of the separate state of Telangana in February 2014. Congress leader L Rajagopal then resorted to using a pepper spray in the house while another member M Venugopala Reddy smashed a mike.Price Rise: 7 MPs were suspended in March 2010 when the government took up the Women’s Reservation Bill in the Rajya Sabha. Lalu Prasad Yadav along with members from Rashtriya Janata Dal, Samajwadi Party, and Janata Dal (U) sloganeering in the house calling the introduction of the then women reservation bill as a “tactic to divert attention from the issue of price rise.” Except for Yadav, rest of the MPs were suspended for showing total “disregard for the dignity of Council”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-not-the-1st-to-get-suspended-for-remainder-of-parliament-session-101627111153678.html
24-07-2021||India||5 Tamil Nadu districts bordering Western Ghats may get rain today||Five districts in Tamil Nadu bordering the Western Ghats will receive rain on Saturday, the Regional Meteorological Centre in Chennai predicted. Tamil newspaper Dinamalar cited RMC’s director Puviarasan as saying that these districts will get rain due to southwest monsoon turning intense in the Western Ghats.The heavy rain in the Nilgiris and Coimbatore will continue on Saturday. These two districts received heavy to very heavy rain last week. Avilanji, Naduvattam, and Upper Bhavani in the region received 16, 14, and 13 centimetres of rain respectively. Theni, Kanyakumari, Perambalur, Salem, and Tirunelveli districts as well as Chennai city recorded rainfall by Friday.Theni, Dindigul and Tenkasi bordering the Western Ghats will also witness showers on Saturday, the weather forecast said. The coastal districts of northern Tamil Nadu will receive sporadic rainfall while the rest of the state will see dry weather on Saturday, it added.Chennai and its suburbs will see cloudy weather and scattered rainfall is likely in some places in the city. Heavy winds are likely in coastal Tamil Nadu, Gulf of Mannar, coastal Andhra Pradesh and south and central Bay of Bengal areas where the wind speed is likely to cross 50 kilometres per hour. The fishermen have been warned not to venture into these areas for fishing.Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government sanctioned ₹12 crore to take out preparatory works for the northeast monsoon, which may set in after October. Every year, districts like Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, and Cuddalore are the worst affected during the northeast monsoon. The channels and waterways in these districts are repaired every year so that the rainwater is drained into the sea. Last year, the government carried out monsoon-related works for the cost of ₹9.5 crore.Officials of the irrigation department said that they are preparing a Detailed Project Report for these works and the government order sanctioning fund allocation will follow shortly. The works will commence after the fund allocation, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-tamil-nadu-districts-bordering-western-ghats-may-get-rain-today-101627109645127.html
24-07-2021||India||'Alliance with Samajwadi Party possible if...': Owaisi's AIMIM drops a hint||As Uttar Pradesh assembly elections come closer, the political landscape in the state is witnessing fast-paced developments. Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has now put forward a condition for alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP). The AIMIM is currently a part of Om Prakash Rajbhar-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha which has smaller parties like Bharatiya Vanchit Samaj Party, Bhartiya Manav Samaj Party, Janata Kranti Party (R) and Rashtra Uday Party as constituents.The chief of Uttar Pradesh unit of AIMIM told Hindustan Times' Hindi-language sister publication Hindustan that if SP agrees to make a Muslim MLA from the Morcha deputy chief minister, it is ready for an alliance with Akhilesh Yadav's party. Shaukat Ali also said that Owaisi will visit Uttar Pradesh in August, Hindustan reported.Owaisi visited Bahraich and other areas of Uttar Pradesh earlier this month, and inaugurated a new party office for the state.Hindustan reported that Owaisi is expected to visit Prayagraj, Fatehpur and Kaushambi during his August visit. He is likely to hold meetings with Muslims, Dalits, backward class people and professionals like doctors and engineers.Shaukat Ali further said that the AIMIM has created an organisational structure in Uttar Pradesh, according to Hindustan. All 75 districts have party units and respective chiefs, added Ali. He said that if Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has to be stopped, the Bhagidari Morcha will have to fight assembly elections along with SP ad Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). This will help consolidate the 20% Muslim votes in the state, Ali was quoted as saying by Hindustan.The AIMIM leader ruled out an alliance with the Congress, which he called a "sinking ship". And the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has no base in Uttar Pradesh, he added.Owaisi had earlier announced that AIMIM will contest 100 seats in Uttar Pradesh polls. The AIMIM chief made a challenge last month that he won't let the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) return to power in Uttar Pradesh. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath accepted the challenge and said his party will form government in the state after winning "more than 300 seats".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alliance-with-samajwadi-party-possible-if-owaisi-s-aimim-drops-a-hint-101627109656736.html
24-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu aims to use CSR funding to administer free Covid-19 vaccines at private hospitals||Tamil Nadu government is planning to utilise the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds of various companies in the state to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to people at private hospitals, reported Tamil newspaper Dina Thanthi on Saturday. The state's health minister Ma Subramanian, after presiding over the coordination meeting on vaccination, told media persons that Tamil Nadu has been allotted 72 lakh vaccine doses for the month of July.The state government is planning to provide free vaccination in private hospitals too. To enable such an initiative, the vaccination at the private hospitals will be brought under CSR funding. The vaccines allotted to the private hospitals will be administered free to the people and the CSR funding will be used to bear the cost of the vaccines, the minister said.The private hospitals in Tamil Nadu have received 18,70,520 vaccine doses so far. Out of this, the private hospitals administered 13,31,613 vaccine doses and 5,38,907 doses are still in stock at the hospitals. The state government will publish the CSR funding details of the vaccines online, Subramanian mentioned.Elaborating further on the vaccination in the state, Subramanian said that they are now planning to vaccinate all the tribal communities in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts like the state government vaccinated the tribal people in the Nilgiris district earlier. All the hill villages of Tamil Nadu will be covered under the free vaccination. The government never forces anyone on compulsory vaccination but the people are sensitized on the importance of vaccination to fight Covid-19, he said.Subramanian also ruled out any deaths in the state due to oxygen shortage after the DMK government took charge. During the AIADMK rule, the state witnessed 13 people dying in the Chengalpattu district due to oxygen shortage, and the chief Minister then communicated the same to the Prime Minister. The four deaths in Vellore hospital and two deaths at Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital at Chennai were due to technical snags in oxygen supply and not due to oxygen shortage, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-aims-to-use-csr-funding-to-administer-free-covid-19-vaccines-at-private-hospitals-101627107628597.html
24-07-2021||India||Maharashtra floods: 38 dead, around 90,000 evacuated||The toll from landslides and flooding in Maharashtra went up to 138 on Saturday while 90,000 people have been evacuated from seven districts in the aftermath of heavy rain this week, officials said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was due to visit Raigad’s Taliye, one of the hardest-hit areas, where a portion of a hillock flattened most of the village late on Thursday. At least 32 houses were buried and, as on Friday evening, 36 bodies were pulled out from the debris. Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Raigad, and Thane. districts have been the hardest hit. The bulk of the people were shifted from Sangli and Kolhapur districts — 42,573 and 40,882.In all 89,333 people have been evacuated to safer places following floods. Officials said at least 59 people were still missing.“Till date, 138 deaths have been reported due to floods and other rain-related incidents including landslides at multiple locations,” said Vijay Wadettiwar, state relief, and rehabilitation minister. Rivers in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, including the Panchganga, have breached the danger mark and have inundated many areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-floods-38-dead-around-90-000-evacuated-101627109173560.html
24-07-2021||India||Landslides at several places in the Nilgiris, dams in Western Tamil Nadu swelling up due to rains||Incessant rains in the Nilgiris district for more than ten days resulted in landslides at many places. The dams in the Western Tamil Nadu are filling to the brim, reported Tamil daily Dinakaran on Saturday. The Nilgiris district has been receiving heavy to very heavy rains with thunderstorms for the last two days. The catchment areas like Avilanji, Upper Bhavani, and Ooty suburban areas are receiving incessant rains. Avilanji recorded 16 centimeters of rainfall while Naduvattam recorded 14 centimeters of rainfall on Friday. Farmlands at Kappathorai, Muthorai Palada, and Nanjanad areas are flooded destroying more than 50 acres of crops.A tree fall at Kundapalam Ramaiah Bridge affected traffic in Manjoor and Ooty road for several hours. Landslides were reported in Rosemount, Nondimedu and local people are scared of more landslides if the heavy rains continue to lash the Nilgiris district.Meanwhile, the torrential rainfall around the Mettupalayam area of Coimbatore district resulted in the Pillur dam filling to the brim. The excess water from the dam is released into the Bhavani river causing the flooding of low-lying areas along the river. Noyyal, a tributary of River Cauvery, flowing in the Western Tamil Nadu is also flooded due to the rains in catchment areas.As these rivers are in spate, the Coimbatore district administration has issued a flood warning to people living near the river beds. Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district, another important water source of Western Tamil Nadu, has reached 98 feet out of its capacity of 120 feet. Anticipating further rains and a sudden surge of inflow, the Public Works Department has warned people residing along the channels to migrate to safer places. The National Disaster Response Force from Ranipet was rushed to Coimbatore and the Nilgiris district to carry out disaster mitigation works.The discharge from Kabini dam in Karnataka has increased to 30,000 cubic feet per second due to heavy rains in Karnataka’s Kodagu district. Another 6000 cubic feet per second of water is released from Karnataka’s Krishnaraja Sagar dam. The water is expected to reach the Mettur dam in Salem district on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslides-at-several-places-in-the-nilgiris-dams-in-western-tamil-nadu-swelling-up-due-to-rains-101627107807258.html
24-07-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir man arrested 25 yrs after he was booked in arms case||A 50-year-old man has been arrested from Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla 25 years after he was booked and declared an absconder under the Arms Act over four grenades allegedly recovered from his possession, police said on Friday. “In continuation to stringent actions against absconders, Baramulla Police have arrested an absconder who was evading his arrest since 1997,” the police said in a statement.The man has been identified as Bashir Ahmad Lone, who was produced before a court and sent to jail. The statement said the case was registered against him and another person in February 1997 over the recovery of the grenades. It added during the trial, the accused was declared an absconder.Deputy police superintendent (Baramulla) Syed Sajjad Bukhari said Lone was arrested initially in 1997 and got bail. “During the trial, he went absconding and police have been looking for him,” he said. “This is an old case, and police have to look for records about the other person involved in the case. If he too is absconding, then he will also be arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-man-arrested-25-yrs-after-he-was-booked-in-arms-case-101627107913424.html
24-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka allows places of worship to reopen, processions still banned||The Karnataka government on Saturday gave further relaxations in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs, allowing places of worship to open from Sunday. However, these establishments will have to strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the concerned departments, an order from the state government said.The order, however, prevents jathres, temple festivals, processions and congregations."Places of worship (Temples, Mosques, Churches, Gurudwaras, and other religious places) are allowed to open and related activities pertaining to the places of worship are permitted from 25-07-2021 strictly adhering to COVID 19 appropriate behaviour and SOP issued by the concerned department. However, jathres, temple festivals, processions, congregations not allowed," the order signed by N Manjunatha Prasad, Principal Secretary to government (Revenue Department) said."Amusement Parks and similar places permitted to re-open strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour and following guidelines issued vide circular dated 12.11.2020 by the Health and Family Welfare Department. However, water sports/water related adventure activities not allowed," it further said.The Karnataka government has been giving phase-wise relaxations in Covid-19 curbs since July 5 this year. The night curfew timings were extended and swimming pool allowed to reopen, with the order allowing these establishments to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols.Weddings and family functions are permitted with the presence of not more than 100 people.The government has also allowed cremation and funerals with a maximum of 20 people, while public transport is allowed to operate up to its seating capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-karnataka-allows-places-of-worship-to-reopen-processions-still-banned-101627107078634.html
24-07-2021||India||Thackeray to visit flood-affected Mahad, Taliye; over 100 killed, 90,000 rescued||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday will visit the flood-affected area Mahad by helicopter from Mumbai. He will also visit Taliye village where 40 houses were buried due to landslide.So far, at least 138 people have been killed and 89,333 have been displaced in Maharashtra in monsoon-related accidents after heavy rains lashed the state and triggered landslides, state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said.The Maharashtra government has roped in Indian army and navy to assist in ongoing rescue operations in flood-hit areas.The worsening situation due to floods has pushed the death toll to the highest in recent years and close to 90,000 people have been evacuated from seven districts in the relief and rescue operations started by the Maharashtra government. The affected districts include Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Raigad and Thane. Maximum people were shifted from Sangli and Kolhapur districts - 42,573 and 40,882 respectively - the state relief and rehabilitation department data showed."At one location, rescue operation still continues. According to officials and staff present at the spot, around 50 more people are feared trapped under the debris," Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhary told news agency ANI.The India Air Force has deployed one C-17 Globemaster, two C-130 Super Hercules to ferry 170 personnel and 21 tonnes of load for Natural Disaster Relief Forces from Bhubaneswar to Pune, Ratnagiri and Goa in preparation for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, reported news agency ANI.At least seven naval flood rescue teams from Mumbai have been deployed to Ratnagiri and Raigad districts. One Sea-king 42C Helicopter from Mumbai deployed for aerial reconnaissance at Poladpur and Raigad, and one ALH helo from Goa positioned at Ratnagiri for relief and rescue operations.The Western Naval Command of the Indian navy has mobilised resources to provide assistance to state and district administrations of affected areas in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa that are reeling under flooding of both urban and rural areas due to incessant rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-to-visit-flood-affected-mahad-taliye-over-100-killed-90-000-rescued-101627104947827.html
24-07-2021||India||Covaxin for kids: Covid-19 vaccine trial results may be out by September, says AIIMS chief||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine trials for children are currently underway and its results are likely to be out by September, said Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Last month, the AIIMS director told a Delhi-based news organisation that Covaxin shots might be available for children by September."The vaccines for children should come out now because trials in India are already there in the vaccines which are available in India, Bharat Biotech trial is in the final phase by September, we will have the data," news agency ANI quoted Dr Guleria as saying on Friday.Reports said on Monday that the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company will administer its indigenous anti-Covid shot to children in the age group of 2-6 as part of its vaccination trials for kids.In view of a probable third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, vaccination trials on children have been underway in the country. Besides Covaxin, Gujarat-based Zydus Cadila is also testing its anti-Covid shot for children.Vaccine trials for kids are conducted by dividing them into different categories on the basis of their age, with 175 participants from each age group included. Once every participant has been injected with a second dose, an interim report is expected by the end of August. On the basis of this interim trial report, a decision will be taken if the vaccine is safe to be used on children.Covaxin, along with Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila's three-dose shot, ZyCov-D, are the two vaccines that experts believe will be cleared for children in the near future. While Covaxin is already being used in the nationwide vaccination drive, Zydus Cadila on July 1 applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of its vaccine candidate for those aged 12 and above."Zydus Cadila vaccine has also included children and their data is already there. They have already applied for the emergency use authorisation," Guleria said.Government officials, however, have repeatedly said that "more data" is required before an anti-Covid vaccine can be made available for children.India has administered as many as 42.78 crore vaccines so far, as of 9am on Saturday. Of these shots, more than 40% have been provided to people in the age group of 18-44 years, 34.1% have been administered to 45-60 year-olds, and 25.4% to those above 60 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-for-kids-covid-19-vaccine-trial-results-may-be-out-by-september-says-aiims-chief-101627101261851.html
24-07-2021||India||Will you need Covid-19 vaccine booster shot? AIIMS chief answers||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria has said India might have to adopt a booster dose with second-generation Covid-19 vaccines as the Delta variant of the coronavirus has swept across the world and driven up infections in several countries."It seems that we probably need the booster dose of vaccines as with the passage of time the immunity tends to fall," Dr Guleria said in an interview with ANI. "There is waning immunity. We would like to have a booster dose that will cover for various emerging variants," Guleria said adding that the booster dose will be a second-generation vaccine."We will have second-generation vaccines which would be better in terms of the immunity they give, covering of the new variants and a having a better overall efficacy," Guleria said.Also read | Covaxin booster dose: What is it? What does govt say about this?The Delta variant, which first emerged in India and is spreading around the globe, has infected those already fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The spread of the Delta variant has forced some countries to step up their vaccination campaigns and bring back curbs on businesses, activity and travel.Guleria said that trials of booster shots are already on. "You will probably need a booster dose till the end of this year. But that's only once the population is vaccinated, then the next step will be to administer a booster dose," he added.Also read | Is reopening schools in India risky now? What experts, government saidIn India, breakthrough infections or infections after one or two doses of vaccines have also been reported from several parts of the country. The government said earlier this month it will take time to come to a concrete conclusion about the requirement of booster dose while Bharat Biotech is carrying out the trial of its booster shot, which will be the third shot after the two-dose vaccination.Also read | India records 39,097 Covid-19 cases, 546 deaths in 24 hours"Booster dose is in the stage of scientific ideation," Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, the Indian Council of Medical Research, said last month.Bharat Biotech, the makers of Covaxin, got the Drug Controller General of India's nod in April to conduct trials for a third shot, which will be administered as a booster dose. According to reports, the trial is ongoing and the result of the first trial result is likely to be out next and the final one is expected by November. The booster shot might become a yearly thing to keep the immune system to the optimum level.In the US, Pfizer and BioNTech have said that they are developing a Covid-19 booster shot intended to target the Delta variant as concerns rise about the highly transmissible strain.The companies said they are “remaining vigilant” and developing an updated version of the vaccine even though they believe the third shot of their current two-dose mRNA vaccine has the potential to preserve the “highest levels” of protection against all currently known variants, including Delta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-you-need-covid-19-vaccine-booster-shot-aiims-chief-answers-101627104365834.html
24-07-2021||India||Need to curb bogus voting, booth capturing with iron hand: SC||Booth capturing and bogus voting should be dealt with an iron hand, said the Supreme Court on Friday while upholding the conviction of eight persons involved in rioting and causing injuries with firearms outside a polling station in what is now Jharkhand ahead of the 1989 Lok Sabha elections.Directing the eight to surrender forthwith and undergo the remaining sentence of six months, a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “The essence of the electoral system should be to ensure freedom of voters to exercise their free choice. Therefore, any attempt at booth capturing, or bogus voting should be dealt with iron hands because it ultimately affects the rule of law and democracy.”The eight have been found guilty of beating a Bharatiya Janata Party worker after he refused to hand over voter slips to them. They also fired and caused injuries to bystanders.The bench said nobody can be permitted to dilute the right to a free and fair election. It added that in past judgments of the Supreme Court, it is well laid out that election is a mechanism that represents the will of the people, and it is for this reason, democracy, and the free election has been said to be part of the basic structure of the Constitution.“An important part of strengthening democracy and free election is by ensuring secrecy of casting vote,” the bench said, citing the 2013 judgment in Peoples Union of Civil Liberties case which held that freedom of voting is a part of the fundamental right of freedom of expression.“It is observed that in direct elections of Lok Sabha or State Legislature, maintenance of secrecy is a must and is insisted upon all over the world in democracies where direct elections are involved to ensure that a voter casts his vote without any fear or being victimized if his vote is disclosed,” the bench said.The eight accused, Lakshman Singh, Shiv Kumar Singh, Upendra Singh, Vijay Singh, Sanjay Prasad Singh, Rajmani Singh, Ayodhya Prasad Singh, and Ramadhar Singh, approached the top court against an order passed by the Jharkhand high court on October 31, 2018, rejecting their appeals against their conviction. Previously, a trial court in July 1999 held them guilty of rioting and voluntarily causing hurt.The bench noted that the punishment of six months was less. But it did not pass any orders to this effect as the state had not sought enhancement of the prison term. The bench found that the charges against the eight persons were proved by the testimony of witnesses. The witnesses told police and the trial court that the accused came to the booth with an intention “to snatch the voters’ list and bogus voting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-curb-bogus-voting-booth-capturing-with-iron-handsc-101627104613425.html
24-07-2021||India||2 terrorists killed Kashmir forest on Saturday morning, encounter continues||Two terrorists were killed in an early morning joint operation by the army and Jammu and Kashmir police in Shokbaba forests in Bandipora district. The operation began following inputs that a group of terrorists were present in the area and was continuing at the time of writing this report.The Shokbaba forests, which is the site of the latest encounter, is a hiding place for terrorists and was earlier also used for infiltration . This is the third encounter in the last five days.On Friday, two terrorists including a commander were killed in an encounter in north Kashmir’s Sopore village.On Monday top Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Ishfaq Ahmad Dar alias Abu Akram, who deserted the ranks of Jammu and Kashmir Police about four years ago, was among the two militants killed in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.Police said the commander was involved in killing four cops in 2018 in south Kashmir’s Zanipora village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-kashmir-forest-on-saturday-morning-encounter-continues-101627103833266.html
24-07-2021||India||India records 39,097 Covid-19 cases, 546 deaths in 24 hours||India's Covid-19 tally rose marginally on Saturday after at least 39,097 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare data showed. The country also recorded 546 fatalities on Saturday, taking the total death toll to 420,016, the data updated on the health ministry's website at 8am showed. India has reported 31,332,159 cases of coronavirus disease so far, according to government data.Active cases of Covid-19 in the country stood at 408,977 after 3,464 new infections were added to the caseload, accounting for 1.3 per cent of the total cases India has seen since the start of the pandemic. At least 35,087 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total recovered count of people to 30,503,166. The recovery rate in the country was logged at 97.36 per cent, the data showed.Also read | 'Can't be speculated': What health ministry said about Delta and 3rd wave in Lok SabhaBarely two months after the second wave has shown signs of receding significantly, health experts and authorities are on guard for any possible surges. At its peak on May 6, India saw at least 414,188 Covid-19 cases in a span of just 24 hours. However, the cases have dipped from then to settled at one-seventh of what the peak witnessed. Covid-19 cases in the country have now plateaued as India continues to record cases between 30,000 to 50,000 infections for more than 30 days.Experts have criticised people for not following Covid-19 safety protocols, prompting authorities to speculate the arrival of a third wave of infection by the end of next month or by September. Director of India's top hospital All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Dr Randeep Guleria, said on Friday while the coronavirus will not mutate "dramatically" in the forthcoming months, "we cannot predict how it will behave.""Third wave's arrival is a lot dependent on how we behave. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like preventing crowds, and other measures can delay the third wave and severity of the third wave. Thus, it is dependent on human behaviour. We cannot predict that how the virus will behave," the pulmonologist said.Also read | Kerala under complete weekend lockdown, Covid-19 curbs reinforcedA total of 4,27,882,261 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in India so far, of which 4,267,799 were given in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-39-097-covid-19-cases-546-deaths-in-24-hours-101627096533556.html
24-07-2021||India||Soldier dies in mine blast along LoC, PIA marked dummy aeroplane balloon found||A soldier died along the Line of Control (LoC) in Krishna Ghati (KG) sector in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district late Friday after accidentally stepping over a mine during a patrol, said a security officer. During monsoon, anti-personnel mines drift away from their place and pose a threat to soldiers on the LoC.“On the night of 23 Jul 2021, Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was on an Operational duty in Krishna Ghati Sector, District Poonch (J&K). While moving during the duty, Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was critically injured in an accidental mine blast. He was immediately evacuated to the nearest medical facility but later succumbed to his injuries,” the army said in a statement.27-year old Krishna Vaidya was a native of Ghumarwin village in Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh. A press released from the army described him as “a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier”. “The Nation will always remain indebted to him for the supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty.,” the statement said.A PIA marked dummy aeroplane balloon was also recovered near the LoC in KG sector on Friday. However, nothing incriminating was found from it. It was the seventh such aeroplane shaped balloon found in J&K, Punjab and Rajasthan since March this year.On March 30 a similar balloon with the letters PIA written on it was found in Mendhar in Poonch. PIA stands for Pakistan International AirlinesSimilar balloons were found in the Hiranagar area of Kathua on March 9 and in Gharsana, Rajasthan on March 11. On March 16, it was recovered in the Bhalwal area of Jammu and ten days later on March 26, another similar balloon was found at Dera Baba Nanak, Batala in Punjab. Three days later on March 29, it was again recovered in the Kanachak area of Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-dies-in-mine-blast-along-loc-pia-marked-dummy-aeroplane-balloon-found-101627098252823.html
24-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amit Shah to chair meet with northeast states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amit Shah to review Covid situation, other challenges with northeastern statesUnion home minister Amit Shah will review the coronavirus situation in the northeast on Saturday and also discuss several other important issues with chief ministers, chief secretaries and police chiefs of the states in the region, officials said. Read moreHeavy rain to continue over Maharashtra, milk supply to Mumbai affected todayA day after at least 61 people were killed in Maharashtra due to heavy rains, widespread showers accompanied by strong winds have been predicted for the region by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Saturday. Read moreBlinken to discuss ways to ‘deepen’ ties with India during visit, says USThe United States said Friday it expects to discuss ways to “further deepen” bilateral ties, the Quad, Afghanistan and the Covid-19 pandemic during Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s upcoming visit to India starting July 27, which will be his first as the top American diplomat. Read moreAsteroid 3 times the size of Taj Mahal to whizz past Earth. No need to panic, says planetarium officialAn asteroid thrice the size of the Taj Mahal will pass close to Earth and according to Nasa, it will reach its closest approach late on Sunday. The Near-Earth Object, 2008 GO20, will hurtle past Earth at a speed of 8.2 km per second and will be about three to four million kilometres away from our planet. Read moreEveryone was in quarantine for a long time: Dhawan reveals why India fielded five debutants in third ODI against SLCaptain Shikhar Dhawan rued losing too many wickets and the inability to get a good partnership going for his team as India lost the final ODI to Sri Lanka by three wickets. Opting to bat, India started off well, reaching 147/3 before rain interrupted play. Read moreHungama 2 review: Shilpa Shetty, Meezaan, Paresh Rawal’s film is is distressingly datedDirector Priyadarshan, known for his love for crackling comedies, misses the mark with Hungama 2. While there are moments that make us guffaw, the film is marred by a damp squib of an ending. Read moreSara Ali Khan drops steamy Eid look in Manish Malhotra’s pink Chikankari lehengaAt 25 and just three films old, Bollywood actor Sara Ali Khan is taking the Internet by storm with her sartorial looks at red carpets, ethnic events or casual outings and this Eid-ul-Adha was no different. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amit-shah-to-chair-meet-with-northeast-states-and-all-the-latest-news-101627095158220.html
24-07-2021||India||PM Modi hails Lord Buddha on Ashadha Purnima, says teachings can help tackle Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted his fellow Indians on the occasion of Guru Purnima and left a message at the government programme observing the Ashadha Purnima-Dhamma Chakra Day. Hailing Gautam Buddha on this auspicious occasion, PM Modi said that his teachings can guide the country out of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic."At Sarnath, Lord Buddha told his followers about the entire source of life," Prime Minister Modi said while addressing the event. "He told us about sorrow and its reasons. He also assured us that one can win against sorrow, no matter how dire."Prime Minister Modi then said that Lord Buddha's teachings can guide humanity out of the "darkness" of Covid-19. India, he said, is walking the path of Lord Buddha and has joined other countries to tackle the pandemic with joint efforts, sharing each other's strength."Today, as humanity faces a crisis in the form of Covid-19, Lord Buddha has become even more relevant," the Prime Minister said. "India has shown how we can face the greatest of challenges by walking on his path. Countries are joining hands with each other and becoming each other's strength, taking the values of Buddha."आज कोरोना महामारी के रूप में मानवता के सामने वैसा ही संकट है जब भगवान बुद्ध हमारे लिए और भी प्रासंगिक हो जाते हैं।बुद्ध के मार्ग पर चलकर ही बड़ी से बड़ी चुनौती का सामना हम कैसे कर सकते हैं, भारत ने ये करके दिखाया है: PM @narendramodiShortly after the Prime Minister's address, President Ram Nath Kovind also hailed Lord Buddha's guidance in "putting an end to suffering" and his message advocating non-violence."This universal and eternal appeal of Buddism is due to its logical, rational and simple answers to the fundamental problems faced by human beings across time and place," the President of India said, greeting fellow citizens at the Ashadha Purnima - Dhamma Chakra Day programme. Prime Minister Modi had tweeted a day ago requesting citizens to tune in to official government channels for his message at the Ashadha Purnima-Dhamma Chakra Day programme.Also Read | Guru Purnima 2021: Enlightening Gautam Buddha quotes to share on this day"At around 8:30 AM tomorrow, 24th July, will be sharing my message at the Ashadha Purnima-Dhamma Chakra Day programme," the Prime Minister posted from his official Twitter handle on Friday.Guru Purnima, a festival dedicated to all academic and spiritual gurus (teachers), is being celebrated on July 24 this year. The occasion is usually marked on a full moon day (Purnima) in the Hindu month of Ashadha, which is from June to July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hails-lord-buddha-on-ashadha-purnima-says-teachings-can-help-tackle-covid19-101627093978642.html
24-07-2021||India||Assam: 40 children and two adults trafficked to Sikkim, rescued||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday that his government will focus on ending human trafficking apart from drugs and cattle trafficking. Sarma was interacting with a group of about 40 children and two adults that were recently rescued by the Assam Police after they were trafficked to Sikkim, officials said. “We cannot tolerate childhood, the most promising period of one’s life, being snatched away. We cannot allow exploitation of children either. I hail Assam Police for recovering 40 children and two adults from the child traffickers,” Sarma said. He said the state government will adopt a policy for rehabilitation of trafficked children. Sarma said at least 107 children and women from Assam, trafficked to different parts of the country, have been rescued in the past two months. Of the 40 children, 16 are girls and 24 are boys and two adults are women. Police said efforts were on to recover more trafficked children and apprehend the human trafficking racket. 80 children were trafficked from four villages in the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) along the Indo-Bhutan border in Assam. Police used its intelligence network to establish the presence of 42 of these trafficked persons in Sikkim. They were rescued with the help of Sikkim Police and brought back to Assam. The government would first hand over the children to their parents and with their consent, they will be sent to residential schools. The government will also seek Child Welfare Committee’s (CWC) recommendations in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-40-children-and-two-adults-trafficked-to-sikkim-rescued-101627096332502.html
24-07-2021||India||Amit Shah to review Covid situation, other challenges with northeastern states||Union home minister Amit Shah will review the coronavirus situation in the northeast on Saturday and also discuss several other important issues with chief ministers, chief secretaries and police chiefs of the states in the region, officials said. Apart from states’ handling of the pandemic with special focus on vaccination, Shah is likely to discuss the overall law and order scenario, economic challenges, special projects and schemes apart from interstate conflicts.Shah will also chair a meeting of the North Eastern Council (NEC), which will see top officials from the DoNER (Development of North Eastern Region) ministry, besides other linked departments, participate to give inputs and receive feedback to the NE states.An official of the host state of Meghalaya said on condition of anonymity that it will draw Centre’s attention to numerous issues facing the state.“Militancy, law and order, border disputes, development issues, drug trafficking and Covid issues will be the core issues to be placed forward by the government … we are hopeful of a positive outcome,” the official said.Shah will first inaugurate the multipurpose conference center and exhibition facility at the North Eastern Space Application Centre (NESAC) in Umiam, Ri Bhoi District, then proceed to inaugurate the Interstate Bus Terminal at Mawiong before entering Shillong and wind up the inauguration spree by attending the inaugural ceremony of the Cryogenic Oxygen Plant and Paediatric Ward at Umsawli in the suburbs of the state, sometimes also referred to as the Scotland of the East.The next day, Shah will participate in a tree plantation drive organised by Assam Rifles, play tribute to Swami Vivekananda at the world acclaimed Ramakrishna Mission at Sohra and inaugurate the Greater Sohra Water Supply Scheme at Cherrapunjee before returning to Guwahati.In between the announced itinerary, the home minister will also meet civil society groups to discuss their various demands, especially those linked to the boundary issue and ILP (Inner Line Permit). He will also meet party workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-review-covid-situation-other-challenges-with-northeastern-states-101627095072332.html
24-07-2021||India||Blinken to discuss ways to ‘deepen’ ties with India during visit, says US||The United States said Friday it expects to discuss ways to “further deepen” bilateral ties, the Quad, Afghanistan and the Covid-19 pandemic during Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s upcoming visit to India starting July 27, which will be his first as the top American diplomat.On July 28, Blinken will have meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. He leaves for Kuwait later in the day. Blinken previously visited India as deputy secretary of state in the Barack Obama administration in 2015.“We expect the discussions to focus on ways to further deepen our bilateral partnership, which is very broad in scope, as well as increased convergence on regional and global issues,” acting assistant secretary of state for south and central Asia Dean Thompson told reporters, previewing Blinken’s visit.On bilateral issues, the US expects the discussions to be focussed on “expanding our security, defense, cyber, and counterterrorism cooperation,” he said. More of that will be part of the upcoming 2+2 ministerial dialogue between foreign and defence ministers of the two countries later in the year.Afghanistan will figure prominently among regional issues. India is “a critical partner in the region”, Thomson said, adding, “We welcome India’s shared commitment to peace and supporting economic development in Afghanistan”.India has been concerned over the rapid gains made by the Taliban in Afghanistan as United States-led international forces wind up their 20-year-old operations and leave, way ahead of a self-imposed deadline of September 11. The US military has said the pullout is nearly over, at around 92%.Thompson added that discussions with India will be on “how we can work together to realize” the goal of a peaceful and secure Afghanistan and to “find ways to bring the parties together, and continue to pursue a negotiated settlement to end the longstanding war”.Developments in the Indo-Pacific will figure in the secretary’s discussions, the state department official said, underscoring the importance accorded by President Joe Biden to the region by calling a virtual summit of the Quad, comprising Australia, Japan, India and the US, so early in his tenure, in March, just two months after assuming office.“We’re working with India and other friends and partners in the region to advance this shared vision of the Indo-Pacific,” Thompson said, adding, “Importantly, we’ll also discuss our health collaboration to combat Covid-19, including the Quad vaccine partnership that was first announced during President Biden’s Quad summit.”The Quad members had launched a joint initiative at the summit to distribute 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the Indo-Pacific region by the end of 2022, funded by Japan and the US, manufactured by India and distributed by Australia. The rollout has been delayed by India’s own struggles with the second wave of Covid-19 cases.Amongst the most pressing of global challenges the two countries cooperate on, climate change will figure most prominently in secretary Blinken’s conversations on the visit.“The partnership will reinforce our collective efforts to achieve both the goals of the Paris Agreement and our own ambitious 2030 targets for climate action and clean energy,” Thompson said, referring to the US-India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 partnership launched in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blinken-to-discuss-ways-to-deepen-ties-with-india-during-visit-says-us-101627092792221.html
24-07-2021||India||Kerala under complete weekend lockdown, Covid-19 curbs reinforced||Kerala is under a complete weekend lockdown for the entire duration of Saturday and Sunday in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced on Friday that pandemic-related restrictions are being reinforced in Kerala due to an increase in the test positivity rates (TPR) over the last few days. A 'micro-containment system' will also be introduced, Vijayan said, directing the officials to keep up contact tracing and testing along with the vaccination."There will be no relaxations in the curbs as of now," the chief minister of Kerala said in an official press release earlier this week. "The TPR is high in the Malappuram, Kozhikode, and Kasaragod districts. The district administrations should effectively interfere to control the positivity rate."Weekend lockdown: What remains open in Kerala?Under the reinforced Covid-19 lockdown curbs in Kerala, government offices (both central and state) have been asked to function with up to 50 per cent of staff in Category A and B local bodies, and with up to 25 per cent staff in Category C areas.Only essential services have been allowed to operate in Category D areas."The remaining 50% staff in A and B places and 75% in C, and officers from all sectors should be involved in Covid-19 prevention activities," chief minister Vijayan said on Friday while briefing the media. "Since only essential services operate in the D category, the vast majority of employees will be part of the preventive measures."The Kerala government said that the weekend lockdown on July 24 (Saturday) and July 25 (Sunday) will be under the same guidelines issued during the earlier phase of lockdowns on weekends.Micro-containment and vaccinationKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a micro-containment system is being introduced in the state. Local self-government institution (LSGI) categorisation will be carried out on the basis of the seven-day average TPR, while the curbs will be applied according to the existing categorisation in the state.Vijayan said that Covid-19 vaccine distribution in Kerala is progressing well. "So far, 1,77,09,529 people have been vaccinated," the chief minister said on Friday. "Of these, 1,24,64,589 received a single dose of vaccine, and 52,44,940 have received both doses."Stressing that the state government is trying to give at least one dose of vaccination to everyone as soon as possible, Vijayan asked every citizen to be careful to avoid small and large crowded situations where there is a risk of rapid spread due to the presence of Delta variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-weekend-lockdown-covid-19-curbs-micro-containment-reinforced-check-what-remains-open-101627089586952.html
24-07-2021||India||Heavy rain floods Karnataka; red alert in 7 districts, ICG swings into action||Karnataka has witnessed heavy rainfall over the past 24 hours, resulting in floods in multiple regions. As many as three lives were reported to have been lost so far, while the downpour triggered landslides in at least eight places in the state. More than 9,000 people have already been evacuated from the flood-hit parts of Karnataka, news agency PTI reported on Friday night, and a red alert has been sounded in seven districts.Karnataka sounded a red alert on Friday night in the districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, and Kodagu, in view of heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in these parts over the next 24 hours. An orange alert was also raised in the Belagavi and Dharwad districts, the agency cited an official of the state disaster management authority as saying.Also Read | At least 50 dead in rain-related incidents in western IndiaThree confirmed casualties in rain-related incidents have been confirmed so far, the official said, adding that two people were logged missing.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that he reviewed the rain-related situation in the state with the district commissioners. "The state government will extend all necessary support to the relief and rescue efforts and assist farmers who suffered losses due to the untimely rain and hailstorms," the chief minister said in a tweet.Yediyurappa also said that all the district in-charge ministers and MLAs have been asked to be present in their respective districts and constituencies to oversee rescue and relief efforts being carried out by the district administrations.Spoke to District Commissioners and reviewed the situation arising due to incessant rain in several parts of the state. State govt will extend all necessary support to the relief and rescue efforts and assist farmers who suffered losses due to untimely rain and hailstorms. (2/2)While the complete extent of damages from the floods in Karnataka is yet to be ascertained, government figures on Friday night indicated that as many as 21 houses in the deluge-hit districts have been destroyed completely, while at least 804 more residences took a partial hit due to the heavy rain. Landslides were reported in eight places, including Virajpet in the Kodagu district and Arabail Ghat in the Uttara Kannada district.Also Read | Govt gears up, rescue ops on as heavy rain batters K’takaSixty-five bridges, 10 schools, and a primary health centre were damaged, while 291.03km of roads were washed away. The state has opened 80 relief camps where 4,964 people are staying, the official said.Meanwhile, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) said in a statement that its Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) and rescue operations were pressed into service at short notice to carry out rescue operations. Three disaster relief teams (DRTs) deployed in coastal districts of Karnataka have rescued and relocated 161 distressed people to safe locations, an official statement, issued late on Friday night, noted.The ICG added that the armed forces are in constant touch with the civil administration of Karnataka to help out with rescue and disaster relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-flood-karnataka-red-alert-in-7-districts-icg-swings-into-action-101627084097684.html
24-07-2021||India||Cadila jab immunogenic, safe: Phase 1 trial data||The DNA vaccine, developed by Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila, has been found to be safe and immunogenic, according to the 48-participant phase I trial published ahead of print on EClinicalMedicine journal by Lancet. There were no vaccine-related severe adverse events reported and the three-dose vaccine was found to generate good antibody and cellular immunity, the study said.The phase I trial, however, had no women participants.The 48 participants were divided into four study arms study two different doses and two different methods of vaccine administration; arm 1 received 1mg dose of the vaccine using needle, arm 2 received 1 mg vaccine intradermally, arm 3 received 2 mg vaccine with needle, and arm 4 received 2 mg vaccine intradermally.None of the 48 participants experienced any serious adverse events. However, at least 12 participants reported an adverse event. The “solicited” adverse events that were seen in seven of the participants were mild fever, itching, joint pain, tenderness of injection site, and moderate diarrhoea. Most of the events were reported after the administration of the first dose of the vaccine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cadila-jab-immunogenic-safe-phase-1-trial-data-101627072589112.html
24-07-2021||India||TMC MLA’s wife latest thak-thak gang victim||The wife of a Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA became a victim of a “thak-thak gang” in south Delhi that stole her handbag, containing ₹1.86 lakh cash, a cellphone, a gold coin and some documents, from a car she was travelling in near the Defence Colony flyover on Friday afternoon.A case of theft has been registered at the Lajpat Nagar police station and investigators are scanning CCTV cameras installed around the crime scene and the route taken by the suspects after the theft.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said that around 2.30 pm, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Om Prakash was patrolling the now scrapped BRT corridor when he came across Kanika Gupta, the wife of TMC legislator from Jorasanko in north Kolkata, Vivek Gupta.Police said Kanika was on the Defence Colony flyover around 2.15pm when a motorcyclist signalled her driver and pointed at the car’s tyre. The driver stopped the car and came out to check the tyre when another biker threw engine oil on the hot bonnet of the car, police said.“As Kanika was feeling suffocation, she came out of the car. A few seconds later, she found her handbag missing from the car’s seat. It contained ₹1.86 lakh, an i-Phone, one gold coin and some documents,” said DCP Meena.The TMC MLA, who was previously a Rajya Sabha MP, did not respond to calls and messages seeking a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcmlas-wife-latest-thak-thak-gang-victim-101627071457581.html
24-07-2021||India||SC junks DJB’s plea against Haryana over water shortage||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a contempt plea filed by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) seeking more water from Haryana to meet the Capital’s drinking water needs.The board approached the court alleging that Haryana was in contempt of a February 29, 1996 order the Supreme Court passed, requiring the state to provide enough water to keep the reservoirs at Wazirabad and Hyderpur full to their capacity.The bench of justices L Nageswara Rao, AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian dismissed the contempt petition and said a detailed order with the reasons for this will follow.DJB complained that as on July 10 this year, the level of water at the Wazirabad reservoir fell to 667.60 feet. The reservoir’s lowest point is at 664.50 feet above sea level and its crest is at 674.50 feet above sea level. Claiming that the reservoir was only at 31%, DJB moved a contempt plea alleging that the shortfall at Wazirabad reservoir was because Haryana was not releasing enough water.The order of February 1996 on which DJB relied said, “We direct that Delhi shall continue to get as much water for domestic use from Haryana through River Yamuna which can be consumed and filled in the two water reservoirs and treatment plants at Wazirabad and Hyderpur...”Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for DJB, produced a letter written by Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan to DJB on May 20 this year, where it admitted that it supplied only 370 cusecs of water to the Capital when it was required to provide 450 cusecs.Haryana, however, disputed any shortfall in supply of water to Delhi. Senior advocate Shyam Divan relied on a report by a Supreme Court-appointed panel on April 22 this year that found out that Delhi was diverting water received from Haryana to its plants at places other than Wazirabad and Hyderpur.“The committee found how water from the Yamuna coming to Delhi is being diverted to water treatment plants at Bawana, Dwarka and Okhla. It depends on DJB how much water it wants to send to Wazirabad, as it is fully under their control,” Divan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-junks-djb-s-plea-against-haryana-over-water-shortage-101627071312511.html
24-07-2021||India||As 2nd Covishield doses begin, supplies fall short||The pace of Covid-19 vaccinations in Delhi slowed down further on Friday, as the city administered 35,700 jabs, a day after it halted the use of Covishield for first doses in government centres due to a shortage of supplies.The Delhi government’s orders on Thursday, in effect till July 31, came as people in the 18-45 age bracket who took the jab on May 1, when the vaccine drive opened up for all adults, became eligible for the second dose of Covishield, as the 84-day gap between jabs ended.On Thursday, around 48,600 doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered in Delhi.The halt on using Covishield for first doses is likely to end in the first week of August, said officials.“We expect that Delhi will start receiving more doses from the Centre. This month the supply was quite restricted, because of which we weren’t able to run all centres,” said an official from the West District.Officials at state-run vaccination centres said they were forced to send people away.“Of course we faced problems. There were people coming in, but we did not have any vaccine doses. We had to ask them to leave. Delhi received very few doses today [Friday],” said the official aware of the city’s vaccine stocks.Till Friday morning, Delhi had 39,420 doses of Covishield and 234,730 doses of Covaxin, according to the government’s vaccination bulletin.Another official from South east district said, “This is not the first time we have had to turn people away. There are times when doses are in short supply and we have to keep centres closed or shut them in the middle of the day. This is a supply chain problem.”Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said, “The Delhi government is prepared to vaccinate people. We can vaccinate the entire population within three months. But whenever we get the vaccines, they get over in a day or two. We are just waiting for the vaccines.”“Scientifically, people who have had an infection have very little chance of getting a second infection. By now, at least 80% of Delhi’s population would have been exposed to the infection, so we need to vaccinate a very small proportion of people... Usually we see a lot of hesitancy when it comes to vaccines but right now people are eager to get it but there are no vaccines available. This hampers the trust in the programme,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-2nd-covishield-doses-begin-supplies-fall-short-101627070964497.html
24-07-2021||India||SC upholds NGT's cracker ban in regions with low air quality||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the National Green Tribunal’s order banning the sale and use of all firecrackers during the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi-NCR and elsewhere in the country where the ambient air quality is in the poor category or worse.“We do not need a study by IIT (Indian Institute of Technology) to understand that firecrackers cause harm to our lungs,” the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna said, countering an effort by the petitioners against the NGT order citing an IIT Kanpur study which said firecrackers had a minimal impact on Delhi pollution. This study said vehicular pollution, road dust, and industries are the major pollutants of Delhi air, besides stubble burning.“Those who stay in Delhi during the festival of Deepawali know about its impact. We have come a long way since 2017 (when the SC ordered a cracker-free Diwali in Delhi) and we are now in 2021 when the pandemic is still on,” the bench added. The NGT banned the sale and use of firecrackers on December 1, 2020, in view of the “harmful effect of firecrackers on public health” and the pandemic.Firecracker manufacturers and sellers moved the SC against the ban. The SC said the NGT order was fair, but clarified: “If the air quality improves, the authority may permit sale or use of firecrackers depending on the quality of air in that area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-ngt-s-cracker-ban-in-regions-with-low-air-quality-101627068365767.html
24-07-2021||India||Didi named TMC parliamentary party’s chairperson||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday was unanimously chosen as the chairperson of the party’s parliamentary party.The West Bengal chief minister is not a Member of Parliament.The resolution to make Banerjee the chairperson was proposed by TMC MP Sudip Banerjee, floor leader of the party in the Lok Sabha and TMC MP Derek O’Brien, leader of the party in the Rajya Sabha at a parliamentary party meeting of the TMC in New Delhi on Thursday.“The resolution was unanimously adopted and signed by all the TMC MPs. Some of the MPs, who were out of station, would sign it on Monday. She was the chairperson of the TMC. She has also been unanimously chosen as the chairperson of the TMC parliamentary party with effect from Thursday,” O’Brien said at a press conference in New Delhi. “It is an obvious decision. TMC is a one-woman party and that is Mamata Banerjee,” state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didi-named-tmc-parliamentary-party-s-chair-101627067319892.html
24-07-2021||India||India, Maldives sign $4.5 mn agreement for community development projects||India and the Maldives on Friday signed an agreement for a grant of $4.5 million for implementing community development projects in the Indian Ocean archipelago that is seen as a key pillar of New Delhi’s “Neighbourhood First” policy.The agreement was signed by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Maldivian counterpart Abdulla Shahid, who is also president-elect of the UN General Assembly. Shahid is currently on a three-day visit to India.The Maldives has benefited from large India-backed infrastructure projects worth $2 billion. The smaller high impact community development projects are a key part of India’s cooperation with the Maldives and the agreement signed by the ministers will lead to an additional outlay of MVR 70 million for projects to be implemented by local councils.“To support decentralisation efforts of Govt of President @ibusolih, an addl. grant of MVR 70 mn ($4.5 mn) has been extended to carry out high-impact projects in #Maldives through Local Councils. An MoU was signed during FM @abdulla_shahid’s ongoing visit to formalise this,” the Indian high commission in the Maldives said in a tweet.Shahid tweeted that the high impact community development projects, funded with grant assistance from India, are “immensely impactful”. He added, “I am delighted that today, we paved the way for more projects to be funded under this scheme with the envelope being increased to MVR 155 million.”In a tweet, Jaishankar described the community projects in the Maldives as “Neighbourhood first in action”. He added that he had a “warm meeting” with Shahid and discussed the priorities of his presidency at the UN General Assembly.Shahid, on his first foreign visit since his election to the UN post on July 7, also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The prime minister felicitated Shahid on his vision statement for a “Presidency of Hope”, and assured him of India’s full support and cooperation during his presidency.Modi said Shahid’s victory in the election reflects the growing stature of the Maldives on the world stage, and emphasised the importance of reforming the multilateral system, including UN organs, to reflect contemporary realities and the aspirations of a majority of the world’s population.Modi also expressed satisfaction that bilateral projects are progressing well despite the Covid-19 pandemic, and pointed to the importance of the Maldives as a “key pillar of India’s Neighbourhood First policy and vision of SAGAR”.The Maldives was the first country to receive made-in-India vaccines in January, and this was preceded by health and humanitarian aid in 2020, including 12 tonnes of medicines, and a soft loan of $250 million for budgetary support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maldives-sign-4-5-mn-agreement-for-community-development-projects-101627067111382.html
24-07-2021||India||Union health minister confirms success of existing population policy||Amid states like Uttar Pradesh proposing a law on population control, the Union government reported a decreasing fertility rate and a halving in the rates of teenage births and marriages, just by successfully implementing the national population policy of 2000.Responding to a question by Bhartiya Janata Party MPs Ravindra Kushwaha and Manoj Tiwari, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said, “The total fertility rate has declined from 2.7 to 2.2 from 2005-06 (NFHS III) to 2015-16 (NFHS IV). The decadal growth rate has declined from 21.54% in 1990-2000 to 17.64% during 2001-11.”MPs Kushwaha and Tiwari sought the government’s response to a report which stated India to become the most populous country by 2027. They also asked if the government had taken recommendations from MS Swaminathan Committee, which had offered suggestions like having a target-free approach on contraceptive use.Minister Mandaviya confirmed involving the Committee’s recommendations. Presenting proof of success for the government’s population control initiatives, he revealed statistics (that measure changing factors in population) showed a downward trend. The total fertility rate declined from 2.7% to 2.2% (2005-06 to 2015-16), the decadal growth rate declined from 21.54% to 17.64% (1990-2000 to 2001-11), crude birth rate declined from 23.8% to 20.0% (2005 to 2018), and the teenage birth rate was also halved from 16% to 8%.Recently, some BJP-led states showed support for legislation that would control India’s population level. UP government released a population control draft that de-incentives people from having more than two children. Not meeting this criterion would bar government employees from promotions, restrict people from contesting local polls or receiving subsidies.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also indicated that large families were likely to lose certain state benefits. He added, “There is no point in talking about what our parents did or others did in the 1970s.”Congress leader Salman Khurshid had earlier taken a jab at UP’s draft bill by saying that politicians should first declare how many children they have. Bihar’s CM Nitish Kumar on 12 July said that he was not in favour of any such law and that data shows educating women would reduce population growth.Vasectomy Fortnight, which encouraged male participation in family planning and post-abortion family planning services, were among some of the initiatives listed by the government for curbing India’s population growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-health-minister-confirms-success-of-existing-population-policy-101627065370885.html
24-07-2021||India||TN woos startups with exemptions, grants||Chennai: Tamil Nadu is wooing MSMEs and start-ups after committing to 49 investment projects worth around Rs. 28,508 crore earlier this week. The state on Friday announced the second edition of TANSEED (Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund) 2021 during July-September 2021 to support up to 20 start-ups with seed grants of ₹10 lakh each. Start-ups registered under Startup India and with StartupTN and those willing to register here have been invited to pitch their innovation and win a seed grant.The Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Mission, also known as “StartupTN” was formed as a Section 8 Company under the MSME department by the Tamil Nadu government in March 2021. Startup TN had launched the first edition of TANSEED 2021 during January-February this year and had supported 10 promising startups with a seed grant of ₹10 lakh each.Additionally, to improve the start-up ecosystem in the state, the government has decided to provide exemptions from four entry barriers- Earnest Money Deposit (EMD), condition of prior turnover and prior experience for government purchases up to ₹20 lakh and waiver of tender cost. With this, Tamil Nadu joins the list of states such as Karnataka, Telangana, and Kerala who have already provided such exemptions. A government order dated July 22 signed by Arun Roy, Secretary, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) department, stated that many start-ups struggle in the early stages because of a lack of market for their products and that government patronage can solve their marketing problem to a great extent.Roy said after careful examination, the government has decided to provide concessions to registered start-ups for public procurements by a procuring entity which includes government departments such as public sector undertakings (PSUs), local bodies, cooperative institutions, universities, statutory boards, and societies. Experts say that the highlight of the new orders is that a start-up registers with the Udyam portal in another state like Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra etc can also benefit, if they can register as a start-up in either Tamil Nadu’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) or Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Policy (TANSIM). This they believe can attract start-ups from other states.“A few days back investors were invited and now entrepreneurs are invited. These efforts will show its benefits in three to four years’ time frame on the creation of unicorns from Tamil Nadu and employment opportunities,” said K E Raghunathan, Consortium of Indian Associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-woos-startups-with-exemptions-grants-101627065129008.html
24-07-2021||India||Communities catering to the differently abled on the rise as pandemic takes toll on families||Chennai: Communities for inclusive living of abled people along with people with disabilities is making progress in Chennai and in several regions in Tamil Nadu, the ongoing pandemic has stiffened ageing parents’ agony on caregiving for their adult children with mental and physical disabilities.The biggest fear for parents is who would look after their child once they are gone. Akila Vaidhyanathan began pondering upon this question when her son, Nishant Sriram was just 10 years old. He was diagnosed with autism and aphasia. “We realised he cannot live independently and he requires support. So we thought of various options and a key question was what would he do the entire day?” says Vaidhyanathan. “Institutional setups do not engage them productively. Nishant is active, he loves to eat out and he enjoys all good things in life.” So Vaidhyanathan and her husband launched an inclusive living project by collaborating with Covai Care in Coimbatore which provides assisted living communities for senior citizens. 10% of the spaces were earmarked for families who have children with disabilities. “It’s a great age because as we grow older, we need help and some become single so during our time or after our time, our children can continue living in these homes with assistance.” A 50 year old woman with intellectual disabilities was recently orphaned but her transition to living was smooth as she was already living with her aged mother in this community. Vaidhyanathan,55 and her family along with Nishant who is now 25 will in the future move into a set up they helped create. Key figures driving this independent and inclusive living movement are mostly parents like them who have formed organisations such as SCAN (Special Child Assistance Network) in Chennai, CLAPS (Community Living Association of Parents) in Thiruvallur. The practice of ‘group homes’ is already ongoing in Tamil Nadu where an apartment is rented or bought and adults with disabilities live together with their peers, families and caregivers.This is being scaled-up as on Thursday, SCAN launched its inclusive housing initiative with a private real estate builder, Akshaya Homes who will construct the project to be disabled-friendly. The adults with special needs can live with their peers and caregivers in a shared accommodation with the apartment having accessible amenities. The caregivers would be certified by a prominent NGO working across various sectors for people with disabilities, Vidya Sagar (formerly The Spastics Society Of India). “The idea was that parents can watch how their adult children with special needs are being taken care of and they need not live in constant worry,” says Gopinath Ramakrishnan, co-founder and managing trustee of SCAN. “So far we have only concepts of institutions and hostels where adults with disabilities are forced to live together. Imagine being put in these places when you are in your 30s and 40s because the parents are in their 70s, they are incapacitated and they have no other choice. That’s not good enough. We want the parents to know that they are happy. We want to give the adults choices, flexibility and decision making power.”While the movement for interdependent and inclusive living is growing, there are concerns on transitions over finances and savings. Vidya Sagar which runs a program called ‘Begin to Live Interdependently with Support Systems’ (BLISS) is finalising a Trust deed for an early-thirties woman with multiple disabilities. Her mother, a retired professor with visual impairment, is her sole caregiver and the daughter needs full support the whole day. A Delhi-based lawyer Roma Bhagat is helping the organisation and family to finalise the deed. “We want to create a support system in advance when the parents or primary caregivers are alive and are active,” said Smitha Sadasivan, member of the project and a member of the Disability Rights Alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communities-catering-to-the-differently-abled-on-the-rise-as-pandemic-takes-toll-on-families-101627065069027.html
24-07-2021||India||IGNCA opens for visitors with first major exhibition at new location||The Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) on Friday opened its doors to visitors as it kicked off its first big event -- an exhibition on freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad on his birth anniversary -- at its new, though temporary, premises at Hotel Janpath.The five-storey building, where IGNCA will function from for the next 2-3 years, was inaugurated on July 1.Achal Pandya, head of the IGNCA’s conservation and cultural archives unit, said that the idea of holding an exhibition on Azad was first floated in November. “While the idea was proposed in November, work started around 3-4 months ago. This is the first big event at our new premises and is open for the public. Besides the current exhibition, we plan to conduct many other activities as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’,” said Pandya.The exhibition on Azad will be on display till August 10, following which another exhibition on relatively lesser-known freedom fighters, including a storytelling program - Kathakar, will come up next month, said IGNCA officials.Set up in 1985, IGNCA is actively involved in organising exhibitions, performances, conferences and lectures to promote various art forms, and also offers short-term and certificate courses in arts and culture. It was temporarily moved to Hotel Janpath in March as its original location, on Man Singh Road, was identified as one of the areas to be demolished as part of the Central Vista redevelopment. According to officials, IGNCA will be moved to Jamnagar House once the Central Vista work is completed.Patrons of the IGNCA are likely to miss the sprawling lawns of the original campus at Man Singh Road, spread over 27 acres, that played host to major exhibitions and festivals.IGNCA member-secretary Sachidanand Joshi earlier told HT that the terrace space in the new building will be used for hosting activities and events once visitors start trickling in. “We have created a welcoming ambience for the public. Our gallery space fell short, so we have used the lobbies for displaying our paintings. We plan to use the terrace space for performances in the coming future. While the location is temporary, our work continues as before and visitors will have a lot to admire and learn from,” he said.At IGNCA, its souvenir shop, Prastuti, and the Svasti Cafe are open in the main building though minor maintenance work continues in both the outlets. The library is expected to start in August.“Ventilation is much better in our new space. Due to the location, we get significant natural light which is beneficial since our work entails dealing with intricate material like paintings and documents,” said Anil Dwivedi, project associate, conservation.Dwivedi said that though he had many memories associated with the original location, the working space for the unit was more spacious now.Simran Sangal, 25, a conservation assistant, said that the varied rooms and alcoves of the hotel ensure enough and distinct storage for different projects. She said her team is currently working on Kalamkari paintings from Andhra Pradesh, and will soon start work on a set of paintings from Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ignca-opens-for-visitors-with-first-major-exhibition-at-new-location-101627064770595.html
24-07-2021||India||Khori demolition to continue, SC says||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the ongoing demolition of encroachments in Faridabad’s Khori Gaon village on Aravalli land to be completed in four weeks, as it directed the city’s municipal authority to ensure that no illegal structure occupying forest land is spared.The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) on Friday asked the top court for more time to comply with its June 7 order, which gave authorities six weeks to demolish illegal structures in the village, and directed Haryana to finalise its rehabilitation policy before July 31.The apex court on February 19 last year directed all encroachments to be cleared from Aravalli forest land, after which MCF carried out demolitions in the village in April this year.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari allowed the civic body four weeks to complete the demolitions, and said, “Our direction to remove all structures on forest land applies to all structures without any exception.”The observation was made after some residents of the village claimed that state and municipal authorities were acting swiftly against the poor while sparing the rich who have constructed farmhouses and commercial structures on forest land.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the residents, moved an application in this regard producing a list of 50 such properties in Faridabad and another 10 in Gurugram district. Gonsalves said, “In the very area said to be a forest area in which as this court has said no one can stay, there are a large number of farmhouses of rich people, hotels, ashrams and other commercial establishments that continue in the forest area with the protection of the state government. The decision of the government to evict only the poor and allow the rich to stay is blatant discrimination on the grounds of class.”Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, appearing for MCF, said Khori Gaon is spread over 150 acres in a Faridabad village. Of this, the corporation has cleared 74 acres of forest land and the demolition has so far been peaceful. He said the properties alleged to be on forest land, as mentioned in the application, could be beyond 150 acres.Several group of residents of Khori village filed separate applications requesting the court to first provide them temporary shelter and food before rendering them homeless. Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, representing a group of residents, said that with the approaching monsoons and the prevailing Covid-19 outbreak, their lives were at serious risk, and cited a call by experts of the United Nations Human Rights Council to stop forced evictions during the pandemic.Six UN special rapporteurs who were part of the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council appealed to the Indian government to stop the eviction of Khori residents.Referring to the above statement, the bench remarked, “Before going public, they should have read the case paper books and our orders.”The Haryana government, represented in court by additional advocate general Ruchi Kohli, presented an affidavit which said that the state is considering plans to shift residents’ goods and provide them transportation and temporary shelter.Most residents of Khori Gaon have lived there since 2010, but were not entitled for rehabilitation under the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran Rehabilitation Policy as this scheme requires an inhabitant to occupy government or government agency land as on April 1, 2003.The court allowed the affected residents to present their suggestions to the authorities within a day or two. It directed the state to finalise its rehabilitation policy before July 31 and allowed the residents who are still aggrieved with the policy to challenge it by the next date of hearing on August 3.Till then, the Court directed that any resident who has a grievance about temporary shelter, transportation, etc can bring the matter to the notice of the Commissioner, MCF who will then take corrective measures. “In case no relief can be given, the reason for not giving relief should be recorded so that it can be examined appropriately by the Court on the next date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khori-demolition-to-continue-sc-says-101627064769449.html
24-07-2021||India||Afghanistan, Quad meet to be focus of Blinken’s India visit||The rapidly deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and preparations for the first in-person Quad Summit are expected to figure in the agenda for US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s maiden visit to India next week.Blinken, the third senior member of the Biden administration to travel to India after defense secretary Lloyd Austin in March and special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry in April, will meet external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on July 28.His discussions with his Indian interlocutors will cover issues such as the continued cooperation on Covid-19 response efforts, Indo-Pacific engagement, shared regional security interests, shared democratic values and addressing the climate crisis, the US state department said in a statement.The situation in Afghanistan and cooperation at the UN will be part of the discussions on regional and global issues of mutual interest, the external affairs ministry said.India has watched with growing concern as the rapid drawdown of US and NATO forces from Afghanistan has coincided with a violent offensive by the Taliban in recent weeks to capture territory and crucial border crossings with Iran, Uzbekistan and Pakistan. Indian diplomats and security personnel were recently evacuated from the consulate in southern Kandahar city following a surge in clashes.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Blinken’s visit will allow the two sides to hold consultations on the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan, especially India’s concerns about the Taliban’s unfettered campaign to expand its influence before any possible peace negotiations aimed at finding a political settlement.India is also expected to convey its concerns about Pakistan’s efforts to limit the country’s role in Afghanistan and the presence of thousands of Pakistani terrorists on Afghan soil and the implications for regional peace.Blinken’s visit to New Delhi will coincide with a previously scheduled trip to the Indian capital by Afghan Army chief Gen Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai during July 27-30.Under the rubric of Indo-Pacific engagement, India and the US are expected to discuss preparations for the first in-person summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad later this year following the virtual meeting of the leaders of India, Australia, Japan and the US in March. The two sides are also expected to discuss China’s aggressive activities across the region.The two sides will also discuss ways to give fresh impetus to the Quad’s Covid-19 vaccine partnership, which is largely dependent on India’s role as a supplier of vaccines and has been stalled since New Delhi curtailed the export of jabs after a devastating second wave of infections earlier this year.Modi’s proposed visit to the US and bilateral trade issues, including talks on a trade deal and the US withdrawal of benefits under the Generalized System of Preferences programme for Indian exports, too could come up in the discussions.With the Biden administration more focused on human rights issues and democracy than the previous Trump administration, the US has nudged India on these matters in recent months. This has included the US state department expressing concern over restrictions on freedom of expression and detention of human rights activists and journalists.The US state department’s statement said Blinken’s visit to India and subsequently to Kuwait will “reaffirm the United States’ commitment to strengthening our partnerships and underscore cooperation on our shared priorities”. The external affairs ministry described the visit as an opportunity to continue high-level bilateral dialogue and bolster the India-US global strategic partnership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-quad-meet-to-be-focus-of-blinken-s-india-visit-101627063930159.html
24-07-2021||India||Road ahead even more daunting than during 1991 crisis: Manmohan||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Friday said the economic liberalisation process started 30 years ago catapulted India to a $3 trillion economy, but added that the road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 crisis and priorities of the nation need to be recalibrated to ensure a “healthy and dignified” life for every single Indian.The senior Congress leader said he was “deeply saddened” at the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and stressed on the need to improve key social indicators. “The social sectors of health and education have lagged behind and not kept pace with our economic progress. Too many lives and livelihoods have been lost that should not have been,” he said in a statement on the 30th anniversary of the presentation of the 1991 Union Budget (on 24 July).In order to bring the economy back on track, the PV Narasimha Rao government (June 21, 1991- May 16, 1996) launched economic reforms by ending the era of licence-quota raj and by encouraging privatisation. The process was initiated by Singh as the finance minister, in his budget speech on July 24, 1991.Singh recalled his budget speech three decades ago where he quoted Victor Hugo, ‘No power on Earth can stop an idea whose time has come’, and said: “Thirty years later, as a nation, we must remember Robert Frost’s poem, ‘But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep’.”Singh said that successive governments in the last three decades followed the path of reform that was laid in 1991, which brought India into the league of the world’s largest economies.“More importantly, nearly 300 million fellow Indians have been lifted out of poverty in this period and hundreds of millions of new jobs have been provided for our youth.”He, however, added that it was not a time “to rejoice and exult but to introspect and ponder”. “The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 crisis,” he said.The reform process unleashed the spirit of free enterprise, which has helped produce world-class companies and helped India emerge as a global power in many sectors, the former PM said.“The economic liberalisation process in 1991 was triggered by an economic crisis that confronted our nation then, but it was not limited to crisis management. The edifice of India’s economic reforms was built on the desire to prosper, the belief in our capabilities and the confidence to relinquish control of the economy by the government,” he added.Singh said he was fortunate to play a role in this reform process along with several of his colleagues in the Congress party. “It gives us immense joy to look back with pride at the tremendous economic progress made by our nation in the last three decades,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-ahead-even-more-daunting-than-during-1991-crisis-manmohan-101627063871046.html
24-07-2021||India||House impasse may continue, govt eyes bill on Delhi air panel||The government is set to introduce in Parliament next week a bill to reconvene a now-defunct commission to monitor air quality in the national capital region but the ongoing impasse in both Houses over the alleged use of Israeli spyware might continue for some time as the Congress wants the Narendra Modi government to commit to a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the issue.The Opposition is not satisfied with the suo motu statement of information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who spoke in the Lok Sabha on Monday and Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, and insists that the government didn’t categorically rule out the purchase or use of Pegasus spyware by its agencies.A senior Congress leader told HT, “We want an SC-monitored investigation.”On its part, the government circulated the list of official business for the next week. It contains as many as 10 bills, including the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital and Adjoining Areas Bill. An ordinance on this matter, which set up a commission to monitor pollution in the national capital region last year, lapsed in March. The commission shut down soon after.The monsoon session of Parliament began on Monday but was roiled by protests and disruptions by Opposition parties over the alleged snooping row, controversial farm bills, rising petrol prices and other issues.A global investigative consortium reported this week that politicians, activists, journalists and even constitutional authorities were potential targets of surveillance using Israel-manufactured Pegasus spyware, triggering uproar.The Opposition insists that a debate on the Pegasus controversy can take place in Parliament only if the Union home minister is present in the House. While the government managers insist that the ruling dispensation is ready for a debate on any issue, senior Congress strategist told HT that “Pegasus can be discussed if the home minister remains present.”Trinamool Congress, the second largest Opposition party in Parliament, also see no end to the protests if the PM and the home minister don’t participate in the debate. “There is no question of giving up on our demands. This is not an information technology issue at all. Using espionage and military-grade against your own citizens? You are setting up a surveillance state. This is a serious issue and Parliament needs to know the truth,” said Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien.Both Houses of Parliament faced continuous disruption for the last four days. The government and the Chair have repeatedly appealed for peace for discussion to take place.On Friday, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said he agrees that members have a right to seek clarifications from the IT minister on the latter’s statement on the Pegasus issue. “Allow the House to function and then the minister has to be told that there are going to be clarifications.”The Pegasus row erupted on Sunday night after an international investigative consortium reported that India was among countries that used Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software to potentially target politicians, journalists and activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-impasse-may-continue-govt-eyes-bill-on-delhi-air-panel-101627063812289.html
24-07-2021||India||Rain fury sweeps through India||At least 60 people were reported dead and thousands displaced due to heavy rains in coastal Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa in the past two days, even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for the entire western coast over the weekend.In Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state along the western coast, 57 people died in various rain-related incidents, including a landslide in Raigad district that claimed 36 lives with the district administration saying almost equal number of people were still feared strapped under the debris. In another landslide incident at Kevanale in Raigad’s Poladpur tehsil, 11 bodies were recovered during multi-agency rescue efforts, said state officials. According to police, 11 people on board a bus had a narrow escape in Kolhapur district as they were rescued just before the vehicle got washed away in a river.The IMD on Thursday night had warned of “very intense spells of short duration” over parts of western coast. On Friday, the entire western coast from Maharashtra to Kerala received very heavy rainfall with some receiving up to 600mm rain in four to five hours. Mahabaleshwar, a hill station in Maharashtra’s Satara district, recorded the highest ever rainfall in its history with 600mm in 24 hours. Many regions in Goa and north Karnataka received up to 300 mm, including Valpoi in North Goa district (296.2 mm) and Belagavi in Karnataka (278 mm).IMD has predicted heavy rainfall over the next five days.In Karnataka, Dr Manoj Rajan, commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA), said parts of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dharward, Haveri, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada were the worst-hit regions in the state due to incessant rains over the past few days. The rivers Krishna, Cauvery, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Kapila (Kabini) and others in Malnad and coastal Karnataka were in spate due to heavy rains, said the KSDMA officer.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who reviewed the flood situation with top officials on Friday, directed all district in-charge ministers and MLAs to oversee relief work in their areas. He said the government would extend all necessary support to relief and rescue efforts and assist farmers who suffered losses due to the untimely rain and hailstorms.According to details shared by Rajan, 131 villages in 18 taluks were severely affected by floods, affecting 16,213 people. While three people lost their lives, two were missing, he said, adding that 65 bridges, 10 schools and a primary health centre were damaged, while 291.03 km of roads was washed away. So far, 8,733 people have been evacuated to safety while 4,964 people have been shifted to 80 relief camps. Landslides were reported in eight places, including Virajpet in Kodagu district and Arabail Ghat in Uttara Kannada district, the officer said.In Goa, the overnight heavy rainfall inundated houses, leaving hundreds stranded, snapped communication lines and disrupted rail and road traffic. Chief minister Dr Pramod Sawant inspected the flooded areas, including Bicholim taluka, and directed the officials to provide immediate assistance to people in distress. According to state officials, 23 people at Harvalem in Bicholim were rescued and brought to safety.A bridge in Paikul Sattari washed away, cutting the village off from the mainstream while at least three incidents of house collapse after being inundated by flood waters were reported from different parts of Goa.“Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. People have faced immense hardship in Sattari,” health minister Vishwajit Rane, who represents the Valpoi constituency, said.A major accident was averted when the engine and a passenger coach of the Mangaluru Jn- Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Express Special (which was running on the diverted route via Madgaon-Londa-Miraj due to overflow of Vashishti river between Chiplun and Kamathe), were derailed between Dudhsagar-Sonaulim section in Goa along the steep slope of the Western Ghats.“No passenger casualty has been reported. The passengers of the affected coach were shifted to other coaches. The train is being pulled back to Kulem, and has crossed Sonaulim at this time,” the South Western Railway, said in a statement.Roads connectivity in Goa, north Karnataka and parts of Maharashtra were also been cut off due to landslides. Traffic on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway remained suspended on Friday after part of the stretch inundated near Shiroli under Kolhapur district and Yamgarni village in Belgaum district. This prompted local police to block the vehicular traffic from crossing the stretch.According to Kolhapur superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawade, water has started coming on the highway near Shiroli village. “As precaution, the road has been closed for vehicular traffic,” said Balkawade.Meanwhile, release of excess water in dams in Maharashtra and Karnataka has brought some relief in flooding areas even though it caused momentarily panic among people living downstream. Both Maharashtra and Karnataka governments issued warnings to people living downstream of rivers to be cautious of sudden flow of water from the dams. About 2.5 lakh cusec water was released from Almatti dam in Karnataka on Friday afternoon.In northern India, rains continued in parts of Uttarakand and Himachal Pradesh. Three children drowned in swollen rivers in Haldwani and Rudrapur areas of Kumaon in two separate incidents, police said. Although no casualty was reported from Himachal, rains caused landslides leading to blockade of traffic on several roads, officials said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-fury-sweeps-through-india-101627063749504.html
24-07-2021||India||Before polls, BSP woos Brahmins, says it will expedite temple work||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Friday reached out to the Brahmin community in Uttar Pradesh as part of its effort to grow its traditional voter base (composed mostly of Dalits) ahead of next year’s elections in Uttar Pradesh.The party assured Brahmins that it would expedite the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya if it was voted to power in the assembly elections next year.To be sure, work on the temple has gone on apace since the Supreme Court’s late 2019 order allowing the construction of the temple at what many believe to be the birthplace of Hindu God Ram. Brahmins account for 13% of the state’s population but wield considerable influence. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which governs the state, recently inducted former Congress leader Jitin Prasada , a Brahmin leader, into its ranks.On Friday, launching a virtual statewide Brahmin conference in Ayodhya, BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra raised questions over the funding of the temple and what he saw as a delay in its construction.After the BSP was voted to power in 2007, the party constructed grand Dalit memorials at various spots in the state within one-and-half-years of forming the government, Mishra said.After the party forms the government in 2022, Mishra added, “the BSP government will ensure the completion of the construction of the Ram Temple at the earliest”.Accusing the BJP of politicising temple construction, Mishra said that Ram continued to remain in a makeshift temple even though the saffron party came to power at the Centre and state in 2014 and 2017 respectively.On March 25 last year, the deity was relocated from the makeshift temple to a pre-fabricated structure within the Ram Janmabhoomi premises. The ceremony which was held on the first day of the nine-day Navratri festival was attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Mishra also accused the BJP of keeping “local mahants, sadhus and priests (in Ayodhya) who have been associated with the Ram Temple movement” out of the loop.Seeking more transparency in the construction work, Mishra alleged that the ruling party had deliberately slowed down the construction of the temple to serve its political interests.Reacting to Mishra’s allegations against the ruling party, BJP state unit spokesperson Sameer Singh said: “The BSP has been promoting the politics of caste in Uttar Pradesh. The party has nothing to do with the dignity of the Hindu community or development of Hindu holy places. The Ram Temple is a symbol of faith and pride of the Hindu community. The BJP government is committed to the construction of the grand temple and work is underway in full swing. The chief minister has launched several projects for the development of Ayodhya and other Hindu religious spots in the state.”The BSP national general secretary said the party will continue to hold Brahmin conferences at “holy places” including Mathura, Vrindavan, Varanasi, Chitrakoot and Shravasti, till October 15, adding that a massive one will be held in Lucknow.The BSP formed a majority government in 2007 with the support of Brahmins and had allocated important positions to members of the community in the government and party organisation, he said.Brahmins who constitute 13% of the state’s population, and Dalits who make up 23% of the population will ensure the formation of a majority BSP government again, he added.Mishra also alleged that the Brahmins had been sidelined and that there was an increase in “atrocities” against the community under the BJP government.“The time has come for t Brahmins to mull over their dignity, security and progress. They should support the BSP for a share in power,” he said.Political analyst and former head of Political Science Department, Lucknow University, Professor SK Dewedi, said: “BSP’s efforts to woo the Brahmin voters with Ram temple card before the upcoming assembly elections is not going to pay much dividend in the polls. The Dalit memorials constructed during the BSP government is already under probe due to irregularities. The social engineering formula which brought BSP to power in 2007, it is not likely to evoke the same response from voters in the 2022 assembly elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-polls-bsp-woos-brahmins-says-it-will-expedite-temple-work-101627063268806.html
24-07-2021||India||Chinese man gets bail in ₹1k-cr hawala case||A Delhi court on Friday granted bail to a Chinese national, who was allegedly living in India under a pseudonym and arrested for suspected cross-border money laundering worth at least ₹1,000 crore, because the central agency couldn’t establish the source of his “proceeds of crime” after six months.Charlie Peng, a 43-year-old man who birth name is allegedly Luo Sang, allegedly came to India in 2009 via Nepal and procured documents here fraudulently. In January, the ED arrested him along with his partner – Li Zhenghua alias Carter Lee -- under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Appearing for Peng, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa told additional sessions judge (ASJ) Dharmender Rana that the Chinese national was languishing in jail for about 175 days though the central agency failed to ascertain the source of his funds through shell companies.“Peng has been running companies - OTA New Delhi Pvt Ltd (purchased in 2019) and Fin Black Rock (India) Pvt Ltd (purchased in 2018) and have been legally incorporated on the basis of genuine documents; these companies were doing legitimate business of custom clearance and consultancy business and are not indulged in any kind of illegal business,” said Pahwa.Peng was earlier arrested by Delhi Police in 2018 for allegedly living in India under a false identity. He was given bail within a month.Arguing that Peng was not a flight risk, Pahwa told the court that “he remained on bail for two years in the 2018 case and never misused the liberty granted to him”.Opposing the bail, ED prosecutor Mohammad Faraz said that “Peng came illegally to India and started residing in Delhi from where he applied for a passport on the basis of forged and fabricated PAN card and Aadhar Card, but his application was rejected.”Peng eventually got an Indian passport after he married a girl from Manipur.Raising concerns that Peng may flee the country, Faraz said the ED was investigating the end use and last mile connectivity of the money trail as the probe is solely not based on documentary evidence. He added that the ED has identified at least 151 entities, so far, that have been used for money laundering.The judge, however, rejected ED’s contention and allowed Peng to be released on bail on two sureties of ₹1 lakh each and asked him to surrender his passport before the court.Rana agreed with Pahwa’s argument that the investigation conducted so far by the ED does not reveal the source of the “proceeds of crime”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-man-gets-bail-in-1k-cr-hawala-case-101627063028769.html
24-07-2021||India||7 booked for shaving off Dalit man’s moustache in UP||Saharanpur Police have registered a case against seven persons for allegedly assaulting a Dalit man and shaving off his moustache in a barber shop in Deoband area of Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh.Confirming the same, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Saharanpur, S Channappa, said a search is underway to arrest the accused. “Hopefully, a few of the named accused will be arrested by tonight,” he added.In his complaint, the victim, Rajat, alleged that the incident took place on Monday in Shimlana village. Rajat said he was cornered by the accused persons, Neeraj Rana, Mokam Rana, Monty Rana, Satyam Rana, Rupanty Rana and Sandeep Rana, all of whom belong to the Thakur community, and was forcibly taken to a barber shop.The accused then directed the barber, Rajendra, to shave off the Dalit man’s moustache, saying that it is a symbol of pride and can only be worn by those belonging to the upper caste, the complainant said. The accused also passed casteist remarks at him, he added.A purported video of the incident, which went viral on social media, showed Rajat surrounded by some men as the barber shaved off his moustache. The Dalit man was seen murmering something with folded hands.Following this, a case under sections 147, 323 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code and SC/ST Act was registered against the accused, including the barber, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-booked-for-shaving-off-dalit-man-s-moustache-in-up-101627062848789.html
24-07-2021||India||Ghaziabad assault video case: K’taka HC quashes UP police notice to Twitter exec||The Karnataka high court on Friday canceled a notice by the Uttar Pradesh police that ordered Bengaluru-based Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari to appear in person for questioning in connection with the video of an assault of an elderly man in Ghaziabad’s Loni in June, and told the police to either record his statement as a witness via video conference or send a team to Bengaluru.The high court said the notice issued to Maheshwari under Section 41A of the criminal procedure code (CrPC) must be read as a notice under Section 160. A notice under Section 160 is sent to question a witness, who they believe may be aware of facts related to a complaint. A notice under section 41A, however, is sent to summon a party named in a complaint. Maheshwari interpreted the change in the section under which he was being summoned to imply that he could also be arrested and approached the high court against it.“The provisions of the statute cannot be permitted to become tools of harassment. The respondent has not placed even an iota of material which would prima facie show involvement of the petitioner. In that view of the matter, the petitioner has made out a case. Section 41A notice is issued by malafide and the petition is maintainable. The Annexure A1 notice is quashed”, justice G Narender said in his order.“The invocation of Section 41A was resorted to as an arm-twisting method after Maheshwari did not respond to initial notice under Section 160 CrPC,” the bench observed.The judge noted that Maheshwari was not arraigned as an accused in the case registered by the Ghaziabad police on June 15 over a video that alleged an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad was a victim of hate crime. Police said their investigation later revealed that the incident was over a personal dispute and booked nine people, including Twitter India, for allegedly circulating false information to fan communal tension.The UP Police initially summoned Maheshwari as a witness on June 17 after a first information report (FIR) was registered over the video but later served another notice under Section 41A after he told the police to record his statement over video conference. The Karnataka high court, which, on June 24, granted him interim protection from arrest, was earlier scheduled to pronounce its judgment on July 13, which was further deferred to July 20, and then to July 22. The judgment is now expected to be pronounced on Friday.Friday’s Karnataka high court also found merit in Maheshwari’s contention that the firm and its employees do not have control over the data of Twitter users.“Material placed on record demonstrates that the entity, Twitter India, is an independent entity and the control of the affairs of the company is in the hands of Twitter Ireland. The information available cannot be said to be indicating that petitioner controlling the contents of the social media platforms run by Twitter Inc”, the high court noted.During the hearings, Manish Maheshwari described Twitter India as an independent entity, claiming that its parent company, Twitter Inc, does not have a single share in it.“Twitter Inc is a parent company. We have absolutely nothing to do with it. Twitter India is an independent organisation and independent institution,” CV Nagesh, Maheshwari’s counsel, told the court when asked whether the social media giant could be called a “parent company.”The FIR against Twitter came against the backdrop of the central government’s escalating conflict with Twitter over compliance with a new set of rules notified in February that demanded extra due diligence from social media intermediaries.On June 16, the central government said Twitter will not be protected from penal action under Section 79 of the IT Act, which absolves social media firms of liability for third party content unless it follows the new Information Technology (IT) rules. The social media firm finally appointed a resident grievance officer and chief compliance officer earlier this month apart from releasing the first transparency report mandated by the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghaziabad-assault-video-case-k-taka-hc-quashes-up-police-notice-to-twitter-exec-101627060628555.html
24-07-2021||India||Mufti’s kin, separatists, J&K leaders on latest Pegasus list||Phone numbers of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s family, Kashmiri politicians, separatist leaders and journalists were selected as possible targets for phone surveillance between 2017 and 2019, online news portal The Wire said on Friday.The Wire, part of a 17-member global investigative media consortium, reported that two family members of Mufti were found on a list of people who could potentially be targeted by Pegasus, an Israeli military grade spyware to infiltrate phones for snooping and surveillance.Their names were chosen months before Mufti’s coalition government collapsed after the Bharatiya Janata Party withdrew support.Sharing the link of The Wire’s story, Mufti said in a tweet: “A spyware used against terrorists has been weaponised to deal with political opponents & dissenters. BJP has taken a leaf out of how Britishers would suspect & treat Indians during the colonial era. GOI has gone rogue & is brazenly subverting basic human rights.”Mufti, who is now a trenchant critic of the BJP and part of an alliance pushing for the restoration of the region’s statehood and special status, told The Wire that surveillance, as a concept, was not new for Kashmiris.To be sure, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. In the absence of digital forensics of specific devices, it is not possible to conclusively establish that the phones linked to these numbers were hacked.In all, about 25 people from the region were found on the list of potential targets, the website said.Also on the list was separatist leader and Hurriyat Conference chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, separatist leader Bilal Lone and former Delhi University professor SAR Geelani. Forensic analysis found traces of Pegasus software on Lone and Geelani’s phones, The Wire reported.“Hacking into people’s phone for surveillance, is a willful and direct violation of the universally acknowledged fundamental right to privacy a basic human right and those involved in it should be tried,” a Hurriyat spokesman said.J&K Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari’s brother Tariq Bukhari was also found on the list of potential suspects between 2017 and 2019. Bukhari was one of the 14 Kashmiri leaders who attended a landmark meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month.At least five Kashmiri journalists were named as well.The Pegasus row erupted on Sunday night after the consortium reported that India was among countries that used Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software to potentially target politicians, journalists and activists.The first report alleged that 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide. Subsequent reports said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and two sitting Union ministers – including Vaishnaw -- were on the list of potential targets.The allegations roiled Parliament. The government as well as the BJP refused any wrongdoing and insisted that India had a well-established protocol for tapping telephones and it was used only for national security. But the Opposition called for a separate probe into the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muftis-kin-separatists-j-k-leaders-on-latest-pegasus-list-101627060568595.html
24-07-2021||India||It’s treason: Rahul on snooping row; targets PM, Shah||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah of using Pegasus spyware against “India, its institutions and its democracy”, and said that the only word for this is “treason”.He added every phone that he uses is tapped and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe and Shah’s resignation.“Pegasus is classified by the Israeli state as a weapon and that weapon is supposed to be used against terrorists. The prime minister and the home minister have used this weapon against the Indian state and our institutions. They have used it politically...”Also Read | Ensure justice, in the courts and beyond“The home minister should resign and a judicial inquiry by the Supreme Court should be conducted against Narendra Modi as no one else can authorise the use of Pegasus… only the prime minister and home minister can authorise its use.” He described himself as an “open book” and said he is not intimidated. Gandhi added he and his friends have been informed by the Intelligence Bureau (IB) that tapping is being done.“I get phone calls from IB people who tap my phone. They call me up and say please be aware we are tapping your phone.” He added his security people have to report to their seniors everything he says. “So I am under no pretension that my phone is not tapped,” Gandhi said his phone has been tapped three-four times.He called the alleged use of the spyware an “attack on the voice of the people”. Gandhi added it is not just a matter of his privacy. “It (his phone) is not a potential target; my phone is tapped. It is clearly tapped. So, it is not a potential target.” He only the corrupt people fear Modi. “But if you are not corrupt, you will not fear Modi… you tend to laugh.”Bharatiya Janata Party leader Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore dared Gandhi to submit his phone for investigation if he believes it was tapped and insisted that no one’s phone has been tapped illegally.Rathore said the Congress is determined to stall Parliament for one reason or another after being rejected twice by people in Lok Sabha polls of 2014 and 2019.The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those potentially targeted by its clients.Congress’s Pawan Khera said, “The defence being put up by the Government and the BJP is worse than the silence of the PM.’’ Reiterating their demand for a judicial inquiry, Khera pointed out that other countries had ordered one as revelations from the consortium of journalists surfaced. “The French cabinet has met to discuss the investigation on the Pegasus-Gate; As we speak the Mexican Government has already launched an investigation; As we speak the Israeli Government has already ordered an enquiry and is looking at reviewing the export rules for NSO’s Pegasus. If not anything, this adds to the credibility of the expose,’’ he said.The leaked database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices associated with 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of the 37, 10 were in India.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-treason-no-other-word-for-this-rahul-gandhi-on-pegasus-project-101627036027107.html
24-07-2021||NA||Parliament monsoon session 2021 updates: Lok Sabha adjourned till Monday over Pegasus ruckus||A day after high-voltage protests were seen in Parliament, opposition parties on Friday are likely to continue objecting to the alleged targeting of phones by the government using Pegasus spyware. The Day 5 of the monsoon session is likely to witness discussions on The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, and The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021.According to the Lok Sabha website, at least 20 questions will be asked to the MPs from holding charge of ministries of AYUSH, earth sciences, environment, forest and climate change, health and family welfare, information and broadcasting; science and technology, textiles, women and child development.The health ministry is also expected to answer questions on India's Covid-19 vaccination strategy for the country's population and the likely third wave.However, opposition parties have stated that they will lodge their objection to the government's alleged involvement in snooping on 38 Indian journalists, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and two sitting Union ministers.Follow all the updates here:Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day over uproar by opposition on snooping rowRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day amid uproar by opposition parties over Pegasus snooping rowProceedings of the Rajya Sabha has been adjourned for the day following uproar by the opposition over the Pegasus snooping issue, reports PTI.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2.30 pmLok Sabha adjourned till MondayLok Sabha adjourned till Monday amid uproar and protests in the House over 'Pegasus Project' media report and other issues.'My phone was tapped': Rahul Gandhi outside ParliamentGandhi demanded a Supreme Court monitored probe into the matter. Addressing reporters at Vijay Chowk, he also demanded the resignation of the home minister.He said all his phones have been tapped and his friends informed by intelligence people that this is being done."Pegasus is classified by the Israeli state as a weapon and that weapon is supposed to be used against terrorists. The prime minister and the home minister have used this weapon against the Indian state and our institutions. They have used it politically, they have used it in Karnataka..," he told reporters.Not the time to do politics: Health minister Mansukh MandaviyaPM has said many times not to politicise vaccination programme. It's our aim to vaccinate every 18+ citizen in the country. This is not the time to do politics: Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Lok SabhaTMC MP Shantanu Sen suspended from Rajya SabhaTMC MP Shantanu Sen suspended from Rajya Sabha for remaining part of monsoon session after motion passed in House'Deeply distressed': RS Chairman Venkaiah Naidu on ruckus in ParliamentI'm deeply distressed by the course of events in House. Unfortunately, proceedings of the House hit a new low with papers being snatched from the Minister and torn into pieces. Such actions are clear assault on our Parliamentary democracy: Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah NaiduLok Sabha adjourned till 12pmLok Sabha adjourned till 12pm amid uproar in the House by Opposition MPs.Only word for use of Pegasus is ‘treason’: Rahul GandhiRahul Gandhi on Saturday said that the only word for use of Pegasus is ‘treason’ and called for the resignation of Union home minister Amit Shah.Congress MPs continue protest over PegasusCongress MPs protesting against #PegasusSnoopGate at Parliament House on FridayCPI(M) MP gives suspension of business notice over PegasusCPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem gives notice under Rule 267 in Rajya Sabha to suspend the business and discuss 'Pegasus Project' media report.Congress' Deepender Singh Hooda gives suspension of business noticeCongress MP Deepender Singh Hooda has given suspension of Business notice in Rajya Sabha over farmers' agitation over three farm laws.Government to introduce two bills in Lok SabhaThe Day 5 of the monsoon session is likely to witness discussions on The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, and The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-live-updates-oppn-protests-over-pegasus-likely-to-continue-today-101627007231854.html
24-07-2021||NA||Highlights: Bharat Biotech terminates MOU with 2 Brazilian pharma companies||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Today's top news: >Navjot Singh Sidhu takes charge as Punjab Congress chief> President Kovind approves appointment of vice chancellors of 12 central universities> Lok Sabha adjourned till July 26 amid opposition uproar over Pegasus hacking controversy> Second extortion case filed against ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh > TMC MP Santanu Sen suspended from Rajya Sabha for remaining duration of Monsoon session of Parliament> Covid-19 patient in Vadodra dies days after Gujarat high court's nod to sperm collection> India's daily Covid cases drop to 35,342; 483 more deaths addedFollow all the updates here:Bharat Biotech terminates MOU with 2 Brazilian pharma companiesBharat Biotech announced termination of its MOU with two Brazilian pharma companies Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals. The company said it will continue to work with ANVISA, the Brazilian drug regulator, to complete the regulatory approval process for the vaccineBengal MLA Vivek Gupta’s wife’s mobile, valuables stolenWest Bengal MLA Vivek Gupta’s wife’s mobile, valuables stolen by bikers at Defence Colony, ANI reported citing Delhi Police. Gupta's wife was asked to check the tyres, and when She and the driver got down, her bag containing cash, phone, a golden coin and documents was stolen.Reliance Jio Q1 net profit up 45 pc to ₹3,651 croreReliance Jio Q1 net profits were up 45% to ₹3,651 crore, the company said in a statement on Friday. Jio's revenue has also grown to ₹18,952 crore, the company added.Maharashtra records 6,753 cases of Covid-19, 167 deathsMaharashtra recorded 6,753 cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the state-wide tally to 6,251,810. In the last 24 hours 167 deaths were also recorded and the death toll now stands at 131,205.US Secretary of State to visit India on July 27 and 28US Secretary of State, Antony J Blinken, will visit India on July 27 and July 28, the ministry of external affairs said on Friday. This will be his first visit to the country after assuming charge. He is scheduled to meet foreign minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on July 28.Maldives foreign minister Abdulla Shahid calls on PM ModiPresident-Elect of 76th UNGA & Maldives Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid calls on PM Narendra Modi in New Delhi"I wish him all success during his 'Presidency of Hope'. Also reiterated India's commitment to Maldives, as a key pillar of our 'Neighborhood First' policy," PM tweets pic.twitter.com/onXUfJiHLMHimachal Pradesh to reopen schools for classes 10-12 from Aug 2Himachal Pradesh will be reopening schools from August 2 for both day schools and residential schools from August 2 for classes 10 to 12, reported ANI.Schools in Andhra Pradesh to reopen from August 16Schools in Andhra Pradesh will open for the academic year 2021-22 from August 16, government sources told PTI.Delhi reports 58 new cases of Covid-19, 1 deathDelhi reported 58 new cases of Covid-19 after a total of 67,817 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, the positivity rate now stands at 0.09%. 1 death and 69 recoveries have also been recorded; active caseload now stands at 573.Migrant boat sinks off Turkey with 45 on board, reports AFP#BREAKING Migrant boat sinks off Turkey with 45 on board pic.twitter.com/kd7dZzGVRRDeath toll in Taliye landslide incident rises to 36, equal number of people fear trapped, says ministerThe death toll in Taliye landslide incident has gone upto 36 and an equal number of people are feared to be trapped. The villagers of Taliye had been relocated a few days back to safer location considering the risky terrain. However the locals moved back to same place before landslide incident, the state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said.Mamata Banerjee made chairperson of TMC Parliamentary partyTrinamool Congress (TMC) Parliamentary Party has unanimously decided to make chief minister Mamata Banerjee the chairperson of its Parliamentary party, Member of Parliament Derek O' Brien said on Friday.PM Modi announces an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each for kins of Raigad landslide victimsPM @narendramodi has announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured.Karnataka HC quashes notice sent by UP Police to Twitter India MDThe Karnataka high court quashed the notice sent by UP police to Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari under Section 41A of CrPC in connection with a video related to assault on an elderly man in Ghaziabad. The court also allowed Maheshwari to record his statement via virtual mode, reported ANI.DRDO successfully tests Akash-NG Missile second time in two daysSecond time in two days, DRDO successfully tests Akash-NG Missile in BalasoreRead @ANI Story | https://t.co/r6UvlqPzYq pic.twitter.com/DyOxcVFNKeSC dismisses Delhi Jal Board's contempt petition against HaryanaThe Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the contempt petition filed by Delhi Jal Board (DJB) against Haryana for not providing enough water to keep the Wazirabad reservoir full. The Court said while dismissing the petition that reasons for doing so will follow in an order to be passed later. The DJB had alleged that as per February 1996 judgment of SC, Haryana was required to ensure that Wazirabad water reservoir continues to have 450 cusecs and any shortfall will trigger drinking water crisis in the National Capital.Kerala HC extends Covid restrictions in the state till Aug 9The Kerala high court extended all interim orders passed by it regarding Covid-19 restrictions by another two weeks. As per today's order the restrictions will be in force till August 9, reported ANI.Prez approves appointment of VCs of 12 central universitiesPresident Ram Nath Kovind has approved the appointment of Vice Chancellors of 12 central universities. Navjot Singh Sidhu takes charge as Punjab Congress chiefNavjot Singh Sidhu has taken charge as the president of the Congress party's Punjab unit. Lok Sabha adjourned till July 26 amid opposition uproar over Pegasus hacking controversyThe Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till July 26 as opposition parties continued to target the Centre over the Pegasus hacking controversy. Taliban claim of controlling 90% of Afghan border 'absolute lie': Govt#BREAKING Taliban claim of controlling 90% of Afghan border is 'absolute lie': Kabul government pic.twitter.com/IEBDXdny46The Kabul government on Friday dismissed Taliban's claim that 90% of Afghan border is under their control, according to news agency AFP.2nd extortion case filed against ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir SinghA second case of extortion has been registered against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. A total of six people were named in the FIR, for allegedly demanding ₹2 crores from a man, news agency ANI reported. Sidhu bonds with Capt Amarinder Singh over tea before taking chargePutting up a united show after months of bitter exchanges over social media, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his Navjot Singh Sidhu interacted warmly and bonded over breakfast at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh on Friday morning. Read more3 Congress workers headed for Navjot Singh Sidhu’s coronation killed in bus mishapThree Congress workers headed for Chandigarh to attend the coronation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab unit chief were killed and more than 10 were injured when two buses collided at Lohara Chowk in Moga on the Jalandhar-Barnala road on Friday morning. Read moreIMD predicts heavy rainfall in several areas of TelanganaThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday has predicted heavy rainfall in twelve districts of Telangana. "Red alert in three districts including Kumuram Bheem, Jagtial, Warangal, and Orange alert in nine districts of the state," the IMD said. Zomato makes strong stock market debut, jumps over 53% above offer priceZomato shares on Friday listed at ₹116 per piece on BSE and surged nearly 53 per cent premium from IPO price of ₹76. Zomato, which brought forward its listing date, had a market valuation of ₹90,219.57 crore at the debut price. Read more2 dead, 8 injured in building collapse in Mumbai's Govandi areaThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday that two people died eight were injured after a ground plus one structure collapsed in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi.India's daily Covid cases drop to 35,342; 483 more deaths addedIndia's daily tally of the Covid-19 disease saw a significant fall on Friday after 35,342 cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 31,293,062, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. As many as 483 people succumbed to the viral disease and 38,740 recovered, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 419,470 and 30,468,079. The active cases have further declined to 405,513 and constitute 1.30 per cent of the caseload.Only 'symbolic snan' in Haridwar on Guru PurnimaThe Haridwar district administration said on Friday that in view of the Covid-19 disease pandemic, only a symbolic 'snan' will be held in Haridwar on July 24 on the occasion of Guru Purnima, adding only Shri Ganga Sabha' and Teerth Purohit will be allowed to participate. "Devotees will be allowed in Haridwar if they produce a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours, but they won't be allowed in the 'snan'," the administration further said. Indian American Shrina Kurani announces bid for Congress from CaliforniaIndian American Democrat Shrina Kurani has said she will challenge 15-term Republican Ken Calvert in California’s 42nd Congressional District for the mid-term elections in November 2022. Read moreSouth Korea to extend distancing rules in Seoul for 2 more weeksSouth Korea, which is currently battling its worst phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, said on Friday that it will extend the toughest distancing rules imposed on the greater Seoul area for another two weeks.Gunshots heard in Washington DC, 2 injuredAt least two people were injured in a shooting in a busy area in Washington, DC, on Thursday as the sound of gunshots forced others to flee the market, according to local reports. Read moreMumbai rains: IMD places city under orange alert for todayThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has placed Mumbai under an orange alert for Friday, indicating “heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places”. IMD has further issued a yellow alert for July 24 and 25, indicating heavy rain at isolated places. Read moreSidhu to take charge as Punjab Congress chief today; Amarinder to attend eventNavjot Singh Sidhu is set to take charge on Friday as the president of the Congress unit in Punjab, replacing Sunil Jakhar on the post. Chief minister Amarinder Singh will attend the "installation ceremony" along with other party leaders, news agencies reported. Read moreGunmen kill over 100 civilians in Afghanistan's Kandahar provinceTOLO News agency reported on Thursday that more than 100 civilians were killed by a group of gunmen in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar province in Afghanistan, with the interior ministry blaming Taliban for the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-23-2021-101627001620790.html
