25-07-2021||India||AIADMK’s top two to meet PM Modi today||Chennai: In a first, AIADMK leaders Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam will together meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Monday, in which party leaders say they would discuss recent developments in Tamil Nadu after the DMK defeated the NDA alliance and formed the government in May. The meeting also comes in the backdrop of the DMK initiating raids against former AIADMK minister for transport, MR Vijayabhaskar, last week. Officials from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) raided 26 places linked to him on July 22, seized ₹25,56,000 in cash and incriminating documents, and filed a case including charges of disproportionate assets. The AIADMK had called it a political vendetta. One of the DMK’s election promises is to establish a special court to prosecute top AIADMK ministers, including Palaniswami and Panneerselvam, on charges of corruption. In retaliation, the AIADMK plans to protest across Tamil Nadu on July 28 against the DMK not fulfilling its election promises, such as abolishing NEET and cutting fuel prices.“The meeting has been in discussion for about the past 10 days and we received an appointment now,” said a senior AIADMK leader not wishing to be identified. “They are likely to speak about the raids and the political situation since local body elections are also coming up.”The meeting will be keenly watched as the AIADMK was criticised as being puppeted by the BJP’s central leadership when Panneerselvam and Palaniswami occupied the chief minister’s chair, analysts say. Panneerselvam had confirmed much of this speculation when in 2018 he said that he patched up with Palaniswami on Modi’s advice. While their dual leadership continues in the party and as they stay united amidst the threat of expelled leader VK Sasikala, the tensions between the two have still not completely resolved, analysts say. Sasikala has been making the AIADMK uncomfortable with her attempts to take over the party reins. After her phone diplomacy, last week Sasikala went on a first political outing to a hospital to visit AIADMK’s presidium chairman E Madhusudhanan who was in the ICU. Palaniswami, who was also in the hospital at the same time, had left immediately when he knew of her coming. Madhusudhanan had rebelled against Sasikala and sided with Panneerselvam back in 2017 when the party was divided following J Jayalalithaa’s death in office in 2016. Madhusudhanan was also the petitioner who succeeded in getting the Election Commission to allot the AIADMK party name and two-leaves symbol to the Palaniswami-Panneerselvam camp.Panneerselvam who left for Delhi on Sunday morning is said to be with his family as his son and member of parliament OP Ravindranath has moved to the government-provided residence in the capital. Palaniswami has followed him and the meeting is scheduled for 11am.“It’s a courtesy call,” said AIADMK’s spokesperson C Vaigaichelvan. “We haven’t received any information on the agenda as yet, but this is the first time that the two leaders are meeting together in Delhi.” Recently the AIADMK had to quickly douse a problem with the BJP when former law minister CV Shunmugam blamed the national party for their poll debacle by saying that they lost minority votes. The state BJP leaders immediately retorted that the AIADMK was to blame. The AIADMK then sought to clarify that their alliance with the BJP will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmks-top-two-to-meet-pm-modi-today-101627237768911.html
25-07-2021||India||DMK allies Congress, VCK accuse TN governor of discrimination||Chennai: The allies of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Congress and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) have accused the Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit of being a member of the Sangh Parivar after the Raj Bhavan released photos of his with new JP state president K Annamalai on Friday.Criticising Purohit, Congress and VCK leaders said that the governor was behaving with a political bias as he refused to take photos with them earlier in July when they had visited him to submit petitions. The governor, they said, informed them that he has stopped clicking pictures of his meetings.“We can’t insist that he take photos with us but if it is his policy, he has to be consistent. This is a clear case of discrimination,” said VCK MP D Ravikumar. “By taking photos only with BJP leaders and releasing them he is openly showing his political alliance which is in contradiction to his post. A constitutional authority should be neutral,” he said.Tamil Nadu Mahila Congress also condemned the governor and asked him to explain why he was acknowledging only one political party. “Governors are constitutional entities who must transcend political and communal affiliations but he posed for a photograph with the BJP like a committed Sangh Parivar member,” said R Sudha, state president, Tamil Nadu Mahila Congress. A Congress delegation of two MPs, S Thirunavukkarasar, S Jothimani, legislative party leader K Selvaperunthagai and Sudha had met the governor on July 8 to submit a petition against fuel price hikes. She said that their phones were also taken away to be sanitised.Ravikumar said that even back in 2019, they were not allowed to take photos with him. “We had met him in September 2019 to submit a petition for the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case and we requested for a photo because it is news and we wanted to keep a record. We do that when we meet union ministers also,” he said. On July 8, VCK founder president and MP Thol Thirumavalan met the governor to submit a petition to give representation for Adi Dravida community while appointing vice chancellors in universities that are under the Department of Higher Education on the basis of social justice. “Because the governor is also the chancellor of universities, this petition was submitted to him,” says Ravikumar who wasn’t present at this meeting. “Is the Raj Bhavan a Sanghi retreat,” tweeted VCK’s deputy general secretary, Vanni Arasu.An official from the Governor’s office who did not wish to be named said that they are aware of the issue but they have no comments on it.Purohit was appointed as governor of the state in September 2017 and he has been embroiled in controversies in the past particularly with the DMK staging several protests in the past when they were in the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-allies-congress-vck-accuse-tn-governor-of-discrimination-101627237707546.html
25-07-2021||India||Flood situation in K’taka remains grim, 10 dead till now||Bengaluru: Ten people were killed and three others are missing in the flood-affected regions of Karnataka, revenue minister R Ashok told reporters on Sunday. The weather department has issued a red alert for seven districts in the coastal areas of Karnataka, predicting three more days of rainfall. As many as 22,417 people have been rehabilitated in 237 relief camps set up in this region in the rains. According to the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, as many as 283 villages in 45 taluks were the worst affected due to widespread rains, which have impacted more than 36,498 people. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday visited the flood-affected areas along with R Ashok. “I assure the people that the government is with them. I have spoken with all concerned officials and compensation will be given to all those affected due to the floods,” the CM told reporters during an interaction in Belagavi. He also said that officials are in touch with the Maharashtra government over the release of water from dams in the neighbouring state that have a direct impact on the flood situation in the northern districts of Karnataka. According to the data released by KSDMA, more than 3,502 electric poles have been uprooted and 342 transformers were damaged due to which electricity supply in several villages has been disrupted. R Ashok said that 59,000 hectares of agriculture crops and around 2,000 hectares of horticulture crops were submerged due to excess release of water and heavy rains in the north Karnataka region. “As many as 134 houses have collapsed, 2,480 houses partially, while 213 schools have been partially damaged due to excess rains in the region,” he further explained. Thousands of people were evacuated from danger zones after eight landslides, including one that derailed a train, were witnessed a day prior. Karnataka sounded a red alert on Friday night in the districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, and Kodagu. An orange alert was also raised in the Belagavi and Dharwad districts. The CM on Saturday had directed the district in-charge ministers to stay put in their respective districts and monitor the relief and rescue operations in the areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-situation-in-k-taka-remains-grim-10-dead-till-now-101627237648718.html
25-07-2021||India||Graphic artist Anand Radhakrishnan wins prestigious Eisner award||Mumbai-based graphic artist Anand Radhakrishnan, 32, has won the prestigious Will Eisner Comic Industry Award, considered the Oscars equivalent of the comics world.The Eisner Awards are given out annually and the award won by Radhakrishnan -- Best Painter/Multimedia Artist (interior art) -- recognises the creator of a graphic novel’s art and images. Radhakrishnan shares the award with UK-based colourist John Pearson. They won for their work on UK-based author Ram V’s 145-page graphic novel Blue In Green, published in October 2020 by Image Comics.The mixed-media images, created using pencil, ink and acrylic paint, are hauntingly realistic portrayals of a young musician’s self-doubt and struggles in pursuit of creative success. “Blue In Green is about existential dread, an artist’s insecurity. The story is slow-paced and subdued and the images complement the narrative,” Radhakrishnan told HT. “They are very realistic in terms of the proportions and anatomy and the images are a little hazy as well.”Winning an Eisner is great validation, he adds. “I work from home and very few people get to see what I do. But when Eisner acknowledges you, you realise that people are looking at your work. It’s made me feel that what I do has meaning.”He’s hoping the recognition will draw attention to the graphic novel in general too. “I strongly believe that if there is a consolidated effort to push graphic novels, they have the potential to become as big in India as Manga is in Japan,” Radhakrishnan says.The Mahim resident is currently working on another graphic novel, Radio Apocalypse, also with Ram V. It is the tale of a radio station and crew that have survived the apocalypse. The book is set for release in October.The Eisner Awards were founded in 1988 by American comics editor Dave Olbrich, in response to the discontinuation of the popular Kirby Awards for comics in 1987. The Eisners are named in honour of the pioneering writer and artist Will Eisner. The awards are announced each year at the San Diego Comic-Con.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/graphic-artist-anand-radhakrishnan-wins-prestigious-eisner-award-101627237467587.html
25-07-2021||India||Minors gang-rape UP teen, hold brother hostage||MEERUT: Four minor boys allegedly gang-raped a 15-year-old girl after holding her 12-year-old brother hostage at gunpoint in Muzaffarnagar’s district Jogiakhera village, police said. According to police, on Friday night one of the accused entered the survivor’s house through the roof when she and her brother were alone. He then helped his three associates enter the house, police added. The accused, assaulted the minor girl and recorded the act, threatening to make the video public if she approached the police, officials said. The girl informed her parents about the incident on Saturday and they filed a complaint, said Atul Srivastav, SP (rural) of Muzaffarnagar. “We have held three of the four named accused and raids are underway to nab the remaining one,” said Srivastav. The SP added that a case against the Indian Penal Code Section 376d (punishment for rape) and the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. SP said the police are enquiring about keeping the girl’s brother hostage and additional sections would be added after examining circumstantial evidence.The police, late on Sunday night, said they have detained the fourth accused as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minors-gang-rape-up-teen-hold-brother-hostage-101627236988046.html
25-07-2021||India||Afghanistan, Pak support to terror on visit agenda||New Delhi The fallout of the drawdown of US troops on the security situation in Afghanistan and the need to pressure Pakistan on terror financing and sanctuaries for terrorists will be on the agenda for US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s visit to India this week. The two sides are expected to discuss ways to deepen defence collaboration, including exercises, defence transfers and technologies, as part of preparations for the fourth 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers to be held in the US later this year, people familiar with planning for the visit said on condition of anonymity on Sunday. Blinken is the third senior member of the Biden administration to visit India after defense secretary Lloyd Austin in March and special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry in April. During his two-day visit, he will meet external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on July 28. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to be one of the main topics on the agenda for Blinken’s discussions with his Indian interlocutors because of the rapidly deteriorating security situation in the country in the aftermath of an offensive by the Taliban to capture territory and crucial border crossings with Pakistan, Iran and Uzbekistan. India is concerned about the instability in Afghanistan spilling over into parts of the region and Pakistani terrorists from Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed currently fighting alongside the Taliban turning their attention towards Kashmir. “On the regional security situation, the implications of the withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan, and the need for sustained pressure on Pakistan over terror financing and terror havens will be part of the agenda,” one of the people cited above said. India attaches considerable importance to Blinken’s visit, which will be an opportunity to take forward the conversation with the US on bilateral and regional issues and tackling the Covid-19 crisis and other international developments. With regard to Covid-19, the people said discussions will cover containing the pandemic, supply of vaccine raw materials, and economic recovery efforts. “India will continue to push for ensuring open and consistent supply chains for materials and items needed for vaccine production, as the country ramps up production for both domestic vaccination and global supplies thereafter,” the person cited above said. The need for resilient supply chains for critical medicines and healthcare equipment is also likely to come up, the person said. The Indian side will also press for gradual resumption of international travel while maintaining health protocols, especially easing the mobility of students, professionals and business travellers, and allowing travel for family reunions and humanitarian issues. As part of the focus on the Indo-Pacific region, the two sides will discuss ways to deepen engagement under the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, including the possibility of a meeting of foreign ministers of India, Australia, Japan and the US later this year. The two sides will also take forward the Quad vaccine partnership, which was launched at the first virtual summit of the group in March, to enable the supply of made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to countries in the Indo-Pacific from early 2022, the people said. The two sides will exchange assessments about the Indo-Pacific region, with the focus on Covid-19-related assistance, economic slowdown and the security scenario. The latest developments in West Asia and Central Asia are also likely to be covered. This is Blinken’s first visit to India after assuming office and it reciprocates external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s trip to the US in May. The two ministers have also met in the UK on the margins of a G7 meeting and in Italy on the sidelines of a G20 meet. Other issues that are expected to be part of the discussions are augmenting trade and investment and tapping opportunities in healthcare, education, the digital domain, innovation and security. Climate change too will be a key area, especially the potential for green collaborations, climate finance and transfer of clean technologies to developing countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-pak-support-to-terror-on-visit-agenda-101627236987525.html
25-07-2021||India||10 things to know about Telangana's Ramappa temple, the new Unesco site||Telangana's Ramappa temple has been conferred with a World Heritage inscription on Sunday, making it the 39th World Heritage Site of India, The decision was taken at the 44th session of the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO. Ramappa temple was India's only nomination for the UNESCO World Heritage site tag for the year 2019.1. The temple was constructed in 1213 AD during the Kakatiya Empire by Recharla Rudra, a general of Kakatiya king Ganapati Deva.2. The presiding deity of the temple in RamalingeswaraSwamy.3. The temple was named after Ramappa, the chief sculptor. According to the Telangana government's website, this is probably the only temple in the country to be known by the name of its sculptor.4. It is said that the temple is built with bricks that are so light that they can float on water. The bricks were believed to be made spongy using something like saw-dust.5. It took nearly 40 years to complete the temple, according to the Telangana government's website.6. The temple stands on a 6-feet high star-shaped platform with walls, pillars and ceilings adorned with intricate carvings which are the hallmarks of the Kakatiya sculptors.7. The carvings -- mythical animals, female dancers -- are considered as masterpieces of Kakatiya art.8. European merchants and travelers were mesmerized by the beauty of the temple and one such traveler had remarked that the temple was the "brightest star in the galaxy of medieval temples of the Deccan", the PIB release said.9. At the entrance of the temple, there is Nandi vigraham.10. It is claimed that the main structure of the temple survived a major earthquake during the 17th century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-things-to-know-about-telangana-s-ramappa-temple-the-new-unesco-site-101627230699792.html
25-07-2021||India||'Covid-19 infections can increase any time': Doctors on third wave||Health experts said that despite a large number of people building immunity against Covid-19 due to previous infections or vaccinations, people cannot afford to lower their guard against Covid-19. Experts highlighted the need for following Covid-19 preventative measures strictly to avoid a second wave-like crisis.AIIMS Delhi’s Dr Yudhyavir Singh who manages the Covid-19 ICU said the lifting of restrictions is necessary to resume economic activities at a time when cases are low but he highlighted the need of following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Singh also said that Delhi may have already achieved herd immunity, considering the massive number of cases seen during the second wave, according to a report by news agency PTI.Dr Pooja Khosla who is a senior consultant, department of medicine, at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said Covid-19 second wave taught people that an increase in cases can happen suddenly.“There are warning signs from different parts of the world. In India too, a small increase in cases has been recorded. Infections can increase exponentially at any time. I think one should not assume anything and make all efforts to prevent a second wave-like crisis, which was a nightmare,” Khosla was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. She further added that reopening everything is not appropriate since everyone is speculating that the third wave is not so far away.However, another expert said that despite breakthrough infections among vaccinated people the severity of the infections will be lesser. “Even if there are breakthrough infections among vaccinated people, the severity will be less and hospitals will not be overwhelmed,” Pragya Sharma, professor at the department of community medicine at the Maulana Azad Medical College said. She pointed out that preventative measures, as well as pace of vaccination, will be vital in decreasing the severity of infections among people in the third wave.Sharma also highlighted that people have a callous approach towards Covid-19 preventative measures. “People either don't wear masks or don't wear them properly. Most of them use cloth masks, which doesn't serve any purpose. There is hardly any vigil being maintained in crowded areas,” Sharma further added. She also said that people are not turning up for vaccination as expected.Dr Jugal Kishore said that 80% people have immunity against the virus either due to previous infection or due to vaccination. “The Delta variant of coronavirus was responsible for up to 60 per cent of the cases during the second wave. We haven't observed any major difference between 'Delta' and 'Delta Plus' variants. So, a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases is not expected, until a new, more infectious variant emerges,” Kishore who is head of the community medicine department said.Kishore highlighted that at least 30% of the population of Delhi, who have either not been infected or did not develop enough antibodies despite getting vaccinated due to various reasons, could get infected.“Two cases are possible – first, the virus continues to infect people slowly until herd immunity is attained, and second, a new, more infectious variant leads to an increase in cases till everyone has immunity. But it seems the third wave won't be as severe as the second,” Kishore said.He further added that the possibility of a new variant bypassing immunity achieved through vaccination and previous infection could lead to major problems. He also said that if people from rural areas are coming to Delhi and those who have remained isolated so far are stepping out into crowded places there is a possibility of a spike in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-infections-can-increase-any-time-doctors-on-third-wave-101627233878866.html
25-07-2021||India||'Moment of pride': Pakistan's Sikh body hopes Sidhu's elevation will help reopen Kartarpur corridor||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu's elevation as the Punjab Congress chief has made Pakistan's Sikh body proud and it hopes that Sidhu would be instrumental in reopening the Kartarpur corridor after it was closed owing to the Coronavirus pandemic. Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee's general secretary Amir Singh in a video message congratulated Sidhu and said the 'lehnda (West) Punjab' is equally happy for Sidhu's new appointment."This is the pride of the entire Sikh community," Amir Singh said adding that Sidhu played a crucial role in the opening of Gurdwara Kartarapur Sahib in 2019. "But I have an appeal as well. Sidhu should also take up the matter of reopening the corridor from the Indian side. We hope that you will address this issue with the same enthusiasm.""I also hope that like you went to seek the blessings from Golden Temple after becoming Punjab Congres chief, you will come to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib through this corridor to seek blessings," Amir Singh said.On November 9, 2019, Sidhu attended the inauguration ceremony of the Kartarpur Corridor in Pakistan and stole the show displaying bonhomie with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan. His speech in which he equally praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Imran Khan for the Kartarpur project, went viral. "I came to thank mera yaar who transformed mere babe da ghar (my Guru’s place) into heaven in months...Punjabis on both sides suffered the pain of Partition. Modi and Khan have applied balm...I may have political differences but I will give Modi a Munna Bhai MBBS ki jhappi (hug)," he had said.The corridor was closed from both sides on March 16, 2020 in the wake of the Covid-19. While Pakistan had opened the shrine in October 2020, India is not allowing pilgrimage registration. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee already urged the government to reopen Kartarpur pilgrimage when all other religious sites in the country reopened after the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistans-sikh-body-hopes-sidhu-s-elevation-will-help-reopen-kartarpur-corridor-101627231848672.html
25-07-2021||India||Kerala reports 2 more Zika virus cases; total tally rises to 48: Health minister||Two more persons have tested positive for the Zika virus in Kerala, thereby taking the overall infection tally to 48 in the state, health minister Veena George said on Sunday.Of these 48 infected people, a total of four are active patients, George added.The fresh cases have been detected in a 27-year-old resident from Kazhakoottam, and a 37-year-old from Pangappara – both in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram, a government release stated.The presence of the virus in their samples was found after tests were conducted at the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College’s virology laboratory. Moreover, none of the infected patients in the state are admitted in hospital and all are stable as well, the release added.Kerala on Saturday had reported two fresh cases of Zika virus, following which the cumulative tally stood at 46. In a statement, the state government said that till July 24, the active case count in Kerala was five, according to Livemint.To combat the increasing number of Zika virus cases in Kerala amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the health minister had earlier ordered intensification of activities such as fogging for mosquitoes, in affected areas. She said that the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation and the district administration would be “fogging for the next seven days,” as per the Livemint report.Notably, the first case of the Zika virus was confirmed in Kerala on July 9.Meanwhile, the state recorded 17,466 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases so far to 3,271,530, according to the bulletin update by the state government. As many as 66 new fatalities were reported, following which, the death toll now stands at 16,035. A total of 15,247 fresh recoveries have taken the total number of recovered patients to 3,114,716. The state’s active caseload currently is 140,276, the government bulletin showed.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-2-more-zika-virus-cases-total-tally-rises-to-48-health-minister-101627230742888.html
25-07-2021||India||Vijay Diwas: Kargil is more than a place and war for me, says battle hero’s daughter born three months after sacrifice||Aparajita Acharya was born three months after her father Maj Padmapani Acharya, MVC, was killed in action in the Kargil war. But not having him around never came in the way of her bond with him. “I have never met or seen my father but have conversations with him in my mind since childhood. I am told that our choices in a lot of things are quite similar. I think we would’ve bonded very well if he were alive and I would have endless things to tell him. But one thing that remains the same despite his presence or absence in physical form is the fact that I love him, I am proud of him. He is my hero and the best father in the world,” says Aparajita, a law student in Hyderabad. “While it is simple genetics at play when people say I look like him, I am blessed that my face reminds people of someone so great. My family believes that there is a bit of him living in me. Our food choices, the way we laugh, the kind of books we enjoy, some of our hobbies and surprisingly – our handwriting in Hindi is very similar. These are things I was not aware of but revealed by my family eventually. It makes me happy,” adds Aparajita, who grew up on stories about her father, how he was an absolute prankster, admired for his sense of humour, loved for his charisma and of course, the valiant soldier he was. “I admire his optimism even in the face of death. Until Maj Vivek Gupta’s news came on TV, the family did not know that the unit was fighting in such a heated sector in the war. He never spoke about the kind of danger he was in and his letters spoke of joyous things, beautiful values and concern for the family,” she says. Beyond the battlefield, he had a magnetic personality that left a lasting imprint on people he met. “I am told that he loved animals and reading books. In his letters, he would very fondly talk about our pet boxer Kajal (his first daughter by all means), who people actually mistake to be my elder sister. This love for animals is an integral part of our entire family. My biggest learning from his life, his journey is how he played multiple roles at one given point of time so well. An excellent leader, spirited soldier, dutiful son, doting husband and brother, and a fantastic father. He made sure the 5 minutes he probably found once in a few days with sleepless nights in the face of such danger, he was there for his family. He believed in the duty and dharma of a warrior; a soldier inspired from the Gita that he told my mom to read when she was expecting me.They did not know my gender back then, but he lovingly referred to me as Mowgli from Jungle Book,” says Aparajita , who will soon turn 22.Growing up, every year on Vijay Diwas, she would see her grandparents giving several interviews motivating people to join the armed forces. People put garlands on her father’s bust and tributes poured in from across the nation. “Kargil, to me, is more than a place and war. It’s an aching, proud, yet landmark memory in the history of our soil. Kargil symbolises the spirit of fighting till victory - courageous, undefeatable spirit despite all odds. A quality I aspire to imbibe,” shares Aprajita.However, she points out that it is problematic that so many are clueless about the war. “I was born 3 months after my father’s martyrdom. Yet, growing up, most people in and around my age were and are unaware of the war and its significance. I think there must be an inclusion of the 4 wars India fought after becoming a Sovereign Republic. This also raises a point of accountability and surfacing of the truth. The generations to come must know why Kargil happened. The cost that this soil paid, with the lives and blood of its brave sons, to recapture our own posts in our Kargil. Only when we talk more, will Pakistan’s violative actions be brought to limelight,” she says. Aparajita has also written a book on her father, titled Our Babloo - The hero of Drass. “It was a journey of me discovering my father’s journey like never before. The stories my family, his friends and senior officers told show his growth and personality as a whole. His journey started ordinary but he ascended to heaven in glory. I believe he knew how to life his life to the fullest - every moment. He shows how nobody is born a hero and how it is simply one’s decisions and determination that define them.” Maj Acharya’s letters to his family are well remembered, and even available online. Aparajita says that the best thing in her book are indeed those letters. “ I love how he painted a vivid picture and captured one’s imagination with his choice of words. His letters reflected his concern for family, sense of humour, a brief yet witty reflection of his situation and his ability to see the beauty and small moments of joy around him - no matter what. His letters over the years right from his early days as an officer to his last letter show how he has grown as a person.”A few years ago, Aparajita visited the site where her father sacrificed his life. “The whole place feels powerful, the energies and spirit of the Indian Army echoing those mountains. I was overwhelmed and filled with pride. I left a message for my father somewhere in the range because I felt him holding my hand, giving me strength throughout,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-diwas-kargil-is-more-than-a-place-and-war-for-me-says-battle-hero-s-daughter-born-three-months-after-sacrifice-101627230931219.html
25-07-2021||India||28% Indians plan to travel during Aug-Sept amid fear of Covid third wave: Report||Amid the possible threat of a third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as many as 28 per cent Indians are planning to travel during August to September, a new survey has projected.Online platform LocalCircles conducted a survey in order to gauge the risk of a probable third wave of Covid-19, and also to understand people’s travel plans in the upcoming months. More than 18,000 responses from citizens living in 311 districts, with 68 per cent being men and the rest being women, were recorded.LocalCircles stated that while 28 per cent are planning to travel between August and September, five per cent have already made their bookings for accommodation. Meanwhile, as many as 9,146 people (63 per cent) said that they don’t have any plan to travel during these months. “Nine per cent said they’re undecided,” the platform said in a statement.“The government must continue to create awareness among people about limiting non-essential travel till the time the risk of a third Covid-19 wave greatly reduces,” the statement added.LocalCircles also said that it will submit the survey findings to both central and state governments in order for them to use the same as an input in formulating policies to mitigate the risk of Covid-19 third wave.Notably, a report by the State Bank of India (SBI) released earlier this month indicated that the third wave of coronavirus may hit the country from August, reaching its peak in September. “Going by the current data, India can experience daily Covid-19 cases around 10,000 somewhere around the second week of July. However, the cases can start rising by the second fortnight of August,” the report titled “Covid-19: the race to finishing line” and prepared by SBI Research, stated.India recorded 39,742 new cases on Sunday, up from Saturday’s 39,097 – thereby taking the country’s cumulative tally of the infection rates to 31,371,901, according to data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).Why do citizens want to travel amid a possible third wave?The LocalCircles survey also aimed to understand the reason why people travelled during the second wave of Covid-19 in order to analyse their travel plans in the forthcoming months. It found that many faced teething issues to cancel their plan due to the travel agent or the airline not refunding anything while some entirely lost their ticket amount. Some citizens were unable to retrieve a partial amount, and others were told to re-book the ticket for a later date, the survey showed.What kinds of travels do citizens plan?The LocalCircles survey found that 13 per cent of people want to enjoy a “holiday destination”, while 39 per cent said that they would like to “visit family and friends.” A total of 22 per cent citizens said that they have “other travel” plans.The report further stated that on an aggregate basis, of citizens with plans to travel during August to September, 54 per cent will be visiting friends and family and 26 per cent will be travelling to “holiday destinations”. Another 32 per cent citizens will be undertaking other kinds of travels, the statement noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-indians-plan-to-travel-during-aug-sept-amid-fear-of-covid-third-wave-report-101627229589624.html
25-07-2021||India||‘Senior citizens have right to property; son, daughter-in-law are licensees’: Calcutta HC||The Calcutta high court on Friday upheld the right of a senior citizen from Taherpur in Bengal’s Nadia district to reside in his house and said his son and daughter can be evicted as they are “at best licensees” living in the property. The right of a senior citizen to exclusively reside in his own house must be viewed from the prism of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the court said. The order was passed on July 23 by Justice Rajasekhar Mantha after he virtually heard lawyers representing petitioner Ramapada Basak and the state. “A nation that cannot take care of its aged, old and infirm citizens cannot be regarded as having achieved complete civilization,” the judge said. Acting on an order the court passed on July 12, the Taherpur police had escorted the petitioner’s son and daughter-in-law out of the property. The petitioner moved the court seeking their eviction. “It is now well settled that the children and their spouses living in the senior citizen’s house are at best “licensees”. Such licence comes to an end once the senior citizens are not comfortable with their children and their families,” Justice Mantha said in his order which referred to orders earlier passed by the Delhi High Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court in similar cases. “Two issues would come up for consideration. The first of which is the availability of an alternative remedy under the provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents Senior Citizens Act, 2007. The other is a right of a daughter-in-law of residence to be provided by either the husband or the father-in-law, if directed by a competent court under the provisions of the Domestic Violence Act, 2005,” said the order. Referring to an order from the Supreme Court, the high court order said, “In the instant case, it is seen that no right of residence has been sought under any statute by the daughter-in-law. Hence, this court is of the view that there is no impediment in allowing exclusive residentiary rights to the senior citizens and to direct eviction of the son and daughter-in-law.”“However, the right of a senior citizen to exclusively reside in his own house must be viewed from the prism of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. To compel a senior citizen to approach either a civil court (the jurisdiction of which is any way barred under Section 27 of the 2007 Act) or take recourse to a special Statute like the 2007 Act would in most cases be extremely erroneous and painful for a person in the sunset days of life,” said the order passed by Justice Mantha. “This court is therefore of the view that the principle of an alternative remedy cannot be strictly applied to senior citizens and a writ court must come to the aid of a senior citizen in a given case,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-citizens-have-right-to-property-son-daughter-in-law-are-licensees-calcutta-hc-101627227567304.html
25-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: China gets new World Heritage Site with links to Hinduism and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China gets new World Heritage Site with links to Hinduism, Tamil NaduAs many as 22 sites in the southeastern Chinese city of Quanzhou including a temple with links to Hinduism were included to the Unesco World Heritage List on Sunday. Read morePakistan’s great game in India and AfghanistanIt is a worn-down cliché to say that the 1999 Kargil war is a reminder to India that Pakistan can never be trusted. Can an enemy ever be trusted is the logical question to this surmise. Read moreI used the illegitimate children jibe because...': Salman Khurshid explainsSenior Congress leader Salman Khurshid said his illegitimate children jibe about Uttar Pradesh's draft population control bill was aimed at "grabbing eyeballs". Read moreFathers pay tribute to their martyred sons a day before Kargil Vijay DiwasAs the country gets ready to mark Kargil Vijay Diwas on July 26, fathers of the martyred Indian soldiers have been commemorating the sacrifices their sons made for the nation. Read moreIPL 2021: UAE leg to begin on September 19 with CSK vs MI match; final in Dubai on October 15The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Sunday announced the fixture of the remainder of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021, which is scheduled to be played in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Read moreMilind Soman mixes up Priya Malik’s gold medal with Tokyo Olympics, won’t delete tweet: ‘Ok to make a mistake’Model-actor Milind Soman made a gaffe as he congratulated wrestler Priya Malik on her gold medal at the World Cadet Wrestling Championships. He mistakenly wrote that she won a gold medal at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. Read moreTara Sutaria flaunts an hourglass figure in Dior’s Rs61k hot bikiniMaking heads turn and how, Bollywood actor Tara Sutaria set the Internet on fire and her latest set of hot pictures in a bikini are to be blamed. Tara grabbed eyeballs for her jaw-dropping look as she slipped into the black and white bikini from Dior and her steamy photoshoot is enough to back our claim. Read moreWho can replace Yediyurappa in Karnataka? A look at the CM hopefulsUncertainty looms over the continuation of BS Yediyurappa as the chief minister of Karnataka. The BJP leader has dismissed reports of leadership change but there are big speculations over Yediyurappa’s replacement. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-gets-new-world-heritage-site-with-links-to-hinduism-and-all-the-latest-news-101627224520777.html
25-07-2021||India||'Identify kids eligible for PM CARES for Children scheme': Centre tells states, UTs||The Ministry of Women and Child Development (WCD) has written to states and Union territories (UTs), urging them to direct district magistrates to identify children who were orphaned due to the coronavirus pandemic, and hence are eligible to receive support under the PM CARES for Children scheme.Also Read | 'Taking all steps to safeguard...': Centre on children affected by Covid-19"I would request you to direct the district magistrates in your states to identify children eligible for support under the PM CARES for Children scheme and populate the pmcaresforchildren.in portal with details of eligible children, to enable prompt assistance to them. This task may be completed within the next 15 days," Indevar Pandey, secretary, WCD Ministry, wrote in his letter to chief secretaries of all states and UTs. The letter was issued on July 22.'pmcaresforchildren.in,' Pandey noted, is the web portal launched to identify kids eligible for the PM Cares for Children scheme.The letter further gave details of the process to be followed for identifying such children. It stated that a drive should be organised for the identification of these children with the help of police, District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) and civil society organisations, adding that once identified, they should be produced in front of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) within 24 hours of the child being noticed, excluding the journey time.Next, the letter said, application form for seeking support may be filled up by the child or a caregiver. This should be followed by the CWC and DCPU gathering facts about the child, including the cause of death of the parents, it said."In case a particular child is not recommended for support, reasons should be mentioned on the portal for the DM to take a view. The DM can make an independent assessment about every child whether recommended or not. Once satisfied, the official may confirm the eligibility of a child, which shall be final," the document noted.The PM Cares for Children scheme was announced by prime minister Narendra Modi on May 29 at a time when the devastating second Covid-19 wave was at its peak. Under this scheme, children, whose parents lost their lives due to Covid-19, will get a monthly stipend once they turn 18 and a fund of ₹10 lakh when they turn 23. On July 22, the Union government informed Parliament that between April and May 28, parents of 645 children lost their lives due to the viral disease.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/identify-kids-eligible-for-pm-cares-for-children-centre-tells-states-uts-101627224210179.html
25-07-2021||India||Vijay Diwas Special: Major Deep Singh Sengar who defied death twice recalls fighting the Kargil war||Major Deep Singh Sengar (retd) had once said, “For as long as I can remember, I always wanted to join the armed forces, wear the uniform, defeat the bad guys, and live happily ever after.” A war veteran and recipient of a Gallantry Award, having fought at the Kargil and defied death twice, he quit the armed forces in 2001 after an injury in combat put him out of action. But that wasn’t the end of the road for him, as he didn’t lose hope and started his corporate career and reached new heights. On Kargil Vijay Diwas, Major Singh recalls his days on the battle ground, fighting the war, and how life gave him a second chance.A Kargil war veteran, a Kargil hero — what’s the essence of these words and phrases when people address you with these?Uncomfortable! The ‘hero’ part makes me uncomfortable. I’m a lucky one, but there are thousands of gallant soldiers who’re not with us today. Everyone who contributed to that war effort is a hero and it’ll be great to celebrate them. Having said that, reference of Kargil brings about a sense of pride for every Indian. For me personally, it brings back memories of victory as also of loss of friends and colleagues who made the supreme sacrifice. I’m fortunate to have been able to contribute at that juncture.The pain and suffering that the Kargil War left behind continues to be a part of many people’s lives. What’s about those two months that still sends shivers down your spine?Let me narrate an incident. That time we didn’t have cellphones. Some of our teams got satellite phones. In one sensitive case, there was a call home and here is how part of the conversation went with the parents.Mom: (crying) We see an officer on TV one day and next day we hear about his martyrdom. We’re worried for you son.Dad: Son, don’t worry about us. We’re fine. Don’t come back till you teach a lesson to those buggers. Give them a bloody nose.Thinking about all the mothers and fathers who worried then and worry today about safety of their children who have chosen this noble profession of arms, sends shivers down my spine. Even the parents who stood strong and still carry the burden for all the sons who never came back.Any vivid memory from the war that you’d never forget or any words that stayed with you?I spoke about one of our soldier (let’s call him Bravo) in one of my TED talks. We were on a tough mission where he was critical to the success. It was one of those mission where all of us had left letters for the family in case we didn’t come back alive. But just a couple of days before the attack, I got news about something very personal for this soldier and I asked him to go back. Despite knowledge of the seriousness of the personal issue, Bravo didn’t want to go back and said something on the lines of, how will he be able to face his child if he leaves the team just before the final attack.We had to literally force him to be sent back to attend to his family requirement. The izzat of the regiment and love for own team makes these amazing soldiers perform extraordinary valour... routinely. Such selfless acts and bravery of team members has stayed with me and always motivates me.Today when people celebrate Kargil Vijay Diwas, as a retired armed force officer, what do you think is its relevance, especially for the younger generation?I look at Kargil Diwas celebration as an opportunity to honour the men who made the supreme sacrifice, those who were fortunate to come back to their families, those who directly and indirectly supported the ones in uniform and most importantly the army behind the army — the families who had their sons and daughters fighting for the nation. At the same time, this occasion reminds us of vast porous borders of India, which makes the country vulnerable to infiltration. This behooves huge responsibility on all its citizens to be vigilant. It’s not only the defence forces but every citizen, who needs to be vigilant to avoid external or internal threats. Celebrations like Kargil Diwas are also a reminder of this huge responsibility of all the citizens. Just hope that these lessons of Kargil are integrated into school curriculum some day.You’ve defied death not once but twice. First in 1998 and then in September 1999, two months after the Kargil war was over. Looking back, do those incidents break you and make you feel weak inside, or do you derive strength from them even today?I was fortunate to serve the nation as a soldier. Being part of Special Forces, we were constantly in operational areas. While the first time I had critical injuries, I was able to recover and join my team within three months. This gave me immense confidence and self-belief.[In 1999], after our operations in Kargil, we immediately moved to Srinagar and were inducted into the counter insurgency operations. We conducted series of operations and in one such operation, I got injured the second time. And this injury forced me to be in hospital for almost a year and the medical prognosis was that I’d never walk again. It was life changing. From my childhood, I had never thought of anything other than the armed forces. For the first time in life I was forced to think of things outside of the Armed Forces. Having overcome that phase, today I derive lot of strength from that period of my life.You’ve been an inspiration for many out there — not just those in the army — that giving up is not an option. In life, there’s always a choice and a second chance. After Kargil War and this near-fatal injury, how did life change and what exactly did you do?I’ve been fortunate to get support from family, friends and colleagues whenever life threw a challenge at me and whenever there was need for support. Fact is that, my life changed completely after the second injury. After I was told that I’d never walk again, I had to rethink my whole life. I was in late twenties, engaged and had no life skills to survive outside the Armed Forces. Had my own moments of despair and hopelessness. I underwent multiple surgeries. Got great set of doctors who reconstructed the hip joint even as I plunged myself, into preparing for my career transition. I kept my focus on my studies, which also helped keep my mind off the pain. I put in all energy to clear CAT, The Common Admission Test, which is the prerequisite to join the best B Schools of the country. Had to relearn my math from Grade six to grade 12. Kept preparing from the hospital bed where I lay for almost a year. Got help from everyone around; other patients, nursing staff, even the eight grader son of my physiotherapist. It wasn’t an easy journey but a hugely satisfying one. Getting to IIM Ahmedabad was one part, the more important part was how the shift of focus to test preparation changed the whole perspective. After every surgery, I used to be thinking of the next chapter to be completed rather than thinking about the aches and pains. It personally helped me in the recovery process. While at the hospital, I started rigorous physiotherapy and yoga, which I continue to date. I had appeared for CAT while on a wheelchair. By the time I joined my MBA class, I was already on two crutches and moved to one crutch thereafter.We saw your journey through the series Jeet Ki Zidd that released earlier this year. How well do you think it represented your life on screen?As starters, both my biceps put together probably are less than biceps of Amit Sadh (actor who portrayed Major Deep Singh Sengar onscreen). And I am yet to meet a Col Chaudhary (smiles). To be fair, I’ll give credit to the whole Jeet ki Zid team for all their efforts, which spanned more than five years. Show has been made well and the portrayal of different characters is as real as it can be, for a piece of art. Kudos to perseverance of Boney Kapoor, Akash Chawla for not relenting when I initially refused, and to Amit Sadh for all the hard work. Not only did the team spend time in the overall production of the series, but also spent considerable amount of time interviewing those related to different incidents to recreate the scenes. Each character played their part well. Of course the show has taken artistic liberties. Some nebulous concepts and experiences are difficult to portray. Some level of exaggeration is there for the audience to be able to relate to the actual situation in a short span of time. I grew up listening to the stories of my Mama who was martyred in 1965 war — Lt Shashindra Singh Vrc. The show modified it to bring it closer. Similarly experiences like PTSD and concepts as abstract as like motivation, leadership under stress etc, are portrayed in an artistic manner. These concepts are been given a physical form. And that becomes Col Chaudhary; my alter ego which is egging me to rise after every fall, to stretch and to continue on to the path of victory — the Zid. So, the show is real in portraying the essence. It’s just that messengers are different in some cases.Follow the author on Twitter/@monikarawal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-diwas-special-major-deep-singh-sengar-who-defied-death-twice-recalls-fighting-the-kargil-war-101627226310112.html
25-07-2021||India||Bow in reverence: Fathers pay tribute to their martyred sons a day before Kargil Vijay Diwas||As the country gets ready to mark Kargil Vijay Diwas on July 26, fathers of the martyred Indian soldiers have been commemorating the sacrifices their sons made for the nation. NK Kalia, the father of Kargil martyr Captain Saurabh Kalia, paid his respects to the many martyrs like his son and insisted that the government didn’t punish the Pakistani army adequately for the brutal torture they inflicted on Indian soldiers.“I bow my head in reverence to martyrs who gave their lives for the nation. The government's steps weren't sufficient for Pakistan Army's brutal torture. India should raise this issue on an international level,” Kalia told ANI.Captain Saurabh Kalia of the 4 Jat Regiment was just 22 years old when he and five others were captured on May 15, 1999, by the Pakistani army on a reconnaissance off Bajrang Post in the Kaksar sector of Jammu and Kashmir, where they had gone to investigate reports of incursion. Despite being prisoners of war they were subjected to torture by the Pakistani army contrary to all international conventions on war.Kalia, a retired scientist who worked with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), received his son’s mutilated body on June 10 and vowed to fight against war crimes “Eyes punctured, eardrums pierced, vital organs chopped off and body bearing burn marks. I had never heard or seen such brutality,” he had told Hindustan Times.“The day he returned home wrapped in the tricolour, I vowed to fight for justice against war crimes. Whether we achieve success or not, this war will end with our death,” said Kalia.Kalia, now well in his 70s, continued to fight for his cause and moved the Supreme Court in 2012, seeking direction to the Centre to take up his son’s case at the International Court of Justice (ICJ). The Centre told the court in 2015 that since this was a bilateral issue between two countries, Pakistan’s consent was needed. The matter is now pending and has not been listed for hearing yet.He continues his fight for justice even today.“Successive governments have failed to do what should have been done back in 1999. Still we are thankful for what they have done for our cause and do not regret what they [haven’t done],” he said on Kargil Vijay Diwas in 2019.“My fight is not only for Saurabh or the five soldiers but for the respect and honour of the Indian Armed Forces,” he added.GL Batra, the father of late Captain Vikram Batra, told news agency ANI that the country should focus on “troublemaking neighbours” and be ready to sacrifice for the nation. “Government has fulfilled all commitments made during (Kargil) war. The Kargil war was one of the toughest wars in the world. We should be aware of trouble-making neighbours and be ready to make sacrifices for the nation,” ANI said quoting Batra.Captain Batra was just 24 when he was martyred fighting the Kargil war. He was given the highest wartime gallantry award Param Vir Chakra posthumously, his father received the honour for his deceased son. He was the driving force in Operation Vijay and the capture of the crucial peak - Point 4875, one of his most difficult feats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bow-in-reverence-fathers-pay-tribute-to-their-martyred-sons-a-day-before-kargil-vijay-diwas-101627224180704.html
25-07-2021||India||Activist pastes photos of Lord Shiva on trees to save them from being axed||In a bid to stop trees from getting chopped off for a proposed road, an environmental activist from Chhattisgarh, has been pasting pictures of Lord Shiva on the trees. Virendra Singh told news agency ANI that the local community does want development in the region, but not at the cost of harming forests.“The authorities are saying that just 2,900 trees would be cut for the project. [However], since the small plantation is not considered, I fear that the actual number will be over 20,000,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.The Public Works Department (PWD) has proposed to build a road stretching 8-kilometre from Taroud to Daihan in the Balod district of Chhattisgarh. Singh has also requested the villages to come forward and help him in saving the forest as it is very essential to preserve the environment, ANI reported him saying.#WATCH | An environment activist pastes photos of Gods on trees to save them from felling for a proposed road project in Balod, Chhattisgarh"The project will lead to felling of 2,900 trees. We want development, but don't want forests to be harmed," said Virendra Singh yesterday pic.twitter.com/b2kcMIse7J“We have not received rainfall yet,” Singh said, adding that while several parts of the country are receiving “incessant rains”, Balod isn’t even getting its “due share.”The activist further stated that they first began the Chipko movement, and followed it up by putting up poster banners at street intersections. Later, they tied Rakshasutra around the trees, and have now resorted to pasting photos of Gods to save them from being cut.“Both global warming and pollution are causes of deforestation. We have to save the trees to save the planet,” Singh told ANI.Last month on World Environment Day, a few environmental activists and citizens in Nagpur staged a silent protest in Nagpur against the plan to chop off 4,930 trees in Ajini area. The trees are proposed to be cut for the Inter Model Station (IMDS) – a collaborative venture between Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), according to a PTI report.The felling order was issued by the garden department of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in May in the form of a newspaper notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-pastes-photos-of-lord-shiva-on-trees-to-save-them-from-being-axed-101627223298375.html
25-07-2021||India||'I used the illegitimate children jibe because...': Salman Khurshid explains||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid said his illegitimate children jibe about Uttar Pradesh's draft population control bill was aimed at "grabbing eyeballs".Khurshid was speaking to Hindustan Times' Kumkum Chadha on 'The Interview' where the veteran politician talked about the snooping of individuals through the Pegasus software, the future of the Congress party, the Uttar Pradesh population control bill and other issues.On the recent reshuffle of the Union Cabinet, Khurshid said that ministers were dropped like "hot potato" ahead of the cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Though he agreed that cabinet reshuffle is the prerogative of the Prime Minister, Khurshid said the move leaves a lot of questions.Here are the excerpts from the interview:'Snooping scandal just tip of the iceberg'Salman Khurshid called the snooping scandal involving the Pegasus software a very serious matter. "I think there is a very sinister element in this kind of snooping. And we probably have heard just the tip of the iceberg," said Khurshid.The government has been a target of the opposition over alleged snooping of some of the politicians and business people through the Pegasus software.On sudden exit of ministers from the Union Cabinet"Khurshid said that the exit of certain ministers from the cabinet leaves a lot of questions. "They were the frontline ministers for the government, performing no worse or better than anyone else in the Cabinet. They would have been surprised that they were being dropped," the Congress leader said."And it wasn't like they were being moved to do party work or they were being asked to do something more important. But they just dropped like a hot potato," said the veteran politician, adding, "You feel a little sense of empathy of what one must go through when this kind of thing happens."Will he empathise with Union Minister Amit Shah if he is shown the door?Khurshid said that people can feel bad for anyone. "But I think in terms of political analysis, there is a great deal of disquiet about his style of politics.""But Amit Shah has made it. He obviously had support both from the top and from the bottom, in the sense that he wasn't just picked up from nowhere. And therefore, we have to acknowledge that he's not a person without roots," added Khurshid.Watch the full interview below:'No Dhritrashta syndrome in the Congress'He also denied that the party is suffering from the 'Dhritrashtra syndrome' - a reference to members of only Gandhi family acquiring the top post: "There is nothing written in stone that says that there cannot be a Congress leader other than the Gandhis. The Gandhis have also never proclaimed that. But you have to accept the ground reality - that thousands of people feel a special attachment to the Gandhis," he added while advocating a policy of consensus rather than organisational elections which he said are “divisive”.He also questioned the intent of Group of 23 leaders of the party who expressed unhappiness with the functioning of the party and sought its rejig. "Why didn't they raise these questions when they were climbing up the ladder? He added that you don’t kick the ladder after reaching the top.'UP population bill anti-humanitarian, against the poor'Short of directly saying that the recent draft population control bill by Uttar Pradesh government is “anti-Muslim”, Khurshid said that the draft Bill is “anti humanitarian”. Khurshid said he isn't calling the bill communal "unless the BJP thinks it is", but anti-poor”. He said that the measure will deprive many less privileged communities of government benefits. "Atom bomb was progressive, but ultimately led to incidents like Hiroshima and Nagasaki."When asked about his 'illegitimate children' jibe, the Congress leader said that since he is asked about these issues, he decided to give an answer which is provocative: “You cannot be boring” he said.On comment asking the Congress to think big 'like the BJP'"I never dream of saying 'Let's be like the BJP'. Ideologically, we must not, we cannot. Even if we can't get into power for 100 years, we must not and will not be a BJP," said Khurshid. But he said that there are some things about the BJP "or any political party for that matter" which we should take inspiration from. "If BJP goes to a barren land and says here is where my next harvest will be, why is it that we can't say something similar where we have a lot more going for us than just simple, barren land?" said Khurshid. He further said that if the BJP can have audacity of ambition, we can at least have audacity of hope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-used-the-illegitimate-children-jibe-because-salman-khurshid-explains-101627221629704.html
25-07-2021||India||'Yediyurappa is running Karnataka well': Nadda ahead of BSY's speculated exit||Amid suspense over Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa's exit that he has been hinting for the past few days, BJP national president JP Nadda on Sunday said Yediyurappa is running Karnataka well. Dismissing speculations of any trouble in Karnataka, the party chief said this is what the media thinks. "It is your thinking, we do not think this way," Nadda said as he was asked about the Karnataka crisis during his Goa visit on Sunday.Specifically commenting on Yediyurappa, Nadda said, "He has done good work. He is running Karnataka well. Yediyurappa is handling things on his own."Speculations about a possible change of guard in Karnataka were rife as Karnataka BJP has been facing a factional feud. Yediyurappa has been accused of corruption, of pushing for his younger son Vijayendra, the state vice president of the party.Who may replace Lingayat strongman Yediyurappa in Karnataka? List of frontrunnersLast week, Yediyurappa visited New Delhi and met Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, and Rajnath Singh, strengthening the speculation. After returning from New Delhi, Yediyurappa himself hinted at his exit and said he will work according to the instruction of the national leadership of the party which, as he said, he was supposed to receive on July 25, a day ahead of the two-year completion of the BJP government in Karnataka.On Sunday too, Yediyurappa reiterated that he was waiting for an instruction from Delhi. "By evening once it comes, you will also get to know about it. Once it comes I will take an appropriate decision," he said."I got most of the positions in the party, which no one else might have got in Karnataka, for which I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, and party president J P Nadda," he said. Earlier, the four-time chief minister of Karnataka said he shares a close relationship with the BJP national leadership and that's why he was given the duty two years ago, despite his age.Meanwhile, Veerashaiva-Lingayat seers have thrown their weight behind Yediyurappa and said that Yediyurappa should not be removed from the CM's post. The seers organised a conclave at the Palace Grounds in Bengaluru and passed a resolution in favour of Yediyurappa. "It is not proper to remove Yediyurappa. We have congregated here to boost the morale of the chief minister. We are neither in favour or opposed to anyone. Our sole objective is to see that the Chief Minister, who is doing good work, should be allowed to continue," Dingaleshwar Swami said, as reported by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-is-running-karnataka-well-nadda-ahead-of-bsy-s-speculated-exit-101627220802242.html
25-07-2021||India||Ramappa Temple: How a site is selected for World Heritage List||The extended 44th session of UNESCO’s World Heritage Committee is currently underway in China’s Fuzhou. The session began on July 16 and will conclude on July 31. On Sunday, Telangana’s iconic Kakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple was inscribed by the committee as a World Heritage site, thus becoming the latest site in India to be included on the World Heritage List, joining 38 other locations from the country already on the list.Excellent! Congratulations to everyone, specially the people of Telangana. The iconic Ramappa Temple showcases the outstanding craftsmanship of great Kakatiya dynasty. I would urge you all to visit this majestic Temple complex and get a first-hand experience of it’s grandness. https://t.co/muNhX49l9J pic.twitter.com/XMrAWJJao2Here’s the procedure for a property to be inscribed as a World Heritage site:(1.) Submitting an Inventory: Also known as a “tentative list,” an inventory is an initial list of properties, located within a country’s boundaries, that a state party can submit for inclusion as a World Heritage site. This list can be updated from time to time and is important because the World Heritage Committee can consider for inscription only those properties that are mentioned on this list.A “state party” is a country which has ratified the World Heritage Convention. India ratified the convention on November 14, 1977. As of October 23, 2020, a total of 194 countries have adhered to the World Heritage Convention.(2.) Presenting the Nomination File: The World Heritage Centre assists a state party in preparing this file, which needs to have the necessary documentation, including maps. The file is then submitted to the World Heritage Centre for review, after which the document is sent to the advisory bodies for evaluation.(3.) The Advisory Bodies: The World Heritage Convention mandates two advisory bodies to independently evaluate a nominated property. These are the International Council on Monuments and Sites, and the International Union for Conservation of Nature. A third such body is the International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property.(4.) The World Heritage Committee: After nomination and evaluation, the final decision to inscribe a site as a World Heritage site is taken by the World Heritage Committee. The committee meets once every year to decide which properties to include on the list. It can also request state parties for further information on a site.(5.) Eligibility criteria: Any nominated site should meet at least one out of ten selection norms. These are updated regularly to reflect the very concept of World Heritage.Overall, more than 1100 properties from various countries are on the World Heritage List. The Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Qutub Minar, Ajanta Caves, Ellora Caves, Fatehpur Sikri etc. are among the monuments from India which feature on this list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-heritage-list-how-a-monument-is-inscribed-as-world-heritage-site-101627218467403.html
25-07-2021||India||PM congratulates Telangana as Ramappa Temple gets UNESCO World Heritage tag||Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the people of Telangana after the Kakatiya Rudreshwara Ramappa Temple was inscribed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. The Prime Minister also urged citizens to visit the temple which was built during the rule of Kakatiya dynasty.“Excellent! Congratulations to everyone, especially the people of Telangana. The iconic Ramappa Temple showcases the outstanding craftsmanship of the great Kakatiya dynasty. I would urge you all to visit this majestic Temple complex and get a first-hand experience of its grandness,” PM Modi said in a tweet.Excellent! Congratulations to everyone, specially the people of Telangana. The iconic Ramappa Temple showcases the outstanding craftsmanship of great Kakatiya dynasty. I would urge you all to visit this majestic Temple complex and get a first-hand experience of it’s grandness. https://t.co/muNhX49l9J pic.twitter.com/XMrAWJJao2UNESCO announced earlier on Sunday that the Kakatiya Rudreshwara Ramappa Temple was inscribed into the World Heritage Site. “Just inscribed as @UNESCO #WorldHeritage site: Kakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple, Telangana, in #IndiaFlag of India. Bravo!” UNESCO tweeted.🔴 BREAKING!Just inscribed as @UNESCO #WorldHeritage site: Kakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple, Telangana, in #India🇮🇳. Bravo! 👏 ℹ️ https://t.co/X7SWIos7D9 #44WHC pic.twitter.com/cq3ngcsGy9Union minister G Kishen Reddy also congratulated Indians after the temple was inscribed into the UNESCO World Heritage Site. “It gives me immense pleasure to share that @UNESCO has conferred the World Heritage tag to Ramappa Temple at Palampet, Warangal, Telangana. On behalf of the nation, particularly from people of Telangana, I express my gratitude to Hon PM @narendramodi for his guidance & support,” Reddy said in a tweet.I congratulate the entire team of @ASIGoI for their untiring efforts towards making the Ramappa Temple a World Heritage Site.I would also like to thank the Ministry of External Affairs for their efforts under the guidance of Hon'ble PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/QCZuZFprkNReddy also thanked the Union ministry of external affairs and the Archaeological Survey of India for their efforts. “I congratulate the entire team of @ASIGoI for their untiring efforts towards making the Ramappa Temple a World Heritage Site. I would also like to thank the Ministry of External Affairs for their efforts under the guidance of Hon'ble PM @narendramodi,” Reddy further added.This is the first world heritage site from Telangana Next aim is to get world heritage city status for our capital city #Hyderabad 👍Telangana minister KT Rama Rao also congratulated the citizens of the state and said the next aim is to inscribe Hyderabad into the list of World Heritage Sites. “Happy to share the good news that the 800 year old Kakatiya Rudreshwara #RamappaTemple in #Telangana has been inscribed as a UNESCO #WorldHeritage Site. My compliments to everyone who was involved in the effort,” Rao said.“This is the first world heritage site from Telangana. Next aim is to get world heritage city status for our capital city Hyderabad,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-congratulates-telangana-as-ramappa-temple-gets-unesco-world-heritage-tag-101627219295350.html
25-07-2021||India||Daughter’s idea: Chandigarh man who gives free Chole Bhature to vaccine takers||Sanjay Rana from Chandigarh, who was mentioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the 79th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, said that it was his daughter’s idea to give free Chole Bhature to people who have been administered Covid-19 vaccine.Speaking to news agency ANI on Sunday, Rana said that he began the initiative nearly two months ago. “I give away free food to more than 25 people in a day,” he added.Rana further told ANI, “I thank Modi Ji for mentioning my name (in today’s Mann Ki Baat).”During his address to the nation on Sunday, PM Modi said, “In Chandigarh’s Sector 29, Sanjay Rana Ji runs a food stall and sells Chole Bhature on cycle. To eat this delicious Chole Bhature for free, you will have to show [proof] that you have taken the Covid-19 vaccine on the same day.”Rana wasn’t the only person mentioned during the programme. PM Modi also talked about Issac Munda from Odisha’s Sambalpur district, a former daily-wage labourer who has now become an internet sensation by posting videos of local cuisines and cooking on his YouTube channel.“In his video, he promotes local delicacies, traditional recipes, his village, lifestyle, family and food habits,” PM Modi said, adding that Munda’s journey as a YouTuber began in March 2020 when he posted a video about a traditional Odisha dish called ‘Pakhala’.Also Read | A Motivation: Who’s YouTuber Isaac Munda PM Modi spoke about in Mann Ki BaatPM Modi further said that Munda is “earning well” through his YouTube channel and supporting his family.He also mentioned one Radhika Shastri from Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiri for starting Amburx Project that focuses on giving easy transport facilities in hilly regions to patients for treatment.Apart from them, PM Modi also stressed on the significance of water conservation, pointing out that he experienced water scarcity while growing up, and apple cultivation gaining traction in Manipur’s Ukhrul. “Farmers here are now cultivating apples in orchards. These people also went to Himachal to take proper training,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughters-idea-chandigarh-man-who-gives-free-chole-bhature-to-vaccine-takers-101627217387204.html
25-07-2021||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas: It took 13 days to retrieve my father’s body, says Kargil hero’s daughter born 4 months after the war||Until she was ten years old , Megha Yadav had no clue she is a war hero’s daughter. Whenever she asked her mother about her father, she was told he worked in another city. “One day, I just pestered her to tell me because I wanted to know why he never called or visited. It was then that she told me that my father, Lance Naik Rajendra Yadav, SM (P), had sacrificed his life in the Kargil war. I was obviously overcome with emotion, but I also felt very proud,” says Megha, who was born exactly six months after her father’s death. “That day my mother shared a lot about papa. She said that in their last few conversations, he spoke about securing his children’s future. He even said he wanted his kids to join the army,” she says. So, did she aspire to join the forces? “I wanted to, was an NCC cadet too, but mummy refused. I even said ‘mummy, main kaunsa border pe jaaungi’, but she said no. Woh darr gayi,” laughs Megha, who is pursuing her graduation in Indore and preparing for civil services too. Her connect with the army remains through her father’s colleagues who are still in touch with the family. “All the uncles tell me that my father was a very friendly person. Woh jaha jaate the usi mahaul mein dhal jaate the. One of them told me that it had taken them 13 days to bring back my father’s body because the firing was so bad. It hurts, but I feel proud,” says Megha.On Kargil Vijay Diwas too, she wakes up feeling a sense of pride every year. “So many soldiers gave up their life in the war. And I feel nothing but pride that my father was among them. Everywhere I go, people know I am a war hero’s daughter,” she says. But of course, there are times she wished things were different. “In school, when I would see fathers coming to pick up their kids or when families went shopping and mothers refused to buy their kids something and fathers bought it for them... sometimes I missed those moments. But overall,my mother never let me feel anything was missing,” she says. One day, Megha hopes to read the letters her father wrote to his family during service. “Mummy said thodi badi ho ja phir dikhaungi. I’m waiting,” she smiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kargil-vijay-diwas-it-took-13-days-to-retrieve-my-father-s-body-says-22-year-old-born-6-months-after-the-war-101627216768635.html
25-07-2021||India||Ahead of US secretary of state Blinken’s visit, India says ready to engage on human rights||India has signalled that it is open to engaging on human rights and democracy with those who recognise the value of diversity against the backdrop of reports that US secretary of state Antony Blinken will raise these issues during his visit to New Delhi this week.Ahead of Blinken’s visit, US acting assistant secretary for South and Central Asian affairs Dean Thompson said last week that both human rights and democracy would be raised during the secretary of state’s engagements in India.“With respect to the human rights and democracy question, yes, you’re right; I will tell you that we will raise it, and we will continue that conversation because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don’t,” Thompson said in response to a question during a news briefing on July 23.“And we believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward,” he added.People familiar with planning for Blinken’s visit said on condition of anonymity on Sunday that India, as a long-standing pluralistic society, is open to engaging those who recognise the value of diversity.“Issues such as human rights and democracy are universal and extend beyond a particular national or cultural perspective. India is proud of its achievements in both domains and is always glad to share experiences,” one of the people cited above said.The Indian side will also raise global issues such as political and cultural rebalancing, especially New Delhi’s support for a multi-polar, democratic and diverse world order. The Indian side expects international conversations on these issues to reflect this evolution. “We believe in equity and fairness, whether in development, climate change or global decision-making,” the person cited above said. Discussions during Blinken’s visit will also cover working together at the UN, especially with India holding the presidency of the Security Council in August.Despite the growing convergence between India and the US on security and strategic issues as well as the fight against Covid-19, human rights and freedom of expression have emerged as potential irritants between the two sides. Following the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, the US had called for the easing of restrictions on the region.In February, during his first phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after assuming office, US President Joe Biden had “underscored his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world and noted that a shared commitment to democratic values is the bedrock for the US-India relationship”.Also in February, the US had urged the Indian government to resume talks with protesting farmers who have gathered on the outskirts of New Delhi since late 2020. The American side has in the recent past also expressed concerns over India’s amended citizenship law. The Indian side has usually rejected such criticism by foreign governments, including the US, and said the country’s institutions and Constitution provide adequate safeguards for human rights....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-us-secretary-of-state-blinken-s-visit-india-says-ready-to-engage-on-human-rights-101627214065949.html
25-07-2021||India||JP Nadda meets BJP workers in Goa, discusses CM face ahead of polls next year||BJP national president JP Nadda met office-bearers of the party during his visit Goa on Sunday and held discussions with several ministers and members of the legislative assembly. Nadda expressed confidence on the leadership of chief minister Pramod Sawant and he had led the state on the path of welfare for all. "We're going forward with him (as CM face). In BJP, Parliamentary board makes the official declaration but there is no need to think about any other name," news agency ANI tweeted quoting Nadda as saying"I have met cabinet ministers, MLAs, MPs and party functionaries at different levels and we held detailed discussions. As far as the party is concerned, I am very optimistic," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Taking a dig at Congress, Nadda said he spoke to the leaders who switched from the Congress to the BJP. "I held detailed discussions with them. They've praised BJP's working that makes me more optimistic," Nadda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-meets-bjp-workers-in-goa-discusses-cm-face-ahead-of-polls-next-year-101627211930112.html
25-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress, TMC display bonhomie ahead of Mamata's Delhi visit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Khela hobe: Congress, TMC display bonhomie ahead of Mamata's Delhi visitA day ahead of Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee’s visit to New Delhi, the Congress put out a post on Twitter wherein it hit out at the central government over the Pegasus row for targeting TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee. Soon after, the Bengal ruling returned the favour by replying to the tweet with the party’s successful campaign tag “Khela hobe (game on)”. Read moreWill go beyond politics, stand by all: Aaditya Thackeray on Maha flood crisisMaharashtra cabinet minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray said on Sunday the government will stand by every flood-hit resident of the Konkan and western regions of Maharashtra and not indulge in politics. Hitting out at the opposition for questioning the coalition government, led by Sena supremo Uddhav Thackeray, over its handling of the crisis, Aaditya said it was time to stand behind the people and go beyond politics. Read moreTRS' Kavitha Maloth first sitting MP to receive jail term for bribing votersFor the first time, a sitting Lok Sabha MP has been convicted of bribing voters ahead of a general election. A member of Parliament from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) representing the Mahbubabad constituency, Kavitha Maloth was sentenced to six months of imprisonment by a special court and slapped with a fine of Rs10,000 in the cash-for-vote scam. Read moreTamil Nadu reservoirs swell as heavy rainfall lash Western GhatsOn Saturday, the areas surrounding the Servalaru dam received 46 millimetres of rainfall while Papanasam, Manimuthar and Kodimudiyaru dams received 43mm, 20.6mm and 15mm rainfall, respectively. Read more‘They point out to Sehwag and Richards’: Former Pak captain on how Prithvi Shaw can improve consistencyOne player that has been earmarked for success on the cricketing field is 21-year-old Prithvi Shaw. The Under-19 World Cup-winning captain has been earning plaudits for his displays with the bat for several years. Even in his youth days, Shaw was a highly-talked-about talent in Indian cricket. Read moreAnushka Sharma turns muse for Athiya Shetty in UK: 'Some nice photos on the way'Anushka Sharma has shared a series of happy pictures clicked by Athiya Shetty. The actor, on Sunday, took to Instagram and shared numerous pictures in which she was seen posing at different locations while Athiya took her pictures. Read moreYamaha Motor working on all-new electric vehicle platform for IndiaYamaha, the Japanese two-wheeler company, is working on an all-new electric vehicle platform for India and other global markets. However, the company's investments in electric mobility in India will depend on the government's clear road map on e-mobility and stable policy, according to a senior company official. Read moreNavya Naveli Nanda rocks semi-formals in plaid blazer over white cardigan, jeansAlways a notch smarter than smart casuals, the sartorial styles of Amitabh Bachchan’s granddaughter Navya Naveli Nanda are becoming the talk of Tinsel Town more often than not and her picture from latest photoshoot is no different. Read moreGirl creates portrait of Shankar Mahadevan using Rubik’s cubes, he shares videoinger-composer Shankar Mahadevan shared a video on Instagram that has now created a chatter. The clip shows a girl named Anaisha Lakhani creating a portrait of Mahadevan using Rubik’s cubes. To say that the recording is awe-inspiring would be an understatement. The clip has now won people’s hearts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-tmc-display-bonhomie-ahead-of-mamata-s-delhi-101627210557204.html
25-07-2021||India||Bill allowing change of power connections like telecom in queue in Parliament||The Union cabinet is expected to take up for approval the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament in the next few days, news agency PTI reported. The Bill, once passed, will allow consumers to choose from multiple service providers and change one as per their convenience on the lines of mobile connections, government officials familiar with the development told the news agency.The Centre has listed this bill as one of the new 17 bills that they plan to introduce during the Monsoon session, scheduled to end on August 13.The proposed amendments in the electricity Act include the de-licensing of the power distribution business, and introduction of competition, appointment of a member from legal background in every commission, strengthening of Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL), and penalty for non-compliance of Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO), the bulletin mentioned, according to the PTI report.The RPO is a tool using which the power distribution utilities or distribution companies are obligated to buy a certain percentage of electricity from renewable energy sources – as a percentage of the total consumption of electricity.Last month, power and renewable energy minister RK Singh said that the de-licensing of power distribution was proposed “just like the generation.”“The cabinet note on the bill was circulated and all concerned ministries have approved it. But the law ministry has one or two queries,” he added.The PTI report suggests that the de-licensing of power distribution is aimed at cutting down entry barriers for private players for introducing competition in the industry, thereby permitting consumers to choose from several service providers. Furthermore, the bill prescribes the electricity consumers’ rights and duties too.The proposal to seek the cabinet nod for the bill was circulated in January this year, and the draft law was to be pushed for passage in the Budget session.Notably, Singh has issued the bill that constitutes a new set of rules, in December 2020. At the time, he had said that if these rules are not followed, there would be a “penalty” for discoms. “Now the consumer is not powerless,” he had told reporters in a virtual briefing.Singh had also said that the rule “emanate from the conviction that the power systems exist to serve the consumers,” and that the latter have the rights to receive reliable and quality electricity, PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-allowing-change-of-power-connections-like-telecom-in-queue-in-parliament-101627210953778.html
25-07-2021||India||9 killed, 3 injured in Himachal Pradesh landslides, PM Modi expresses condolence||At least nine tourists were killed and three others were injured in multiple landslides that took place on Sunday in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district. The tourists were travelling in a vehicle on which heavy boulders fell killing nine of 11 tourists, reports said. Indo-Tibetan Border Police teams have been pressed to rescue work, ANI reported.Prime Minister's office offered condolence over the deaths of the tourists in the landslide. "An ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives in an accident in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured," the PMO said.Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur expressed grief over the incident and said the relief work has already started. "I spoke to Kinnaur district administration and enquired about the incident and gave them proper guidelines. The administration has started relief work. The affected are being attended to immediately," the CM wrote.Tourists can't be stopped: Himachal CM Jairam Thakur amid third Covid wave fears#WATCH | Himachal Pradesh: Boulders roll downhill due to landslide in Kinnaur district resulting in bridge collapse; vehicles damaged pic.twitter.com/AfBvRgSxn0Terrifying footage of boulders coming down from the top of the mountain emerged on social media. As the boulders came down Batseri bridge in the Sangla valley of Kinnaur collapsed, the video shows.किन्नौर के बटसेरी में पहाड़ी दरकने से हुआ हादसा हृदयविदारक है।इसकी चपेट में आया पर्यटकों से सवार वाहन जिसमें 9 की मृत्यु व 2 घायल तथा 1 अन्य राहगीर के घायल होने की खबर अत्यंत दुखद है।ईश्वर दिवंगत आत्माओं को शांति तथा शोकग्रस्त परिवार को संबल प्रदान करें। pic.twitter.com/MqesANNlV0Reports said the travellers, some from Delhi, were on their way to Chitkul, which is a popular tourist spot in Himachal Pradesh. Superintendent of police, Kinnaur district, Saju Ram Rana said a rescue operation is going on.Reports said the incident took place at around 2.15pm and as evident from the footage, locals who were recording the rockslides raised an alarm after the boulders started coming down from the top of the mountain. First, a massive splash in the Baspa river and then the bridge on the river caved in.Don’t venture too close to water bodies, especially in monsoons. HP is blessed with natural beauty, which attracts people to rivers, rivulets, lakes and ponds. Be reminded that 156 persons lost their lives due to drowning in the 13 month period between 01.01.2020 to 31.01.2021. pic.twitter.com/3wDgcMwuWAOn Saturday, Himachal Pradesh director general of police Sanjay Kundu issued a warning on his Twitter account asking people to not venture too close to water bodies. "Himachal Pradesh is blessed with natural beauty which attracts people to rivers, rivulets, lakes and ponds," he wrote adding 156 persons lost their lives due to drowning in the 13-month period between January 1, 2020 and January 31, 2021.The incident comes weeks after Himachal Pradesh witnessed a flash floods in which at least three were killed and severeal got stranded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/multiple-landslides-in-himachal-8-tourists-dead-4-injured-101627211587013.html
25-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reservoirs swell as heavy rainfall lash Western Ghats||Overflowing rivers in southern Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts swelled dams and reservoirs after heavy rainfall lashed mountainous catchment areas of Western Ghats.On Saturday, the areas surrounding the Servalaru dam received 46 millimetres of rainfall while Papanasam, Manimuthar and Kodimudiyaru dams received 43mm, 20.6mm and 15mm rainfall, respectively. Other dams such as Kalakkadu and Cheranmadevi got 2.6mm and 3.2mm rainfall, according to a report published in Hindu Tamil on Sunday.With torrential rainfall in catchment areas, the Papanasam dam, which was flowing at 110.2 feet, has reportedly been receiving 3,047 cubic feet of water every second while it is discharging 1,264 cubic feet of water per second. Manimutharu dam is receiving 871 cubic feet of water per second and discharging 150 cubic feet per second.Adavinayinar dam also recorded 52mm of rainfall till Saturday morning while Karuppanadhi dam and Gundarau dam areas received 25mm of rainfall each. Kadana Nathi and Ramanadhi dams recorded 15mm and 10mm rainfall, respectively.Tenkasi district bordering the Western Ghats recorded incessant rainfall this year after the southwest monsoon set in.While the hilly terrain witnessed heavy showers so far, the other areas of the district experienced mild showers turning the locality pleasant. Other places in the district such as Sengottai (22mm), Aykudi (18mm), Tenkasi (13.40mm), Sankarankovil (3mm) and Sivagiri and (2.2mm) recorded heavy to moderate rainfall.The heavy rainfall contributed to increased water levels at the dams in the Tenkasi district. At Kadana Nathi, it increased by two-and-half feet to touch 71.50 feet while Ramanadhi and Karuppa Nadhi dams saw their water level rise by 2.75 and 5.5 feet in a span of 24 hours. Water was flowing to the brim in the Gundar dam. Meanwhile, the Adavinayinar dam was monitoring the situation as water from the catchment areas pushed the level to 129.25 feet and it was steadily toward its capacity of 132.2 feet.With heavy flow in the rivers, Courtallam waterfalls turned into an attraction for local people who flocked to the area to watch the bountiful nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reservoirs-swell-as-heavy-rainfall-lash-western-ghats-101627207001066.html
25-07-2021||India||Khela hobe: Congress, TMC display bonhomie ahead of Mamata's Delhi visit||A day ahead of Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee’s visit to New Delhi, the Congress put out a post on Twitter wherein it hit out at the central government over the Pegasus row for targeting TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee. Soon after, the Bengal ruling returned the favour by replying to the tweet with the party’s successful campaign tag “Khela hobe (game on)”.#KhelaHobe ⚽️ https://t.co/yi8bs0Q3XVThe exchange of tweets came a day ahead of the Bengal chief minister’s visit to the national capital wherein she is scheduled to meet a couple of opposition leaders, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, and is likely to strategise a plan for the 2024 Lok Sabha election. "Khela hobe" has been a winning slogan for the Trinamool Congress during the bitterly fought Assembly election and even BJP leaders used the phrase to hit back at Banerjee and her party.Banerjee, who is also scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind, has been keen on giving shape to a united opposition to take on the BJP. She even exhorted the opposition to join hands against the BJP during her speech on Martyrs’ Day (July 21). The talk of an anti-BJP front got revived after leaders of various parties and prominent individuals congregated at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's New Delhi residence last month. However, there was no tangible movement forward in that direction at the meeting hosted by Pawar and called by former union minister Yashwant Sinha, who is now in the TMC. Sinha, a former BJP stalwart, is a strident critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The speculation was further duelled after election strategist Prashant Kishore held a series of meetings with Pawar and the Gandhis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khela-hobe-congress-tmc-display-bonhomie-ahead-of-mamata-s-delhi-visit-101627209393600.html
25-07-2021||India||TRS' Kavitha Maloth first sitting MP to receive jail term for bribing voters||For the first time, a sitting Lok Sabha MP has been convicted of bribing voters ahead of a general election. A member of Parliament from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) representing the Mahbubabad constituency, Kavitha Maloth was sentenced to six months of imprisonment by a special court and slapped with a fine of ₹10,000 in the cash-for-vote scam. Maloth and her associate Shaukat Ali, have been granted bail and the MP would next move the high court against the convicted.Police said a case was registered in Bhadradri-Kothagudem after a flying squad of the Election Commission caught Ali red-handed distributing cash ( ₹500 each) among residents and seeking votes in Maloth’s favour in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district during the 2019 Lok Sabha election.According to a report in Times of India, during interrogation, Ali confessed to committing the crime at the behest of Maloth. While Ali has been named as the first accused, the MP is the second accused in the case.This is the third case the special sessions court, which was set up in March 2018 following a Supreme Court order for expeditious trial of lawmakers, has awarded jail terms to public representatives. Earlier, BJP MLA Raja Singh and TRS MLA Danam Nagender were also convicted by the court and penalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-kavitha-maloth-first-sitting-mp-to-receive-jail-term-for-bribing-voters-101627205317133.html
25-07-2021||India||Half of all Covid deaths in India took place in April-May, shows government data||Half of India’s Covid deaths since April 2020 took place in just two months, April and May 2021, according to latest government data, highlighting how deadly the two months were and the sort of impact it had across states.41% of total Covid deaths in April and May in India came from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi, the three states that recorded the highest deaths in this period. Close to 60% of total Covid deaths in 14 months in Delhi, Karnataka and Punjab happened in April and May, shows the data shared by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in reply to a Right To Information application by this reporter.The NCDC said that of the total 329,065 Covid deaths between April 2020 and May 2021, 166,632 took place in April and May 2021. As many as 120,770 people died in May and 45,882 in April, the two months with highest Covid deaths since April 2020.In June, 69,354 Covid deaths were recorded which includes reconciled deaths, which the authorities failed to mention in April and May data. Before April-May, the highest deaths reported for a month was in September 2020 with 33,035 deaths. September-October was considered the peak of the first Covid wave. And, after that the Covid deaths came down to 2,777 in February 2021.Experts said that indication of another Covid wave started emerging in March when the Covid deaths more than doubled nationally with a spike in deaths seen in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. Covid cases in all these states were also rising at a rapid rate. This was also the time when political party leaders were aggressively campaigning for assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu and preparations were being made for super spreader Haridwar Maha Kumbh.Post assembly election results on May 2, Covid deaths in the poll states rose up five times, the RTI reply shows. Deaths went up from 921 in West Bengal in April to 4,162 in May, from 177 to 2019 in Assam, from 1,233 to 9,821 in Tamil Nadu and 653 to 3,382 in Kerala for the same period. “One reason for higher cases during this period could be more testing in May. The deaths indicate that state governments ignored the third wave signs and reacted late,” said Dr Shaheed Jamil, who had earlier headed the Central government’s advisory group on Covid genome sequencing.The NCDC is the health ministry’s nodal agency for maintaining all Covid-19 disease records under Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). However, non-Covid deaths are not reported to IDSP, the NCDC joint director Dr Vinay Kumar Garg said in the RTI response. And he added they don’t have data on the cause of deaths reported during the pandemic. The information shared by NCDC shows the impact of the second Covid wave in different states and indicates that the actual number of deaths may not have been reported in some high population states such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, having large rural populations, where recording of deaths is not as structured as in cities. “Bihar and UP having such strange Covid figures despite telling signs of high spread are a mystery,” Jamil said.Uttar Pradesh, which reported 20,346 deaths between April 2020 and May 2021, recorded 8,108 deaths in May, 2021, and 3,438 in April, 2021. Its neighbour, Uttarakhand, which has one-tenth of UP’s population, as per Census population projection for 2021, reported 3,899 deaths in May, which is 48% of the total deaths in Uttar Pradesh for that month. Close to 1,100 Covid deaths that took place in April and May in Uttarakhand were reconciled with June Covid death data and not reflected in NCDC’s May Covid death data.Uttar Pradesh’s another neighbouring state, Haryana, whose population is one-eighth of UP’s, reported 4,103 deaths, according to the RTI reply. Bihar, which reported 2,624 deaths in May, added 3,951 deaths in the first week of June during the second Covid wave, taking the death toll to 6,575. These cases were added after Patna high court asked the state government to conduct an audit of all deaths in the state. “This includes deaths that took place in April and May,” said a senior Bihar health department official, wishing not to be quoted.Madhya Pradesh reported low death numbers- 2,500 and 2,020 deaths in May and July respectively. There were also news reports that five times more death certificates were issued in some districts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh during April and May compared to the official Covid casualty figures. Dr DS Negi, director general medical health Uttar Pradesh, said they followed the strategy to test, treat and trace suspected Covid patients, helping in quick isolation of positive cases and tracing of contacts. “This helped us to identify positive Covid cases and isolate them early; ...we could save many lives,” he said. If Covid deaths of all states are compared, Maharashtra reported highest Covid deaths (26,859) among Indian states in May followed by Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. Covid deaths recorded in the month of May in these states were double the deaths in April, showing that the states failed to control the spread of the virus even a month after it started devastating families across India.Some states argued that their death counts were higher due to greater population density and HT found that to be true to some extent. The highest death rate for a million people during the entire Covid period and also during April-May was of Goa followed by Delhi, Puducherry, Maharashtra, Chandigarh and Uttarakhand, showed the analysis of the NCDC’s death data with 2021 Census population projection. “We are reporting all the deaths because our surveillance is stringent and our machinery is robust. Not just Covid, we are topping deaths due to Swine Flu. This is nothing to be proud of but shows that we report all deaths. This year we have reported around 80,000 deaths due to Covid-19,” said Maharashtra surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate.Delhi health minister Shri Satyendar Jain, said: “While we understand the gravity of the situation, it is also important to understand that the data presented by the Delhi government has been completely transparent at all points, even if it gave others the opportunity to take jibes at us.” Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said despite the spurt in Covid cases the state was able to save a lot of lives because of adequate health facilities.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a written reply in Rajya Sabha on July 20, said that health was a state subject and the Central government has provided all help to the state governments. “Due to concerted actions of Central and state governments, the isolation bed capacity and ICU bed capacity which was merely 10,180 and 2,168 before the first lockdown as on 23rd March 2020 could be increased to more than 1.821 million isolation beds and 121,671 ICU beds as on 16th July 2021,” he said.All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria said the devastation of the second Covid wave should prepare people for the third wave, if new variants emerge. “As of now, there are no signs to indicate that the third wave would be as lethal as the second one,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-of-all-covid-deaths-in-india-took-place-in-april-may-shows-government-data-101627204345380.html
25-07-2021||India||Who may replace Lingayat strongman Yediyurappa in Karnataka? List of frontrunners||Replacing four-time chief minister BS Yediyurappa amid the strong support from the Lingayat community will not be easy but as the 77-year-old chief minister has already dropped enough hints that he is on his way out, the guessing game has started. Though the politicians whose names are being speculated have dismissed any such possibility and attributed such speculations to mere political rumours.Here is the list of frontrunners:Murugesh NiraniThe mines and geology minister of the state cabinet, Murugesh Nirani, is said to be one of the top contenders for the CM post as, like Yediyurappa, he also represents the Lingayat community. He is also the chairman of Nirani Group which includes Nirani Sugars Ltd, Sai Priya Sugars Ltd, MRN Cane Power India Ltd., Nirani Cements Pvt. Ltd, and Bilagi Sugar Mill Ltd. The 56-year-old minister has recently said that there was no instruction for replacing Yediyurappa. "I never lobbied for any post in my life. I will shoulder the responsibility bestowed on me by the party. Our national leaders will choose the right person for the CM post after considering all the factors," he said.As BSY hints at exit, buzz over the next CM beginsUnion minister Pralhad JoshiUnion minister Pralhad Joshi is 58 years old and a veteran BJP politician who has been representing Dharwad in Parliament since 2004. "No one has spoken to me about it (succeeding Yediyurappa). It's only the media, which is discussing it. As no one has spoken to me, there is no need to react to it," Pralhad Joshi has said in reaction to speculations of becoming the next chief minister.Basavaraj S BommaiThe 61-year-old home minister of Karnataka is another probable on the list but Basavaraj S Bommai has refuted speculations and said nothing is official. "I don't want to answer any speculative question," the home minister said.C T RaviCT Ravi is the party's national general secretary and is a four-time MLA from the Chikmagalur constituency. Before becoming the national general secretary of the party, he was a minister in the state cabinet. He is 54 years old.B L SanthoshAnother national joint general secretary of the party BL Santosh's association with the BJP began in 1993 when he started as an RSS pracharak. In 2006, he moved to the BJP as Karnataka general secretary.Arvind BelladAnother Lingayat community leader, Arvind Bellad is a young face and he comes from a political family -- his father is Chandrakant Bellad. He is a two-time MLA from the Hubli-Dharwad West constituency.Jagadish ShettarJagdish Shettar, a minister of Yediyurappa's cabinet, served as the state's chief minister between 2012 and 2013. He too represents the Lingayat community.Apart from them, Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri, Karnataka deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan are also in the race.Factors deciding Karnataka's next CMYediyurappa in his current term faced open rebellion from the party against the alleged intervention of his son BY Vijayendra in the administration. As Yediyurappa's age and health are also some factors possibly driving the change, the national leaderhsip may go for a young CM this time. Another crucial factor will be the community as the BJP enjoys the massive support of the Lingayat community in the state. On the other hand, the state has not seen a Brahmin CM since 1988, after Ramakrishna Hegde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-may-replace-lingayat-strongman-yediyurappa-list-of-frontrunners-101627203592010.html
25-07-2021||India||Kerala achieves new ‘milestone’ in Covid-19 vaccination drive||Kerala, which is one of the worst hit states from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India, achieved a milestone on Saturday as it vaccinated over 450,000 people (453,339 people to be exact) against the viral disease, news agency PTI reported.Kerala health minister eena George shared that with Saturday's achievement as many as 1.6 million people have been inoculated so far this week alone.George, however, pointed out Kerala has around 200,000 doses of vaccines left, while announcing that the state wouldn’t be able to inoculate everyone on Sunday. She cautioned if Centre doesn’t supply more vaccines, the drive could hit an indefinite standstill.Kerala has so far vaccinated 18,465,580 people of which 12,878,310 have received the first dose while the rest 5,587,270 have been administered with their second dose.“By vaccinating over 450,000 in a span of 24 hours, Kerala showed it is the best state when it comes to inoculation,” George said, adding all healthcare and frontline workers have received the first dose.There are 1,522 vaccination centres of which 1,380 were run by the government and remaining were private, she said.As India began administering jabs to people between 18-45 years, George told PTI the numbers in Kerala were well ahead of the central average as 53.43% of the state population over the age of 18 had been given the first dose and 23.19% the second dose.Meanwhile, the state recorded another high of 18,531 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the infection count to 3,254,064. Ninety-eight more people died due to the viral disease and the death toll is nearing 16,000. The total recoveries have climbed to 3,099,469 while the active cases stand at 138,124, an official release read.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-achieves-new-milestone-in-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101627202183589.html
25-07-2021||India||Afghanistan, terror sanctuaries in Pakistan on agenda for Blinken’s visit||The fallout of the drawdown of US troops on the security situation in Afghanistan and the need to pressure Pakistan on terror financing and sanctuaries for terrorists will be on the agenda for US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s visit to India this week, people familiar with planning for the visit said on condition of anonymity on Sunday. The two sides are expected to discuss ways to deepen defence collaboration, including exercises, defence transfers and technologies, as part of preparations for the fourth 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers to be held in the US later this year, the said. Blinken is the third senior member of the Biden administration to visit India after defense secretary Lloyd Austin in March and special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry in April. During his two-day visit, he will meet external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on July 28. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to be one of the main topics on the agenda for Blinken’s discussions with his Indian interlocutors because of the rapidly deteriorating security situation in the country in the aftermath of an offensive by the Taliban to capture territory and crucial border crossings with Pakistan, Iran and Uzbekistan. India is concerned about the instability in Afghanistan spilling over into parts of the region and Pakistani terrorists from Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed currently fighting alongside the Taliban turning their attention towards Kashmir. “On the regional security situation, the implications of the withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan, and the need for sustained pressure on Pakistan over terror financing and terror havens will be part of the agenda,” one of the people cited above said. India attaches considerable importance to Blinken’s visit, which will be an opportunity to take forward the conversation with the US on bilateral and regional issues and tackling the Covid-19 crisis and other international developments. With regard to Covid-19, the people said discussions will cover containing the pandemic, supply of vaccine raw materials, and economic recovery efforts. “India will continue to push for ensuring open and consistent supply chains for materials and items needed for vaccine production, as the country ramps up production for both domestic vaccination and global supplies thereafter,” the person cited above said. The need for resilient supply chains for critical medicines and healthcare equipment is also likely to come up, the person said. The Indian side will also press for gradual resumption of international travel while maintaining health protocols, especially easing the mobility of students, professionals and business travellers, and allowing travel for family reunions and humanitarian issues. As part of the focus on the Indo-Pacific region, the two sides will discuss ways to deepen engagement under the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, including the possibility of a meeting of foreign ministers of India, Australia, Japan and the US later this year. The two sides will also take forward the Quad vaccine partnership, which was launched at the first virtual summit of the group in March, to enable the supply of made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines to countries in the Indo-Pacific from early 2022, the people said. The two sides will exchange assessments about the Indo-Pacific region, with the focus on Covid-19-related assistance, economic slowdown and the security scenario. The latest developments in West Asia and Central Asia are also likely to be covered. This is Blinken’s first visit to India after assuming office and it reciprocates external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s trip to the US in May. The two ministers have also met in the UK on the margins of a G7 meeting and in Italy on the sidelines of a G20 meet. Other issues that are expected to be part of the discussions are augmenting trade and investment and tapping opportunities in healthcare, education, the digital domain, innovation and security. Climate change too will be a key area, especially the potential for green collaborations, climate finance and transfer of clean technologies to developing countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-terror-sanctuaries-in-pakistan-on-agenda-for-blinken-s-visit-101627201225310.html
25-07-2021||India||Waiting for high command orders, will decide soon: BSY as exit talks loom large||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Sunday he was expecting to receive some instructions and suggestions from the ‘high command’ in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) regarding his continuing in the chair by the evening, following which he would take an appropriate decision. Regarding appointment of an individual belonging to the Dalit community as his successor, the 78-year-old veteran Lingayat leader, also known as BSY, said he was not concerned about the same."By evening once it comes, you will also get to know about it, once it comes I will take an appropriate decision,” the chief minister, fighting months-long dissent within the party, said.Also read | 'Supreme leaders will decide': Pralhad Joshi on if he would replace YediyurappaTo a question on pontiffs holding a mega conclave in Bengaluru on Sunday, which is seen as an event to express solidarity with him, he said, "There is no need for pontiffs to hold any meet, I have confidence in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national President J P Nadda."Indicating that Monday could be his last day in office, Yediyurappa had recently said that based on the instructions that the central leaders will give him on July 25, he will get on with "his work" from July 26, the day his government is scheduled to complete two years in office.On Saturday, Yediyurappa, who became the chief minister for the fourth time after toppling the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) government in July 2019, said he had faced a lot of challenges ever since coming to power, but was satisfied with the “honest efforts” made during his tenure to improve people’s lives. "From the day I took charge as the chief minister till now, I had to face several challenges like natural disasters that the state had never faced in the past and the coronavirus pandemic, which ravaged lives. Now, once again there is a flood-like situation," he said.After relinquishing the CM's chair, he will work for the party, Yediyurappa has said. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, and BJP chief JP Nadda have a special love and faith towards me. You are aware that no position has been given to those who have crossed 75 years of age," he said.Meanwhile, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said the next CM is yet to be officially announced and talks about him succeeding Yediyurappa are all speculation.Union minister Pralhad Joshi, whose name is also doing the rounds as the next CM, has said no one has spoken to him about this and he was not aware if Yediyurappa was putting in his papers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/waiting-for-high-command-orders-will-decide-soon-bs-yediyurappa-as-exit-talks-101627200196561.html
25-07-2021||India||Mann ki Baat: PM asks citizens to sing national anthem on 75th Independence Day||During the 79th edition of monthly radio broadcast ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government has made efforts to get a maximum number of people to sing the national anthem together on 75th Independence Day and urged citizens to connect with the initiative.“On the 15th of August this time…this is an endeavour connected with the National Anthem. It’s an effort on [the] part of the ministry of culture to have a maximum number of Indians sing the national anthem together…I hope you connect yourselves with this novel initiative,” the Prime Minister said. He added that a website- Rashtragaan.in has been created for individuals to upload their own renditions of the national anthem on the website.Modi began the radio address with best wishes to the Indian contingent participating in the Tokyo Olympics and urged all the citizens to support the team through the Victory Punch Campaign.“You also share your victory punch along with your team and cheer for India,” he added.As the country gears up to celebrate Kargil Diwas on Monday, Modi said the Kargil war, when Indian forces recaptured crucial strategic heights and Indian territory that was surreptitiously captured by Pakistani forces, was a symbol of valour and discipline of the country’s armed forces.The Prime Minister also shared several examples of people following unique ideas for their livelihood. He talked about farmers cultivating apples and ‘Ber’ (Indian jujube) and a food stall-owner in Chandigarh who offers Chole Bhature for free to those who have got themselves vaccinated against Covid-19 on the same day.Among other issues, the Prime Minister also highlighted the importance of water conservation. Pointing out that he faced water scarcity during his childhood, Modi said, “We used to yearn for rainfall and therefore saving every single drop of water has been part of our customs.”Modi also said that a government study had found that Mann Ki Baat gets very good response from the youth and said it showed that the radio programme had positivity and sensitivity and it also served as a medium for the PM to understand the young generation.“A recent study by MyGov found that about 75% of those who send their message and suggestions to Mann Ki Baat are below 35 years. It means Mann Ki Baat is being guided by the views of the youth of India. Mann Ki Baat is a medium where there is positivity and sensitivity,” he saidReminding people of coronavirus, PM Modi asked people to follow all Covid-related protocols. “During festivals and gaiety, do remember that corona is not yet gone from amidst us. You don’t have to forget corona-related protocols,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-asks-citizens-to-sing-national-anthem-on-75th-independence-day-101627199965119.html
25-07-2021||India||India found relics of Georgian queen 400 years after her murder. PM shares tale||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday shared how Indian researchers in 2005 uncovered the relics of a 16th-century Georgian queen, Ketevan the Martyr, from the Saint Augustine Church in Goa. "India handed over the holy relic or icon of Saint Queen Ketevan to the Government of Georgia and the people there," the Prime Minister said while addressing the nation through the Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme.India sent the holy relics to Georgia in 2017 for a period of six months to celebrate the 25 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries. On July 9 this year, the relics were permanently handed over to Georgia by external affairs minister S Jaishankar."The words that were said in praise of India in this ceremony are indeed very memorable," the Prime Minister said on Sunday, lauding the strong diplomatic ties between the two countries.Ketevan, the queen of Kakheti, a kingdom in eastern Georgia, was murdered at Shiraz in Iran in 1624, nearly 400 years ago now. Queen Ketevan earned the title of 'martyr' because it is believed she gave up her life defending the Christian faith and refused to convert to Islam, even after prolonged tortures by the Safavid suzerains. After her death, Ketevan was canonised as a saint by the Georgian Orthodox Church.A key icon for the Georgian people, Ketavan inspired a new-age holy grail search, where followers of the faith went on a "hunt" for the queen's holy relics across the world. Goa was one of the chief locations where Georgian delegations would often frequent, trying to interpret centuries-old Portuguese documents that provided clues to Ketevan's burial place.In a series of searches between 2004 to 2005, a group of Indian archaeologists, accompanied by a Portuguese architect, uncovered a number of relics and bone fragments that were confirmed to be of Georgian descent on a DNA test. Additional tests confirmed that the U1b bone came from a woman. So, in 2013, it was established that the bone found in two pieces in 2005 was consistent with being from a Georgian woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-found-relics-of-georgian-queen-400-years-after-her-murder-pm-shares-tale-101627197129307.html
25-07-2021||India||Let us cheer for India: PM Modi calls for support athletes participating in Tokyo Olympics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged all Indians to support athletes participating in the Tokyo Olympics through the Victory Punch campaign on social media. "The incredible images and moments of two days before is still in front of my eyes. That's why I will start Mann Ki Baat with those moments. Seeing athletes carrying the Tiranga, not only I but the whole nation got excited. It was like the entire nation got together and said 'Vijayi Bhava' to all the players," said PM Modi during his monthly radio programme.The Prime Minister said he talked to the athletes before they left for the Tokyo Olympics and got the opportunity to know them. "These players have overcome several adversities in their life to reach this place. Today they have the power of your support and love, so come forward in wishing them and in encouraging them," he said.Also read | A Motivation: Who’s YouTuber Isaac Munda PM Modi spoke about in Mann Ki Baat"To support our Olympics team on social media, the 'Victory Punch Campaign' has already begun. You can also share your victory punch along with your team and cheer for India," he added.On Saturday, PM Modi led the country in congratulating weightlifter Mirabai Chanu who clinched a silver in the 49kg category at the Tokyo Olympics and ended India's 21-year wait for a weightlifting medal at the Games. The 26-year-old lifted a total of 202kg -- 87kg in snatch and 115kg in clean and jerk -- to better Karnam Malleswari's bronze in the 2000 Sydney Olympics.Also read | 'Sing, record national anthem': PM plays up 'Rashtragaan' portal ahead of Aug 15PM Modi wished Mirabai Chanu on her success, saying her feat will inspire the future generations of the country. "Could not have asked for a happier start to @Tokyo2020! India is elated by @mirabai_chanu's stupendous performance. Congratulations to her for winning the Silver medal in weightlifting. Her success motivates every Indian. #Cheer4India #Tokyo2020," PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-cheer-for-india-pm-modi-calls-for-support-for-athletes-in-tokyo-olympics-101627196305271.html
25-07-2021||India||Tokyo Olympics, Kargil Diwas: Top quotes from PM Modi’s Mann Ki Baat address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the country through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat where he touched upon several topics. This is the 79th edition of the programme.The Prime Minister began his address by conveying best wishes to the Indian contingent which is participating in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.As India will be observing Kargil Vijay Diwas on Monday, PM Modi said the war is a symbol of the valour and discipline of the country’s armed forces, which has been witnessed by the whole world.Also Read| On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about Kargil war, Amrit MahotsavHe also spoke about the ongoing coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19), the vaccination drive and the 75th Independence Day which will be celebrated on August 15 next year.Here are the top quotes from the Prime Minister’s address:> “To support our Olympics team on social media, the ‘Victory Punch Campaign’ has already begun. You also share your victory punch along with your team and cheer for India,” PM Modi said.> During his address, Modi urged all citizens to read the thrilling story of Kargil on Kargil Vijay Diwas and salute the brave hearts of the 1999 war.> PM Modi urged citizens to buy Khadi products and contribute towards a ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’. Ahead of the National Handloom Day, which is on August 7, Modi said, “Let us do everything possible to further popularise handlooms in our lives. The successes of Khadi over the last few years are widely known.”> The Prime Minister on Sunday also said a recent survey of the central government showed that 75 per cent of those who sent their suggestions and messages to the suggestions to Mann Ki Baat are below 35 years.Also Read| Feedback of listeners generate ideas to develop India, PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat> Modi said that apple cultivation is gaining traction in the state of Manipur. “Nowadays, apple cultivation is gaining traction in Ukhrul in Manipur. Farmers here are now cultivating apples in orchards. These people also went to Himachal to take proper training,” he said.> He also highlighted the importance of water conservation and narrated an incident from his childhood when he faced severe water scarcity. “ We used to yearn for rainfall and therefore saving every single drop of water has been part of our customs.”Also Read| 'Sing, record national anthem': PM plays up 'Rashtragaan' portal ahead of Aug 15> As people are celebrating and will celebrate festivals in the upcoming days, the Prime Minister reiterated that all Covid-19 protocols have to be followed as the viral disease has not gone away yet. “During festivals and gaiety, do remember that corona is not yet gone from amidst us. You don’t have to forget corona-related protocols,” Modi said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tokyo-olympics-kargil-diwas-top-quotes-from-pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-address-101627198630712.html
25-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM urges citizens to sing national anthem on August 15 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Record national anthem': PM plays up 'Rashtragaan' portal ahead of Aug 15Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged citizens to sing the national anthem on Independence Day, August 15, to create a "rashtra gaan" record. He said that it's an effort on part of the Union ministry of culture to get the "maximum number of Indians" to sing the national anthem together. Read more.Karnataka floods: 9 dead, 3 missing in disaster-hit areas, says ministerNine people were killed and three others are missing in the flood-affected regions of Karnataka as heavy rain lashed the state, revenue minister R Ashok told reporters on Sunday. The weather department has issued a red alert for seven districts in the coastal areas of Karnataka, predicting three more days of rainfall. Read more.UP population bill: Anti-poor or anti-Muslim? | The InterviewIn the latest edition of The Interview, former union minister Salman Khurshid speaks to Hindustan Times and explains his 'illegitimate children' jibe at the Uttar Pradesh government over the population control bill. Watch here.Like a rebirth: First trans-woman to receive identity card from Gujarat govtAlisha Patel became the first trans-woman from Gujarat to be recognised by the state government and receive a transgender identity card. Read more.Homage to Kargil martyrs part of President Kovind’s Jammu and Kashmir tripPresident Ram Nath Kovind will arrive in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday on a four-day visit, during which, he will also travel to Ladakh on the 22nd anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas. Read more.‘As long as he is at the crease, batting seems like a breeze’: Chopra names the ‘phenomenal’ batsman of Team IndiaYoung opener Prithvi Shaw justified his selection for the Sri Lanka tour with the knocks he played in the ODIs. The Mumbai batsman scored 105 runs in three matches, averaging 35. He showcased fearless batting against the Lankan pace attack and provided good starts. However, the youngster failed to convert those startling starts into fifty or a hundred. Read more.Shashi Tharoor’s post on description of bhelpuri goes viral, amuses peopleThiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor is known for his wit and verbal prowess. Thanks to social media, every now and then, we get glimpses of his rich vocabulary which never fails to create a stir among people...This recent share by Tharoor, which he tweeted that he received on WhatsApp, seems like one such creation. Read more.Royal Enfield maker Eicher to develop a complete range of premium electric bikesEicher Motors, parent company of Royal Enfield, is working on a complete range of electric bikes in order to cater to different set of customers across various markets. The company plans to continue working on its internal combustion engine offerings alongside the electric vehicle models. Read more.Sara Ali Khan in blush pink lehenga set exudes royalty, fans call her QueenBollywood actor Sara Ali Khan's love for lehengas has given the fashion world some of its most stunning and iconic looks. Each time she steps out, Sara chooses intricate pieces bound to serve up some major style inspiration. Her latest look for a photoshoot also proves that the star loves making a statement in this ethnic wear. Read more.Fans discover Main Hoon Na crew member's hilarious rant in movie sceneFans of Farah Khan's 2004 Bollywood debut as a director, Main Hoon Na, have discovered an interesting and hilarious detail from the movie. Starring Shah Rukh Khan and Sushmita Sen with Zayed Khan and Amrita Rao, the film was a romantic action comedy. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-urges-citizens-to-sing-national-anthem-on-august-15-101627194773956.html
25-07-2021||India||YouTube influencer arrested for promoting ‘suicidal stunts’ on railway tracks||A YouTube influencer was arrested by the Bandra Government Railway Police (GRP) on Sunday for allegedly circulating a video promoting stunts on railway tracks.The accused Iffy Khan, who has 44.8k followers on YouTube, posted a video he promoted as “suicidal stunts” on the railway tracks. It was shot on the railway tracks between Bandra and Khar railway stations on Friday afternoon and was spotted online on Saturday at 4pm.After the video was tweeted by a social media user, the GRP officials were alerted. Quaiser Khalid, commissioner of GRP said a case was registered and Khan was arrested from his house in Bandra under sections 336 (committing an act to endanger life of others and self) and 188 (disobedience of order) of the Indian Penal Code. He was also booked under Section 505 (1) (publishes or circulates any statement with intent to incite) and under the Indian Railways Act, sections 145 (nuisance) and 147 (trespass). “Khan is a popular influencer with thousands of followers. He should not set such examples,” said an officer from the GRP.Khan said he made the video to increase his online followers and that he had done such a stunt for the first time. Following the case, he deleted the video and posted another one apologising to the police and his followers, explaining that the video was a two part act. He said the second part was supposed to make it clear that dying by suicide was not the answer to problems. Khan will be produced before a court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youtube-influencer-arrested-for-promoting-suicidal-stunts-on-railway-tracks-101627196724709.html
25-07-2021||India||A Motivation: Who’s YouTuber Isaac Munda PM Modi spoke about in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday mentioned one Isaac Munda, a YouTube sensation from a village in Sambalpur in Odisha, and who has hit a jackpot with his videos on local cooking and lifestyle, during his 79th ‘Mann ki Baat’ address on Sunday. Speaking about the various boons of technology and supporting local entrepreneurs, Modi said Munda once used to work as a daily labourer, but is now earning well and supporting his family through his YouTube channel where he highlights local delicacies, traditional recipes, his village, lifestyle, family and food habits.An elated Munda said he would continue the good work. 'I heard the Prime Minister mentioned my name (in Mann Ki Baat). This made me very happy. I will continue the good work," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Munda started his journey as a YouTuber in March 2020 when he posted a clipping about a traditional Odia dish, Pakhala, and there has been no looking back since then. Modi said his initiative is unique in many ways because it provides an opportunity to urban people to have a peek into a lifestyle about which they have very little knowledge. The Prime Minister said Munda is celebrating culture as well as cuisine and is also motivating us.Read Also | Feedback of listeners generate ideas to develop India, PM Modi at Mann ki BaatThe YouTube channel, Isak Munda Eating, has over 7 lakh followers and has helped the humble food vlogger earn in lakhs. Munda who lives with his wife, two daughters and a son in Babupali village of Sambalpur district, was struggling to make ends meet since the Covid-19 pandemic hit.“One day I was watching videos on my mobile phone when a video popped up. In the video, the presenter suggested making videos and uploading them on YouTube to earn money. I repeatedly watched the video and decided to give it a try,” Munda was quoted as saying in an article.Once he decided to chronicle his village on the video sharing platform, he reportedly had to first borrow ₹3,000 to buy a smartphone.Munda has since built his house and bailed out his family from the financial crisis with his earnings from YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-mann-ki-baat-youtuber-isaac-munda-motivation-101627195477237.html
25-07-2021||India||Feedback of listeners generate ideas to develop India, PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the 79th episode of his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat on Sunday said the ideas and feedback he receives from his listeners play a part in shaping policy decisions that fuel India's development.PM Modi shared a recently conducted listener-connect survey by MyGov — a citizen engagement platform launched by the Centre — showed that 75% of the listeners who shared inputs and feedback following his monthly radio broadcast are below the age of 35."It is a positive sign that the youth of India show direction to Mann Ki Baat through their suggestions, which go a long way in developing India," PM Modi said.#MannKiBaat celebrates positivity and collectivity. pic.twitter.com/SMEyTCfAzj"Through Mann Ki Baat I get the chance to feel the pulse of the youth of this country," he added.He added that he forwards many of the inputs that he receives to government departments concerned for them to give shape to innovate ideas.The Prime Minister said the suggestions received on Mann Ki Baat highlight the diversity of India and highlights the innovative minds of the youth, which inspires the rest of the country to think.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-mann-ki-baat-youth-listeners-development-of-india-101627190737944.html
25-07-2021||India||Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut wants to know who funded Pegasus ‘snooping’ project||Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha parliamentarian Sanjay Raut has called for a probe into funding of the suspected hacking of 300 phones of prominent Indian politicians, ministers, journalists and activists using Israeli spyware Pegasus and alleged that it could have cost at least $48 million in 2019 alone.“The Pegasus app was used to spy over 1,500 people including political workers, human rights activists, two Central ministers and 30 media personnel. According to a report, one licence used to spy on 50 phones costs $8 million per year. If 300 phones were spied on then it cost at least $48 million dollars in 2019. There could [have been] more spending in 2020 and 2021. From whose pocket [was] the money spent? Will there be an investigation on this whole issue?,” Sanjay Raut said in his weekly column Rokhthok, published in party mouthpiece Saamana.The Pegasus row erupted last Sunday night before the beginning of the current monsoon session of parliament after an international investigative consortium reported that India was among countries that used Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software to potentially target politicians, journalists and activists.The first report alleged that 38 Indian journalists, including three current Hindustan Times staffers and one from sister publication Mint, were among 180 journalists potentially targeted worldwide. Subsequent reports said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and two sitting Union ministers including Ashwini Vaishnaw were on the list of potential targets. A highly invasive malware, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.However, the presence of a number on the list of potential targets does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. In the absence of digital forensics of specific devices, it is not possible to conclusively establish that the phones linked to these numbers were hacked. The opposition has targeted the government in the parliament over snooping allegations and demanded a probe to establish if the government was complicit in the project. The government, however, has denied the allegations as figment of imagination.In his column a week after the snooping scandal first broke, Raut drew a parallel between the alleged use of the malware to spy on citizens and political opponents and the Hiroshima atomic bombing. “This incident is not very different from the Hiroshima atomic bombing. There people had died while here the casualty is the independence,” said Raut.Carrying on with the analogy, Raut claimed that “mobile phones have now become virtual bombs” planted to keep a tab on the movement of its opponents.“The list includes over 100 journalists who have been writing against the government, one of them was from Jharkhand who exposed a tribal’s fake encounter to light. Now Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravi Shankar Prasad has asked why India alone was being targeted when more than 45 countries had Pegasus links. In a way, the BJP leader has admitted use of Pegasus in India,” Raut’s column further reads.Responding to Raut’s column, BJP accused Shiv Sena of distracting from the main issue concerning the residents of the state. “Konkan which is the stronghold of Shiv Sena is facing deluge and large scale damages. Instead of providing relief to the people, Sena despite being in power, is talking of Pegasus. The people of Maharashtra have never seen such worst government which keeps people besieged in problems and offers no relief,” said Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-wants-to-know-who-funded-pegasus-snooping-project-101627194624493.html
25-07-2021||India||'Sing, record national anthem': PM Modi plays up 'Rashtragaan' portal ahead of Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged citizens to sing the national anthem on Independence Day, August 15, to create a "rashtra gaan" record. He said that it's an effort on part of the Union ministry of culture to get the "maximum number of Indians" to sing the national anthem together. The initiative is being taken by the central government under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, PM Modi said while addressing his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme.With the help of this website, you will be able to sing the national anthem, record it & join this campaign: PM @narendramodi #MannKiBaatThe Centre has created an online portal for this purpose, the Prime Minister said, rashtragaan.in, where anyone can record and upload their own videos singing the national anthem. "Let us target more than 75 lakhs of our citizens," a government notification declared. "Let us create a record on 15th August 2021.""With the help of this website, you can render the national anthem and record it, thereby getting connected with the campaign," the Prime Minister said.PM Modi said that this year, August 15 is a special occasion since the country is entering its 75th year of Independence. He also said that Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav is not about the government but about the sentiments of 1.30 billion Indians.Amrut Mahotsav is a series of events to be organised by the Centre to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence."It is our great fortune that we are witnessing 75 years of the freedom for which the country waited for centuries. You will remember, to celebrate 75 years of Independence, Amrit Mahotsav started from Sabarmati Ashram of Bapu on March 12," he said.Just like the freedom fighters of the country united for freedom, people will have to unite for India's development, the Prime Minister said. "We have to live for the country, work for the country and in this even small efforts bring big results."The 79th episode of the programme was live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP's) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, on the AIR News website, and the Newsonair mobile app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sing-record-national-anthem-pm-modi-plays-up-rashtragaan-portal-ahead-of-independence-day-101627193277920.html
25-07-2021||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi talks about Kargil war, Amrit Mahotsav||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called upon people to pay tributes to soldiers who made the nation proud in 1999, a day ahead of Kargil Vijay Diwas on Monday. "It is only natural to be filled with emotions in respect for the one who raises the Tricolour for the country. This feeling of patriotism unites us all," PM Modi said while addressing Mann Ki Baat."Tomorrow, i.e. July 26 is also Kargil Vijay Diwas. The Kargil war is a symbol of the valour and discipline of our armed forces, which has been seen by the whole world. This time this glorious day will also be celebrated in the middle of 'Amrit Mahotsav'. That's why it becomes even more special. I would like you to read the thrilling story of Kargil and salute the heroes of Kargil," PM Modi added during his monthly radio programme.PM Modi said this year August 15 is special as the country will be entering its 75th year of Independence. He also said that Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav is not about the government but about the sentiments of 1.30 billion Indians. Amrut Mahotsav is a series of events to be organised by the Centre to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence."It is our great fortune that we are witnessing 75 years of the freedom for which the country waited for centuries. You will remember, to celebrate 75 years of Independence, Amrit Mahotsav started from Sabarmati Ashram of Bapu on March 12," he said."Bapu's Dandi Yatra was also revived on this day, since then, from Jammu and Kashmir to Puducherry, from Gujarat to the northeast, programmes related to Amrit Mahotsav are being celebrated across the country," he added.The Prime Minister said several programmes related to Amrit Mahotsav are also being organised continuously by the government and social organisations. One such event which is going to be held this time on August 15 will be an effort related to the national anthem, he said. The Union ministry of culture has created a website for the occasion, rashtragaan.in, so that more and more Indians sing the national anthem, PM Modi said. "With the help of this website, you will be able to record the national anthem by singing it, you will be able to join this campaign. I hope you will definitely join this unique initiative," he added.Just like the freedom fighters of the country united for freedom, people will have to unite for India's development. "We have to live for the country, work for the country and in this even small efforts bring big results."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-talks-about-kargil-amrit-mahotsav-101627191402267.html
25-07-2021||India||PM Modi addresses 79th episode of Mann Ki Baat radio show. Watch LIVE here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on air, addressing fellow Indians through his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme. The 79th episode of the programme is being live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP's) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, on the AIR News website, and the Newsonair mobile app.Watch PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat LIVE here:At the 78th edition of Mann Ki Baat last month, Prime Minister Modi talked about Indian players taking part in the Tokyo Olympics and advised people to not pressurise them, either knowingly or unknowingly. He also said citizens should support the players with an open mind and encourage them.After weightlifter Mirabai Chanu won a silver medal in the 49kg category at the Tokyo Olympics on Saturday, PM Modi said the entire country is elated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-79th-episode-of-mann-ki-baat-radio-show-watch-live-here-101627184703568.html
25-07-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat Highlights: PM Modi highlights importance of water conservation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the country through the 79th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. Modi began the address by conveying his best wishes to the Indian contingent participating in the Tokyo Olympics.As the country gears up to celebrate Kargil Diwas tomorrow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said during his Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday that the Kargil war is a symbol of valour and discipline of the country's armed forces.He also cited a recent survey carried out by the Centre which showed that 75% of those who sent their suggestions and messages to the suggestions to the monthly radio programme are below 35 years.During the 78th edition of the programme, Modi said on June 27 that players taking part in the Tokyo Olympics have struggled to get to where they are and advised the citizens to not pressurise the players knowingly or unknowingly.Pointing out that it is crucial that vaccine hesitancy, which is based on rumours in addressed, PM Modi said India achieved the feat of inoculating million people in a single day.Follow Highlights here: Follow all the updates here:On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi highlights importance of water conservationAmong other topics, Prime Minister also highlighted the importance of water conservation. Pointing out that he faced water scarcity during his childhood, Modi said, " We used to yearn for rainfall and therefore to save every single drop of water has been part of our customs."Apple cultivation gaining traction in Manipur, says PM ModiPM Modi said that when it comes to apple cultivation in the country, people first think of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand. "But what if I tell you add Manipur's name in this list, they you might be surprised. Nowadays, apple cultivation is gaining traction in Ukhrul, Manipur. Farmers here are now cultivating apples in orchards. These people also went to Himachal to take proper training," he added.Mann Ki Baat guided by views of India's youth: PM ModiPM Modi, during his 79th edition of Mann Ki Baat, cited a recent survey carried out by the Centre which showed that 75% of those who sent their suggestions and messages to the suggestions to the monthly radio programme are below 35 years."It means Mann Ki Baat is being guided by the views of the youth of India. Mann Ki Baat is a medium where there is positivity & sensitivity," he said'Nation first, always first' says PM ModiThe need of the nation is to unite and work towards national progress.Nation first, always first! #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/rVeVCxDSS4PM Modi said there is a need for India to unite and work towards national progress.PM Modi urges citizens to support Olympics team on social mediaPrime Minister Modi on Sunday appealed to the citizens to support the Olympics team through the 'Victory Punch Campaign'. "You also share your victory punch along with your team and cheer for India," he added. Kargil war symbol of valour of our armed forces, says PMTomorrow is Kargil Vijay Diwas. Kargil war is such a symbol of valour and discipline of our armed forces which the entire world has witnessed. I would like you to read the thrilling story of Kargil. Let us all salute the brave hearts of Kargil: PM Narendra Modi at 'Mann Ki Baat' pic.twitter.com/9Dk8vMmFakAs the country gears up to celebrate Kargil Diwas tomorrow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said during his Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday that the Kargil war is a symbol of valour and discipline of the country's armed forces. He also urged the fellow citizens to read the 'thrilling' story of Kargil. PM Modi addresses nationPrime Minister Narendra Modi is currently addressing the 79th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.PM Modi to address nation shortlyPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am today. He might speak on the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the Indian contingent participating in the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/79th-mann-ki-baat-live-pm-modi-addresses-nation-101627187629953.html
25-07-2021||India||Homage to Kargil martyrs part of President Kovind’s J-K trip||President Ram Nath Kovind will arrive in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday on a four-day visit during which he will also travel to Ladakh on the 22nd anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas.Officials in Srinagar said that the president will directly go to Badami Bagh cantonment housing the strategic 15 Corps, also called Chinar Corps.“He will briefly visit the cantonment where he is expected to pay floral tributes to the soldiers martyred in the line of duty,” an official said.Kovind will then travel to the governor’s house where he will be staying amid the picturesque forest and Zabarwan mountain range. Traffic on Gupkar and Foreshore roads, the two approach roads to Raj Bhawan and the Nehru state guest house on the banks of Dal lake, has been diverted between July 25 and 28 as part of security measures for his visit.On Monday, the president is scheduled to travel to Drass, subject to fair weather conditions.“On July 26, 2021, the President will pay homage to the indomitable courage and sacrifice of the Indian Armed Forces during the Kargil conflict in 1999 at the Kargil War Memorial at Dras (Ladakh) on the 22nd Anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas,” Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a statement.In 2019, the President’s trip to Dras to participate in Kargil Vijay Diwas was cancelled from Srinagar due to bad weather.On July 27, Kovind will address the 19th annual convocation of the University of Kashmir in Srinagar, the statement said.Officials said the president is also expected to visit the ski resort of Gulmarg though the details are not fully clear.“The president will be travelling back on the morning of July 28,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/homage-to-kargil-martyrs-part-of-president-kovind-s-j-k-trip-101627189584425.html
25-07-2021||India||Karnataka floods: 9 dead, 3 missing in disaster-hit areas, says minister||Nine people were killed and three others are missing in the flood-affected regions of Karnataka as heavy rain lashed the state, revenue minister R Ashok told reporters on Sunday. The weather department has issued a red alert for seven districts in the coastal areas of Karnataka, predicting three more days of rainfall."Nine people have died and three people are missing in flood-affected regions of Karnataka," state revenue minister R Ashok was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Nine people have died and three people are missing in flood-affected regions of Karnataka: State Revenue Minister R Ashok pic.twitter.com/8OWJfPmZmdKarnataka disaster management officials earlier confirmed three casualties in rain-related incidents. Among the deaths reported since July 22, four are from Uttara Kannada district, two from Belagavi, and one each from Chikkamagaluru, Dharwad, and Kodagu.Thousands of people were evacuated from danger zones after eight landslides, including one that derailed a train, were witnessed a day prior. In Karnataka, 31,360 people have been evacuated from low-lying areas, while 22,417 are taking shelter in 237 relief camps. According to data shared by the state disaster management authority, 283 villages in 45 taluks have been lashed by rains, affecting a population of 36,498.Karnataka sounded a red alert on Friday night in the districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, and Kodagu. An orange alert was also raised in the Belagavi and Dharwad districts.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday directed the district in-charge ministers to stay put in their respective districts and monitor the relief and rescue operations in the areas. The chief minister will be travelling to the rain and flood-affected border district of Belagavi in north Karnataka on Sunday to assess the situation there, the chief minister's office (CMO) said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-floods-9-dead-3-missing-in-disaster-hit-areas-says-minister-101627186944542.html
25-07-2021||India||Like a rebirth: First trans-woman to receive identity card from Gujarat govt||Alisha Patel became the first trans-woman from Gujarat to be recognised by the state government and receive a transgender identity card.Patel, who had lived as Sandip for about four decades, was diagnosed with gender dysphoria, described clinically as a feeling of distress caused due to a gender mismatch. She spent three years and ₹8 lakh to become a woman.According to an article in Times of India, the stamp of recognition from the state government is like a rebirth for Patel, an oriental therapist. “I can now confidently claim my identity and do things as a woman that I could not do earlier,” she said.Patel said she realised she was a woman within ever since she turned 12. Youngest among six siblings, Patel preferred the long skirt at school uniform over the boys’ shorts, but she could express herself.Patel said her family supported her throughout without any objection and she overcame her struggles with their help and counselling by a psychiatrist. “Initially, there were some apprehensions in other people, but I have survived them all,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“My body language, interest and way of talking conveyed that I would grow up to be a woman to my family,” Patel said.Surat’s social defence officer Lalji Patel said earlier it was a lengthy process to receive a transgender identity, but things have become easier now. “It is not easily done through online registration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-a-rebirth-first-trans-woman-to-receive-identity-card-from-gujarat-govt-101627186755254.html
25-07-2021||India||India records 39,742 new Covid-19 cases, 535 more deaths||India’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 31,371,901 on Sunday as 39,742 cases were registered in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 535 died due to Covid-19 and 39,972 patients recovered in the same period, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 420,551 and 30,543,138 respectively, data updated in the morning also showed. Active cases of Covid-19 stand at 408,212, a fall from 408,977 cases on Saturday.Sunday’s case count is 645 more than that of Saturday’s when 39,097 people tested Covid-19 positive. While the death toll on Sunday is 11 less than that of Saturday’s when 546 deaths were recorded.A total of 456,289,567 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,718,756 were tested in the last 24 hours, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Sunday.The country has achieved the landmark milestone of administering over 430 million vaccine doses of which nearly 4.6 million doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said late on Saturday.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/aNGfO6zbxDAs Covid-19 cases drop, Delhi and Haryana have introduced further relaxations in their ongoing restrictions.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), announced on Saturday that swimming pools, multiplexes, auditoriums and entertainment parks will be allowed to reopen in the Capital on Monday. As per the order, cinema halls, multiplexes, auditoriums and assembly halls are only allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity. While Delhi Metro and public buses will be allowed to operate with 100 per cent of its seating capacity.The Haryana government, while extending the ongoing restrictions by another week till August 2, has allowed standalone restaurants to operate from 8am to 11pm with half of their seating capacity from Monday. Restaurants and bars in shopping malls and hotels will continue to remain open from 10am to 11pm, according to an order issued on Saturday. All shops in the state will continue from 9am to 8pm.Meanwhile, Maharashtra, which is continuing to see a high number of Covid-19 cases, is coming up with a plan to provide relaxations in districts where the positivity rate is below 0.1 per cent. However, experts have pointed out the state government should not let down its guard against the Covid-19 unless there is a significant drop in daily cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-39-742-new-covid-19-cases-535-more-deaths-101627183048289.html
25-07-2021||India||Gen Rawat holds meeting of service chiefs, addresses theatre command concerns||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat held a marathon meeting on Thursday to assuage concerns of the Indian Army, Indian Navy and Indian Air Force over forthcoming military theatre commands and professionally addressed all misgivings of the tri-services. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to announce key changes and reforms in military architecture during his Independence Day speech this year.On July 22, General Rawat held a five-hour meeting in the presence of three service chiefs, vice chiefs and integrated defence staff officers above the rank of major general and equivalent to explain to them the proposed military theatre commands with a vision to synergise military operations for rapid response to future conflicts. China, India’s main military threat, has already reorganised its military into theatre commands and is now helping client Pakistan to shed its imperial legacy and reform its military. While India faces Chengdu based Western Theatre Command on its northern border along the LAC, Pakistan except for its Peshawar based XI Corps and Quetta based XII Corps has deployed its entire military to face India.Also read | Indian Army and Navy favour theatre commands, Air Force plays the lone rangerSouth Block sources said Gen Rawat held the meeting with the military chiefs at the advice of defence minister Rajnath Singh, who wanted all the legitimate concerns of the tri-services to be noted and valid ones addressed before the military theatre commands were announced. Thursday's meeting was the second such meeting on the issue with the Modi government all set to announce the maritime theatre command and the air defence command. Besides, three land commands will be announced next year with the western theatre command solely handling the Pakistan border and the eastern theatre command solely the Tibet-China border with northern command separately handling both the borders due to illegal land claims of both Pakistan and China over UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.According to South Block officials, the military theatre commands process is going on smoothly with Gen Rawat taking all the questions from the three service chiefs. While the future (now for over two decades) lies in jointmanship and synergy between three services, the three services are worried about their respective turfs and fiefdom with the power of the service chief getting reduced to procurement and training as is the case with theatre commands. It is the theatre commander who will be responsible for operations with all three services joining hands to counter the enemy. It was the 1999 Kargil war, which revealed the lacunae within the Indian military with both the army and the Indian Air Force on different pages when the war started in May 1999.Also read | A national security knotWhile the Narendra Modi government has decided to move towards theatre commands, the three services are worried about the division of military assets and the principal role of the permanent chairman of the Chief of Staffs Committee (COSC) in wartime conditions. Under the military theatre commands, the commanders will directly report to the chairman, COSC, who in turn will task them on the advice of the military chiefs or members of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-rawat-holds-meeting-of-service-chiefs-addresses-theatre-command-concerns-101627184901431.html
25-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kolkata Police arrest 2 for BJP worker's murder and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After NHRC report on Bengal poll violence, 2 held for BJP worker’s murderThe Kolkata Police on Saturday arrested two men for allegedly murdering Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Abhijit Sarkar in the city’s Narkeldanga area shortly after the assembly poll results were announced on May 2, police said. Read moreClear signs of economic revival amid Covid-19 disruptions, says Piyush GoyalUnion minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal has said there are clear indications the economy is seeing a revival amid the disruptions caused by coronavirus (Covid-19) disease and the country will receive high foreign direct investments (FDIs) during the current financial year. Read moreContractors write to BMC, allege tender for demolition of fish market was fixedFive contractors have written to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) alleging that the tendering process for the demolition of one of the city’s oldest markets – Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Fish Market – at Fort has been fixed. Read moreRodney Alcala, 'Dating Game Killer', dies in California hospitalRodney James Alcala, a serial killer in the United States known for torture slaying during the '70s, died in California on Saturday while awaiting his execution, news agencies reported citing prison officials. Read more'It's like asking Jayasuriya to open and score at run-a-ball': Muralitharan on what India should expect from PandyaSri Lankan legend Muttiah Muralitharan has backed Hardik Pandya despite his lackluster performance in the three ODI series, saying the India all-rounder's caliber is such that had he been the captain of a team, Pandya would have definitely made it to his XI. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor gives modern twist to Audrey Hepburn's Breakfast at Tiffany's lookActor Janhvi Kapoor channelled her inner 60s Hollywood diva for a recent photoshoot, creating quite the buzz online. The star looked absolutely chic as she gave a modern twist to Audrey Hepburn's iconic Breakfast at Tiffany's look. Read moreVidya Balan says she ‘looked foolish’ when she tried dressing up like other actresses: ‘I was very uncomfortable’Vidya Balan opened up about her distinct aesthetic and said that she did not choose to be different but simply ‘didn’t fit in’. Her love for sarees is well documented and she carries off classic traditional drapes and contemporary silhouettes with equal elan. Read moreWatch| ‘Serious threat of kidnapping': India warns its nationals in Afghanistan﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-update-from-ht-kolkata-police-arrest-2-for-bjp-worker-s-murder-101627182266983.html
25-07-2021||India||Bihar boy killed over love affair, family cremates him in accused's house||The family of the 17-year-old boy, who was killed over an alleged love affair in Bihar's Muzzafarpur district, cremated him in front of the accused's house, news agency ANI reported on Sunday. The boy died on Friday night during treatment after he was allegedly beaten and his genitals were mutilated by the girl's family in Rampur Sah village under Kanti police station, according to ANI.A 48-second video clip tweeted by ANI shows hundreds of people walking inside a house and later burning a pyre in front of one of the doors. According to reports, police personnel were deployed in the village after the boy's cremation.#WATCH | Kin of the man killed in connection with an alleged love affair in Muzzafarpur, Bihar was cremated in front of the accused's house, yesterday.Prime accused and three others have been arrested in connection with the killing: Kanti Police Station, Muzzafarpur pic.twitter.com/ZNYWYcDWjc"Prima facie shows that the man was killed over an alleged love affair. He was beaten and his genitals were cut off," Rajesh Kumar, Muzzafarpur (City) superintendent of police, was quoted as saying by ANI.Police later said that the prime accused in the case, Sushant Pandey, was arrested along with three others in connection with the case."...the family members of the deceased disrupted the law and order situation at the house of one Sushant Pandey in Muzzafarnagar on Saturday. Police acted swiftly and arrested Sushant Pandey, who is the prime accused of killing Saurabh Kumar," the police said in a statement.The boy's father told ANI that Sushant Pandey and his son intimidated him and his family."The girl and the boy have been talking to each other. When the families did not agree to the match, we sent our boy to another city for work. He was in town for his sister's marriage when the incident happened," the father said according to ANI.The father said the girl's brother called his son to his house and along with others beat him. The girl's brother later called the father and "put a pistol on my ear to make me sign a statement" saying they handed over his son alive.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-boy-killed-over-love-affair-family-cremates-him-in-accused-s-house-101627180361412.html
25-07-2021||India||After NHRC report on Bengal poll violence, 2 held for BJP worker’s murder||The Kolkata Police on Saturday arrested two men for allegedly murdering Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Abhijit Sarkar in the city’s Narkeldanga area shortly after the assembly poll results were announced on May 2, police said. The arrests were made two days after the Calcutta high court’s five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the West Bengal government had failed to properly investigate complaints of violence lodged after the May-April assembly elections. “The proceedings have become adversarial because the state has failed to properly investigate,” the bench said on July 22 while hearing public interest litigations relating to post-poll violence. The accused Sanjay Dey, 26, and Avijit Dey, 25, are residents of Mahesh Barick Lane in Narkeldanga but were hiding in a relative’s house at Chandannagar in Hooghly district from where they were arrested, said joint commissioner of Kolkata police (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. “With this, seven of the eight people named in the first information report (FIR) have been arrested,” said Sharma. Sarkar was allegedly assaulted and strangled with a cable television wire by a mob. The BJP, the state’s main opposition party, which won 77 assembly seats against 213 by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the assembly polls held earlier this year, has alleged that more than 30 of its supporters have been killed till this week and hundreds attacked. It has also alleged that many women have been raped and assaulted. Abhijit Sarkar’s murder figured prominently in the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) report that was submitted before the Calcutta high court on July 13. The five-judge bench had asked the NHRC to probe the allegations of post-poll violence. BJP leader and advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is representing many victims of the alleged violence, filed an affidavit seeking DNA test to identify Sarkar’s body which was lying in a city morgue. The court ordered that a DNA test has to be done by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory. The bench had earlier ordered a fresh autopsy of the body at the army’s Command Hospital in Kolkata. The victim’s brother, Biswajit Sarkar, is among the petitioners who moved the Supreme Court in May seeking formation of a special investigation team for probing allegations of violence by TMC workers. Tibrewal told the court on July 13 that members of Sarkar’s family could not identify the body before the autopsy at Command Hospital. The court said that DNA samples from the corpse should be matched with the DNA of the victim’s brother. Representing the state, advocate general Kishor Dutta accused Sarkar’s family of not cooperating with the police. He said several attempts were made to record their statements. On June 21, the five-judge bench of acting chief justice Bindal and justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar dismissed a petition seeking recall of its June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe allegations of human rights violation during the alleged violence. Dismissing the state’s plea for recall, justice Bindal observed that the conduct of the state did not inspire confidence of the court. In its report, the NHRC panel slammed the state government saying the violence “shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus”. It even recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the violence and said trials should be conducted outside Bengal. The NHRC report said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged between May 2 and June 20. These included 29 murder charges, 12 complaints relating to rape and sexual assault and 940 complaints of loot and arson. The report said that out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% are currently in jail. “The situation in the state of West Bengal is a manifestation of the law of ruler, instead of rule of law...This was retributive violence by supporters of the ruling party against supporters of the main opposition party,” the report said. The court has directed the government to file its reply on the NHRC report by July 26. The matter will be heard again on July 28. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee dismissed the NHRC report, calling it distorted. “How many commissions and central agencies did the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) send to (BJP-ruled) Uttar Pradesh?” she said last week. She also said that the violence took place between May 2 and May 5, the day she took oath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-nhrc-report-on-bengal-poll-violence-2-held-for-bjp-worker-s-murder-101627179261283.html
25-07-2021||India||India sends first 'oxygen express' to Bangladesh to help out with Covid-19||Keeping with India's Neighbourhood First policy, Indian Railways on Saturday delivered medical oxygen to Bangladesh amid the Covid-19 pandemic.External Affairs Minister (MEA) S Jaishankar informed about the delivery via Twitter. "Neighbourhood First delivers again. Oxygen Express from India arrives in Bangladesh," EAM Jaishankar tweeted. Indian Railways delivered 200 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to Bangladesh in 10 containers via the Oxygen Express for the first time ever.Neighbourhood First delivers again. Oxygen Express from India arrives in Bangladesh. pic.twitter.com/1l06pFxmHb"Indian Railways' Oxygen Express is set to embark on its journey to Bangladesh. This is the first time ever that the Oxygen Express is put into operation in a neighbouring country. Today, an indent was placed at Tata in Chakradharpur Division under South Eastern Railway to transport 200 MT of Liquid Medical Oxygen to Benapole, Bangladesh," the Ministry of Railways said in an official statement.The loading of 200 MT of LMO in 10 containers rake has been completed at 09:25 am."It may be noted that Oxygen Expresses were started by Indian Railways on April 24, 2021, to provide respite to Indian states requiring medical Oxygen. More than 35000 MT of LMO was transported to 15 states. Around 480 Oxygen Expresses were operationalised," it added.Oxygen Express trains have delivered more than 30,000 metric tonnes (MT) of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) to states and Union territories so far across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-first-oxygen-express-to-bangladesh-to-help-out-with-covid19-101627177550677.html
25-07-2021||India||'Troubling rise' in neurological cases among post-Covid patients: Hospital||There has been a "troubling rise" rise in neurological issues, including brain haemorrhage, among people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a leading private hospital in Delhi has said. The Moolchand Hospital said in a statement on Saturday that it has been recording "increasing cases of intracerebral (brain) haemorrhage, and 50 per cent of the neuroscience department is filled with such cases", according to news agency PTI."Majority of these cases are those who have had Covid-19 infection in the past, with a gap of two to three months," Dr Asha Bakshi, a senior neurosurgeon at Moolchand Hospital, said adding that 37 per cent of the patients reported symptoms, including headache, and 26 per cent of them faced the loss of smell or taste.Also read | Older people have fewer antibodies against Covid-19: Study"The most common neurological syndromes reported were acute encephalopathy (49 per cent), coma (17 per cent), and stroke (6 per cent). Presence of clinically captured neurologic signs or syndromes was associated with increased risk of in-hospital death," Dr Asha Bakshi said.Bakshi said that the pandemic has not only caused acute inflammatory illness involving the lungs predominantly but has also led to some long-term neurological problems.The Moolchand Hospital also said in a statement that up to 60 per cent of patients in its out-patient department (OPD) have complained about increasing mental health issues like anxiety, depression, suicidal thoughts, feeling of loneliness, and that most of them are post-Covid cases.Also read | Will you need Covid-19 vaccine booster shot? AIIMS chief answersDoctors also said those who contracted Covid-19 and have survived the coronavirus pandemic are coming to the hospital after weeks with complaints such as headache, giddiness, fatigue, cognitive difficulties, memory problems, anxiety, depression, stroke, pain and sleep disorders."Data from other surveys suggest that the picture is similar worldwide. In India, a study from Assam (Hazarika and colleagues) found that 46 per cent had anxiety, 22 per cent had some form of depression and five per cent had suicidal thoughts," Bakshi said, according to PTI."This needs to be addressed seriously especially when such a large populace is affected as it has a direct implication on our social fabric and more importantly on work-life and subsequent economic health of the nation," Bakshi added.Also read | Covaxin for kids: Trial results may be out by September, says AIIMS chiefAnother hospital also said that it has in the past two to four weeks received 15-20 cases with neurological conditions in those who recovered from Covid-19."The most common condition we have seen are migrainous headaches and post-Covid encephalopathy apart from proximal myopathy. The other rarer conditions included Guillain-Barré syndrome," Dr Madhukar Bhardwaj, a neurologist at Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital, was quoted as saying by PTI."Typically, the headaches are migrainous in character, present in younger age group and do not respond that well to common medications used for common migraine," Dr Bhardwaj said adding that people are seeking treatment for these neurological conditions after one-two months of recovering from Covid-19.He said they have not come across children suffering from these conditions.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-troubling-rise-in-neurological-cases-among-post-covid-patients-hospital-101627175564891.html
25-07-2021||India||PM Modi to address 79th edition of ‘Mann Ki Baat’ today at 11am||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am on Sunday. This will be the 79th edition of the programme and will be broadcast on the entire network of AIR and Doordarshan and also on AIR News and mobile app. The programme will also be available on the YouTube channels of AIR, DD News, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and the information and broadcasting ministry, according to an official statement.Prime Minister Modi might address the nation on the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the Indian contingent participating in the Tokyo Olympics.Also Read| PM Modi wishes Mirabai Chanu, says 'could not have asked for a happier start'During the 78th edition of Mann Ki Baat, Modi said on June 27 that players taking part in the Tokyo Olympics have struggled to get to where they are and advised citizens to not pressurise the players knowingly or unknowingly. He also said citizens should support the players with an open mind and encourage them. He also paid a tribute to the legendary sprinter Milkha Singh, who succumbed to Covid-19 on June 19.PM Modi also addressed the issue of vaccine hesitancy on June 27. Pointing out that it is crucial that vaccine hesitancy, which is based on rumours in addressed, Modi said India achieved the feat of inoculating million people in a single day. He also cited his own example along with his mother’s by saying both have been fully vaccinated.Also Read| Believe in science, shed Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy: PM Modi“I have myself been vaccinated with both doses. And my mother is close to a hundred years of age… she too has taken both doses. At times, some people develop fever but it’s very minor, just for a few hours. Not getting vaccinated can prove dangerous,” the Prime Minister said.Meanwhile, the government has said that Mann Ki Baat has generated over ₹30.80 crore as revenue since its inception in 2014, with the highest of over ₹10.64 crore earned from 2017-18. Addressing the Rajya Sabha on July 19, Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said, “Prasar Bharati has broadcast 78 episodes of the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme till date on its All India Radio and Doordarshan network and also on social media platforms”. Thakur added that as per data presented by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), the cumulative reach of the viewership of the radio programme was estimated to range from approximately 6 crore to 14.35 crore during 2018 to 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-to-address-79th-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-today-at-11am-101627173608947.html
25-07-2021||NA||Breaking News highlights: Goa extends statewide curfew till August 2||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.India reported 39,742 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 535 deaths related to the virus in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Sunday. Also, prime minister Narendra Modi addressed the citizens in the 79th episode of his Mann Ki Baat. In his address, PM Modi mainly spoke on the Kargil Vijay Diwas, which will be observed tomorrow; the ongoing Tokyo Olympics, as well as Independence Day.Follow all the updates here:Goa's Covid-19 curfew extended till August 2"The government of Goa has extended the statewide curfew order up to 7am, August 2," announces chief minister Pramod Sawant.Earthquake strikes SikkimAn earthquake of magnitude 4.0 on the Richter scale hit East Sikkim at 08.39pm today: National Center for SeismologyHimachal announces ₹4 lakh ex-gratia for victims of Kinnaur accidentHimachal Pradesh government announces ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh each to kin of those who lost their lives in the accident in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. Treatment of the injured will be taken care of by the govt: CM Jairam Thakur2 more infected with Zika virus in Kerala as tally reaches 48Two more people have been diagnosed with the Zika virus. With this, a total of 48 Zika virus cases have been reported in the state: Kerala health minister Veena GeorgeMaharashtra records 6843 new Covid-19 cases and 123 deathsMaharashtra records 6843 new Covid-19 cases and 123 deaths as tally reaches 6,264,922 including 131,552 deaths. Mumbai sees 364 infections and 10 deaths.J&K administration lifts weekend curfew from all districtsThere shall be no weekend curfew in any district: Jammu and Kashmir government#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/9IJZccOAvQThere shall be no weekend curfew in any district: Jammu and Kashmir administration.Flood situation in Maharashtra 'critical', says deputy CM Ajit PawarThe flood situation in Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli is still critical. I spoke to CM earlier today. I am going to Satara today and tomorrow I will go to Sangli and Kolhapur. We are constantly in touch with Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg officials: Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit PawarNCB summons SP leader's relative in connection with a drug caseNarcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai summons Abu Aslam Azmi, nephew of Samajwadi Party leader Abu Azmi, in connection with a drug case on July 27.PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for Himachal landslide victimsAn ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives in an accident in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured: PM @narendramodiAn ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives in an accident in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. Rs. 50,000 would be given to the injured, tweets Prime Minister's Office (PMO) quoting PM Modi.Yet to receive instructions from high command: Yediyurappa"I haven't received any instructions from the high command yet. I'll wait and follow their direction," says Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa on being asked whether he received any directions from the BJP's top brass to step down.Andhra Pradesh records 2252 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deathsAndhra Pradesh reports 2,252 fresh #COVID cases, 2,440 recoveries, and 15 deaths in the past 24 hours. Active cases: 22,155Total recoveries: 19,19,354Death toll: 13,256 pic.twitter.com/e84Fa3CPqoAndhra Pradesh reports 2252 fresh Covid-19 cases, 2440 recoveries, and 15 deaths in the past 24 hours.Telangana's Kakatiya Rudreshwara temple inscribed as World Heritage siteKakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) tin Telangana has been inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage site.Karnataka CM Yediyurappa visits flood-hit areasKarnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa visits rain-affected areas and care centres for evacuated people in Belagavi. pic.twitter.com/8kunltUz55Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa visits rain-affected areas and care centres for evacuated people in Belagavi.Goa CM Sawant BJP's chief ministerial candidate in 2022: NaddaGoa CM Pramod Sawant has done a very good job. Under his leadership, all-round development has taken place. We're going forward with him (as CM face). In BJP, Parliamentary Board makes the official declaration but there is no need to think about any other name: JP NaddaSnoopgate 'baseless' and 'issueless': JP Nadda"As far as the snoopgate is concerned, it is baseless and issueless. The Opposition led by Congress has got no issue which is related to people. That is why they raise such issue," says JP Nadda.PM Modi must speak in Parliament on Pegasus: P ChidambaramPM Narendra Modi Modi must make statement in Parliament on Pegasus issue, clarify whether snooping was done. Govt should call for JPC or request Supreme Court to appoint sitting judge for probe. If France, Israel can order investigation into Pegasus snooping matter, why not India: Congress leader P Chidambaram to PTIMLAs very optimistic and full of confidence: JP Nadda"During my interactions with ministers and MLAs, I found that the MLAs are very optimistic and filled with confidence. A huge number of leaders have joined BJP from Congress. I held detailed discussions with them. They've praised BJP's working that makes me more optimistic," says JP Nadda.Goa BJP has taken a 'big leap': JP NaddaI met cabinet ministers, MLAs, MPs and party functionaries at different levels and we held detailed discussions. As far as the party is concerned, I am very optimistic. Goa BJP has taken a big leap in the past 4.5 years: BJP president JP Nadda in GoaUddhav Thackeray to visit flood-hit districts of western Maharashtra Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to visit flood-affected districts in the western regions of the state on Monday. "We are setting up special disaster response teams on the lines of NDRF/SDRF in every district," says Thackeray.Maharashtra floods: Army establishes Central War Room#OperationVarsha21 A Central War Room has been established at Department of Military Affairs for close coordination between the three Services for ongoing #FloodRelief operations in #Maharashtra. #WeCare#HADR pic.twitter.com/kIT4fUkhxMA Central War Room has been established at Department of Military Affairs for close coordination between the three Services for ongoing flood relief operations in Maharashtra: Indian ArmyBus skids off an overflowing bridge in MP's Sheopur district, all passengers safeA bus with 50 passengers on board skidded off an overflowing bridge in Madhya Pradesh's Sheopur district due to heavy rainfall on Saturday evening, police said on Sunday, adding all passengers are safe. On possible exit, K'taka CM Yediyurappa says waiting for high command's ordersKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Sunday he was expecting to receive some instructions and suggestions from the ‘high command’ in the BJP regarding his continuing in the chair by the evening, following which he would take an appropriate decision. Read moreOver 100 killed in Maharashtra due to landslides, says NDRF DGMore than 100 people have died in Maharashtra alone due to landslides. Due to flood & incessant rain, we've to continue our rescue operations. 34 teams of NDRF are working in Maharashtra, 7 teams are working in Karnataka & 8 teams are working in Telangana: NDRF DG SN Pradhan pic.twitter.com/nnSy8DZnOJNDRF DG SN Pradhan said on Sunday that over 100 people have died in Maharashtra alone due to landslides. "Due to flood & incessant rain, we've to continue our rescue operations. 34 teams of NDRF are working in Maharashtra, 7 teams are working in Karnataka & 8 teams are working in Telangana," Pradhan added. 4 employees of Raj Kundra turned witness in porn racket caseThe Mumbai Police said on Sunday that four employees of businessman and actor Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra, have turned witness in the porn racket case, news agency ANI reported.Search ops on for missing people in Maharashtra's SataraAuthorities on Sunday continued their search operations for those who went missing in landslides in Maharashtra's Satara district. Speaking to news agency PTI, the above mentioned authorities said thedeath toll in rain-related incidents at Satara in western Maharashtra rose to 28 by late Saturday evening while at least 14 people are still missing.Karnataka floods: 9 dead, 3 missing in disaster-hit areas, says ministerNine people were killed and three others are missing in the flood-affected regions of Karnataka as heavy rain lashed the state, revenue minister R Ashok told reporters on Sunday. Read moreIndia records 39,742 new Covid-19 cases, 535 more deathsIndia’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 31,371,901 on Sunday as 39,742 cases were registered in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Read moreBihar boy killed over love affair, family cremates him in accused's houseThe family of the 17-year-old boy, who was killed over an alleged love affair in Bihar's Muzzafarpur district, cremated him in front of the accused's house, news agency ANI reported on Sunday. Read moreMaharashtra's Thane records 347 new Covid-19 cases, 14 more deathsThane district on Sunday added 347 new Covid-19 cases and 14 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 542,587 and 10,969 respectively. Update: Militant killed in encounter with security forces in J-K's KulgamA militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in in the Munand area of Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district on Sunday morning. The identity of the militant is yet to be ascertained. Rodney Alcala, 'Dating Game Killer', dies in California hospitalRodney James Alcala, a serial killer in the United States known for torture slaying during the '70s, died in California on Saturday while awaiting his execution, news agencies reported citing prison officials. Read moreEncounter breaks out between security forces, militants in J-K's KulgamAn encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Jammu and Kashmir's in the Munand area of Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, Police said on Sunday.PM Modi to address 79th edition of ‘Mann Ki Baat’ today at 11amPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat at 11am on Sunday. He might speak on the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the Indian contingent participating in the Tokyo Olympics. Read moreSix arrested during anti-lockdown protest in LondonThe Metropolitan Police said on Saturday that six people have been arrested for during anti-lockdown and anti-vaccine protest in Central London, adding four police officers were injured. "The mostly peaceful demonstrations in Central London have finished. My thanks to the crowds who engaged with us and my colleagues for their hard work. There were 6 arrests for a range of offences and unacceptably 4 officers injured. I wish them a speedy recovery," Commander Catherine Roper, the Metropolitan Police crime prevention, inclusion and engagement lead, told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-25-2021-101627172892457.html
25-07-2021||India||After rain fury in Maharashtra, IMD says these states may now see downpour||In what comes as a potential piece of relief for Maharashtra, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) late on Saturday predicted that rainfall activity is expected to decrease over the west coast soon. The development comes amid torrential downpours, widespread floods, and landslides raging havoc in the state, with hundreds dead so far and scores of people still missing.Also Read | Post rain horror in Maharashtra, efforts on to fix power, stop disease outbreaksThe IMD, however, predicted rainfall activity to increase from Sunday in several other states in the north Indian plains, including Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and parts of Uttar Pradesh.GujaratAn "active wet spell" might frequent Gujarat till Tuesday, news agency PTI reported citing met department officials, with the likelihood of light to moderate rainfall at several places and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall.Madhya PradeshThe met department has also issued an orange alert for 24 Madhya Pradesh districts, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall and thunderstorms with lightning in isolated places over Jabalpur, Rewa, Satna, Anuppur, Umarai, Dindori, Katni, Narsinghpur, Mandla, Sagar, Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh, Vidisha and Sehore, Rajgarh, Betul, Burhanpur, Khandwa, Khargone, Dhar, Dewas, Agar Malwa, Ashok Nagar, and Shivpuri.Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh is likely to receive heavy downpour on Sunday at isolated areas in the western parts, the IMD said. The state witnessed light to moderate rainfall and thunderstorm on Saturday, with heavy downpours at isolated places in the eastern part of the state.RajasthanHeavy rainfall is expected in the eastern part of the state till Tuesday, the IMD said. On Saturday, Pirawa in Jhalawar recorded extremely heavy rainfall of 21cm in a 24-hour-period ending Saturday morning, according to the Jaipur weather office. Pipalda in Kota and Malsisar in Jhunjhunu received 8cm downpour each during the same span of time, it said.DelhiDelhi skies will generally remain cloudy on Sunday, the met department said, with light rain or drizzle in isolated areas. However, an orange alert has been issued for Monday.UttarakhandFairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Uttarakhand from Sunday to Tuesday.-In addition to these states, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Uttarakhand from Sunday to Tuesday, over Haryana from Monday to Tuesday and over Punjab from Tuesday to Wednesday next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rain-fury-in-maharashtra-imd-says-these-states-may-now-see-heavy-downpour-101627170548868.html
25-07-2021||India||Jeff Bezos, Richard Branson may not be ‘astronauts’||In a surprise twist, billionaires Jeff Bezos and Richard Branson, who recently blasted into space, may not fulfil the criteria to be “astronauts” yet, according to new guidelines issued by the US government, media reports say.A policy order from the US government’s largest transportation agency, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), added three new requirements to qualify for “commercial space astronaut wings”.The guidelines state that the spacecraft must meet basic FAA standards, as well as reach 80km above the Earth’s surface. Both Branson and Bezos have accomplished these guidelines, the BBC reported.However, the third rule is where things take a turn for the billionaires.The order states that the astronauts must demonstrate “activities during flight that were essential to public safety, or contributed to human space flight safety”.This would mean that space tourists like them may not necessarily qualify. According to the BBC report, these changes are the first since the FAA wings programme was started in 2004.The rules were updated on July 20, the same day that Bezos made his trip to space on the autonomous Blue Origin rocket.Branson reached the edge of space on July 11 in his piloted Virgin Galactic VSS Unity spaceplane.The FAA said it made the changes to “protect public safety during commercial space flights”, the BBC report said.All hope is not lost yet, as Branson and Bezos can still be given honorary wings at the discretion of the FAA. Those who want wings also have to be nominated, the FAA has said.The only other two ways of earning astronaut wings in the US are through the military and Nasa, BBC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jeff-bezos-richard-branson-may-not-be-astronauts-101627153458620.html
25-07-2021||India||India urges G20 nations to bring down per capita emissions by ’30||The target of reducing emissions to net zero by mid-century, proposed by some countries, will not be adequate in view of the fast-depleting global carbon space, India said in its official statement at the G20 energy and climate joint ministerial meeting, even as it urged the group of 20 developed nations (G20) with per capita greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions above the world average to reduce the levels by 2030.“We have noted the pledges made by some countries to achieve Net Zero GHG emissions or carbon neutrality by or around mid-century. However, this may not be adequate in view of fast depleting available carbon space. Therefore, and keeping in view the legitimate need of developing countries to grow, we urge G20 countries to commit to bringing down per capita emissions to the global average by 2030,” said the statement shared by the union environment ministry on Saturday.According to data provided by the Climate Watch by World Resources Institute, India emits 7.1% of global emissions and has per capita emissions of about 2.47 Tco2e (tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent), as compared to the global average of 6.45 tco2/per capita. In comparison to top emitters, India’s per capita emissions are seven times lower than that of the United States, 3.4 times lower compared to China’s and three times lower compared to the EU.Union environment minister, Bhupender Yadav, said the world should not be shifting goalposts and setting new benchmarks for global climate ambition during the G20 ministerial meeting on Friday. “We should not be shifting goalposts and setting new benchmarks for global climate ambition,” Yadav was quoted as saying at the meeting.He also made it clear that India will accelerate action on climate change only when there is enough support from developed countries. “...The momentum of climate action can only be accelerated when there is enough support through means of implementation including finance and technology,” he said.“India’s disappointment with the shortfall in climate finance is understandable. Recent emphasis on net zero targets to stay within 1.5°C warming may also feel like shifting of negotiating goalposts. But recent events have shown that even small degrees of average global warming can lead to dangerous heat waves, floods, and cyclones. For India, scaling up renewable energy and nature-based solutions can bring new jobs and better health, but much depends on clean technology partnerships for industrial production,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of the climate programme at the World Resources Institute, India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-urges-g20-nations-to-bring-down-per-capita-emissions-by-30-101627152729395.html
25-07-2021||India||How Lingayat community became a key BJP vote bank in Karnataka||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s constant appeal to seers and supporters from the Lingayat community, to refrain from protesting a move by the BJP high command to remove him from the post, has not exactly been received well, as the community continues to strongly oppose the decision, warning the Centre of “consequences”. The community forms around 16-17% of state’s population and over decades, has played pivotal role in the Karnataka state elections. The threat of this vote share being snatched away is creating trouble for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), something that the Congress has tried to take an advantage of. MB Patil, a Lingayat leader in the Congress lended his support to the Karnataka chief minister and said on multiple occasions that the community will not be happy with a move to replace him. Even the president of all-India Veerashaiva Mahasabha, Shamanur Shivashankarappa, threw the weight of the Mahasabha behind the chief minister, though he is a Congressman. One of the reasons for the Congress party attempting to appease the Lingayat community is because it knows that the biggest vote bank in the state was not always a BJP supporter, rather, used to back Congress for years. Over decades of political circus in the state, consisting of series of splits between Congress, Janata Party, coalition of parties and untimely deaths of major Lingayat-supported leaders resulted in the community’s vote share currently resting with the BJP. The Lingayat community traces their roots back to the 12th century. Social reformer Jagajyoti Basaveshwara, popularly known as Basavanna, formed the Lingayat way of life, which distanced itself from Veerashaivas, who followed the Vedas and supported the caste system. Basavanna taught people to move away from temple worship and other religious dogmas. The progressive nature of the new community attracted many followers from across the society. But following Basavanna’s demise, the Lingayat and Veerashaiva communities merged once again. By the 21st century, Lingayat and Veerashaiva became synonymous. The community’s large following resulted in it becoming the biggest vote bank in the state also. In the post-independence politics of the state, the Lingayat voters were loyal to the Congress party. Since the party had leaders who came from the community, it remained consolidated in the Congress itself. The situation began to change in 1969 when the Congress party in the state split following the expulsion of Indira Gandhi. Those supporting Indira Gandhi formed the Congress (I), while those opposing her became the Congress (O). Following this split, most of the senior Lingayat leaders, such as S Nijalingappa and Veerendra Patil went with Congress (O). Following the Emergency between 1975 to 1977, the Janata Party was formed in the state. In this new political scene, the Congress (O) in Karnataka merged with the Janata Party, which included the Lingayat leaders and the vote bank. While this merger had resulted in the transfer of the Lingayat vote bank, the consolidation of the Lingayat votes took place following the dismissal of the Lingayat chief minister Veerendra Patil in 1990. “Even though Patil joined the Congress (O) and subsequently the Janata Party, in 1978, he had gone back to the Congress (I) and in 1989, he became the chief minister of the state. In 1990, however, because of a series of riots in the city and considering the health issues faced by the Patil, then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi removed him from power,” said Congress legislator, who didn’t want to be named. He added that Patil’s removal from power became a controversy. “The claims that the decision to remove Patil was taken at Bengaluru airport by Prime Minister Gandhi without consulting the Lingayat leader became a matter of humiliation for the Lingayat community. This led to the Lingayat vote bank firmly consolidating with the Janata Party,” he added. It was during the same time, a first division clerk with the social welfare department, who had left the job to pursue politics, was rising through the ranks. Bookanakere Siddalingappa Yeddyurappa won the elections at the Panchayat level and by 1977, became the president of the Shikaripura unit of the newly formed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In 1998, he became the state president. In 1988, the Janata Party decided to merge with some smaller parties to form the Janata Dal. The Lingayat vote bank that came from the Janata Party and support from the Vokkaliga (second largest community in the state) community ensured that Janata Dal came to power in 1994 in Karnataka, under the leadership of HD Devegowda. But the Janata Dal split in 1999 due to differences within the party and Janata Dal (Secular)and Janata Dal (United) were formed. While JD(S) was led by HD Devegowda, Lingayat leader JH Patil, and Ramakrishna Hegde, who enjoyed the support of the community, became the faces of JD(U). Years later, in the 2004 elections, JD(U) lent its support to the BJP in the state elections. However, despite the BJP emerging as the single largest party, Congress and JD(S) formed a collation government. By this election, BJP had become a political party to reckon with in the state. In the coming years, JH Patil passed away, and Hegde retired from active politics. As the Congress was led by a Vokkaliga chief minister, SM Krishna, the vacuum created for a Lingayat leader in the opposition was filled by BS Yediyurappa, who has since remained the tallest leader in the party. The decision to remove Yediyurappa from the chief minister’s post now opens another chance for this vote bank to shift. “The BJP doesn’t have a big Lingayat leader apart from Yediyurappa. Even though there are attempts to projects some leaders, the community has not accepted them so far. If the Lingayat community takes this move as an insult, similar to what happened with the removal of Veerendra Patil, the equations in Karnataka’s caste politics could change,” said a Lingayat leader from the BJP, who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-lingayat-community-became-a-key-bjp-vote-bank-in-karnataka-101627152016444.html
25-07-2021||India||Centre cuts prices of five medical devices including pulse oximeters||Following the capping of prices by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), 91% brands of five medical devices reported downward revision of prices, the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers said on Saturday.The government regulatory agency has capped prices for pulse oximeters, digital thermometers, nebulisers, blood pressure monitors, and glucometers.“It was further notified that the prices are to be revised by manufacturers or importers as per the formula prescribed … the revised prices shall be effective from 20 July, 2021,” read a July 23 office memorandum signed by Rajesh Kumar T, deputy director, medical devices, NPPA.Another office memorandum issued on July 14 directed manufacturers and importers to submit the revised MRPs (maximum retail prices) of their products. The prices of 93% of the fingertip pulse oximeter brands and 85% of the pulse oximeters used to monitor patients in hospitals have been reduced, as per the NPPA data. There was up to 88% reduction in prices for fingertip pulse oximeters, sale of which picked up pace during the pandemic, especially during the second wave.The ministry said: “The margin was capped up to 70 per cent on Price to Distributor (PTD) level. Pursuant there to, a total of 684 products/brands of these medical devices have been reported as on July 23, 2021, and 620 products/brands (91 per cent) have reported downward revision of MRP.”The data suggested that prices of 91% of the digital thermometers available in the market have been reduced, besides cut in prices of 90% of the blood pressure monitor brands, 91% of nebulisers, and 94% of the glucometers, as per the NPPA data.Even with the reduced prices, to ensure availability, the manufacturers and importers have been asked to share quarterly stock details. “State drug controllers … shall monitor the availability of these medical devices at the notified prices. Any instances of hoarding, black-marketing, and over-pricing shall be viewed seriously and an appropriate action may be initiates,” read the July 23 office memorandum.“In larger public interest, Government caps Trade Margin for 5 Medical Devices, effective from July 20; Pulse Oximeter, Blood Pressure Monitoring, machine, Nebulizer, Digital Thermometer, Glucometer. It will hugely reduce prices of Medical devices,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-cuts-prices-of-five-medical-devices-including-pulse-oximeters-101627151899306.html
25-07-2021||India||CBDT detects ₹2,200 cr ‘fictitious transactions’ in I-T raids on business group||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Saturday said it detected “fictitious transactions” of ₹2,200 crore after the income tax department carried out multi-city raids on a prominent business group.While the CBDT statement did not name the group, people aware of the matter identified it as the Dainik Bhaskar Group, which is involved in various business sectors such as media, power, textiles and real estate with a group turnover of more than ₹6,000 crore per annum.They said the income tax department continued its searches at the premises of the group for the third day, with the taxmen allegedly finding multiple irregularities in the operation of group companies like diversion of funds, and cyclical transactions within group companies.There was no statement from Dainik Bhaskar Group on Saturday’s developments. On Thursday, it posted a message on its website saying the government was scared of true journalism.The raids, which began on Thursday, continued at 32 locations – 20 residential and 12 office premises belonging to key employees and promoters of the group.The statement said fictitious transactions worth ₹2,200 crore; circular transactions worth close to ₹700 crore in the form of booking bogus expenses and siphoning profits from listed companies as well as diversion worth ₹408 crore out of a loan taken for a mall run by the group were detected.“The voluminous material found during the search operations is being examined,” CBDT said in the statement. “Cyclical trading and transfer of funds among group companies engaged in unrelated businesses to the tune of ₹2,200 crore has been found. The enquiries have confirmed that these have been fictitious transactions without any actual movement or delivery of goods. The tax effect and violation of other laws are being examined,” the statement said.Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, Digvijaya Singh, Arvind Kejriwal, Ashok Gehlot and others have said the government is targeting the media house for covering the Covid-19 mismanagement by the Centre.The CBDT statement said the group has more than 100 companies including the holding and subsidiary companies and that they have been operating several companies in the names of their employees that have been used for booking bogus expenses and routing of funds.“During the search, several of the employees, whose names were used as shareholders and directors, have admitted that they were not aware of such companies and had given their Aadhaar card and digital signature to the employer in good faith. Some were found to be relatives, who had willingly and knowingly signed the papers but had no knowledge or control of the business activities of the companies, in which they were supposed to be directors and shareholders,” CBDT said.It added that the listed media company does “barter deals” for advertisement revenues, whereby immovable properties are received in place of actual payments.The taxmen found a total of 26 lockers in the residential premises of the promoters and key employees of the group, which are being operated, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbdt-detects-rs-2-200-cr-fictitious-transactions-in-i-t-raids-on-business-group-101627151839663.html
25-07-2021||India||Pegasus case: CPI(M) MP moves SC for SIT probe||Communist Party of India (Marxist) member in the Rajya Sabha John Brittas has moved the Supreme Court demanding a court-monitored probe by a special investigation team (SIT) into the reports of snooping of activists, journalists and politicians using the Israeli spyware Pegasus.“If the Pegasus spyware was used in an unauthorised manner that is in violation of fundamental rights under Articles 19(1)(a) and 21 and also as a slap on the face of the right to privacy upheld by this Hon’ble Court in Puttaswamy (right to privacy) case. There is also violation of the provisions of IT Act& Indian Telegraph Act for which strict penal action needs to be done after an immediate, independent and transparent,” stated the petition.It has referred to statements by Union minister for electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnav in Parliament, complaining that the government has neither denied nor admitted buying and using the spyware.“It is only an evasive statement from the government. The government has unequivocally accepted the statement of the company, NSO, which owns the alleged spyware technology and blindly accepted their version without any investigation,” said the petition.It further made references to news reports that indicated the possibility of a Supreme Court judge also being a potential snoop target.“As the interceptions are said to be done in the gadgets of judges and supreme court staffer there is a strong interference with the administration of justice. This is unprecedented and shocking (for) the conscience of the judicial system,” added the petition.The petition is yet to be admitted by the top court and it has not been listed for a hearing so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-case-cpi-m-mp-moves-sc-for-sit-probe-101627151836445.html
25-07-2021||India||Covid vaccines for kids likely by September: Dr Randeep Guleria||Vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for children could become available as soon as September, with Zydus Cadila including data on children in their application for emergency use authorisation and Covaxin’s trial in children about to end soon, national task force member Dr Randeep Guleria said on Saturday.“In the coming few weeks or by September, vaccines should be available for children,” he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He, however, clarified that it will all depend on what the data shows and approval from the country’s apex drug regulator. “It all depends on regulatory approvals and data from trials. Unclear exactly when it will start,” Dr Guleria told HT.So far, two mRNA vaccines by Pfizer and Moderna are the only ones approved for use in people below the age of 18 years.In the Covaxin trial, children between the ages of 12 and 18 years, and 6 and 12 years have received both the jabs, whereas those between the ages of 2 and 6 years are yet to get the second jab at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Dr Guleria told PTI: “We should then start schools in a graded manner as we have been doing for 18-45 years age and that also will give more protection to the kids and more confidence to the public that children are safe.” He earlier said schools should be reopened in a staggered manner in places where the positivity rate has dropped below 5%.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said that the Capital will keep an eye on reopening of schools in other states, learn from them, and then decide whether schools should be reopened. “The ideal situation would be to open schools after vaccination,” he said.The positivity rate in Delhi has been below 5% for more than two months.Public health experts have said that children, like everyone else, should get vaccinated against the disease as and when they become eligible and shots become available.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccines-for-kids-likely-by-sept-guleria-101627151777031.html
25-07-2021||India||Amit Shah meets CMs from northeast, inaugurates connectivity project||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday inaugurated the Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT), which was funded by the Ministry of DoNER and built at a cost of ₹48.31 crore, at Mawiong near Shillong.“It is the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to connect all Northeast State capitals by road, rail and air by 2024. The inauguration of the ISBT in Meghalaya will go a long way in fructifying the vision of our Prime Minister,” Shah said at the inauguration, which was also attended by Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K. Sangma, Union DoNER minister G Kishan Reddy and MoS science and technology Dr Jitendra Singh.He said the new ISBT will accelerate economic activities, and facilitate better connectivity for passenger and goods vehicles.“Shillong being the capital of erstwhile undivided Assam, it is natural and befitting that the city be connected with the other seven Northeastern states. This will help the economy and progress of Meghalaya and other Northeastern states,” he said.He said that good connectivity is essential to the region as a whole for its development, security and to bring back its old glory.“IT connectivity is very crucial for development and progress and the Government of India has laid emphasis to ensure that IT enabled services reach every corner in the country, so that people can reap its benefit from the comfort of their homes,” Shah added.CM Sangma thanked Shah, saying his visit to the state during the ongoing Parliament session proves that the Centre gives due importance to the economic progress of the region.“Northeast has potential for economic activities with its neighbouring nations and good transport facilities will pave the way and foster better trade and communication not only for the region but for the country as a whole,” Sangma added.Shah also inaugurated the Cryogenic Oxygen plant at Umsawli and visited the Paediatric Unit at Covid Stepdown Hospital.Earlier in the day, Shah laid the foundation for a multi-facility convention and exhibition centre at North Eastern Space Application Centre (NESAC), Umiam and convened a special meeting with chief ministers of all Northeastern states on application of science and technology for mapping of forest gap areas, expansion of the land area for horticulture development, identification and rejuvenation of wetlands, diversion of flood water and assessment of bamboo resources for livelihood needs.Meanwhile, after meeting Shah, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb stressed on using geospatial technology to harness potentiality of the Northeast Region to boost tourism.“Geospatial technology can be regarded as providing a toolbox of techniques and technologies of wide applicability in the process of sustainable tourism development. Considering the enormous potential for tourism industry in all NER states, it is very much necessary to make use of geospatial technology for showcasing existing tourist spots as well as potential sites for tourism activity to the rest of the world,” Deb said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-meets-cms-from-northeast-inaugurates-connectivity-project-101627151776438.html
25-07-2021||India||CBI raids across J&K, Delhi in illegal arms licences case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday conducted raids at multiple locations, including the premises of bureaucrats, in Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi in connection with its probe into a case related to illegal issuance of arms licences.The central agency registered the case in 2018, a year after Rajasthan’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) unearthed the alleged scam and made arrests in connection with the issuance of the licences in violation of norms. According to Rajasthan ATS, at least 3,000 permits were illegally granted allegedly in the name of army personnel.Magistrates in Jammu and Kashmir are accused of issuing the licences in bulk allegedly based on forged documents to non-residents between 2012 and 2016 “in lieu of monetary consideration”, people aware of the matter said.Army officers/personnel are eligible to obtain an arms licence in the district in which they are deployed. They can also do so easily, without the requisite police verification, merely on the strength of a letter from the commanding officer. It is believed that these letters may have been forged or misused with the involvement of some army officers and jawans.The Jammu and Kashmir Police initially probed the case before it was handed over to CBI.A CBI spokesperson said the agency was conducting searches at around 40 locations in Jammu, Srinagar, Udhampur, Rajouri, Anantnag, Baramulla and Delhi, including the official and residential premises of certain public servants that also covered Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Kashmir Administrative Service officers. The raids were also being conducted on premises of gun dealers, the spokesperson added.IAS officer Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said his official residence in Srinagar was searched on Saturday. “With reference to media reports I’ve to confirm that CBI did search my residence & found nothing incriminating in ongoing arms license probe. Media friends may note the probe covers 4 years across all districts. I am fully answerable to CBI for my tenure. Stats from my tenure are below,” he tweeted, citing the number of arms licences issued by him as deputy magistrate of Reasi, Udhampur, and Kathua between 2012 and 2016.The people quoted above said CBI collected documents pertaining to the issuance of arms licences across 22 districts of Jammu and Kashmir.“During investigation and scrutiny of documents, the role of certain gun dealers was found, who in connivance with the public servants... allegedly issued such illegal arms licences to the ineligible persons. It was also alleged that the persons who got these licenses were not residents of the places from where the arms licences were issued. The investigation is continuing,” the spokesperson said.In December 2019, CBI carried out searches at over a dozen locations in Srinagar, Jammu, Gurgaon, and Noida in connection with the case.According to Rajasthan Police officials, the Jammu and Kashmir government was informed about the racket in 2017 but several letters addressed to then Chief Secretary BB Vyas remained unanswered.The Rajasthan Anti terror Squad has claimed that 1,32,321 of the 1,43,013 licences issued in Jammu region’s Doda, Ramban and Udhampur districts were to those residing outside the state. The number of licences issued for the entire state over the last 10 years is 4,29,301, of which just 10% was issued to residents in the state. The Rajasthan police further claimed they were not aware of the magnitude of the case and its serious ramifications when they began the operation, code named “Jubaida”. A sample survey of licences issued from Kupwara showed that no files or registers were maintained by the district authorities and many licences may have been issued on basis of forged documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-raids-across-j-k-delhi-in-illegal-arms-licences-case-101627151657005.html
25-07-2021||India||Goa, Karnataka pick up pieces as rain begins to abate||After incessant rainfall for two consecutive days,residents of Goa and parts of Karnataka and Telangana heaved a sigh of relief on Saturday as the intensity of rain has started to recede, even as power supply remained disrupted in several areas.Heavy rainfall across the western coastal region, including Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, has so far claimed the lives of 140 people and displaced at least 150,000.According to data shared by the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, nine people have died and three are missing in Karnataka so far, with torrential rains battering several parts of coastal, Malnad and north interior region of the state, causing flood like situation and landslides.A total of 31,360 people have been evacuated from low lying areas, while 22,417 people are taking shelter in 237 relief camps that have been opened by the government, it added.Chief minister B S Yediyurappa spoke to deputy commissioners of the affected districts early on Saturday, and is likely to visit the flood affected border districts of Belagavi in north Karnataka on Sunday.Revenue minister R Ashoka, who visited affected areas in Hassan district, said deputy commissioners have been directed to provide compensation under the NDRF funds. A sum of ₹5 lakh will be paid as compensation to those who lost their houses, and an initial payment of ₹10,000 will be provided as a temporary relief, he added.Rain affected Goa and Karnataka have sought immediate central assistance of ₹500 crore and ₹1,000 crore respectively, for relief and rehabilitation works.In Goa, chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the flood-affected areas and assured compensation within 15 days. Goa suffered its worst floods in decades, and the monsoons have caused “widespread damage” in the region but no casualties, he added.According to official estimates, more than 1,000 houses have been damaged by the floods in Goa, while several hundred people have been rendered homeless.Northern Karnataka and Goa last witnessed such heavy floods earlier in 1982, said officials.The India Meteorology Department (IMD), meanwhile, said that rainfall intensity along the west coast is expected to decrease over the next 24 hours. “Further reduction in rainfall intensity is very likely along the west coast, including Konkan, Goa and adjoining interior Maharashtra, during the next 24 hours,” it said.Rainfall activity will increase over the north Indian plains and hills from July 25, the weather department added.As flood waters have started receding, the rain-battered regions have also intensified operations to prevent water borne diseases.Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar instructed health officials to take all precautions to prevent the outbreak of any disease in the flood-hit regions.In Goa, too, CM has instructed district officials to spray disinfectants in villages to prevent spread of water borne diseases. “The second wave of Covid is not over yet. Ensure that free masks and sanitisers are distributed to people in flood relief centres,” Sudhakar told the officials.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-karnataka-pick-up-pieces-as-rain-begins-to-abate-101627151524283.html
25-07-2021||India||Afghanistan turmoil: India warns citizens of kidnapping threat||India on Saturday issued a fresh security alert for its nationals in Afghanistan amid a surge in violence and fighting between Afghan forces and the Taliban, warning them to avoid non-essential travel as they face a “serious threat of kidnapping”.The security advisory from the Indian embassy in Kabul reiterated many of the concerns in an earlier alert issued on June 29 and said the security situation in Afghanistan “remains dangerous in several provinces”.“Terror groups operating in Afghanistan have escalated violent activities including targeting of civilians. Indian nationals are not exceptions, and they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping,” the advisory said.The alert warned of targeted attacks such as “roadside IED blasts and magnetic IEDs against civilian vehicles”, and called for caution during all vehicular movements.“All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are advised to exercise utmost vigilance and caution with regard to security at work place, place of residence and also during movement to their places of work. It is recommended that all types of non-essential movements be avoided,” the advisory said.The advisory contained a new section calling on Indian media personnel travelling to Afghanistan to contact the public affairs and security wing of the embassy for a “personalised briefing including specific advice for the locale they are travelling to”. It added, “This will not only help media persons make a better assessment of the risks involved, but also make it easier for the embassy to render speedy assistance if needed.”This was a response to the killing of Indian photo-journalist Danish Siddiqui by the Taliban last week. The Pulitzer Prize winner was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban at Spin Boldak, a border crossing with Pakistan in Kandahar province. Siddiqui was on an assignment embedded with Afghan security forces at the time.Indian nationals were also warned to strictly avoid travelling outside the main cities and movements during peak commuting hours. The advisory reiterated an earlier call for Indian companies operating in Afghanistan to make special security arrangements for Indian employees deployed at project sites.“While travelling on roads, maintain distance from possible targets like military convoys, vehicles of govt ministries/offices, high ranking officials, law enforcement agencies, and avoid visiting crowded markets, shopping complexes, mandis, restaurants and other public places. All essential movement may please be kept as discrete as possible,” the advisory said.Authorities in New Delhi have been closely monitoring all security-related developments in Afghanistan since the US administration announced plans to pull out all troops from the country by August. India evacuated some 50 diplomats and security personnel from Kandahar in Indian Air Force aircraft on July 10 after Taliban fighters seized key areas around the southern city.Currently, only the Indian embassy in Kabul and a consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif are fully functional. According to the external affairs ministry’s data, there are around 3,100 Indian nationals in Afghanistan, mostly engineers and staff working on hundreds of development projects. India is the largest regional donor in Afghanistan, with pledges of around $3 billion.The Taliban has enhanced efforts to wrest control of territory from Afghan government forces as the US continues withdrawing its forces from Afghanistan. The Taliban have said that civilian and non-military foreign nationals, diplomats, embassies and workers of humanitarian organisations won’t “face any problems or security risks” from the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-turmoil-india-warns-citizens-of-kidnapping-threat-101627151596423.html
25-07-2021||India||UAPA can’t remain in current form, sedition law must go: Former SC judges||Former Supreme Court judges Aftab Alam, Madan B Lokur, Gopala Gowda and Deepak Gupta on Saturday expressed concern over the misuse of anti-terror legislation in India while stressing it was time to do away with the law on sedition in the country.The remarks came amid outrage over the death of 84-year-old activist Stan Swamy, who was arrested under the anti-terror law in the Elgar Parishad case last year. He died in Mumbai recently while his bail plea on health grounds remained pending before the high court there.Speaking at an online public discussion organised by NGO Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR), the retired judges were unanimous in holding that the death of the tribal rights activist was an instance of how the anti-terror law was being misused.Swamy was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, (UAPA) for his role in what the National Investigative Agency (NIA) said was an alleged Maoist conspiracy that led to caste clashes near the Bhima Koregaon village four years ago.Justice Lokur said the demise of Swamy was a result of “soft torture”. “Everybody has talked about Stan Swamy. Why could he not be given medical treatment earlier? Isn’t that torture? It is soft torture. It is not physical torture where you beat up a person. But it is certainly a form of torture.”Justice Alam said: “Where has this most draconian law in world’s largest democracy taken us? The results are all there for us to see; it stares us in face in death of Stan Swamy without a trial.”Speaking on the issue, justice Gupta said: “Father Stan Swamy, 84 years old, suffering from Parkinson’s disease...I mean are we not human? Have we lost all touch of humanity that this man required bail even if there is Sections 43D or 43E of UAPA?”“What is the purpose of bail? The purpose is that he should not influence and run away from justice. Court had adequate means to place such restrictions if Stan Swamy was granted bail. But what stands in way was Section 43D of UAPA,” the retired Supreme Court judge added.Section 43D(5) of UAPA makes the grant of bail extremely difficult. It lays down that an accused charged under UAPA shall not be released on bail if the court thinks that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such a person is prima facie true. The Supreme Court’s 2019 judgment in the case of Zahoor Ahmed Shah Watali also laid down that a court cannot go into the merits of a case or scrutinise admissibility of evidence at the time of deciding a bail plea, thereby lowering the bar for courts to examine the veracity of agency’s case.A few weeks back, Assam leader Akhil Gogoi walked out of jail after spending 17 months behind bars in connection with a case under UAPA against him over violent protests against a contentious citizenship law.The former judges said that Section 43(D)(5) of UAPA needed to be either amended or given a completely different interpretation by the Supreme Court, since it had become a tool to keep people incarcerated without trials.“Grant of bail is rendered almost impossible until the end of the trial which could take generations, a wholly unconstitutional interpretation of UAPA that strikes at the root of the fundamental right to life, personal liberties and speedy trial guaranteed under the Constitution. The Supreme Court judgment in Watali case needs to be reconsidered,” said justice Gowda.Justices Gowda and Gupta maintained that a law should be there to deal with terrorist activities but a vague definition of “terrorist activity”, as provided under UAPA, had to go and the Supreme Court must lay down necessary safeguards.About sedition, as provided under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, the retired judges said that there was no place for the sedition law in India since the offence was already punishable under various laws.“In sedition, there is no case whatsoever for retaining this. This law should be shown the door as soon as possible,” said justice Gupta, adding the recent observations by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on scrapping it gave hopes that the sedition law will have to finally go.Justices Lokur and Gupta emphasised that it was time the authorities were made to pay compensation for illegal and unlawful detention of people to fasten financial accountability on the errant officials apart from bringing penal charges against them for the abuse of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uapa-can-t-remain-in-current-form-sedition-law-must-go-former-sc-judges-101627151536429.html
25-07-2021||India||‘Misinterpreted,’ says Bengal transport minister as Guv, CM not in VIP list of people who can use beacons||The West Bengal government on Friday issued a fresh list of VIPs and officials who are eligible to use beacons lights atop their vehicles. However, missing from the new list are dignitaries such as the state’s chief minister, the Governor, the Chief Justice of the Calcutta high court and the Speaker of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly, among others. “The chief minister, Governor and other dignitaries are above this list. This list only defines who are in emergency and disaster management duties. CM, Governor, Chief Justice will also have a red beacon light. The notification is being misinterpreted,” Firhad Hakim, state transport minister told the media. A senior official of the state transport department said that the new list was issued to check the misuse of beacons. This comes days after the police detected a few cases wherein imposters were found to have been using beacons.In June, the Kolkata Police busted a fake vaccination racket being run by a man who was masquerading as an IAS officer. Thereafter, a few others were arrested for illegally using beacon lights. The new list of VIPs of those who can use beacon lights atop their vehicle include ministers, the chief secretary, the director-general of police and fire brigade, municipal commissioners, superintendents of police and district magistrates, among others. “The state government is hereby pleased to notify… the general public that the vehicles of the following authorities, while on duty, are designated for the emergency and disaster management duties and are allowed to use the light on top of their vehicle in the state,” the notification read. A senior official of the state transport department also said that the notification didn’t specify which colour of beacon lights the dignitaries would use. “This government does not believe in rule of law. The NHRC report has also pointed out this fact and has said that it is the Law of the Ruler that exists in the state. The officers know this and act in a similar manner,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misinterpreted-says-bengal-transport-minister-as-guv-cm-not-in-vip-list-of-people-who-can-use-beacons-101627151477628.html
25-07-2021||India||CBDT detects ₹2,200-cr ‘fictitious transactions’ in I-T raids on business group||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Saturday said it detected “fictitious transactions” of ₹2,200 crore after the income tax department carried out multi-city raids on a prominent business group.While the CBDT statement did not name the group, people aware of the matter identified it as the Dainik Bhaskar Group, which is involved in various business sectors such as media, power, textiles and real estate with a group turnover of more than ₹6,000 crore per annum.They said the income tax department continued its searches at the premises of the group for the third day, with the taxmen allegedly finding multiple irregularities in the operation of group companies like diversion of funds, and cyclical transactions within group companies.There was no statement from Dainik Bhaskar Group on Saturday’s developments. On Thursday, it posted a message on its website saying the government was scared of true journalism.The raids, which began on Thursday, continued at 32 locations – 20 residential and 12 office premises belonging to key employees and promoters of the group.The statement said fictitious transactions worth ₹2,200 crore; circular transactions worth close to ₹700 crore in the form of booking bogus expenses and siphoning profits from listed companies as well as diversion worth ₹408 crore out of a loan taken for a mall run by the group were detected.“The voluminous material found during the search operations is being examined,” CBDT said in the statement.“Cyclical trading and transfer of funds among group companies engaged in unrelated businesses to the tune of ₹2,200 crore has been found. The enquiries have confirmed that these have been fictitious transactions without any actual movement or delivery of goods. The tax effect and violation of other laws are being examined,” the statement said.Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, Digvijaya Singh, Arvind Kejriwal, Ashok Gehlot and others have said the government is targeting the media house for covering the Covid-19 mismanagement by the Centre.The CBDT statement said the group has more than 100 companies including the holding and subsidiary companies and that they have been operating several companies in the names of their employees that have been used for booking bogus expenses and routing of funds.“During the search, several of the employees, whose names were used as shareholders and directors, have admitted that they were not aware of such companies and had given their Aadhaar card and digital signature to the employer in good faith. Some were found to be relatives, who had willingly and knowingly signed the papers but had no knowledge or control of the business activities of the companies, in which they were supposed to be directors and shareholders,” CBDT said.It added that the listed media company does “barter deals” for advertisement revenues, whereby immovable properties are received in place of actual payments.The taxmen found a total of 26 lockers in the residential premises of the promoters and key employees of the group, which are being operated, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbdt-detects-2-200-cr-fictitious-transactions-in-i-t-raids-on-business-group-101627151476402.html
25-07-2021||India||Rescue ops take a hit in Maharashtra villages, hopes fade||The hopes of finding survivors in Maharashtra’s Taliye, where a portion of a hillock flattened most of the village late on Thursday, and Satara’s Mirgaon, Dhokawale and Ambheghar were fading away as heavy rainfall continued to stall rescue operations for the third consecutive day. Till Saturday evening, a joint team of local residents, the police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) recovered at least 86 bodies — 47 in Taliye, 28 bodies in Satara and 11 in Ratnagiri — while around 41 people are still missing.Satara district collector Shekhar Singh said heavy rain and high flow of water gushing through nearby hills has hampered the rescue operations. In Taliye, a local resident said loose mud, bad weather and difficult terrain have prevented NDRF’s efforts to resuming digging for search and rescue.Sandhya Malusare, who lost her mother, father, and six other relatives in the Taliye incident, said she survived since she lives in a neighbouring village. “This is the biggest tragedy of my life and I have lost many of my family members... the administration is very slow in carrying out the rescue and search operations.”Mahendra Pol, a local resident, said people do not have the wherewithal to carry out the evacuation, search and rescue operations. “Fortunately, my family members were saved...but others were unlucky. Yesterday (Friday) and the day before (Thursday), there was a slow rescue process while today (Saturday) it has not even started properly.”Taliye is one of the hardest-hit areas in Maharashtra, where the toll from landslides and flooding went up to 112 on Saturday while 135,313 people have been evacuated from seven districts in the aftermath of heavy rain this week.The locals said they have been left to fend for themselves. “Even police are helpless, and many villagers are missing. The government is not sensitive. Police are also at a distance and not visiting the spot. The rescue operation has been delayed and the government officials are insensitive to our pain and anguish. Whatever bodies have been recovered was due to the efforts of locals,” said a resident.The NDRF said they were facing issues related to access and logistics. “...three teams of 25 persons are carrying out search operations. ...the area is waterlogged and very remote. Approach and access to the village are tough and difficult. It is a mud hillock and since we are working, there is a risk of the mudslide. So, we are working very carefully to avoid another tragedy,” said NDRF commandant Anupam Shrivastava.Collector Nidhi Choudhari said the additional collector, three tehsildars and NDRF is carrying out operations at the spot. “It involves a tough terrain as it (the village) is surrounded by Valleys from both sides. The road to the village was washed away. It is nature’s fury and unimaginable for us. There were access issues yesterday (Friday) and we had to clear the landslide debris to reach the village. The challenge is that we have to trace the bodies.”Choudhari said the district has nine extremely landslide-prone and 80 mild landslide villages. “This village (Taliye) is not among them. We have conducted the geological survey of the district and the village does figure on the landslide-prone village. We conduct studies to find out the vulnerable villages and plan accordingly to make life safe for the villagers as part of our disaster management preparedness.”The opposition parties have also criticised the government over the slow rescue operation.Bharatiya Janata Party leader Pravin Darekar said around 40-50 people are still missing, and the administration has failed to respond to the situation. “Heavy rainfall, waterlogging, and disrupted connectivity are hampering the operations in the village. The tragedy must be viewed seriously by the state and the administration must ensure timely relief and evacuation of the victims .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescue-ops-take-a-hit-in-maha-villages-hopes-fade-101627150756302.html
25-07-2021||NA||Highlights: 112 dead, 99 missing in Maharashtra floods||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:112 dead, 99 missing in Maharashtra floodsThe state government said on Saturday that 112 people have been reported dead, 99 are still missing, and 53 have been injured in the Maharashtra floods. 875 villages affected and 135,313 have been evacuated from 8 districts.Haryana Dearness Allowance for employees & pensioners to 28%Haryana chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, announced a hike in the dearness allowance of employees and pensioners from 17% to 28% applicable from July 1, 2021, reported ANI.IT dept says it found unaccounted transactions worth Rs. 200 crore during raids at UP media houseThe IT dept in a statement said that it seized cash more than Rs. 3 crore and traced unaccounted transactions worth ₹200 crore. It also said in a release that the media house earned huge outside-the-books income through mining, processing and sales in liquor, flour business, real estate amounting to ₹90 crore.IT Dept says Dainik Bhaskar group evaded tax worth ₹700 croreThe Income tax department has found that several companies of the DB Group have booked bogus expenses and siphoned the profits from listed companies, amounting to ₹700 crore, the department said in a press conference on Saturday. IT dept says that the media house has more than 100 companies including the holding and subsidiary companies. It further added that the IT dept found that the media house have been operating several companies in the names of their employees, which have been used for booking bogus expenses and routing of funds. The IT dept also said that 'companies have been used for multiple purposes namely; booking bogus expenses and siphoning off the profits from listed companies'Delhi allows cinema halls to operate with 50% capacity; allows buses and Delhi Metro to run at full capacity from Monday#BREAKING Delhi allows cinema halls/multiplexes to open with 50% seating capacity. - Delhi Metro @OfficialDMRC allowed to operate with 100% seating capacity & no standing passenger- Buses allowed to run with 100% seating capacity - Auditoriums/ assembly halls allowed 50% seatsDelhi allows cinema halls/multiplexes to open with 50% seating capacity. Delhi Metro allowed to operate with 100% seating capacity and no standing passenger. Buses allowed to run with 100% seating capacity. Auditoriums and assembly halls allowed 50% seats.Haryana govt extends lockdown till Aug 2, allows some relaxationsThe Haryana government extended the ongoing lockdown till August 2 but allowed some relaxations, reported ANI.11 bodies recovered till now in Ambeghar landslide incident#UPDATE | A total of 11 bodies have been recovered till now in Ambeghar landslide incident, in Satara district. Rescue operation still underway, says Satara district administrationVisuals from the spot. pic.twitter.com/lxRLQXpN2PICICI Bank's consolidated net profit for June quarter rises to ₹4,747.42ICICI Bank's consolidated net profit for June quarter rose 52.27 pc to ₹4,747.42 crore, the bank said in an exchange filing, reported ANI.NDRF rescues, shifts over 600 villagers from flood-hit KolhapurMaharashtra | Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are engaged in rescue and relief operations in flood-affected Kolhapur pic.twitter.com/ULp5KckSsXNDRF recovers 6 bodies during rescue operation in Ambeghar#Maharashtra | A team of NDRF recovered 6 bodies during the rescue operation in Ambeghar, Satara landslide incident. Search for 8 missing persons underway: NDRF pic.twitter.com/KKrSB6aIWCICSE Class 10 and ISC Class 12 results declaredICSE Class 10 and ISC Class 12 results were declared on Saturday. The overall pass percentage for this year for ICSE is 99.98% and 99.76% for ISC, reported ANI.People living on risky terrain will be rehabilitated to safer locations, says ThackerayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said a plan is being worked out to rehabilitate people living on risky terrain to safer locations. Instructions have been given to prepare plan for rehabilitation of such population across the state, he added. Thackeray had undertaken an official visit to Taliye on Saturday. On being asked about help from Union government, Thackeray said, all the Centre. Army, Navi and Air Force are helping in every possible way in conducting rescue operations.Arunachal reports 480 new Covid-19 cases, 4 more fatalitiesAt least 480 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, taking the tally in the state to 45,188, a health department official said on Saturday. The death toll rose to 212 after four more persons from Tawang, Lohit, Changlang and Upper Subansiri districts succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, State Surveillance Officer Dr Lobsang Jampa said.Five bodies recovered from Ambeghar landslide site in Maha's SataraFive bodies have been recovered on Saturday from the landslide site at Ambeghar village in Satara district of Maharashtra, an official said. The district administration had said that at least 16 people are feared trapped in the landslide at this village located in Patan tehsil as four to five houses were buried under the debris.76 killed, 59 missing in Maharashtra floods in 48 hours76 dead, 59 missing, 38 injured in landslide and flood related incidents in Maharashtra. About 90,000 people from nine districts shifted to safer locations due to danger of flood, landslides. Around 890 villages have been affected, official data from CMO confirmed. Traffic on South Western Railway remains affected for second day due to landslides, derailmentTraffic on the South Western Railway (SWR) route continues to remain affected for the second consecutive day on Saturday, a day after two landslides occurred on the Goa-Karnataka border besides the derailment of a train in the section, an official said. The landslides took place on Friday morning in the ghat (hilly) section of Hubballi division of SWR- between Dudhsagar and Sonaulim, and between Caranzol and Dudhsagar.India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage exceeds 42.78 croreIndia has administered over 42.78 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in its ongoing inoculation drive so far, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday.As the new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from 21 June, 42,78,82,261 vaccine doses have been administered through 52,34,188 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today out of which 42,67,799 vaccines were administered in the last 24 hours.Man killed, eight injured in clash between two groups in UPA man was allegedly killed and eight others were injured in a clash between two groups of a community over bathing of children in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Saturday.The trouble started when Keshav Saini and Bijender had an argument over bathing of children in a tube-well drain in Rangana village on Friday. The argument turned into a violent clash and supporters of the two men used lathis and bricks against each other, Station House Officer of Jhinjhana police station Shyambir Singh said.Karnataka relaxes Covid-19 curbs further, allows places of worship to reopen from tomorrow2 terrorists killed in Jammu-Kashmir's Bandipora#BandiporaEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. #Operation in progress. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/Oa4SuJJHkRNDRF team carries rescue, relief operations in flood-affected Maharashtra's ChiplunFollowing heavy rainfall, a National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team carried out rescue and relief operations in the flood-affected lower Chiplun area in Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district on Saturday.As per the official figures, at least 129 people have lost their lives in rain-related incidents in Maharashtra over the last two days as the state continues to receive heavy downpours.India records 39,097 Covid-19 cases, 546 deaths in 24 hoursIndia's Covid-19 tally rose marginally on Saturday after at least 39,097 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare data showed. The country also recorded 546 fatalities on Saturday, taking the total death toll to 420,016, the data updated on the health ministry's website at 8am showed. India has reported 31,332,159 cases of coronavirus disease so far, according to government data.Encounter breaks out in J-K's BandiporaAn encounter broke out between security forces and terrorists in the Sumblar area of Bandipora, informed the Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday.The operation is being carried out by Police and security forces at Shokbaba forest.SpaceX lands NASA launch contract for mission to Jupiter's moon EuropaElon Musk's private rocket company SpaceX was awarded a $178 million launch services contract for NASA's first mission focusing on Jupiter's icy moon Europa and whether it may host conditions suitable for life, the space agency said on Friday.The Europa Clipper mission is due for blastoff in October 2024 on a Falcon Heavy rocket owned by Musk's company, Space Exploration Technologies Corp, from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida, NASA said in a statement posted online.Soldier dies in mine blast in Jammu's MendharIndian Army jawan dies in mine blast at J&K's Mendhar, another injuredRaj Kundra taken to Crime Branch's property cell office in connection with Pornography caseActress Shilpa Shetty's husband and businessman Raj Kundra was taken to Crime Branch's property cell office in Byculla, Mumbai, late on Friday night.Earlier on Friday, a Mumbai Court sent Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe to police custody till July 27 in connection with a case related to the production of pornographic films.Mumbai Police on Friday produced Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe before Magistrate Court seeking further custody for seven days.Andhra Govt transfers 16 IAS officers across stateThe Andhra Pradesh government, in a major reshuffle, issued orders on Friday to transfer 16 IAS officers with immediate effect.Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Adityanath Das had issued a government order in this regard.According to the order, D Muralidhar Reddy, IAS (2006), Collector and District Magistrate, East Godavari District was transferred and posted as Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC)PM Modi assures Centre's full assistance to Goa amid floods due to incessant rainsGoa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called him to enquire about the prevailing flood situation in Goa due to incessant rains and assured him of the Centre's full support and assistance to the State.Sawant further said that he spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and briefed him about the widespread damage caused in the State due to incessant rains.Pentagon flags national security threat from Chinese tech firm Da Jiang InnovationsThe US Defense Department said on Friday that systems made by Chinese manufacturer Da Jiang Innovations (DJI) pose potential threats to US national security."The Department of Defense (DOD) position is that systems produced by Da Jiang Innovations (DJI) pose potential threats to national security," the Defense Department said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-24-2021-101627086341774.html
