26-07-2021||India||Govt measures helped detect several crores of undisclosed income, Lok Sabha told||The Centre has taken a number of measures to bring back the black money stashed abroad in recent years after the introduction of the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015, and these have helped the government to bring ₹8,465 crore to taxation, Union minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhury told the Lok Sabha on Monday.The minister told the Parliament that till May 31 this year, the government raised a demand of ₹8,216 crore under section 10(3)/10(4) of the Act through 166 cases of undisclosed foreign income.It managed to detect undisclosed income to the tune of ₹11,010 crore in cases pertaining to International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, while in the Panama Papers leaks cases undisclosed credits of around 20,000 crore have been identified.He said at least 107 people have been prosecuted so far under the black money Act since it came into force in July 2015.“The Income Tax Department takes appropriate action under relevant laws against the tax evaders. Such action under direct tax laws includes searches, surveys, enquiries, assessment of income, levy of tax, interest, penalties, etc. and filing of prosecution complaints in criminal courts, wherever applicable,” Chaudhury said.Giving further details about the prosecution and the cases filed, the minister said as many as 173 complaints were filed in courts in 2020-21 fiscal year alone, of which 16 conviction orders have been passed.This was followed by 1,226 complaints in the 2019-20 fiscal year which saw 49 conviction orders, while in 2018-19 FY, 3,512complaints were filed of which 105 conviction orders were passed.The most number of complaints (4,527) were filed in 2017-18, but only 75 conviction orders were passed.The black money Act deals with the issue of black money stashed away abroad. Apart from prescribing more stringent penal consequences, this law includes the offence of wilful attempt to evade tax in relation to undisclosed foreign income and assets.India has been a leading force in the efforts to forge a multilateral regime for proactive sharing of financial information known as Automatic Exchange of Information which will greatly assist the global efforts to combat tax evasion.The Automatic Exchange of Information based on Common Reporting Standard has commenced from 2017 enabling India to receive financial account information of Indian residents in other countries.India has entered into an information sharing agreement with the United States under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of USA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-measures-helped-detect-several-crores-of-undisclosed-income-lok-sabha-told-101627323793143.html
26-07-2021||India||HC seeks govt reply on plea seeking separate toilets for transpersons||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the Centre, Delhi government and civic bodies on a plea seeking construction of separate washrooms for the third gender on the ground that absence of separate public toilets for transgenders make them prone to sexual assault and harassment.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the authorities on the petition filed by final year law student Jasmine Kaur Chhabra, who claimed that no separate toilets have been constructed for the third gender in the city despite the Centre releasing funds for the same.The petition said that people, including men, women and transgenders, feel uncomfortable and hesitate when the third gender uses the washrooms which are made for others, the plea said, adding that this also violates the ‘right to privacy’ of the third gender.“There are no separate toilet facilities for transgenders, they have to use male toilets where they are prone to sexual assault and harassment. Discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation or gender identity, therefore, impairs equality before law and equal protection of law and violates Article 14 of the Constitution,” said the petition.The counsel for the authorities sought time to seek instructions and file their replies, following which the matter was listed for September 13.The petition said that cities like Mysore, Bhopal and Ludhiana have already built separate public washrooms for them but the national capital is still seen nowhere taking such an initiative.The petition further added that every human being, of any gender, has some basic human rights, including facilities for using separate toilets and it is not fundamentally or morally correct to ask any specific gender to use a public toilet which is made for another gender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-seeking-separate-toilets-for-transpersons-101627323760016.html
26-07-2021||India||UK court declares fugitive Vijay Mallya bankrupt||The UK high court on Monday issued a bankruptcy order against the Indian businessman Vijay Mallya. The order will pave the way for a consortium of India banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) to pursue a worldwide freezing order on Mallya’s assets in a bid to seek the repayment of debts owed by the liquor baron’s now-defunct company Kingfisher Airlines.“As at 15.42 [UK time], I shall adjudicate Dr Mallya bankrupt,” Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) Judge Michael Briggs said in his ruling during a virtual hearing of the Chancery Division of the High Court, news agency PTI reported.Mallya, 65, is wanted in India for fraud and money laundering charges. He is on bail in the UK while a “confidential” legal matter, largely believed to be regarding an asylum application, is resolved in connection with the unrelated extradition proceedings.“I have to decide if there is a real prospect of payment of petition debt in full within a reasonable period of time… there is insufficient evidence that [Mallya’s asset realisations in India] will pay the debt in full within a reasonable period of time,” Judge Briggs further said in reference to arguments about the restoration process in India following a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court order for the attachment of Mallya’s assets.Following the order on Monday, Mallya’s barrister Philip Marshall sought for an adjournment of the order but the judge declined the request to appeal against the bankruptcy order. The judge also said that there was no “real prospect of success” in the case of such an appeal.The consortium of Indian banks was represented by a law firm named TLT LLP and barrister Marcia Shekerdemian. They argued for the bankruptcy order to be granted in favour of their clients, who are owed over GBP 1 billion. They also pointed out that the long ongoing case would complete its “third birthday in September this year."The SBI-led consortium comprises of 13 Indian banks, including Bank of Baroda, Corporation bank, Federal Bank Ltd, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt Ltd.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-court-declares-fugitive-vijay-mallya-bankrupt-101627322322499.html
26-07-2021||India||Family members of Panipat’s golden girl and boy are elated on news of their win||Almost four days after Panipat lad Sagar Jaglan won the gold at the World Cadet Wrestling Championship in Budapest, Hungary, 16-year-old Komal of Patti Kalyana village of the district clinched the top medal in the women’s category.Komal defeated Ruzanna Mammadova of Azerbaijan in the final of 46 kg category, while Sagar outclassed James Mockler Rowley 4-0 in the 80 kg final.The news of their victories came as a surprise to their families and they were overjoyed on their success as media persons and their relatives made a beeline to their residences.As per the information collected from their villages, Komal comes from a middle-class family. Her father, Satish Kumar, is a farmer and her mother Kusum is a mid-day meal worker in a government school.“I cannot explain this in words. But I can say that my daughter has done an extraordinary thing by winning the gold medal,” her father said.He also appreciated the efforts of her coach Vinod Kumar and said, “A player cannot win without a good coach, and this is the victory of both Komal and her coach”. Komal, a class 12 student of her village’s government school took basic coaching from Baba Gyan Ram Akhara in her village. “Komal is a very talented girl and she will bring more medals for the country in the future,” Vinod Kumar said.Komal had also won gold medals at the World Championship in Japan in 2016 and the World Junior Cadet Wrestling Championship in 2019. She was U15 Asian Champion in 2018.On Monday, Komal was given a rousing welcome when she reached her village and the residents of Patti Kalayana village celebrated her victory on her arrival.Celebrations were in full swing at the residence of 17-year-old Sagar Jaglan in Panipat. Sagar’s family belongs to Naultha village and now live in Panipat. Sagar’s father, Mukesh, said he was taking coaching since he was 10 and this was his big achievement.Mukesh, who works at a private company in Sonepat, said that he and his father Randev were had interested in wrestling and this helped Sagar in cultivating an interest in wrestling as a career option. He also praised his son’s coach Ashwani Dahiya.The father said that this is Sagar’s second medal at the international level, previously, he had won a gold medal at the Asian championships in Taiwan in the U-15 category in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-members-of-panipat-s-golden-girl-and-boy-are-elated-on-news-of-their-win-101627321962708.html
26-07-2021||India||Gujarat trader files cheating plaint against Raj Kundra’s firm||An Ahmedabad-based trader filed a complaint with the Mumbai crime branch and the cyber police, alleging that he was duped of ₹3,00,000 by businessman Raj Kundra’s firm on the pretext of making him the distributor for an online game, news agency PTI reported on Monday. Raj Kundra is the husband of actor Shilpa Shetty and is currently in police custody following his arrest last week in connection with an adult film racket.The complainant Hiren Parmar alleged that he was promised by Kundra’s Viaan Industries that he would be made the distributor for ‘Game of Dot’, an online cricket skill-based game.The official quoted by the news agency said on Monday that Viaan Industries didn’t keep its promise, following which Parmar demanded he be returned ₹3,00,000 which he had invested, but didn’t receive any response. The official added that Parmar had earlier filed a complaint with the Gujarat cyber department two years ago, but no action was taken. The complainant also alleged that several other people were also cheated by Raj Kundra’s firm.Parmar approached the Mumbai Police after Raj Kundra was arrested on July 19.Meanwhile, as the investigation into the adult film racket intensified, the Mumbai Police on Sunday directed the seizure of two bank accounts that Kundra held at State Bank of India in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur, bank officials said, adding crores of rupees have been deposited in these accounts.Kundra, whose police custody has been extended till Tuesday, is likely to face charges of money laundering and violation of foreign exchange rules with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) likely to register cases against him, Hindustan Times reported on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-trader-files-cheating-plaint-against-raj-kundra-s-firm-101627318914977.html
26-07-2021||India||Over 440 million vaccine doses administered in India so far: Health ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 440 million, the Union health ministry said on Monday.In another significant achievement, Maharashtra on Monday became the first state to inoculate more than 10 million people with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, it said.The ministry said that 5,748,692 vaccine doses have been administered on Monday, according to the 7 pm provisional report.It said 720,900 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 349,496 doses as second in the age group 18-44 years on Monday.Cumulatively, 141,955,995 persons in the age group 18-44 years across the country have received their first dose and 6572,678 their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years.Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-440-million-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-101627316777732.html
26-07-2021||India||Zika virus cases in Kerala soar past 50 with 3 new infections||At least three people tested positive for Zika virus infection in Kerala on Monday, taking the cumulative tally in the southern state to 51. Kerala’s health minister Veena George said five patients were receiving treatment for the disease till Monday.The samples of the three, aged 53, 30 and 21, from state capital Thiruvananthapuram, that came positive for the infection on Monday, were tested at the virology lab in Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram.The first case of Zika virus in the state was reported on July 8. “Till now, we have recorded 51 confirmed cases of Zika virus infection. Currently, five persons are under treatment,” news agency PTI reported citing a press statement from the health minister.The health minister said the state has set up a control room which is operating round-the-clock for the people to seek information and inquire about the disease.A day earlier, on Sunday, two people were found infected with the disease while four were undergoing treatment. The two cases were from Kazhakoottam and Pangappara in Thiruvananthapuram district.The health minister said earlier that the state government developed a micro plan to battle the transmission of Zika virus cases. She also said that the administration would intensify activities such as fumigation for controlling mosquitoes in areas affected by the disease.“Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation has intensified activities and the district administration will also be part of it and coordinate all the departments. They will do fogging for the next 7 days,” she had said on July 23.Kerala was also grappling with the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It witnessed 11,586 infections from the virus in the previous 24 hours as the tally reached 32,83,116, according to the state health department’s bulletin on Monday. As many as 135 people succumbed to the viral disease during the period, taking the death toll to 16,170.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-cases-in-kerala-soar-past-50-with-3-new-cases-101627316874533.html
26-07-2021||India||Two held for creating 99 fake accounts and duping Amazon of ₹26 lakh||The Uttar Pradesh police arrested two men on Monday for allegedly duping e-commerce platform Amazon of lakhs of rupees. The duo, who hail from Haryana’s Hisar district, were arrested by officials of Noida’s Cyber Crime police station.Police said the accused — Anil aka Alok Singh, a 27-year-old B.Sc graduate and Sachin Jain, a 30-year-old Class XII pass out — created at least 99 accounts on Amazon using fake credentials and linked various banks to these accounts which were then used to order electronic goods. The orders were either paid in cash on delivery or prepaid. The duo, however, after receiving the products, would sell them off at cheaper prices at Delhi's Gaffar Market and contact Amazon seeking a return by claiming that the products that they received were ‘defective’.Amazon, according to its policy, would send a delivery partner to pick up the item and refund the money.“After receiving the goods, they would sell them off at cheap prices in Delhi's Gaffar Market and then contact Amazon, saying they wanted to return the products as they were 'defective’. The duo would collude with the delivery agents who fraudulently marked these orders as 'picked up' on the database and get them a refund in the bank accounts linked with their Amazon accounts,” the police said in a statement.The authorities froze multiple bank accounts linked to the Amazon accounts used by the duo. Police said the frozen bank accounts had around ₹26 lakh in them. A probe has been initiated, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-held-for-creating-99-fake-accounts-and-duping-amazon-of-rs-26-lakh-101627315329469.html
26-07-2021||India||6 Assam police personnel die in clashes with Mizoram; Amit Shah steps in||Silchar/Guwahati: Six Assam Police personnel were killed and dozens of people injured as a decades-long border dispute with neighbour Mizoram sparked violent clashes on Monday, prompting both chief ministers to publicly trade charges, and forcing Union home minister Amit Shah to intervene.Violence broke out at the Assam-Mizoram border shared by Cachar district’s Lailapur and Kolasib district’s Vairengte around 11.30am over allegations of encroachment. Thousands of civilians on either side of the border hurled stones and charged at each other and security personnel with sticks and rods. Visuals showed policemen firing tear-gas shells and air pellets as people torched vehicles and huts.“I am deeply pained to inform that six brave jawans of Assam Police have sacrificed their lives while defending the constitutional boundary of our state at the Assam-Mizoram border. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families,” Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted.Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana accused Assam Police of entering Mizoram’s territory and committing arson. “Upon learning of the arson committed by Assam Police, residents of Vairengte town, Kolasib district proceeded to the site to inquire. These unarmed civilians were assaulted by Assam Police by lathi charging them and firing tear gas, thereby causing injuries to several civilians,” read the statement.The hostilities pared down after the chief ministers spoke on the phone. Shah also spoke to both chief ministers, asking them to resolve the border issue amicably without any violence, people familiar with developments said. Senior Union home ministry officials are closely watching the developments at the interstate border, said the people quoted above.Officials at Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH) in Assam confirmed on the condition of anonymity that 36 people were admitted with injuries from air gunshots and stone-pelting. Cachar superintendent of police VC Nimbalkar was in the intensive care unit. Details of injuries on the Mizoram side were not available.Later, the Mizoram chief minister office said two residents of Vairengte and local police officer were also injured in the incident.The violence came two days after the chief ministers shared a stage with Shah and spoke of resolving the border dispute amicably.Assam’s Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6 km long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972 when it became a Union Territory. It became a state in 1987. The territorial dispute has festered since then and fuelled sporadic clashes, the latest of which rocked the region in August 2020 and February 2021.According to Mizoram officials, tensions first flared up around 11.30am, when around 200 Assam police personnel attempted to construct a camp inside Mizoram’s territory. Assam maintains that the site in its territory.“I was near border area when people from Mizoram started firing. We tried to run away but a bullet touched my right arm and I fell on ground,” 25-year-old Fajar Ali, a resident of Assam who sustained an air gun injury on his hand said.In a statement, Lalchamliana rejected these charges and said Assam Police personnel forcibly crossed the border post and damaged vehicles on the National Highway. He said Assam launched a volley of tear gas canisters and grenades at Mizoram Police around 4:50 pm. “Mizoram Police responded spontaneously by firing back at Assam Police,” he said.Mizoram said after Shah spoke to both chief ministers, Assam Police withdrew and handed the post back to the CRPF.The clashes took a political turn at 1.50pm when Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted a video of the clashes and tagged Shah and Sarma. “Shri @AmitShah ji….kindly look into the matter. This needs to be stopped right now,” he wrote.At 2.53pm, he tweeted a video of a couple sitting in a car with windows smashed in. “Innocent couple on their way back to Mizoram via Cachar manhandled and ransacked by thugs and goons.How are you going to justify these violent acts?” he asked.Sarma responded four minutes later, blaming Mizoram for the flare-up.“Honble Zoramthanga ji could you please investigate why are civilians from Mizoram holding sticks and trying to incite violence ? We urge civilians to not take up law and order on their own hands and permit peaceful dialogue to take place between governments,” he tweeted, tagging Shah and the Prime Minister’s Office.At 3.25pm, he further wrote, “ Honble @ZoramthangaCM ji , Kolasib ( Mizoram) SP is asking us to withdraw from our post until then their civilians won’t listen nor stop violence. How can we run government in such circumstances? Hope you will intervene at earliest.”The tensions appeared to ease as evening approached. Sarma tweeted at 4.36pm that he spoke to Zoramthanga and said Assam will maintain status quo and peace along the border. “I have expressed my willingness to visit Aizawl and disscuss these issues if need be,” he said.Zoramthanga responded minutes later. “Hon’ble @himantabiswa ji, as discussed I kindly urge that Assam Police be instructed to withdraw from Vairengte for the safety of civilians,” he said.The Opposition condemned the violence.“We condemn the incident of firing on Assam Police personnel from the Mizoram side as reported in media. It is a matter of disgrace that such incident took place hours after union home minister left Assam [on Sunday]. It is also a matter of concern and humour that CMs of both states are arguing on Twitter on this issue,” said Assam Congress media in-charge Bobbeeta Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-assam-police-personnel-die-in-clashes-with-mizoram-amit-shah-steps-in-101627315720005.html
26-07-2021||India||Biocon Biologics gets license to manufacture antibody treatment for Covid-19||Biocon Biologics, a subsidiary of the Bengaluru-based pharmaceutical firm Biocon, announced on Monday it has received an "exclusive license" from the US-based Adagio Therapeutics to manufacture and commercialise an antibody-based treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India and select markets.Also Read | Monoclonal antibody cocktail: Glimmer of hope against Covid-19"ADG20, a novel monoclonal antibody targeting the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 and related coronaviruses, is in global clinical development by Adagio as a single agent for the treatment and prevention of Covid-19, which is caused by SARS-CoV-2, its variants, and future variants that may emerge," a Biocon Biologics' statement read. The statement also noted that ADG20 is "uniquely poised" to address the need for an effective, safe and convenient therapy for Covid-19.This, it said, is due to the antibody's potential to address "resistant" variants, including the Delta variant, as well as its ability to be administered as a single, intramuscular injection. Also, according to initial data, ADG20 can provide rapid and durable protection from Covid-19 for up to 12 months, the statement said.Also Read | Eli Lilly receives emergency-use approval for antibody drugs to treat Covid-19Biocon Biologics executive chairperson hailed its partnership with Adagio Therapeutics. "We are very proud to partner with Adagio in our shared mission to provide affordable access to a best-in-class antibody therapy for SARS-CoV-2. This partnership between the two sides aligns our joint vision of bringing superior biologic therapies to patients in low and middle-income countries," Mazumdar-Shaw said.Under the terms of the deal, Biocon can seek clinical and nonclinical data from Adagio's emergency use authorisation (EUA) to the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). Adagio is likely to seek EUA in the US by as early as the first quarter of 2022.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adg20-biocon-biologics-gets-license-to-manufacture-antibody-treatment-for-covid19-101627312231073.html
26-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tamil Nadu to train healthcare workers for Covid 3rd wave and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tamil Nadu to train healthcare workers to brace for 3rd wave of Covid-19Tamil Nadu health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan said on Monday that the state government is planning to vaccinate the people from the most vulnerable sections of the society against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) soon, adding the healthcare workers would also be trained to cope up with the third wave of the pandemic. Read moreLeadership rejig in Uttarakhand Cong fuels more differences ahead of 2022 pollsThe newly appointed leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand, Pritam Singh, who was former state president of Congress, took charge formally on Monday while new state president Ganesh Godiyal will take charge on Tuesday. Read moreAgriculture minister Tomar takes on Rahul Gandhi for stand on farm lawsUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has led the Union government in its talks with farmers protesting against the three central farm laws, on Monday attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, calling him a "habitual liar" over his stand on the farm laws. Read moreGovt to invite bids for private participation in new strategic oil reservesThe government will soon invite bids from private energy firms to set up two new strategic crude oil reserves under the public-private participation (PPP) mode where it may also provide viability gap funding (VGF) to incentivise private sector investors, two officials said. Read moreTokyo 2020: Sharath Kamal faces TT giant Ma Long in third roundMost of the greats of a sport tend to carry one nickname—CR7, Lightning Bolt, King of Clay, to (nick) name a few. Chinese table tennis star Ma Long has three of them: The Dragon, which comes from the Chinese character in his name; Captain Long; because is the captain of the national team; The Dictator, because, simply put, he almost always dictates the play against whoever is on the other side of the table. Read moreMimi: Kriti Sanon's film releases four days early after online leakKriti Sanon and Pankaj Tripathi's upcoming film Mimi has released four days before its scheduled release date. The film was slated to stream on Netflix starting July 30. Read moreJennifer Lopez slays steamy birthday look in a printed bikini, floral kaftanIf you are not already keeping a tab on the top swimwear trends of 2021, American singer Jennifer Lopez will get you excited enough to start curating your own new swimwear wardrobe asap and her latest birthday pictures in a string bikini are proof. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tamil-nadu-to-train-healthcare-workers-for-covid-3rd-wave-and-all-the-latest-news-101627311402797.html
26-07-2021||India||'He lies habitually...': Agriculture minister Tomar takes on Rahul Gandhi for stand on farm laws||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has led the Union government in its talks with farmers protesting against the three central farm laws, on Monday attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, calling him a "habitual liar" over his stand on the farm laws.Gandhi, as well as his party have been steadfast in their support for the farmers. On Monday, the former Congress president expressed his solidarity with the protestors by driving a tractor.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi rides tractor to Parliament in protest against farm laws"People in the Congress, too, make fun of Rahul Gandhi's statements. He has no experience of the pain of the villagers, poor and farmers. He lies habitually day after day in his unsuccessful attempt to stay politically relevant," Tomar told news agency ANI. The agriculture minister further said, "Congress and Rahul Gandhi should think that when they announced in their election manifesto that they'll bring the farm laws, they were either lying then or they're lying now. They should clarify. He shouldn't try to mislead the farmers or create an atmosphere of anarchy."Congress &Rahul Gandhi should think that when they had announced in their election manifesto that they'll bring the laws, then they were either lying then or they're lying now. They should clarify. He shouldn't try to mislead farmers or create atmosphere of anarchy: Agri MinisterUnion ministers, as well as leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including Tomar, have often targeted the Congress over a set of similar reforms mentioned by the party in its manifesto for the 2019 general elections. The protests against the reforms completed eight months on July 26. Farmers, mostly from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana, as well as from parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping against the "black laws" on the borders of Delhi since November 26 last year. Earlier this month, they announced a "Kisan Sansad" (farmers' Parliament) which, they said, will be held in parallel with the ongoing Monsoon session of Parliament which began on July 19 and is scheduled to end on August 13. The farmers have been allowed to protest at Jantar Mantar, near the Parliament, with a maximum of 200 protestors allowed at the site each day.Total 11 rounds of talks between the Centre and farmers' unions have failed to resolve the dispute. While the farmers want the laws to be repealed, the central government has repeatedly stressed these won't be rolled back and offered to hold discussions "clause by clause."Also Read: 'Tractor rally not a bad thing, will hold one in Delhi on I-Day': Rakesh TikaitOn January 26, a tractor rally taken out by the farmers in Delhi resulted in clashes with the police on the streets of the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-lies-habitually-agriculture-minister-tomar-takes-on-rahul-gandhi-for-stand-on-farm-laws-101627306347518.html
26-07-2021||India||Centre okays 2 more storage facilities for strategic oil reserves||The Centre gave its nod for setting up of two underground facilities to store crude oil for commercial and strategic purpose, under the second phase of the petroleum reserve programme, minister of state for petroleum and natural gas Rameswar Teli told the Lok Sabha in a written response on Monday.The 6.5 million metric tonnes-capacity storage facility, for which the Centre had allocated a budget of ₹210 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal year, is proposed to be set up at Chandikhol (with 4MMT capacity) in Odisha’s Jajpur district and Karnataka’s Padur (having 2.5 MMT capacity) on public-private-partnership mode.The government said the Request for Proposal for building these storage facilities was waiting finalisation.The Centre established 5.33MMT-capacity facilities at three places, including Vishakhapatnam (1.33MMT), Mangaluru (1.5MMT) and Padur (2.5MMT), under the first phase of its strategic petroleum reserves programme through Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve Limited (ISPRL) to store crude oil.“The petroleum reserves established under Phase I are strategic in nature and the crude oil stored in these reserves will be used during an oil shortage event, as and when declared so by Government of India,” the ministry of petroleum and natural gas said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-okays-2-more-storage-facilities-for-strategic-oil-reserves-101627308415947.html
26-07-2021||India||Farmers to organise panchayat in Muzaffarnagar, UP on September 5, says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said that the Samyukta Morcha will visit states like Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab to interact with the farmers about appraise them of the Centre’s policies. He also said that the protesting farmers will visit the Ghazipur border and hoist the Tricolour on the Independence Day (August 15).Addressing the media at Lucknow Tikait said, “Samyukta Morcha has decided to go to Uttarakhand, UP, Punjab and other parts of the country and talk to farmers on government's policies and work. On September 5, there will be a big panchayat in Muzaffarnagar (UP). The entire country is captured.”“We will go by tractors to the Ghazipur border on August 14 and 15. On August 15, we will hoist the flag. Tractors from two districts will go. We did not remove the national flag on January 26,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | 'Tractor rally not a bad thing, will hold one in Delhi on Independence Day': Rakesh TikaitEarlier on Sunday, he had also hailed the decision by the farmers of Jind (in Haryana) to hold a tractor rally on Independence Day. The farmers had decided to carry out the tractor rally in protest against the three farm laws introduced by the Union government last year.“Carrying out a tractor rally is not a bad thing. People of Jind (Haryana) are revolutionary. They've taken the right decision of carrying out the tractor parade on August 15. Don't know what Samyukt Kisan Morcha decides...It will be a moment of pride to see the tractor parade with national flags mounted on them. It builds a spirit of nationalism,” Tikait had said.The leader also said that farmers would arrive at the protest site in Delhi from Moradabad, Hapur and Amroha on August 14 and they would hoist the national flag in the protest site on Independence Day. He also said that a tractor rally would be taken out on August 15.During the Republic Day celebrations on January 26 this year, a similar tractor rally planned by the farmers had turned violent after some of the protesters broke off from the route agreed upon initially for the rally. Some people also occupied the Red Fort in Delhi and had unfurled their flags while a group of protesters entered the city breaking through police barricades. Several cases were lodged following the incidents of violence in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-organise-panchayat-in-muzaffarnagar-up-on-september-5-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-101627306316123.html
26-07-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram CMs spar on Twitter over border clashes; Amit Shah intervenes||Home minister Amit Shah on Monday stepped in to restore calm after tensions erupted at the Assam-Mizoram border, people familiar with the developments told news agency ANI. Both chief ministers who engaged in a Twitter spat earlier spoke to Shah and agreed to resolve the issues between the two states. People familiar with the developments also said that police forces of both states have returned from the disputed site.Mizoram deputy inspector general of police (northern range) Lalbiakthanga Khiangte said that unidentified persons set fire to eight unoccupied farm huts near Aitlang stream on Sunday around 11:30pm, news agency PTI reported.However, Assam police claimed that at least half a dozen of its officials were injured in Cachar district after unidentified persons pelted stones at them on Monday. The locals also alleged that Assam Police personnel were attacked with sticks and rods at Lailapur, according to another report by PTI.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday took to Twitter to express his concern after reports of firing and unrest breaking out at the Assam-Mizoram border surfaced. Sarma posted a video tagging Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga saying that unidentified persons have threatened to create unrest at the border. Later on in the day, Sarma tweeted that six Assam Police personnel also lost their lives due to the clashes in the Assam-Mizoram border.I am deeply pained to inform that six brave jawans of @assampolice have sacrificed their lives while defending constitutional boundary of our state at the Assam-Mizoram border. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families.Mizoram CM Zoramthanga alleged that the government of Assam 'intruded' into Mizoram's territory and showed 'aggression'. He also said that the loss of lives 'on both sides could have been avoided.' Zoramthanga also confirmed that the duty post have been handed back to CRPF personnel and said that he expects that the government of the neighbouring state will create a 'congenial environment' to resolve the dispute."Govt of Mizoram strongly condemns unjustified act of the Govt of Assam in this intrusion and aggression into the territory of Mizoram. The Government of Mizoram deeply regrets the needless injuries on both sides which could have been avoided," Zoramthanga said."The Government of Mizoram desires that the inter-state border issue with Assam be resolved in an atmosphere of peace and understanding. Accordingly, we call upon the State of Assam to create a congenial environment for peaceful resolution of the dispute," he further added.Both the chief minister tagged home minister Amit Shah in their tweets whom they had met last week at an event where all chief ministers of northeastern states had convened. Not only that but they also tagged the Prime Minister’s Office in their tweets.Sarma alleged that the superintendent of police of Kolasib in Mizoram asked Assam police to withdraw from their post, failing which “their civilians” will “not stop violence”.“Hon'ble @ZoramthangaCM ji , Kolasib ( Mizoram) SP is asking us to withdraw from our post until then their civilians won't listen nor stop violence. How can we run a government in such circumstances? Hope you will intervene at earliest @AmitShah @PMOIndia,” Sarma tweeted with a video of the incident.Honble ⁦@ZoramthangaCM⁩ ji , Kolasib ( Mizoram) SP is asking us to withdraw from our post until then their civilians won't listen nor stop violence. How can we run government in such circumstances? Hope you will intervene at earliest ⁦@AmitShah⁩ ⁦@PMOIndia⁩ pic.twitter.com/72CWWiJGf3Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga, on the other hand, tweeted with a video that showed a couple returning to Assam via Cachar were allegedly manhandled.Shri @AmitShah ji….kindly look into the matter.This needs to be stopped right now.#MizoramAssamBorderTension @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @himantabiswa @dccachar @cacharpolice pic.twitter.com/A33kWxXkhG“Innocent couple on their way back to Mizoram via Cachar manhandled and ransacked by thugs and goons. How are you going to justify these violent acts?” Zoramthanga tweeted, tagging the official Twitter handle of the Cachar Police. Zoramthanga also tweeted a video where unidentified people armed with sticks were seen engaged in a scuffle with security forces. Innoncent couple on their way back to Mizoram via Cachar manhandled and ransacked by thugs and goons.How are you going to justify these violent acts?@dccachar @cacharpolice @DGPAssamPolice pic.twitter.com/J9c20gzMZQZoramthanga claimed that two companies of Assam Police along with several civilians baton charged at civilians and hurled tear gas canisters inside the Vairengte auto rickshaw stand inside Mizoram. Dear Himantaji, after cordial meeting of CMs by Hon’ble Shri @amitshah ji, surprisingly 2 companies of Assam Police with civilians lathicharged & tear gassed civilians at Vairengte Auto Rickshaw stand inside Mizoram today. They even overrun CRPF personnel /Mizoram Police. https://t.co/SrAdH7f7rvLater both chief ministers said that they held discussions with each other where Sarma expressed his willingness to travel to Aizawl to discuss the issues with Zoramthanga.I have just spoken to Hon’ble Chief Minister @ZoramthangaCM ji.I have reiterated that Assam will maintain status quo and peace between the borders of our state. I have expressed my willingness to visit Aizawl and disscuss these issues if need be @AmitShah @PMOIndiaZoramthanga reiterated his request to Himanta Biswa Sarma to ‘withdraw Assam Police officials from Vairengte’. “Hon'ble @himantabiswa ji, as discussed I kindly urge that Assam Police @assampolice be instructed to withdraw from Vairengte for the safety of civilians.Hon'ble @himantabiswa ji, as discussed I kindly urge that Assam Police @assampolice be instructed to withdraw from Vairengte for the safety of civilians. @narendramodi @AmitShah @PMOIndia @HMOIndia https://t.co/wHtMPhFRpPMizoram and Assam were involved in a tussle regarding the border issue after Assam Police took control of an area known as 'Aitlang hnar' about 5 km from Vairengte, accusing Mizoram of encroaching into its Assamese territory. Assam Police officials also carried out an ‘eviction drive’ on July 10. A grenade was hurled at the Assam government team which went to visit the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-cms-spar-on-twitter-over-border-clashes-amit-shah-intervenes-101627303241277.html
26-07-2021||India||FM Sitharaman tables bankruptcy code bill aimed at small firms||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday introduced the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill 2021, or IBC, in Lok Sabha aimed at reworking some of the processes to deal with small businesses going belly up. The bill was necessitated by the financial stress wrought by the pandemic. Sitharaman, who was supposed to make an explanatory statement, tabled the bill amid pandemonium, as Opposition members resumed noisy protests over various issues no sooner than the House began its proceedings. President Ram Nath Kovind had invoked the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance on April 4. An ordinance is a law promulgated when Parliament is not in session. The IBC, a reform enacted in 2016, amalgamates various laws relating to the insolvency resolution of business firms. It lays down clear-cut and faster insolvency proceedings to help creditors, such as banks, recover dues and prevent bad loans, a key drag on the economy. Also Read | New restrictions on insolvency resolution professionalsThe government had made some changes to bankruptcy processes to account for the financial shocks of the pandemic, as India witnessed a rare recession last year. The finance ministry had increased the minimum default threshold for initiation of bankruptcy proceedings from ₹1 lakh to ₹1 crore to save especially small, micro and medium enterprises. Such firms make up over half of India’s manufacturing gross domestic product (GDP) and are the largest source of regular employment. GDP is a gauge of national income or output. The government had also suspended filing of applications in case of defaults for a calendar year from March 25 2020. These measures constituted a relaxation of IBC processes. As part of measures aimed specifically at small businesses, the ones hardest hit by Covid-19, the government promulgated the IBC ordinance, which now needs to be passed by Parliament. Under these measures, the government introduced so-called “pre-packages” as an insolvency-resolution process. This allows for a prior bankruptcy-resolution agreement between a creditor, such as a bank, and an investor without initial approval from the National Company Law Tribunal, the bankruptcy regulator. “Many business here have closed. I am trying to open mine, but the main fear is ‘what if Covid comes back’. Who will want to sink money again,” said Yashwant Dubey, a bearings maker in Partapur industrial estate, a small business hub near Meerut, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-sitharaman-tables-bankruptcy-code-bill-aimed-at-small-firms-101627304258768.html
26-07-2021||India||'Karnataka BJP will be washed away in tears': Seer on Yediyurappa's resignation||One of the religious leaders who met BS Yediyurappa last week, has said that the Karnataka unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be washed away in tears due to his resignation. Dingaleshwara Swami of Balehosur Mutt asked the party to reconsider its decision.Also Read: Old age or corruption? Siddaramaiah wants to know why Yediyurappa quit"BS Yediyurappa has given his resignation in pain. Karnataka BJP will be washed away in tears. BJP should reconsider its decision," Dingaleshwara Swami was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Yediyurappa announced his resignation on Monday at an event to celebrate to years of his government. He later met Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot, who accepted his resignation.The 78-year-old thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP's central leadership, and denied he was under any kind of pressure."I had no pressure from senior party leaders. I am voluntarily submitting my resignation," Yediyurappa said in an emotional address broadcast live on local television channels.As the speculation around his exit gained traction, the heads of various mutts in Bengaluru met Yediyurappa last Tuesday. The religious leaders of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which comprises 16 per cent of the Karnataka's population and the largest vote base for the BJP, promised their support to Yediyurappa following the meeting.The leaders warned the BJP against any move to dislodge Yediyurappa, saying it will have "huge consequences" for the party.The Lingayat community is back in the focus with speculations of replacing Yediyurappa. The chief minister has been the face of the Lingayat community in the party and has enjoyed large electoral support from its members.Yediyurappa, a four-time chief minister of Karnataka, had helped the BJP form its first government in the southern state in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-will-be-washed-away-in-tears-seer-on-yediyurappa-s-resignation-101627303684834.html
26-07-2021||India||Furore in C’garh House over Cong MLA’s claim he was attacked by minister’s men||There was a furore in Chhattisgarh assembly on Monday, a day after a Congress MLA alleged that he was attacked on the behest of state health minister in Surguja.Calling the allegations serious, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs, including Brijmohan Agarawal and Ajay Chandrakar, demanded a probe by the House committee.On Sunday, Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh alleged that his convoy was allegedly attacked at the behest of state health minister TS Singh Deo . Singh, the MLA from Ramanujanj seat, told media that among his three attackers was a relative of Singhdeo. Singhdeo denied the allegations and said he had instructed the police to take action against the accused.Also Read | Area of proposed elephant reserve will not be reduced: Chhattisgarh CM BaghelSingh claimed that he was attacked as he praised chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and so Singhdeo held a grudge against him.On Monday, the BJP demanded that the House took suo motu cognizance of the issue and ordered an inquiry.Leader of Opposition Dharamlal Kaushik also claimed that such allegations had never been levelled by a lawmaker in the history of the state.Chief minister Bhupesh Bahgel said it is the responsibility of the state government to ensure protection to each member of the house and his government will provide complete security to them.Amid the chaos, the Speaker adjourned the House for lunch. When the House proceedings resumed, the Speaker assured that he will look into the matter on Tuesday.Congress general secretary and Chhattisgrah in-charge PL Punia met the leaders and said that the matter is closed now.It is worth mentioning that the CM post-sharing formula has been a talking point in Chhattisgarh’s political circle since the Congress came to power in December 2018 when Baghel and his two senior Cabinet colleagues, Singh Deo and Tamradhwaj Sahu, were the main contenders for the top post. Speculations have been rife that there was consensus on a two-and-a-half-year power sharing formula between Baghel and Singhdeo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/furore-in-c-garh-house-over-cong-mla-s-claim-he-was-attacked-by-minister-s-men-101627302938678.html
26-07-2021||India||President Kovind pays tributes to Kargil martyrs at war memorial in Baramulla||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday offered tributes to soldiers, including those who laid down their lives in Kargil War in 1999, at Dagger War Memorial in north Kashmir’s Baramulla. The President was scheduled attend a function at the Kargil War Memorial in Dras, Ladakh, on the 22nd anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas but that had to be cancelled owing to bad weather.“On Kargil Vijay Diwas, President Kovind laid a wreath at the Dagger War Memorial, Baramulla, Jammu & Kashmir, to pay tributes to all soldiers who sacrificed their lives in defending the nation,” said the official Twitter handle of Rashtrapati Bhavan.The President was accompanied by the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Manoj Sinha and Lieutenant General DP Pandey, General Officer Commanding, Chinar Corps. At the Dagger War Memorial, President Kovind said the nation salutes the soldiers and officers who safeguard the borders in the most hostile terrains under adverse weather conditions. “They have scripted exceptional stories of indomitable courage, bravery and sacrifice,” he said.Along with L-G Sinha, the President then visited High Altitude Warfare School (HAWS), at the ski resort of Gulmarg and interacted with officers and jawans of the school and Chinar Corps. “I was happy to interact with the soldiers. I wish them success in their endeavours to provide safety and security to our country,” the President said in a message at the school. HAWS is one of the premier institutions established to train Indian soldiers.Also Watch | Kargil Vijay Diwas: PM Modi, Indian Army & others pay tribute to martyrsThe President arrived in Srinagar on Sunday on a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.On July 27, Kovind will address the 19th annual convocation of the University of Kashmir in Srinagar at Sheri Kashmir International Convention Centre. He will be travelling back on July 28.Meanwhile, the 22nd anniversary to celebrate the victory of 1999 Kargil war was held at the Kargil War Memorial, Dras. The army said the ceremony was held with chief guest RK Mathur, L-G of Ladakh, offering his tributes to the martyrs by laying a wreath.“This year’s Kargil Vijay Diwas celebration was unique as it coincided with the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh Victory Flame’ reaching the Kargil War Memorial. The journey of the Victory Flame across the country commemorates 50 years of triumph in the 1971 Indo-Pak War,” said Col Emron Musavi, PRO (Defence) Srinagar.The proceedings commenced with the reception of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh Victory Flame’ at the Kargil War Memorial by General Bipin Rawat, chief of defence staff, in the presence of Lt Gen YK Joshi, GOC-in-C Northern Command and other commanders , gallantry awardees, next of kin of martyrs and civil dignitaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pays-tributes-to-kargil-martyrs-at-war-memorial-inbaramulla-101627302098850.html
26-07-2021||India||Old age or corruption? Siddaramaiah wants to know why Yediyurappa quit||Hours after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader BS Yediyurappa stepped down as the chief minister of Karnataka on Monday morning, opposition leader and Congress veteran Siddaramaiah raised questions over his resignation.In a series of tweets, former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah said the people of the state ought to know the real reason behind the resignation of the ruling party leader.It is a norm in democracy for CM to resign when his party loses in elections.Definite reason has to be given to the people of Karnataka when a Chief Minister of the party with majority resigns.What is the reason for @BSYBJP's resignation?Old age or corruption?#BSYResignsA four-time chief minister, BS Yediyurappa announced his decision to step down on a day the BJP celebrated the second year of his government in Bengaluru.Although Yediyurappa didn't state the exact reason behind his decision, he hinted at BJP's policy of not giving any posts to party leaders above 75.However, Siddaramaiah hinted that the BJP asked Yediyurappa to quit owing to allegations of corruption against him and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to initiate a probe.Many @BJP4Karnataka leaders have publicly spoken about @BSYBJP's corruption.@narendramodi who always says 'Na Khaunga, Na Khanedunga' should show courage to initiate investigation about the allegations of corruption on Yediyurappa.#BSYResignsSpeculations about the 78-year-old leader's resignation became rife immediately after his return from New Delhi on July 17 following his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah. Even though he denied the rumours doing the rounds about his resignation, he hinted at a possible leadership change in the days leading to Monday's ceremony.ALSO READ | Not going anywhere, will work for Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa on next stintSiddaramaiah said he was not surprised at the resignation of Yediyurappa and said he would celebrate only when the BJP loses the election. The 223-member Karnataka state assembly is slated to go to the polls in 2023."Corruption is in the DNA of @BJP4Karnataka & this will not change with the change in Chief Minister. BJP had come to power through unethical 'Operation Kamala' & Karnataka will be better off only with the ousting of BJP," the former chief minister tweeted.This was not the first time that Yediyurappa stepped down from the post of the chief minister. In 2011, Yediyurappa was forced to quit after the Karnataka Lokayukta alleged his involvement in illegal mining in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-siddaramaiah-karnataka-chief-minister-resignation-101627298088126.html
26-07-2021||India||On first Sawan Monday, 6 pilgrims test positive for Covid in Haridwar||Six pilgrims from Gujarat tested Covid-19 positive in Haridwar on the first Monday of Sawan, officials said. They arrived from Ahmedabad Mail Express at Haridwar railway station where they were stopped for mandatory Covid-19 testing. The pilgrims were also not carrying Covid negative reports with them.The pilgrims were shifted to a dedicated Covid care centre as soon as their RT-PCR reports came positive. Government Railway Police station house officer Anuj Singh said in case passengers arriving don’t possess negative RT-PCR report conducted within 72 hours prior to their arrival or in case of doubt over the report, mandatory RT-PCR testing is being done at the station. At Shyampur-Chidiyapur, Lahadpur Bhagwanpur, Kali Nadi, Tejapur check posts , Gokalpur in Jhabredsa and Khanpur, at least 150 vehicles were made to go back. Also Read | Akal Takht condemns ‘violation’ of maryada during U’khand CM’s gurdwara visit“We are allowing people an entry into Uttarakhand only after verifying their online registration on state government portal and a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report. Checking and verification is on round-the-clock,” said Shyampur station house officer Anil Chauhan. On Sunday, the Haridwar police booked 14 Kanwariyas for illegally entering despite the ban on the yatra. The yatra, which started on Saturday, will conclude on August 6. The Kanwariyas were arrested for entering Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghat area to take Ganga waters back to their areas. They were booked under IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. On July 13, Uttarakhand government cancelled Kanwar Yatra, fearing millions of devotees thronging the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar could spark a devastating third wave of Covid. The decision came after opposition from doctors who warned that the impact of the Kanwar Yatra could be worse than the Mahakumbh, which was also held in Haridwar this year and sparked infections in many parts of northern India. The state’s decision followed a request from the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh to review its July 6 decision to suspend Kanwar Yatra. Kanwar Yatra attracted 36 million pilgrims in 2019 when it was held last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-first-sawan-monday-6-pilgrims-test-positive-for-covid-in-haridwar-101627300238836.html
26-07-2021||India||Etihad says India-UAE flights to remain suspended till August 2||United Arab Emirates' (UAE) national carrier Etihad has said that the flights between the two countries have been suspended till August 2. The date could be extended, depending on directions by the UAE authorities, Etihad Airways Guest Relations said on Twitter."We've just received confirmation that flights from India are suspended till the 2nd August, and we are not entirely sure if this will be extended as it depends on the authorities. You may not see availability on the website because of the schedule uncertainty," Etihad Help posted on Twitter while replying to a user.We've just received confirmation that flights from India are suspended till the 2nd August, and we are not entirely sure if this will be extended as it depends on the authorities. You may not see availability on the website because of the schedule uncertainty. *SkyThis comes days after Emirates, the country's flagship carrier, extended its suspension of flights to Dubai from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka till July 28.Emirates said in a statement that any passenger who has been to these four Asian countries in the last 14 days will not be allowed to travel from anywhere to the UAE.The Dubai-based airline said UAE nationals, holders of UAE golden visas and members of diplomatic missions who comply with updated Covid‑19 protocols, are exempt from the ban.UAE consists of seven emirates that have been setting their individual travel policies since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/etihad-says-india-uae-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-aug-2-101627299070040.html
26-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: US demonising China to build national purpose, says Chinese diplomat and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US demonising China to build national purpose: Chinese diplomatA top Chinese diplomat on Monday took a combative tone during rare face-to-face talks with a US counterpart, saying Washington’s strategy of confrontation and cooperation with Beijing was a thinly veiled attempt to contain and suppress China. Read morePegasus: West Bengal becomes first state to order probeWest Bengal has ordered an inquiry into the Pegasus snooping row that has rocked the nation since July 18, becoming the first state to do so, said chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. Read moreManish Tewari claims govt discussing increasing Lok Sabha strength to 1,000Congress leader Manish Tewari said on Monday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government is holding "serious discussion" to increase the strength of the Lok Sabha to 1,000. He added that a decision is exected before the 2024 General Elections. Read moreIndia Predicted XI for 2nd T20I vs Sri Lanka: Question looms over Prithvi Shaw, Suryakumar Yadav’s availabilityJust like the ODIs, Shikhar Dhawan-led Team India began the T20I series with an emphatic win on Sunday. The visitors showcased a decent performance with the bat but their bowling was outstanding. The pacers led the attack and were brilliantly backed by the spinners. Read moreRevolt Motor to replace RV300 electric bike with lower-priced RV1 modelRattanIndia’s Revolt Motors will launch a new electric bike model in the country that will eventually replace its RV 300 e-bike model, promoter Anjali Rattan told PTI. The new RV1 electric motorcycle will be priced lower than the EV maker's existing models and is expected to go into production from January next year. Read moreSara Ali Khan unleashes her ‘laal kamaal’ in red bralette-style blouse, lehengaBe it chikankari kurtas on casual outings or velvet Indian wears on festive occasions, Sara Ali Khan knows how to spruce up ethnic looks with jhumkas, chokers and juttis and her traditional wardrobe is steal-worthy for all the millennials out there who have their finger firmly placed on the sartorial pulse. Read moreWhy Tokyo 2020 was a dream come true for India's 1st Olympic fencer Bhavani DeviIndia’s first-ever Sabre Fencer to compete in Olympics, CA Bhavani Devi spoke to Hindustan Times’ Avishek Roy as her journey in the Tokyo Olympics 2020 came to an end. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-demonising-china-to-build-national-purpose-chinese-diplomat-and-all-the-latest-news-101627297774014.html
26-07-2021||India||Vijay TV serial promo shows forced marriage, Tamil Nadu cop reminds them of law||The promo of a serial about to air on Tamil television network Vijay TV has caught the eye of the police, which have reminded the makers of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. The serial in question is Thendral Vanthu Ennai Thodum, and its teaser video was released on Sunday.The teaser video shows the lead actress of the serial walking into a temple along with her family members. The male protagonist is shown arguing with a couple marrying inside the temple, without permissions from the respective families. He is about to break the sacred threat (mangalsutra) when the lead actress (Abhinaya) stops him contending that the marriage is acceptable because it has been performed in front of the deity. She even slaps the male lead.A visibly angry male actor then drags Abhinaya and ties the mangalsutra around her neck in front of a deity asks if she has now become his wife. Shocked, Abhinaya is shown walking behind the male actor as the teaser video ends.The video generated a lot of furore online from the users who condemned the forced marriage shown in the teaser. Responding to a tweet, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvallur, Dr Varun Kumar IPS posted a portion of Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, which prohibits harassment of women within the premises of places of worship. pic.twitter.com/dR09XF7UwK“Whoever commits or participates in or abets harassment of woman in or within the precincts of any educational institution, temple or other place of worship, bus stop, road, railway station, cinema theater, park, beach, place of festival, public service vehicle or vessel or any other place shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine which shall not be less than ten thousand rupees,” Dr Kumar's tweet said.There were other tweets from some angry users. "This serial better not be taken / telecast. Also suggest the Writer, Director, Producer and all those who approved that this be telecast go through a Mandatory 1. REAL meaning of Culture course (and) 2. Unconscious / Subconscious Bias Course," posted the user of handle @who_nisha.This serial better not be taken / telecast. Also suggest the Writer, Director, Producer and all those who approved that this be telecast go through a Mandatory 1. REAL meaning of Culture course (and) 2. Unconscious / Subconscious Bias CourseThe teaser showed that the TV serial will be out soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-tv-serial-promo-shows-forced-marriage-tamil-nadu-cop-reminds-them-of-law-101627297314524.html
26-07-2021||India||Biological E likely to launch its Covid-19 vaccine by September-end: Report||Hyderabad-based Biological E Limited, which is developing a made-in-India vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is expected to launch the vaccine, Corbevax, by September-end, news agency ANI reported on Monday quoting sources.The vaccine, which is currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials, is based on the RBD protein sub-unit platform. Biological E is expected to apply for its emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the end of next month and will provide 300 million doses of to the Union government by December 2021, as announced by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) in June. "The Union ministry of health would be making an advance payment of ₹1500 crore to Biological E," a statement by the ministry had said.Also Read | Health ministry buys 300 mn doses of Biological-E’s Covid vaccine in advanceThough the efficacy of Corbevax is not yet known, Dr NK Arora, who heads the Centre's Covid-19 working group, said last month that its efficacy is likely to be similar as that of NVX-CoV2373, developed by American firm Novavax, as the two vaccines have a common platform. According to Novavax, its vaccine has demonstrated 100% protection from moderate and severe Covid-19, with an overall efficacy of 90.4%. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing this jab as Covovax in India.Also Read | Biological E’s vaccine efficacy same as Novavax: Government panel chiefTill now, four vaccines have been approved for the nationwide inoculation drive against Covid-19. Two of these were approved in January and have been used since the vaccination drive began on 16th of that month. These are Covaxin and Covishield. The former, which is India's first home-made shot against Covid-19, has been developed by another Hyderabad-based firm, Bharat Biotech, while the latter is a shot developed jointly by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and is being manufactured locally by SII.A third vaccine, Russia's Sputnik V, was cleared in April at a time when the second Covid-19 wave was beginning to reach its peak, while the fourth, US-based Moderna's vaccine, was approved in June. On July 1, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking EUA for its indigenously developed vaccine for citizens above the age of 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biological-e-s-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-be-launched-in-september-report-101627294911918.html
26-07-2021||India||Covid-19: BDR Pharma inks agreement with DRDO for production of 2-DG||BDR Pharma said on Monday it inked an agreement with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to distribute, manufacture and market the Covid-19 drug 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2-DG) in India. The pharmaceutical company will work with the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS) of the DRDO for manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of 2-DG in the country.BDR Pharma said that 2-DG will be available in a sachet in powdered form that can be consumed orally after dissolving it in water. Stressing that the drug would be priced competitively, the company said that the collaboration with the DRDO will address broader medical needs as it will widen the identification and development of Covid-19 therapy options.“We are pleased to secure a license from the DRDO and add 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose to our COVID product offering. This arrangement aims to ensure that this drug reaches as many eligible Indian patients as possible who are suffering from the devastating pandemic. Our aim is to ramp up the availability of successful treatment and coordinate manufacturing so that there is no scarcity of drugs to give to people fighting the disease,” Dharmesh Shah, the chairman and managing director of BDR Pharmaceuticals said in a statement.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in June approved the oral medication for emergency usage as an adjuvant therapy in mild to severe Covid-19 patients. The pharma company said that it has applied to the DCGI for restricted emergency-use authorisation to manufacture drug 2-DG for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the country.The DRDO recently signed agreements with four major Indian medicine producers for the development of 2-DG drugs, after it conducted clinical trials in partnership with Dr Reddy's Laboratories and the INMAS, a DRDO lab.The DCGI permitted 2-DG phase III trials in November 2020 after receiving positive feedback from the Phase-II and Phase-IIb trials. 2-DG was discovered to hasten the recovery of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and to decrease the need for supplementary oxygen in Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-bdr-pharma-inks-agreement-with-drdo-for-production-of-2dg-101627296631420.html
26-07-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram CMs seek Amit Shah's help to resolve worsening border crisis||Amid a worsening border tension with Assam, a war of words ensued between Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and his counterpart from the neighbouring state Himanta Biswa Sarma as the former urged Home Minister Amit Shah to look into the matter and bring an immediate end to the crisis. Shah was on a two-day visit to Meghalaya during the weekend where he held a closed-door meeting with chief ministers of the northeast states.A clipping shared by Zoramthanga on Twitter showed police trying to stop a clash among men armed with sticks. In reply to the tweet, Assam Police said miscreants from Mizoram were indulging in stone-pelting and attacking Assam government officials stationed at Lailapur to protect Assam's land from encroachment.Shri @AmitShah ji….kindly look into the matter.This needs to be stopped right now.#MizoramAssamBorderTension @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @himantabiswa @dccachar @cacharpolice pic.twitter.com/A33kWxXkhGIn reply, Sarma shared a clipping and said a superintendent of police from Mizoram was asking Assam’s officials to withdraw from their post, failing which civilians from the neighbouring state would not stop the violence. He too sought immediate intervention of Shah and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). “How can we run government in such circumstances?” Sarma wrote.Soon after, Zoramthanga wrote to Sarma, "After a cordial meeting of CMs (chaired) by Shah, two companies of Assam Police with civilians lathicharged and tear gassed civilians at Vairengte Auto Rickshaw stand inside Mizoram today. They even overrun CRPF personnel/Mizoram Police."Dear Himantaji, after cordial meeting of CMs by Hon’ble Shri @amitshah ji, surprisingly 2 companies of Assam Police with civilians lathicharged & tear gassed civilians at Vairengte Auto Rickshaw stand inside Mizoram today. They even overrun CRPF personnel /Mizoram Police. https://t.co/SrAdH7f7rvZoramthanga shared another video with which he wrote that an innocent couple were “manhandled and ransacked by thugs and goons” on their way back to Mizoram via Cachar in Assam. “How are you going to justify these violent acts?” he wrote.On Saturday, Zoramthanga said border disputes in the northeast are a legacy of the colonial era and lasting peace between states is important for further development of the region.Speaking on the border dispute with Assam at the CM’s meeting, chaired by Shah in Shillong on Saturday, Zoramthanga said the area claimed by the latter has been used by people from Mizoram for over 100 years."The border disputes are a legacy of the colonial era that the present government inherited from its predecessor which has been left unresolved at the time of the formation of states like Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram," he said."The large tract of areas claimed by Assam to be within its constitutional boundary has been used for collection of forest producers and for shifting and settled cultivation for the past 100 plus years by the people of Mizoram, and that Assam started claiming these areas only fairly recently due to population pressure apparently caused by the large-scale influx of migrants from outside Barak valley," he said.Zoramthanga further requested the Assam government to respect and honour the situation on the ground and desist from disturbing the peaceful environment.He also called upon them to withdraw their armed police camping at various locations in the agriculture fields of Mizo farmers since June 29.He said the status-quo may be maintained as of May 10, 2021, as suggested by Sarma in his telephonic discussion on June 29.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-cms-seek-amit-shah-s-help-to-resolve-worsening-border-crisis-101627296508023.html
26-07-2021||India||La Niña to return in September, may continue till winter||La Niña conditions associated with cooling of Pacific waters is likely to return in September, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Global meteorological phenomenon of La Niña is linked to very cold and harsh winters in India and above normal monsoon rains.While above average rains are likely in August and September when La Niña conditions set in once again, IMD scientists said it was too early to give specific forecasts. La Niña conditions prevailed from August-September 2020 to April 2021. In India, La Niña was associated with an above normal monsoon last year, early winter onset as well as a harsh winter.According to IMD Pune’s El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) bulletin for July, currently, neutral ENSO conditions are prevailing over equatorial Pacific region. The latest Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) forecast indicates neutral ENSO conditions likely to continue up to July-September season, and August-October onwards cooling of temperatures over equatorial Pacific is likely to enhance and to reach to the La Niña threshold.National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Climate Prediction Centre said on July 8 that La Niña is likely to emerge during the September-November season and last through the 2021-22 winter (66% chance during November-January).“Our MMCFS model shows a high probability of La Niña developing from September. It is associated with good rains during the southwest monsoon season and because of clouding associated with rains, below normal temperatures are also expected. But we can’t tell yet what its impact will be on monsoon in August and September. IMD will soon issue a forecast for monsoon in August. La Niña has a negative impact on the northeast monsoon over peninsular India. That also needs to be monitored,” said O P Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD.DS Pai, who heads IMD’s climate research and services, said La Niña conditions will develop at the end of monsoon so there are less chances of any adverse impacts like flooding etc. “We normally see cooler temperatures during La Niña years mainly due to cloud cover,” he added.La Niña conditions developing in September will coincide with the post monsoon cyclone season. “While there is no direct correlation, a lot of studies have indicated that La Niña affects the track of cyclones developing over Bay of Bengal, they are more likely to move west wards,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.Due to La Niña, the atmospheric circulation patterns change. The frequency of cyclone formation increases but slightly to the north from its normal position. So, you may see more cyclones forming near Odisha, West Bengal, Bangladesh and they have a higher chance of recurving as opposed to cyclones forming near Tamil Nadu or south Andhra Pradesh coasts during non-La Nina years, Pai had said last year.A paper published in International Journal of Meteorology in 2019 on impact of ENSO on the Bay of Bengal tropical cyclone (TC) activity during post-monsoon (October–December) season for a period of 44 years (1972–2015) found that La Niña years are characterised by more frequent and intense cyclonic events compared with El Niño years. There is 1% deficiency in monsoon rain since June 1 with 26% excess rain over Peninsular India; 3% excess over Central India; 17% deficiency over east and northeast India and 11% deficiency over northwest India.IMD warned of an intense wet spell over northwest India from July 26 to July 30. The western end of the monsoon trough at mean sea level is running along its normal position while its eastern end runs close to the normal position. The western end is likely to shift northward during next 24 hours bringing widespread rains to the western Himalayas.A cyclonic circulation is lying over North Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood at mid and upper tropospheric level. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over North Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around July 28.Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Uttar Pradesh till July 29 and reduction thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on July 27 and 28 and over northwest Uttar Pradesh on July 27.Widespread rain with isolated heavy falls very likely over Konkan, Goa, ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra during the next three days and increase to isolated heavy to very heavy rai over the region from July 29. Enhanced rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy rain is also likely over east and adjoining Central India (Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar) from July 27 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/la-ni-a-to-return-in-september-may-continue-till-winter-101627296638396.html
26-07-2021||India||Gujarat continues to receive heavy rainfall; IMD issues warning for fishermen||Gujarat continued to receive heavy rainfall on Monday which led to waterlogging and caused damage across the state in the past 24 hours.The state emergency operation centre (SEOC) in its 6am bulletin said several parts of Gujarat, including Saurashtra region, witnessed heavy to moderate rainfall in the 24-hours-span.Lodhika taluka in Saurashtra’s Rajkot district received the highest rainfall (198mm) during this period, the weather bulletin reported, followed by Chhota Udepur and Kwant talukas in Chhota Udepur district with 190mm and 182mm rainfall, Becharaji in Mehsana district with 160mm rainfall and Kalavad in Jamnagar with 147mm of downpour, the SEOC saidOfficials told PTI on Sunday that many causeways in Saurashtra’s districts and central Gujarat had overflowed while dams reported heavy inflow of water owing to heavy downpour in catchment areas.The state authorities said as many as 56 roads across Gujarat were closed for vehicular movement due to the heavy rainfall, including a state highway. The SEOC said all national highways passing through the state were open for traffic.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in Valsad, Jamnagar, Gir-Somnath districts of Gujarat in the next 24 hours. Fishermen have been cautioned against venturing into the Arabia Sea till Thursday as a precaution against the worsening weather and rough sea conditions. An active wet spell is likely in the state till Tuesday, the IMD said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-continues-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-imd-issues-warning-for-fishermen-101627289874235.html
26-07-2021||India||22 years of Kargil War: Army releases video in memory of India's braves||The Indian Army on Monday paid tribute to the martyrs of the 1999 war with Pakistan, also known as the Kargil War, on the occasion of the Kargil Vijay Diwas. The army's official Twitter handle put out a video to mark 22 years of the war, stating that 26 July "epitomises the saga of the valour of soldiers."Also Read | Kargil Vijay Diwas: PM Modi pays tribute, says 'we remember their sacrifices'"During the Kargil War, the gallant soldiers of the Indian Army triumphed over the Pakistani invaders with undaunted courage and determination," tweeted @adgpi.#OperationVijay#22yearsofKargil “26 July” #KargilVijayDiwas epitomises the Saga of Valour of our soldiers during #KargilWar. The gallant soldiers of #IndianArmy triumphed over Pakistani Invaders with undaunted courage & determination.#IndianArmy#StrongAndCapable pic.twitter.com/ihD91D6EZOThe 115-second-long video described through captions, along with shots of soldiers, what Indian troops were up against in the terrain of Kargil. "Kargil 1999, India's brave march into the battle," the video said, calling the terrain "unforgiving." Other difficulties faced by the troops, as mentioned in the video, included unscalable heights, sub-zero temperatures, lack of oxygen, well entrenched enemy etc. "Against all odds, Pakistani forces are beaten back and India is victorious," the video mentioned further, also showing memorable shots of Indian soldiers celebrating the win by displaying the tricolour on captured peaks. It ended with a shot of soldiers, in the present day, lighting lamps in memory of the fallen and the national flag flying high at the Kargil War Memorial.The account also shared a message from the Chief of Army Staff, General MM Naravane. "On the solemn occasion of the 22nd Kargil Vijay Diwas, we remember and pay tributes to our fallen heroes who ensured the territorial integrity of our Nation. The Nation will always remain indebted for the valour and sacrifice of our bravehearts," the COAS' message read.On the solemn occasion of the 22nd Kargil Vijay Diwas, we remember and pay tributes to our fallen heroes who ensured the territorial integrity of our Nation. The Nation will always remain indebted for the valour & sacrifice of our #bravehearts. #OperationVijay#IndianArmy pic.twitter.com/X1fWCw9bW1India had launched Operation Vijay to evict the Pakistani intruders from Kargil and completed it successfully. However, more than 500 officers and soldiers from the Indian side, several of them newly commissioned, were killed in action. Many, including Captain Vikram Batra, are remembered even today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-years-of-kargil-war-army-releases-video-in-memory-of-india-s-braves-101627291215163.html
26-07-2021||India||Manish Tewari claims govt discussing increasing Lok Sabha strength to 1,000||Congress leader Manish Tewari said on Monday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government is holding "serious discussion" to increase the strength of the Lok Sabha to 1,000. He added that a decision is exected before the 2024 General Elections."Don't know if it's wrong or right but friends told me that a serious discussion is being held on a proposal to increase the strength of the Lok Sabha to 1,000 or more before 2024. Architectural plan of new Parliament chamber should be tabled at Parliament," Tewari was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.This comes a day after the Congress leader's tweet where he said that the new Parliament chamber is being constructed as a 1000-seater. Tewari added that a serious public consultation is needed on the issue.The new Parliament complex has a deadline of 2022. The new design envisages a triangular complex, with a tricoloured beam lighting up the sky overhead. Parliament will have 55 per cent additional seating capacity for MPs in its new building.This is part of the Central Vista redevelopment plan that has a deadline of 2024.In December 2019, former President Pranab Mukherjee hsd called for almost doubling the strength of the Lok Sabha to 1,000 lawmakers, from the current 545.The first Lok Sabha election in 1952 had 461 seats but within three years, the seats swelled up to 499.The documents in Parliament show the seats went up to 522, then to 530 and later, to the current capacity of 550.From time to time, Parliament has cleared constitutional amendments to increase the seats of both Houses. The share of seats from each state depends largely on the census and the current strength of 545 seats was construed with reference to the 1971 census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-tewari-claims-govt-discussing-increasing-lok-sabha-strength-to-1000-101627293493498.html
26-07-2021||India||Odisha human rights panel seeks report on gangster’s death in police ‘encounter’||The Odisha Human Rights Commission on Monday sought a report on convicted gangster SK Hyder Ali’s death in police firing while trying to escape on Saturday afternoon.Taking suo-motu cognizance, the commission issued notices to additional chief secretary (Home), Odisha DG, director general of prisons and Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Commissionerate Police.According to police’s version, 58-year old Hyder, serving sentence in a murder case and accused in several other cases, was being shifted to a jail in Baripada town of Mayurbhanj district in a police van from Choudwar circle jail on Saturday when he asked the cops to stop for attending to nature’s call. After getting down from the police van at Simulia in Balasore district, he tried to snatch an AK-47 from the sub-inspector and flee, forcing the cops to fire at him, they said.Balasore additional district medical officer Sushant Nayak said four bullets were found in the gangster’s body.Hyder’s wife Hasina Bibi alleged that her husband was killed in cold blood by police. “For 16 years my husband was lodged in jail and every time I cooperated with the police. Even when he escaped from the jail in April this year, I fully cooperated with the cops. I demand investigation into my husband’s death by an independent agency,” she said.Former director general of police (DGP) Sanjiv Marik said people were rightly suspicious of the circumstances leading to the gangster’s alleged encounter. “It is hard to believe that 10 policemen failed to overpower an old person who should have been hand-cuffed as he was a dreaded convict and had escaped from SCB Medical College in Cuttack in April during treatment. A thorough inquiry by an independent agency, ideally by a high court judge, should be conducted to ensure transparency,” said Marik.The police inspector who led the escort team to shift Hyder to Baripada Circle Jail wrote in his FIR that at around 3.20 pm, Hyder asked him to stop the vehicle to attend nature’s call. “I, along with my staff, asked the driver not to stop the vehicle from a security point of view, but Hyder insisted, claiming he was suffering from acute diabetes and had to attend to the call of nature. Hyder then requested that his handcuffs be unlocked to attend to nature’s call and wash his hands. As soon as the escort havildar unlocked one side of the cuff, he immediately snatched away an AK-47 from havildar Surya Kumar Rout and pointed the gun towards the escort party while hurling abuses in Hindi,” Gangadhar Saseni, a police inspector from Cuttack said in the FIR.The inspector said to save the police personnel from imminent danger of death, sub-inspector Asit Jena fired 3 rounds from his service pistol in Hyder’s lower part of the body, below the waist, with the purpose to immobilise him and to prevent him from opening fire.In April this year, Hyder, serving life sentence since 2015 in a case of abduction and murder of a trader, escaped from a government medical college cum hospital in Odisha after drugging the policeman in charge of his security. He was arrested 5 days later from Sangareddy district of Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-human-rights-panel-seeks-report-on-gangster-s-death-in-police-encounter-101627293338247.html
26-07-2021||India||Bihar assembly 5-day monsoon session begins; supplementary budget tabled||Bihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds the finance portfolio tabled the first supplementary budget on Monday, the first day of the five-day monsoon session. The first supplementary budget of ₹27,050.17 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal comprises ₹14,161.90 crore for schemes, ₹12,885.05 crore for establishment and committed expenditure, and ₹3.21 crore under the central schemes head. Panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary tabled the Bihar Panchayati Raj (amendment) Bill, 2021, which has been necessitated due to the promulgation of the Panchayati Raj (amendment) Bill Ordinance, 2021, earlier this year to avoid the gap following the completion of five-year term of the elected representatives and the delay in fresh election due to Covid-19 pandemic. Five other bills are scheduled for the current session and two days have been earmarked for discussion over them. The other bills are Aryabhatt Knowledge University (amendment) Bill, 2021, Bihar Health Sciences University Bill, 2021, Bihar Engineering University Bill, 2021, and Bihar Sports University Bill, 2021. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (amendment) Bill, 2021 will also be tabled in the assembly to provide amendments in fiscal targets for 2021-22, as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission and the government of India. Another bill to be tabled is the Bihar Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Also Read | Bihar Oppn MLAs reach assembly in helmets as Monsoon session beginsThe assembly was adjourned on Monday after obituary references to nearly 35 past and present members of the two Houses of the Bihar Legislature and two governors who passed away between the Budget session and the monsoon session, the period that coincided with the Covid-19 second wave. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha also referred to a large number of deaths, including of doctors and frontline warriors, caused during the second wave. The House also paid tributes to Kargil martyrs and spoke about the supreme sacrifices Indian forces made for the motherland.Earlier, the Opposition members stood at the entrance of the assembly with placards, shouting slogans against the police action inside the legislative premises on March 23, when the House witnessed the worst-ever scenes over the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. Some of them also wore black badges. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and CPI-ML leaders tried to raise some issues inside the House also, but the Speaker did not allow it, saying the House would run only as per rules. “We will keep raising people’s issues on the floor of the House. There are plenty of issues,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-5-day-monsoon-session-begins-supplementary-budget-tabled-101627291597639.html
26-07-2021||India||164 dead, 100 missing in Maharashtra, NDRF calls off search at landslide sites||Around 100 people were still missing in Maharashtra’s six flood-hit districts where many got buried or washed away in landslides triggered by heavy rains last week, killing at least 164 people, as per official estimates. Rescue operations at a few landslide sites including at Taliye in Raigad and Ambeghar in Satara were called off by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) late on Sunday as the possibility of finding more missing people faded.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had to call off his tour of flood-affected Satara district on Monday as the helicopter he was travelling in could not land due to bad weather conditions in the afternoon after taking off from Pune earlier in the day. Thackeray was scheduled to visit flood affected villages in Satara district.According to the state government, 53 people are still missing at three landslide locations in Raigad district, 14 are missing in Ratnagiri, 4 in Thane and one each in Kolhapur and Sindhudurg. Apart from these, 27 others are also missing in the eight flood affected districts. Authorities fear that several of the untraced victims have been washed away in the strong flood currents.The country’s western coast has been hit by heavy rainfall since Thursday, with the India Meteorological Department warning of more rain over the next few days. Major state and national highways, including the Mumbai-Goa highway, continued to be shut on Sunday due to severe water-logging and after portions of the roads were washed away in some areas.The death toll in eight districts has risen to 164 after a few more bodies were recovered by NDRF and armed forces since Sunday. Raigad, which saw three landslides last week, reported 71 deaths followed by 41 in Satara, 21 in Ratnagiri, Kolhapur 7 and Thane 12 among others.“Since there is no possibility of finding the missing persons from the landslide sites, the search operations at three sites in Satara and three in Raigad have been called off. One child from the Ambeghar landslide location is still missing. The respective villages have been taken into confidence before winding up the rescue ops. The NDRF teams were still in the flood hit districts, and the decision of their withdrawal will be taken at an appropriate time,” said an official from Mantralaya.34 companies comprising 45 personnel each are deployed in Ratnagiri (6), Satara (4), Kolhapur (8), Pune (4) and other districts. Kolhapur and Sangli each have one rescue team from Indian Army, while two Coast Guards teams are engaged in rescue operations.The number of evacuated people has gone past 2,50,000 people as a few thousand more people were evacuated from Sangli and Kolhapur on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/164-dead-100-missing-in-maharashtra-ndrf-calls-off-search-at-landslide-sites-101627288598231.html
26-07-2021||India||Not going anywhere, will work for Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa on next stint||Outgoing Karnataka chief minister and veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader BS Yediyurappa said on Monday there was no question of him leaving the state to serve as a governor elsewhere. Hours after announcing his resignation as the chief minister ending days of speculation, the 78-year-old leader from the Lingayat community said he would continue to work for the welfare of the people of Karnataka.He further said there was no need to make any inference of dissatisfaction and he would work under whoever is put at the helm next by the party’s top leadership. “I will give my 100 per cent and so will do my supporters,” Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Who may replace Lingayat strongman Yediyurappa in Karnataka? List of frontrunnersA minister in the Karnataka cabinet K Sudhakar said Yediyurappa was only quitting as a chief minister, not active politics. “It was a surprise for me (his resignation). He told me that he may receive a favorable decision from the high command by July 26. But we all have to abide by the norms of the party,” Sudhakar further said.The outgoing CM said nobody put pressure on him to quit the post. “I did it on my own so that someone else can take over as CM after completion of two years of government. I will work to bring the BJP back in power in the next election. I have not suggested any name of my successor,” he said.The four-time chief minister put in his papers on the day his government completed two years after coming to power overthrowing the coalition government of the Janata Dal - Secular and Congress.Stating that he had decided to step down two days ago, Yediyurappa said he was grateful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah andz BJP chief JP Nadda for giving him the opportunity to serve Karnataka for two years. “I also thank the people of Karnataka and my constituency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-going-anywhere-will-work-for-karnataka-bs-yediyurappa-on-next-stint-101627287844096.html
26-07-2021||India||Assam: 43-year-old man arrested for allegedly raping an autistic minor||A 43-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a 17-year old autistic girl in Assam’s Karimganj district on Saturday evening following a complaint at Badarpur police station by the family members of the survivorThe accused, who is a resident of Badarpur town, has also been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 and some other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “The survivor is going through a regular medical test and after that it will be established whether she was raped. But the family members are alleging that she was sexually assaulted. Our officials have taken her statement,” said Dipak Saikia, officer in charge of Badarpur police station.The family members have demanded strict punishment for the accused. “Though our girl is 17-years-old, her brain is still like a 5-year-old child. She is autistic and we treat her like a little kid. The accused is known to our family and he used to visit our home often. We never realised that he can try to force himself on our little girl one day. We want strict action against him,” one of the members said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-43-year-old-man-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-an-autistic-minor-101627286077057.html
26-07-2021||India||Hackers using SMS alerting frozen bank accounts, Chennai police warn public||Chennai City Police have warned the public to be careful with the short service messages alerting them about their bank accounts being put on freeze, reported Tamil newspaper Dinamani. The link attached in these messages to reactivate frozen bank accounts could be the bait to steal away vital information of the account holders, the police warned.In their recent statement, Chennai police said that they have received many complaints of late about the customers receiving messages warning about their bank accounts being put on freeze. When the gullible customers panic and click the attached link, the miscreants are stealing their vital financial information. In ten minutes where the customers investigate the attached links and try to follow the instructions, the account details are hacked by the miscreants. The hackers are also withdrawing money or taking out online transactions using the information filled in the link.The department has received many complaints about people losing money after receiving such messages and clicking the attachments. The public who happened to receive such messages should be careful. Though these messages appear to be the ones sent by the bank, it is better to avoid such suspicious messages. These messages may try to create panic as they warn that the accounts will be frozen permanently if the customers don’t act. Such messages are not true and only intend to make the customers act on the messages. Hackers use multiple methods to steal away financial information from people. The short messages warning about frozen bank accounts are one of the methods which exploit the fear psychosis of the customers. Avoid exploring such messages received in phones, police appealed to the public. If they still doubt the status of their bank accounts, it is better to contact their banks directly to clear their doubts, the statement further noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hackers-using-sms-alerting-frozen-bank-accounts-chennai-police-warn-public-101627283550088.html
26-07-2021||India||'Honoured to have served as Karnataka CM': Yediyurappa tweets after resigning||Shortly after announcing his resignation as Karnataka chief minister, BS Yediyurappa said on Twitter that it was an honour to have served the state. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader also said that he is grateful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party chief JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah for their support."It has been an honour to have served the state for the past two years. I have decided to resign as the Chief Minister of Karnataka. I am humbled and sincerely thank the people of the state for giving me the opportunity to serve them," Yediyurappa tweeted.Watch: Who can replace Yeddiurappa in Karnataka?Seventy-eight-year-old Yediyurappa announced his resignation during a function celebrating the second-year anniversary of his government in Bengaluru on Monday. He later went to the Raj Bhavan to meet Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot.It has been an honour to have served the state for the past two years. I have decided to resign as the Chief Minister of Karnataka. I am humbled and sincerely thank the people of the state for giving me the opportunity to serve them. (1/2)During the speech, Yediyurappa termed his tenure for two years as "trial by fire", recalling that he had to run the administration without cabinet in the initial days, followed by devastating floods and coronavirus among other issues.The news around Yediyurappa's possible resignation started surfacing after his return to Bengaluru from New Delhi where he met PM Modi, Shah and Nadda. Though initially he denied resignation rumours, a few days later, Yediyurappa hinted at possible leadership change in the state."Not out of grief, but with happiness," Yediyurappa said on Monday, as he thanked PM Modi, Shah and Nadda for giving him an opportunity to serve as chief minister for two years, despite completing the age of 75.The BJP leader said that he will work to strengthen the party and bring it back to power, as per the expectations of the central leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/honoured-to-have-served-as-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-tweets-after-resigning-101627284349994.html
26-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Afghan army chief postpones India visit and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Afghan Army chief postpones visit to India because of Taliban offensiveAfghan Army chief General Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai has postponed a visit to India this week because of the offensive by the Taliban in Afghanistan, the Afghan embassy said on Monday. Read MoreBS Yediyurappa announces his resignation as Karnataka chief ministerPutting an end to speculation, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday announced his resignation during a function celebrating the second-year anniversary of his government in Bengaluru. Read MoreRahul Gandhi rides tractor to Parliament in protest against farm lawsCongress leader and Member of Parliament from Wayanad, Rahul Gandhi was seen driving a tractor to the Parliament on Monday. The vehicle was mounted with a banner demanding that the three “anti-farmer black laws” be repealed. Gandhi, however, could not take the tractor inside the premises as only vehicles with valid passes are allowed entry. Read MoreLadakh visit cancelled due to bad weather; President travels to north KashmirPresident Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Ladakh to attend a function on the 22nd anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas on Monday was cancelled due to bad weather. With Ladakh trip cancelled, the President travelled to north Kashmir’s frontier district of Baramulla. Read MoreAussie coach's epic reaction after 'Terminator' Titmus' win is making waves on social media - WATCHA win at the Olympics is sure to fire up many athletes and support staff. It is the biggest stage for sporting events where athletes from all round the world turn up for their countries and match-up against the best athletes of the world. On Monday, Australian swimmer Ariarne Titmus surprised everyone when she managed to win the gold medal ahead of five-time Olympic gold medallist Katie Ledecky of the United States in a thrilling women's 400m freestyle final. Read MoreAnushka Sharma enjoys a day out in bag worth more than ₹2 lakh, chic denims and crop topBollywood actor Anushka Sharma recently turned muse for Athiya Shetty in the United Kingdom. Anushka is with her husband Virat Kohli in the UK. She posed for the camera in the scenic outdoors wearing a cropped jacket over a crop tee and denims. Read on to know the mind-blowing price of her jacket and shoulder bag. Read MoreSaif Ali Khan on whether he gave Kareena Kapoor a haircut during lockdown: ‘I think she would stab me’In the absence of salon services during the Covid-19 lockdown last year, many celebrity couples gave each other DIY haircuts, but Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor were not among them. In a new interview, he joked that she might ‘stab’ him if he tried to give her a trim. Read More2022 Toyota Land Cruiser customers banned from reselling the SUV. Here's whyThe Toyota Land Cruiser has been a formidable SUV across the globe and has had quite a successful run in many countries. Famed for its go-anywhere capabilities and imposing body structure, the latest 2022 LC300 Land Cruiser has received thousands of orders in Japan but for those here looking at driving the model home, there's a catch - they reportedly cannot sell the vehicle within 12 months from the date of purchase. Read MoreAmazon Prime Day 2021 sale: From Samsung Galaxy M31s to iQOO 7 5G, here are the top deals for Prime Day todayAmazon Prime Day 2021 sale: One of the most awaited e-commerce sales of the year is finally here, with offers across every section of the online store. From computers, laptops to tablets, smartphones, accessories, electronics, TV and home appliances, the popular sale, which began at midnight, offers deep discounts on several products from Xiaomi, Samsung, and iQOO, among others. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-afghan-army-chief-postpones-india-visit-and-all-the-latest-news-101627283923426.html
26-07-2021||India||Foreign govts, tourism sector to India: Ease restrictions on in-bound travellers||There is increasing pressure on India from both foreign governments and the tourism sector to gradually ease Covid-19-related restrictions on foreign travellers, especially those who are fully vaccinated, though authorities are approaching the matter cautiously to ensure there are no further outbreaks.Over the past few months, India has been asking other countries, especially members of the European Union (EU), the United States and China, to remove travel and quarantine restrictions on Indian nationals, especially those who have been vaccinated.The most recent instance was foreign secretary Harsh Shringla asking the United Kingdom to review its ban on travel from India during a visit to London, citing the case of large Indian cities such as New Delhi and Mumbai being “practically free” of Covid-19. The issue is also expected to figure during US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s visit to India this week.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing last week that India has been taking up the need to ease travel restrictions for Indians with other countries following the improvement of the Covid-19 situation. “We believe that this easing will be an important step towards economic recovery post-Covid for all our countries. There have been some positive steps in this direction of easing restrictions...and we hope that more countries will continue to take steps towards normalising the movement of people from India.”Much of the work being done by India is meant to facilitate students and professionals who want to join classes beginning in the autumn in European countries, particularly Germany and France, and the US or return to their jobs.Also Read | Revenge travel revamps trends in tourismAt the same time, foreign governments and India’s tourism sector have been nudging the Indian government to review the ban on foreign tourists. The tourism sector, which offers direct and indirect employment to millions, has been hit hard by the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.“By and large, all categories of visas, except for tourist visas, are now allowed but everything depends on the Covid-19 situation across the country. Things are better in the cities but there are pockets where there is a feeling that the situation is yet to stabilise,” a person familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.“It’s all about the number of cases – no one wants a situation where there’s an increase in numbers, especially due to imported cases. There is also a need for more vaccine confidence and wider rollout of the vaccination programme,” the person added.The other major factor related to in-bound travel is the ban on scheduled international flights, which is now in place until July 31.The ban was first imposed in March 2020 after the Coronavirus outbreak began spreading around the world. India currently operates some flights under the Vande Bharat Mission for repatriating Indian nationals from around the world, and has put in place air bubble arrangements with 28 countries, ranging from Afghanistan to Uzbekistan.The people cited above acknowledged that India could expect more pressure to ease its own travel restrictions in the face of other countries such as Germany, France, Switzerland allowing the entry of fully vaccinated Indian nationals. Almost half of the 27 members of the EU now allow the entry of fully vaccinated Indians, while other countries are allowing the entry of those vaccinated with doses approved by the World Health Organization (WHO).“The restrictions put in place are largely to protect people from another outbreak but there is also a realisation that economic activities have to be resumed. The situation is dynamic and is being constantly reviewed,” said a second person.Any decision on easing travel restrictions will have to be made jointly by Indian authorities following consultations involving the home ministry, health ministry and external affairs ministry. India has also been insisting in recent weeks on vaccine equity whenever there has been talk of “vaccine passports” such as the EU Digital Covid Certificate that entered into force on July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-govts-tourism-sector-ask-india-to-ease-restrictions-on-in-bound-travellers-101627284456961.html
26-07-2021||India||Magnitude 4.9 earthquake hits Manipur; no reports of damage||An earthquake hit the northeastern state of Manipur on Monday morning, according to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), ministry of earth sciences.The earthquake struck at 10.33am and was measured at 4.9 on the Richter magnitude scale. Its epicentre is said to be 39 km from Ukhrul in Manipur’s Ukhrul district.In a tweet, the NCS wrote, “Earthquake of Magnitude: 4.9, Occurred on 26-07-2021, 10:33:31 IST, Lat: 24.60 & Long: 94.33, Depth: 50 Km, Location: 39km SSW of Ukhrul, Manipur, India for more information download the BhooKamp App.”Also Read | Magnitude 4 earthquake strikes Hyderabad, no damages reported“Many people in my locality felt the tremor,” says a resident of Nagamapal in Imphal West district. Residents of other districts, such as Jiribam,Senapati,Tamenglong,and Ukhrul also experienced the same. But there were no reports of any damage or loss of lives in the state till the publication of this report.On January 4, 2016, Manipur witnessed a strong earthquake measuring 6.7 on the Richter scale which claimed eight lives and damaged many houses and structures including the iconic ‘Ima keithel’ (mothers market) in Imphal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-4-9-earthquake-hits-manipur-no-reports-of-damage-101627284096841.html
26-07-2021||India||Afghan Army chief postpones visit to India because of Taliban offensive||Afghan Army chief General Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai has postponed a visit to India this week because of the offensive by the Taliban in Afghanistan, the Afghan embassy said on Monday. The visit, though scheduled several months ago, would have coincided with a trip to New Delhi by US secretary of state Antony Blinken. Ahmadzai, who was appointed last month as part of a shake-up of the higher echelons of Afghanistan’s security set-up, was to have been in India during July 27-30. The visit was postponed because of the “intensity of the war and Taliban’s increased assault and offensive” in Afghanistan, the Afghan embassy said without giving details. Ahmadzai was scheduled to hold talks with his Indian counterpart, General MM Naravane, and meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and other top security officials. He was also scheduled to travel to Pune to meet Afghan cadets being trained at various institutions. Also Read | Taliban killed 43 people in Afghanistan’s Ghazni, residents sayThe visit was to have provided an opportunity for the two sides to hold consultations on the security situation in Afghanistan against the backdrop of a campaign by the Taliban to capture territory and crucial border crossings with other countries. Intense fighting has been reported from various parts of Afghanistan as Afghan forces attempt to take back districts and key centres captured by the Taliban in a campaign that has coincided with the speedy drawdown of US and NATO forces. The US recently conducted air strikes to slow down the advance of the Taliban. India plays a key role in training Afghan military personnel – some 300 cadets are currently training in the country – and is also helping in the medical treatment of injured Afghan military personnel, with a number of them being treated in hospitals across the country. For India, a key security concern is the presence in Afghanistan of more than 7,000 Pakistani terrorists from groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. These fighters are fighting alongside the Taliban in many areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-army-chief-postpones-visit-to-india-because-of-taliban-offensive-101627283916992.html
26-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi rides tractor to Parliament in protest against farm laws||Congress leader and Member of Parliament from Wayanad, Rahul Gandhi was seen driving a tractor to the Parliament on Monday. The vehicle was mounted with a banner demanding that the three “anti-farmer black laws” be repealed. Gandhi, however, could not take the tractor inside the premises as only vehicles with valid passes are allowed entry.Speaking to reporters while seated on the tractor, Gandhi said, “We have brought the farmers’ message to the Parliament. The government is not allowing any discussions about their demands in Parliament... All the farmers of India are being suppressed, that is why I have come here on a tractor… These are black laws and they need to be taken back,” he said.Also Read | Farm laws stir: All-women brigade holds Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar todaySaying that the new farm laws are for the “benefit of just two or three businessmen”, Gandhi said, “The whole of India knows for whom all this is being done. These laws are not for farmers’ benefit and need to be taken back.” Following the protest, Delhi Police detained Congress leader and party’s national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, and Youth Congress national president, BV Srinivas. While on his way to the police station, Surjewala said the Modi government suppresses everyone who tries to raise their voice against them. He added that this is a fight for the “coming generations” and Congress will not let stop protesting these “black laws” even if the government “arrests or hangs them.”The current monsoon session of Parliament is witnessing an uproar over the government’s management of Covid-19 pandemic, three farm laws and Pegasus spyware snooping allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-rides-tractor-to-parliament-in-protest-against-farm-laws-101627283377340.html
26-07-2021||India||5 districts in Tamil Nadu to get rains today||Five districts in Tamil Nadu are likely to get rains on Monday, the Regional Meteorological Centre at Chennai has predicted. Tamil newspaper Hindu Tamil reported citing regional director Puviarasan as saying that Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Theni, Dindigul and Tenkasi bordering the Western Ghats are going to get light to moderate showers due to the effect of southwest monsoon on Monday. Scattered rainfall is likely in some places of the state while dry weather will continue in the rest of the state. The weather pattern will continue to remain the same on July 27, 28, and 29, the centre predicted.Chennai city will remain cloudy for the next 48 hours with the maximum temperature hovering at 35.5 degrees Celcius. Heavy winds ranging between 40 and 50 kilometres per hour are likely in the south Bay of Bengal and the south Andaman sea on Monday. Heavy winds are likely in the south and the central Bay of Bengal on July 27, 28, and 29, Puviarasan said.All five districts bordering the Western Ghats are receiving heavy rainfall this month. Several places in the Nilgiris district suffered landslides due to heavy rains. Southern districts like Tenkasi, Tirunelveli and Theni are also witnessing moderate to heavy showers in the last two weeks.Major reservoirs in Tamil Nadu are filling up fast due to the consistent rainfall across the state. Bhavanisagar dam, the major reservoir for Erode, Tiruppur, and Karur districts, touched the water level of 100 feet out of its total capacity of 105 feet. The public works department issued the first flood warning to people living along the channels. Similarly, the first flood warning has been issued to people in the Theni district residing along the Periyar channel after the Mullaperiyar dam in Kerala touched 132 feet on Monday.The Mettur dam in Salem recorded the water level going up by 2.07 feet within 24 hours due to flooding in Karnataka. The catchment areas of the River Cauvery are receiving extremely heavy rains and excess water is released from the reservoirs in Karnataka. The dam level that was 73.27 feet on Sunday morning has reached 75.34 feet on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-districts-in-tamil-nadu-to-get-rains-today-101627282885759.html
26-07-2021||India||Bihar Oppn MLAs reach assembly in helmets as Monsoon session begins||A number of Opposition MLAs in Bihar reached the Assembly wearing helmets and carrying first aid kits on the first day of the Monsoon session as a mark of protest against being evicted from the legislature by security personnel on March 23.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) legislator Satish Kumar said Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had called goons to lynch the MLAs inside the Assembly on the fateful day when unprecedented ruckus was witnessed over the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill 2021 that was introduced to give its police more teeth, deemed necessary in view of the increasingly complex security needs of the state.“Suspension of policemen is not a punishment. For our safety, we are wearing the helmets. If police and local goons beat us, our heads will be safe," the RJD MLA was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The opposition MLAs were also seen distributing black masks at the Assembly.Police personnel had been called to assist the marchals carry out the legislators after a few of the opposition leaders restricted Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha from leaving his chamber.The monsoon session of the Assembly is likely to be an eventful and chaotic one as the opposition parties have chalked out a strategy to corner the coalition government of the Janata Dal -United (JD-U) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on issues such as rising prices of fuel, cooking gas, fertilisers and edible oil.Earlier, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav wrote to the Speaker, saying opposition legislators were scared to enter the House due to the March 23 incident. “Our MLAs are now afraid of entering the House and raising questions there...let us know the result of the investigation on the March 23 incident. That was a black day which will never be forgotten," Yadav wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-oppn-mlas-reach-assembly-in-helmets-as-monsoon-session-begins-101627282378053.html
26-07-2021||India||Offline classes in Odisha schools begin amid Covid containment norms||After being closed for three months due to rising Covid cases, high schools and higher secondary schools across Odisha reopened on Monday for class 10 and 12 students with adherence to Covid containment guidelines.The classes began from 10 am on Monday and will continue till 1.30 pm without a break after the schools were sanitised and necessary infrastructure to enforce Covid containment measures was put in place.Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said the offline classes will continue with online learning. “The offline classes are not compulsory and students will need to bring a consent letter from their parents and guardians before attending classes. No student should be coerced to come to school. Only those who feel comfortable attending school should do so. There will be no attendance system,” said Dash, adding that every school has to determine its functioning depending on the number of students and the size of classrooms available.“Maximum 20-25 students should be allowed to sit in a classroom to ensure safe distancing among students. For schools with an adequate number of classrooms, all students may be accommodated on a daily basis. All students have to wear masks,” he said. Students have been advised not to bring food with them.Officials said offline classes were necessary as the government was able to reach out to only 40% of the students via online teaching and 150 days of regular teaching days have been lost. As both the Board of Secondary Education and Council of Higher Secondary Education have reduced syllabuses, resumption of physical teaching in classrooms has become a necessity.The reopening of schools came as the number of new Covid cases declined on Monday with the state reporting 1,637 infections in the last 24 hours and Test Positivity Rate of 2.19%. However, the number of fatalities continued to be high with 62 new deaths reported in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid death toll to 5,574. This year Odisha has reported 3,698 Covid deaths compared to 1,876 deaths last year.The minister said schools that don’t have 100% access to potable drinking water and adequate functional toilets will not be allowed to reopen.The state government in its guideline has said that there has to be adequate soap (solid/liquid) and running water in all washrooms and toilets in schools. Hand sanitizers for the teachers, students, and staff must be available mandatorily in each classroom. The schools will also have to display the state helpline and numbers of local health authorities etc. in case of any emergency. A separate isolation room will have to be kept ready in case a student or staff develops Covid symptoms.The Odisha government is also planning to reopen class 9 and 11 from August 16 and September 15, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offline-classes-in-odisha-schools-begin-amid-covid-containment-norms-101627281996915.html
26-07-2021||India||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa announces resignation||BS Yediyurappa on Monday announced he will step down as the Karnataka chief minister and said he will meet the governor after lunch and hand over his resignation.Yediyurappa was speaking at a programme that marked the celebration of two years of the BJP government in the state. "I have decided to resign," a news agency quoted the Karnataka chief minister as saying. "I will meet the Governor after lunch."Karnataka was rife with rumours earlier regarding the resignation of four-time chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who held a strong support base from the Lingayat community. The 77-year-old has already been dropping enough hints that he was on his way out, though the politicians whose names are being speculated to take his stead have dismissed any such possibility and attributed such speculations to mere political rumours.Also Read | Who may replace Lingayat strongman Yediyurappa? List of frontrunnersLast week, Yediyurappa visited New Delhi and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh, strengthening the speculation. After returning from New Delhi, Yediyurappa himself hinted at his exit and said he will work according to the instruction of the national leadership of the party which, as he said, he was supposed to receive on July 25, a day ahead of the two-year completion of the BJP government in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-announces-resignation-101627281013718.html
26-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu alerts Kerala after Mullaperiyar dam level touches 136 feet||Tamil Nadu alerted Kerala after the water level at Mullaperiyar touched 136 feet, reported Tamil daily Dinakaran on Monday. Tamil Nadu public works department (PWD) officials sent out the first warning message to the Idukki district administration.Situated at the confluence of Mullayar and Periyar rivers in Kerala, the gravity dam commissioned during the British Raj in 1895 is the lifeline of five southern districts of Tamil Nadu -- namely Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga, and Ramanathapuram. The water is diverted from the Periyar river into the Vaigai dam for the drinking and irrigation needs of Tamil Nadu. Though the dam is situated in Kerala, Tamil Nadu’s PWD still maintains the dam.Mullaperiyar dam’s catchment areas have been receiving substantial rainfall after the southwest monsoon turned intense in Kerala, reported Tamil newspaper Dinamalar. On Sunday, the Periyar dam area received 10.4mm rainfall, while Thekkady received 10mm rainfall and the water level touched 136 feet of the dam’s total capacity of 152 feet. The current storage level of the dam is 5,929 ft. The dam is receiving an inflow of 4,875 cusecs of water. As much as 900 cusecs of water are discharged from the dam for irrigation purposes of Tamil Nadu.With a steady increase in the dam level, the first flood warning has been issued to Vallakadavu and Vandiperiyar areas on the riverbank in Kerala. Similarly, a flood warning has been issued to people living along the riverside in Tamil Nadu starting from the Lower Camp area. After the water level touched 136 feet, the PWD officials manning the dam sent out the communication to 23 officials both in Tamil Nadu and Kerala including Theni and Idukki district collectors.The second flood warning will be issued once the dam level touches 138 feet and the third will be issued once it touches 141 feet. The final flood warning will be issued once the dam level touches 142 feet, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-alerts-kerala-after-mullaperiyar-dam-level-touches-136-feet-101627279999837.html
26-07-2021||India||Ladakh visit cancelled due to bad weather; President travels to north Kashmir||President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Ladakh to attend a function on the 22nd anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas on Monday was cancelled due to bad weather. With Ladakh trip cancelled, the President travelled to north Kashmir’s frontier district of Baramulla. “He attended a function at the war memorial of army’s 19 division in Baramulla and will be leaving for Gulmarg,” said an official. The President arrived in Srinagar on Sunday on a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. He was scheduled to pay homage to the Indian armed forces for their valour during the Kargil conflict in 1999 at the Kargil War Memorial at Drass (Ladakh).Also Read | India pays tributes to war heroes on Kargil Vijay Diwas todayThe Baramulla-Srinagar traffic was diverted on Monday morning. Traffic on Gupkar and Foreshore roads, the two approach roads to Raj Bhawan and the Nehru state guest house on the banks of Dal lake, has been diverted between July 25 and 28 as part of security measures for the President’s visit.Earlier, the President’s trip to Drass to mark the Kargil Vijay Diwas was cancelled due to bad weather in 2019.Meanwhile, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh RK Mathur paid floral tributes at Kargil War Memorial in Drass.Officials said the skies in Kashmir were overcast even as rains lashed parts of Jammu. Ladakh was also partly cloudy.On July 27, Kovind will address the 19th annual convocation of the University of Kashmir in Srinagar at Sheri Kashmir International Convention Centre.“The President will be travelling back on July 28 morning,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-visit-cancelled-due-to-bad-weather-president-travels-to-north-kashmir-101627279057349.html
26-07-2021||India||Farm laws stir: All-women brigade holds Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar today||An all-women team of protesters began the ‘Kisan Sansad (farmers’ parliament) at the Jantar Mantar on Monday as the agitation against the three central farm laws entered its eight months.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a collective of over 40 protesting farmer unions, the Mahila Kisan Sansad will reflect the key role that women play in Indian agriculture, and their critical role in the ongoing movement. A protester said this would be the first time women will independently run parliament (Kisan Sansad).A Twitter handle of the farmers collective, Jai Kisan Andolan, said 200 women, as allowed by the Delhi government, have left from Singhu border for the historic event." किसान संसद आज तीसरे दिन "आज तीसरे दिन सिंघु बॉर्डर से 200 महिला किसानों का जत्था "जंतर मंतर" के लिए रवाना हो चुका है, यह एक ऐतिहासिक दिन है आज महिलाओं किसानों द्वारा किसान संसद चलाई जाएगी।#WomenFarmers_AtParliament #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/0kXgHXbiwdThe morcha launched a peaceful stir against the farm laws at the Jantar Mantar on July 22, around the same time when the monsoon session of Parliament began. The farmers’ collective said several convoys of women farmers will reach Delhi’s borders to join the 'Mahila Kisan Sansad'. Thousands of farmers at Delhi borders have been pressing for repeal of the three farm laws enacted last year.Convoys of women farmers from various districts were seen headed towards Jantar Mantar in buses for the event.The Mahila Sansad came on a day Congress leader Rahul Gandhi reached Parliament on a tractor as a mark of his protest against the three legislations. Flanked by other party MPs holding placards "Repeal Farm Laws" and "Repeal anti-farmer black laws", Gandhi was seen entering the Parliament area through Vijay Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-stir-all-women-brigade-holds-kisan-sansad-at-jantar-mantar-today-101627278225819.html
26-07-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to reach Delhi today; will meet PM Modi this week||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will be arriving in Delhi on Monday, her first trip to the national capital after returning to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive term. The Trinamool Congress supremo is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi later this week during the visit. With the monsoon session going on, Banerjee is also likely to visit the parliament and meet several political leaders during her stay.“I am going to Delhi for two to three days. I didn’t go to Delhi after coming to power for the third time because of Covid. I had sought an appointment with the Prime Minister, and he has given me time. I will also try to meet the President. This apart, several political leaders have requested that they want to meet me. I would try to adjust and accommodate as far as possible in two to three days,” Banerjee had said on Thursday while announcing her Delhi trip.This will be the first meeting between Modi and Mamata after the two met for 15 minutes in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. The centre-state relation then nosedived as the Union government recalled Alapan Bandyopadhyay, the then chief secretary of the state, for skipping the PM’s review meeting.Banerjee’s relations with the Centre remain frosty in the aftermath of a series of confrontations including a bitter electoral battle followed by alleged post poll killing and rape of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and supporters, and questioning of governor’s office, to name a few issues. Banerjee’s recent appeal to unite opposition to oust the BJP from the seat of power in Delhi in 2024 underlines the political friction between the two parties. Banerjee’s party has also hit out at the Centre over the Pegasus snooping row, which continues to rock parliament.“Journalists, political opponents, members of the judiciary, cabinet colleagues... now, not even the ARMY spared. There is no ambiguity here. This is a CRIME. Who is responsible? #Pegasus Discuss this in #Parliament today. PM-HM must answer,” tweeted Derek O’Brien, TMC Member of Parliament (MP) and the leader of the party in the Rajya Sabha.The Trinamool Congress had earlier alleged that Abhishek Banerjee, TMC’s national general secretary and CM Mamata Banerjee were spied upon using Pegasus malware before the West Bengal Assembly elections.Last week, Banerjee had demanded that the Prime Minister and Union home minister explain in the parliament if the Central government had a hand in the alleged snooping on prominent politicians, activists, journalists and ministers using a spying malware made by an Israeli company.The BJP however mounted a counter-attack saying that the TMC wanted to divert attention from a report filed by the national human rights body which slammed the state government for post poll violence.“The NHRC report has unmasked the government and all its lies are now out. In a bid to divert the attention the TMC is now raising such allegations. But this won’t stand,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-to-reach-delhi-on-monday-will-meet-pm-narendra-modi-this-week-101627277071630.html
26-07-2021||India||Watch: Rahul Gandhi reaches Parliament on tractor in protest against farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday reached Parliament on a tractor, marking his protest against the three contentious farm laws during the monsoon session. The Wayanad MP was seen entering the Parliament area through Vijay Chowk, flanked by other Congress MPs from Punjab and Haryana like Deepender Hooda, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Pratap Singh Bajwa.The protesting MPs were seen holding placards "Repeal Farm Laws" and "Repeal anti-farmer black laws" as Gandhi's tractor made its way to Parliament. The tractor also carried a big banner in front and read "Roll back all three black farm laws". Gandhi wearing an N-95 mask was seated in the driver's seat of the tractor and was seen talking to his party's MPs.Addressing the reporters later, Gandhi said he has brought the suppressed voices of the farmers to Parliament.I want to tell all the farmers that the entire country is standing with you. Jai Jawan Jai Kisan: Shri @RahulGandhi#RahulGandhiWithFarmers pic.twitter.com/IiSdIR8h9G"I have brought farmers' message to Parliament. They (government) are suppressing the voices of farmers and not letting a discussion take place in Parliament. They'll have to repeal these black laws. The entire country knows these laws favour 2-3 big businessmen," Gandhi said, reported news agency ANI.Shortly after Gandhi reached Parliament, Delhi Police arrested Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala for violating Section 144 of CrPC through the party's demonstration. The monsoon session of Parliament is underway and enters the second week today. Held after the second wave of Covid-19 receded in the country, the session is seeing major uproar over Covid-19 pandemic handling, three farm laws and Pegasus spyware snooping allegations on the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-reaches-parliament-on-tractor-protests-farm-laws-101627276684981.html
26-07-2021||India||'Tractor rally not a bad thing, will hold one in Delhi on Independence Day': Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has supported the tractor rally call given by farmers of Jind in Haryana on Independence Day. Tikait said a tractor rally is not a "bad thing"."Carrying out tractor rally is not a bad thing. People of Jind (Haryana) are revolutionary. They've taken the right decision of carrying out the tractor parade on August 15. Don't know what Samyukt Kisan Morcha decides," Tikait said on Sunday."It will be a moment of pride to see the tractor parade with national flags mounted on them. It builds a spirit of nationalism," he added.The remarks come months after a similar tractor rally led to clashes between the farmers and the policemen on streets of the national capital on Republic Day. The farmers even reached the historic Red Fort and hoisted a flag (other than the Tricolour), which led to escalation of the confrontation.The BKU leader has been sitting with the farmers who have launched a protest at Jantar Mantar in the form of a 'Kisan Sansad'. Two hundred farmers visit the site every day and carry out a sit-in from 11am to 5pm. This is yet another attempt to intensify their nearly eigh-month-ling protest against three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year.Asking the Haryana government to let farmers do the flag hoisting in Jind, on Independence Day, Tikait said, "People of Jind are revolutionaries, if they have said they won't let ministers unfurl the national flag in their villages, then they won't. What will the ministers do by hoisting flags? Let farmers do it on August 15."The farmer leader further said that 'jatha' (group) of farmers from Moradabad, Hapur and Amroha - all in Uttar Pradesh - will come to the protest site in Delhi and carry out a tractor parade on roads on August 15.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year demanding the scrapping of three agri laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Several rounds of talks have taken place between the Centre and the farmers but the impasse remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-rakesh-tikait-says-farmers-to-hold-tractor-rally-in-delhi-101627275654081.html
26-07-2021||India||India pays tributes to war heroes on Kargil Vijay Diwas today||India marked Kargil Vijay Diwas on Monday, July 26, with tributes to the heroes of Kargil War. In 1999, the Indian armed forces defeated Pakistan’s attempts to capture strategic heights in Kargil in ‘Operation Vijay’ (victory).Both the Houses of Parliament stood up to pay their respects to the Kargil martyrs. Recalling the war, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said the Indian army showed “exemplary courage and dedication and unflinching determination” in Operation Vijay. He said this momentous victory of Indian soldiers “who went beyond their call of duty” will remain in India’s “memory forever.”Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla said, “On this occasion, the House applauds the bravery of our soldiers. Our soldiers overpowered the enemy fighting all obstacles and adverse climate conditions. The country is obliged to all the brave hearts….”Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to say, “We remember their sacrifices. We remember their valour. Today, on Kargil Vijay Diwas we pay homage to all those who lost their lives in Kargil protecting our nation. Their bravery motivates us every single day...”. He also shared an excerpt from his last year’s Mann Ki Baat radio programme.President Ram Nath Kovind, along with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, was also scheduled to visit Dras today to pay homage to these soldiers at the Kargil War Memorial located on the foothills of Tololing but he could not reach Kargil due to an inclement weather. Also Read | Kargil Vijay Diwas 2021: India to honour fallen heroes, 559 lamps lit in LadakhWhile Rawat was already in Kargil where he took stock of the security situation on Sunday, army officials told news agency ANI that the President will now be laying a wreath at Baramulla War Memorial in Kashmir.Defence minister Rajnath Singh visited the National War Memorial in Delhi where he laid a wreath to pay tributes to the martyrs. He said he bows down to the “indomitable valour and sacrifice of the Indian Army.” Singh also made an entry to the visitor’s book at the memorial saying, “nation will continue to follow their ideals.”Minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt, Chief of Air Staff RKS Bhadauria, Chief of Army Staff MM Naravane, and defence secretary Ajay Kumar also paid homage to the martyrs at the National War Memorial.Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman also paid respects to the “valour and sacrifice” of the Indian army in Kargil. She tweeted that India’s armed forces have “always risen to every challenge” and held sovereign rights of Indians high.Union minister G Kishan Reddy said he “salutes and bows in reverence” to all soldiers who fought and laid down their lives for the freedom, sovereignty & territorial integrity of “Maa Bharati.” “Victory of India in Kargil is a testament to our personnel’s unparalleled patriotism,” he said. While defence Minister Rajnath Singh also laid a wreath in Delhi for these soldiers.Indian army’s Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) also released a video on Twitter to pay a tribute to these soldiers. Calling the army “strong and capable,” ADGPI said, “26 July Kargil Vijay Diwas epitomises the Saga of Valour of our soldiers during #KargilWar. The gallant soldiers of #IndianArmy triumphed over Pakistani Invaders with undaunted courage & determination.”Union minister for law and justice, Kiren Rijiju, sharing his photo while laying a wreath for the martyrs, tweeted, “Today, on Kargil Vijay Diwas, we pay homage to all those heroes of our great nation who lost their lives in Kargil protecting our nation,” he wrote.Meanwhile, Opposition party Congress took to Twitter saying that they honour the “bravery and sacrifice” of the army. “Our tribute to the heroes who protect us & inspire the nation.”Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Heartfelt tributes to every soldier who laid down his life for the dignity of our tricolour.” “We will always remember yours and your family’s supreme sacrifice for the security of the country. Jai Hind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pays-tributes-to-war-heroes-on-kargil-vijay-diwas-today-101627274431639.html
26-07-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi, 4 tenders rushed||A fire broke out at Maharashtra Sadan in New Delhi on Monday morning, reported news agency ANI. At least four fire engines were rushed to the spot and the fire has been brought under control, ANI reported. More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-maharashtra-sadan-in-delhi-4-tenders-rushed-101627273274062.html
26-07-2021||India||India sees slight fall in new Covid-19 cases at 39,361; positivity rate at 3.41%||The daily count of coronavirus cases touched 4,11,189 on Monday with 39,361 new infections registered during the last 24 hours. At present, active cases constitute 1.31 per cent of the total cases with a daily positivity rate remaining below five per cent at 3.41 per cent. The figures are slightly lower than Sunday when the country recorded 39,742 new cases.According to the latest health ministry data, another 416 people lost their lives to Covid-19 taking the death toll to 4,20,967. On Sunday, 535 fatalities were recorded.As many as 35,968 patients also recovered from the disease during the same period which took the cumulative count of recoveries to 3,05,79,106 at a rate of 97.35 per cent.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃 𝐅𝐋𝐀𝐒𝐇https://t.co/wdzb9ytAfK pic.twitter.com/RxQ4wPaTUzAs many as 11,54,444 samples were tested during the entire day taking the total tests to 45,74,44,011, the Indian Council of Medical Research said.Meanwhile, 43,51,96,001 doses against the virus were administered during the last 24 hours as part of the nationwide vaccination drive.Earlier, the Centre said it has provided more than 45.37 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses to States and Union Territories so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-slight-fall-in-new-covid-19-cases-at-39-361-positivity-rate-at-341-101627273042964.html
26-07-2021||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas 2021: President Kovind cancels Dras tour over bad weather, to pay tribute at Baramula instead||On Kargil Diwas 2021, President Ram Nath Kovind won't be laying a wreath on Monday at the Kargil War Memorial due to bad weather in Ladakh's Dras, news agencies reported, citing officials of the Indian Army familiar with the development. President Kovind will instead lay a wreath at the Baramula War Memorial this year to commemorate the fallen heroes of the 1999 conflict on the occasion of the 22nd Kargil Diwas, the army officials added.Also Read | Kargil Vijay Diwas 2021: India to honour fallen heroes, 559 lamps lit in Ladakh"Bad weather forces cancellation of President Ram Nath Kovind's Kargil visit to mark Vijay Diwas," news agency PTI tweeted on Monday.Bad weather forces cancellation of President Ram Nath Kovind's Kargil visit to mark Vijay Diwas: officialsPresident Kovind was earlier slated to mark the 22nd Kargil Diwas on this day by visiting Dras in Ladakh and paying his homage at the Kargil War memorial. He was to be accompanied in his visit by India's Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan confirmed.In 2019, bad weather prevented the president from visiting Drass to participate in the Kargil Vijay Diwas, and instead, he paid his tributes by laying a wreath at a war memorial at the Army's 15 Corps headquarters in Badamibagh in Srinagar.Meanwhile, CDS Rawat was seen paying a floral tribute at the Kargil War Memorial in Dras, accompanied by Ladakh lieutenant-governor (LG) RK Mathur and Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, Ladakh Lieutenant Governor RK Mathur & Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal pay floral tribute at Kargil War Memorial in Dras on the occasion of #KargilVijayDiwas2021 CDS also installs victory flame at the memorial. pic.twitter.com/5hhfzuGtoFPresident Kovind is on a four-day visit to the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. He spent the night in Srinagar and is set to fly to Drass this morning to pay tributes to the Kargil War heroes, according to the official statement. A day later, the President will address the 19th annual convocation of the University of Kashmir in Srinagar.India celebrates Kargil Vijay Diwas on July 26 every year to mark the anniversary of the Indian Army's victory against Pakistan on this day in 1999, after more than 60 days of armed conflict on the highlands of Kargil in Ladakh.Indian armed forces defeated Pakistan on July 26, 1999. Since then, the day is celebrated to rekindle the pride and valour of the soldiers who took part in Operation Vijay, the military campaign with which Indian troops recaptured the mountain heights occupied by the Pakistani army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kargil-vijay-diwas-2021-president-kovind-cancels-dras-tour-over-bad-weather-to-pay-tribute-at-baramula-instead-101627270817206.html
26-07-2021||India||Jaipur doctor tweeted photo minutes before she died in Himachal landslide||Minutes before she was killed after her vehicle was hit by falling rocks following multiple landslides in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Sunday, Dr Deepa Sharma tweeted about India's last point where civilians are allowed. The ayurvedic doctor from Rajasthan's capital of Jaipur was in the hill state to celebrate her 38th birthday.The ayurvedic doctor's brother, Mahesh Kumar Sharma, tweeted about her death and her love for nature."My sister deepa Sharma going for spiti tour on her upcoming 38th birthday on 29 July. She was very happy for this planned trip. She purchased new professional camera and new smartphone for it. She love nature and now my sister die in the lap of nature.may her soul rest in peace," he posted on Twitter.Also read | 9 tourists killed, 3 injured in Himachal landslidesDr Deepa Sharma's Twitter is full of photographs from her trip, including a stunning early morning sky and the "last point of India where civilians are allowed"."Standing at the last point of India where civilians are allowed. Beyond this point around 80 kms ahead we have border with Tibet whom china has occupied illegally," Deepa Sharma's last tweet read.आज की सुबह कुछ यूं गुजरी। 😍देव भूमि #HimachalPradesh@incredibleindia @hp_tourism @ParveenKaswan @jairamthakurbjp @anandmahindra pic.twitter.com/W3vYG7jgbjSeveral people expressed shock and condoled her death on Twitter."Cannot believe God can be so cruel to take away such a beautiful soul. She just went there never to return. Life is so fragile. Hope ppl realise this and only cobtinue to spread love. Heartfelt condolences," a user posted."We haven’t interacted much dr Deepa but I hope it’s not true , you were always vocal and strong about your opinions may you always rest in peace," tweeted another.I wish you had had this wish come true. 29th would have been your birthdayRIP doc. pic.twitter.com/zOTO0xptt3The eight others who also died on Sunday have been identified as Pratiksha Sunil Patil from Maharashtra, Amogh Bapat and Satish Katakbar from Chhattisgarh, Umarav Singh from Delhi and Kumar Ulhar Ved Pathak, Anurag Bihani, Maya Devi and Richa Bihani.Shiril Oberoi from Delhi, Naveen Bhardwaj from Punjab and Ranjit Singh, a resident of Batseri village in Kinnaur district, were injured.President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed condolences over the deaths. PM Modi announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 to the injured from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaipur-doctor-tweeted-photo-minutes-before-she-died-in-himachal-landslide-101627272176424.html
26-07-2021||India||More than 14 kg of pangolin scales seized in Odisha's biggest ever recovery||A joint team of Odisha forest and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) of Jabalpur confiscated 14.2 kg pangolin scales in Dhenkanal district from two people on Sunday. This is the biggest-ever seizure of pangolin scales in Odisha.Dhenkanal divisional forest officer (DFO) Prakash Chand Gogineni said the scales were seized from Damodarnali area of Kapilash range in Dhenkanal district following an intelligence input from the WCCB. The DFO said that Ratnakar Rout (51) and Firoj Khan (52), from Dhenkanal town, had stored the pangolin scales at a godown in Banasinga area of Sarangi range in the division."They were collecting scales from poachers within Dhenkanal and nearby areas, but could not sell it due to the pandemic. Our team posing as customers struck a deal with the smugglers and arrested them," he said. The joint team has seized a two-wheeler and two mobile phones from their possession.Last month, the special task force of the crime investigation department (CID) had seized 4.82 kgs of pangolin scales from a village in Mayurbhanj district. In April this year, a live pangolin was rescued by the Special Task Force (STF) in Cuttack district. During the last 1 year, STF has seized 3 live pangolins and 10 kg pangolin scales.The Indian pangolin is a solitary, shy, slow moving, nocturnal mammal that is protected under Schedule I of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It is also listed under the Appendix I of the International Convention of Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) that prohibits its commercial trade. According to the IUCN Pangolin Specialist Group, poaching for illegal international trade for meat and scales, primarily destined for Asia, mainly China and Vietnam, are the main threats to pangolins resulting in declining populations of the species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-14-kg-of-pangolin-scales-seized-in-odisha-s-biggest-ever-recovery-101627271205716.html
26-07-2021||India||Heavy rain warning for parts of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and N-W plains||Rainfall activity is likely to increase over the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India from Monday, according to India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy showers is likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh during July 26-29; over Uttarakhand during July 26-29; over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Punjab, and Haryana during July 27-29, the forecast said.A low pressure area is lying over northwest Madhya Pradesh. The western end of the monsoon trough at mean sea level is running south of its normal position while its eastern end is north of the normal position. The trough is likely to shift northwards and bring rain to the Himalayan foothills.Also Read | Delhi weather: Moderate rainfall, cloudy skies likely today, says IMDThe offshore trough at mean sea level runs from Karnataka coast to Kerala coast. A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over North Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood around July 28. Under the influence of these systems, enhanced rainfall activity with fairly widespread rainfall and isolated heavy to very heavy showers is likely over east and adjoining central India (Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar) from July 27. Fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy showers is likely to continue over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh on Monday and reduce in intensity thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-parts-of-himachal-pradesh-uttarakhand-and-n-w-plains-101627270351122.html
26-07-2021||India||Centre has provided at least 453 million Covid vaccine doses to states, UTs||The Centre has provided at least 453 million Covid vaccine doses across the country by now, as per the health ministry records on Sunday, July 25. Kerala logged over 17,000 new cases, pushing its infection caseload to 3,271,530. Government data also showed that about half of India’s Covid deaths since April 2020 were reported in just two months, April and May this year, underscoring the devastation that the second wave unleashed.As on Sunday morning, 453,770,580 had been provided to the states and Union Territories. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 420,832,021 doses. As many as 32,938,559 balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs and private hospitals. Another 1,179,010 doses are in the pipeline.Meanwhile, Indonesia on Sunday recorded 45,416 new Covid cases, overtaking Brazil, India and the US in terms of fresh infections, according to Worldometer data. There were 38,091 Covid-19 cases logged in Brazil, 39,742 in India and 37,245 in the United States during the same period. However, in terms of the total number of infections and deaths, Indonesia is still far behind the top countries with 3,166,505 cases and 83,279 fatalities.A recent study has revealed that embryos as old as five days can develop receptors that are known to provide an easy passage to Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. The study was conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health on 45 human embryos donated after in-vitro fertilization (IVF) procedures at fertility clinics.According to the researchers, the findings indicate that embryos can get infected with Covid-19 in the womb from infected mothers and also during IVF procedures in laboratories which, according to them, increases the chances of a miscarriage or even failure to conceive in both natural and IVF-induced pregnancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-provided-at-least-453-million-covid-vaccine-doses-to-states-uts-101627269991631.html
26-07-2021||India||Delhi Metro, buses to run at full seating capacity from today as more curbs ease||With significant improvement in the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the Delhi government has further eased restrictions on movement and from Monday, Metros and buses will run at 100 per cent seating capacity. Cinema halls and theatres will also reopen across the national capital but at half their capacity, while bars can also do business with a similar arrangement from 12pm to 10pm.All shops have also been permitted to operate on all days of the week without any distinction of essential and non-essential goods and services between 10am and 8pm. As part of the unlock measures, auditoriums and assembly halls will also reopen with a 50 per cent seating capacity.In an order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Saturday, "It has been observed that the number of Covid-19 patients and the positivity rate has declined considerably and the overall situation has improved." However, it urged caution for "consolidating the whole process of Covid-19 management".Meanwhile, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) that was running trains till Saturday with 50 per cent seating capacity has made 16 additional entry gates operational at as many stations across the network from Monday to handle an increase in volume of commuters. These stations include Janakpuri West, Karol Bagh, Vaishali, Kashmere Gate, Central Secretariat and MG Road. There is still no provision for standing travel for commuters, officials said.The new norms, however, is unlikely to have an impact on queues outside the Metro stations, which have often stretched for hundreds of metres in the past weeks.Intra-state buses can also run with 100 per cent seating capacity with boarding only from the rear door and deboarding from the front door.The DDMA said weddings can take place with the presence of a maximum of 100 attendees and the same cap is applicable for funerals too.Religious places will also open in the national capital but visitors will not be allowed.Regarding spas, the DDMA said all employees will have to be vaccinated mandatorily and they will also have to undergo RT-PCR tests every fortnight. For treatments that take longer than 30 minutes, staff should wear PPE kits."It is further directed that the market trade associations, banquet halls, marriage hall associations, gymnasiums and Yoga institute association, other trade associations and resident welfare associations shall also be responsible for ensuring compliance of Covid appropriate behaviours by all shops, malls, markets, market complexes, offices, weekly markers, clinic, banquet halls/marriage halls and residents within their respective areas," the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-metro-buses-to-run-at-full-seating-capacity-from-today-as-more-curbs-ease-101627269491798.html
26-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: FM Sitharaman to introduce amendments to bankruptcy code and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.FM Sitharaman to introduce amendments to bankruptcy code in Parliament todayUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will introduce a Bill to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, in the Lok Sabha on Monday.The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, is the bankruptcy law of India that seeks to consolidate the existing framework by creating a single law for insolvency and bankruptcy. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 was introduced in Lok Sabha in December 2015.Read more.Kargil Vijay Diwas: PM Modi pays tribute, says 'we remember their sacrifices'Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid a tribute to the martyrs of the Kargil war, which India fought with Pakistan in 1999 and won, on Kargil Vijay Diwas and said the bravery of those who sacrificed their lives motivates Indians every single day. The Prime Minister also shared an excerpt from his last year's monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.Read more. Urban poor, rural population ill-prepared to deal with Covid at home: SurveyThe poor in urban areas and those in rural India are not prepared to deal with Covid-19 at home, many did not have the basic medical equipment to check vital health parameters and also lacked awareness about the symptoms of the coronavirus disease, a survey conducted across 10 states has said.Read more. Relief from rain likely for Maharashtra today; key highways remain shutA respite from heavy torrential downpour is likely on Monday for the flood-hit Maharashtra as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted rainfall at isolated places in the state, accompanied by strong winds. "Heavy rainfall at isolated places has been forecasted by the weather body for central Maharashtra, Coastal Karnataka, Konkan and Goa," a forecast by the IMD for Monday read.Read more. ‘Rejected insurgency, agitation and…’: Amit Shah on BJP-led govt in AssamUnion Minister Amit Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi took Northeast on the path of development. Shah said BJP’s second consecutive term means Assam has rejected insurgency and agitation. Shah visited the Kamakhya Temple on Sunday. He was accompanied by the chief minister of Assam Himanta Biswa Sarma. Read more. Rahul Dravid’s disappointed reaction as Suryakumar Yadav throws away wicket after scoring fifty: WATCHSuryakumar Yadav has been in impeccable form in the ongoing tour of Sri Lanka. After a couple of handy knocks in the ODIs, the middle-order batsman fired a half-century in the first T20I against Sri Lanka on Sunday in Colombo.Read more. Aaliyah Kashyap says she planned to ‘ghost’ boyfriend Shane Gregoire initially, Khushi Kapoor changed her mindAaliyah Kashyap, the daughter of filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, opened up about meeting her boyfriend Shane Gregoire on a dating app. She revealed that she originally intended to ‘ghost’ him but her best friends, Khushi Kapoor and Muskaan, changed her mind.Read more.Sawan 2021: Here are 5 lip-smacking fasting recipes that you can prepare at homeRead more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fm-sitharaman-to-introduce-amendments-to-bankruptcy-code-and-all-the-latest-news-101627268998166.html
26-07-2021||India||Congress sees strife in Chhattisgarh, MLA accuses minister of conspiracy||Congress, which is reportedly dealing with internal strifes in its Punjab and Rajasthan units, now faces inklings of a conflict in Chhattisgarh. Brihaspat Singh, a party MLA, alleged on Sunday that an attack was carried out on his convoy a day prior at the behest of state health minister TS Singh Deo. "The accused, while allegedly attacking my convoy's follow vehicle, were asking for me from my security personnel," Singh was quoted as saying. "It means the plan was to attack me."Also Read | Chhattisgarh Cong MLA alleges his convoy was ‘attacked’ at behest of ministerBrihaspat Singh, Congress MLA from the Ramanujanj constituency, alleged that one of the persons who attacked his convoy in the Ambikapur town on Saturday evening was a distant relative of Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo.Singh indicated that the health minister, once a leading contender for the post of the chief minister in Chhattisgarh, may not have taken the MLA's comments praising CM Bhupesh Baghel for his work; hence the attack. "Recently, during a press conference, I said that there is no rotational chief minister post arrangement in the state and that chief minister Bhupesh Bahel has been doing a great job," the Congress MLA said while speaking to reporters. "If he continues to do the same work he will remain in the post for the next 20-25 years."Also Read | Bhupesh Baghel to work in UP if Congress wants someone else as Chhattisgarh CMFor context, the CM post-sharing formula has been the talking point in Chhattisgarh's political circle after Congress came to power in December 2018 when Baghel and his two senior cabinet colleagues T S Singh Deo and Tamradhwaj Sahu were the top contenders for the post. Since then speculations were rife that consensus was built for the top post based on a two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula between Baghel and Singh Deo.Highlighting the matter, Brihaspat Singh said, "It is very unfortunate that family members of the state's health minister attacked (my convoy) on his directions." The Congress MLA claimed that if he would have been in "that car" (his follow vehicle), he would have been "attacked with guns."Reacting to the allegations, Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo simply said that the people in his area and in the state know him very well and are aware of his image in the public domain. "In Surguja and parts of the state, people know more about me than myself," the minister, who represents the Surguja seat, was quoted as saying. "There is nothing more to say than this. My image is completely in the public domain, nothing is hidden.”(With inputs from HT correspondent)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sees-strife-in-chhattisgarh-mla-accuses-minister-of-conspiracy-101627266431783.html
26-07-2021||India||FM Sitharaman to introduce amendments to bankruptcy code in Parliament today||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will introduce a Bill to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, in the Lok Sabha on Monday.The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, is the bankruptcy law of India that seeks to consolidate the existing framework by creating a single law for insolvency and bankruptcy. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 was introduced in Lok Sabha in December 2015.Also Read | Nirmala Sitharaman says honest taxpayers should be recognisedThe Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, is not the only Act the finance minister will be seeking to amend on Monday. Sitharaman will also be moving that the Bill to amend the Factoring Regulation Act, 2011, be taken into consideration.The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was introduced in Lok Sabha on September 24 last year and seeks to liberalise the Factory Regulation Act of 2011 by widening the scope of entities involved in the factoring business. The key changes include modifications in the definitions of receivables, assignment, and factoring business.Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras is also scheduled to move the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill in Parliament on Monday. It aims to declare the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management (Kundli), and the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (Thanjavur) as institutions of national importance.The two bills- Factoring Regulations (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill- were scheduled to be taken up last week but could not be because of protests over the alleged targeting of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities by Israeli spyware Pegasus.Union ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and Smriti Irani will also table Marine Aids to Navigation Bill and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill in the Rajya Sabha. Both the Bills also were supposed to be introduced last in the Upper House last week.Apart from these legislative businesses, both Houses will see reports from various departments of the government including the ministries of mines, shipping, environment, forests and climate change, jal shakti, labour and employment, and petroleum and natural gas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-sitharaman-to-introduce-amendments-to-bankruptcy-code-in-parliament-today-101627268311297.html
26-07-2021||India||Maharashtra records 6,843 new Covid cases; state may relax some curbs||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 6,843 new cases. The state’s daily Covid-19 caseload have hovered between 6,000 and 7,000 for the past three weeks, so the state government may relax some restrictions this week. It has been facing pressure from various quarters to relax rules, considering the impact on businesses due to the restrictions. Even districts that were hit badly by the second wave have started witnessing a drop in the daily caseload and the positivity rate.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid-19 management, said, “The government can give some relaxations as cases have stabilised. However, at the same time, strict monitoring should be followed daily for various aspects like daily cases, positivity rates, bed occupancy as well as liquid-oxygen consumption,” said Dr Salunkhe.He said the timings of the shops can be extended from the closing time of 4pm along with an emphasis on vaccination of those working in these establishments. However, Salunkhe said, local trains need to be opened in a staggered manner. “There should be strict enforcement on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he added.The Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association, an association of restaurant owners, has petitioned the government to extend the timings. “The government needs to allow us to operate till at least 11pm as the cases have come down drastically. We are ready to operate at 50% capacity and also follow all guidelines. The rules need to be relaxed as we are unable to sustain at all in this restrictive timings,” said Shetty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-6-843-new-covid-cases-state-may-relax-some-curbs-101627268011170.html
26-07-2021||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas: PM Modi pays tribute, says 'we remember their sacrifices'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid a tribute to the martyrs of the Kargil war, which India fought with Pakistan in 1999 and won, on Kargil Vijay Diwas and said the bravery of those who sacrificed their lives motivates Indians every single day. The Prime Minister also shared an excerpt from his last year's monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat."We remember their sacrifices. We remember their valour. Today, on Kargil Vijay Diwas we pay homage to all those who lost their lives in Kargil protecting our nation. Their bravery motivates us every single day. Also sharing an excerpt from last year’s ’Mann Ki Baat.’," PM Modi said in a tweet.The Indian armed forces defeated Pakistan on July 26, 1999. Since then, the day is celebrated as Kargil Vijay Diwas to rekindle the pride and valour of the soldiers who took part in Operation Vijay.A day ahead of the Kargil Vijay Diwas on Sunday, PM Modi urged the countrymen to salute the brave hearts of Kargil in his 'Mann Ki Baat'.Marking the key day in Indian history, the Prime Minister said the Kargil war is a symbol of valour and discipline of our security forces which the entire world has witnessed. He said that India will celebrate this day as 'Amrut Mahotsav'."Tomorrow is Kargil Vijay Diwas. Kargil war is a symbol of valour and discipline of our armed forces which the entire world has witnessed. I would like you to read the thrilling story of Kargil on Kargil Vijay Diwas. Let us all salute the brave hearts of Kargil," said the Prime Minister on his 79th edition of the monthly radio programme 'Mann ki Baat.India will mark the 22nd anniversary on Monday with tributes from President Kovind who is visiting Drass in Ladakh and paying homage at the Kargil War memorial to the fallen heroes of the 1999 conflict. India's Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat will also accompany the President.India launched Operation Vijay to clear the posts in the high-altitude Kargil sector, which was occupied by the Pakistani soldiers and infiltrators on the Indian side of the Line of Control (LoC).The armies of the nuclear-armed nations fought the war between May and July in Kargil district of Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere along the LoC. It took about three months for the Indian forces to recapture the posts and led to 527 deaths on India’s side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-on-kargil-vijay-diwas-says-we-remember-their-sacrifies-valour-101627265466955.html
26-07-2021||India||Magnitude 4 earthquake strikes Hyderabad, no damages reported||Hyderabad was rocked by an earthquake, measuring magnitude 4.0 on the Richter Scale, at 5am this morning, the National Center for Seismology (NCS) said. According to the alert issued by the earthquake monitoring agency, the epicenter of the earthquake lay in Andhra Pradesh, 156 kilometers south of Hyderabad.The earthquake hit the region at a depth of 10 kilometers, the NCS said, providing the latitude and longitudinal details of the quake's epicenter."Earthquake of Magnitude:4.0, Occurred on 26-07-2021, 05:00:53 IST, Lat: 16.00 & Long: 78.22, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 156km S of Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India," the NCS tweeted out from its official handle.Earthquake of Magnitude:4.0, Occurred on 26-07-2021, 05:00:53 IST, Lat: 16.00 & Long: 78.22, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 156km S of Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/GgF9bDeXgH pic.twitter.com/fPpBpjGPEgNo damages or casualties have been reported in the earthquake so far.More details to follow soon...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-4-earthquake-strikes-hyderabad-no-damages-reported-101627263825461.html
26-07-2021||India||9 tourists killed, 3 injured in Himachal landslides||Nine tourists were killed and three others, including a local resident, were injured when heavy boulders fell on their tempo traveller during multiple landslides in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district on Sunday.According to deputy commissioner (Kinnaur), Abid Hussain Sadique, the incident occurred on Sunday afternoon when multiple landslides, triggered by recent rainfall, collapsed a bridge and damaged vehicles on the Batseri-Sangla road.A viral video purportedly showed boulders rolling downhill, causing the bridge to collapse.Sudesh Kumar Mokta, Special secretary (Revenue) who is also director of State Disaster Management Authority, said the nine tourists were killed when the boulders fell on their tempo traveller, while heading towards Sangla from Chitkul village. “All the bodies have been recovered,” said Kinnaur superintendent of police, Sarju Ram Rana.Police have identified the deceased as Pratiksha Sunil Patil from Maharashtra, Amogh Bapat and Satish Katakbar from Chhattisgarh, Umarav Singh from Delhi and Rajasthan’s Deepa Sharma, Kumar Ulhar Ved Pathak, Anurag Bihani, Maya Devi and Richa Bihani.The three injured are Shiril Oberoi from Delhi, Naveen Bhardwaj from Punjab and Ranjit Singh, a resident of Batseri village in Kinnaur district.“The hill top is highly prone to landslides. We have been observing the shooting stones from the hill top for the last two days. Yesterday too, a vehicle was damaged but luckily no one was injured,” said Pradeep Negi, pradhan, Batseri panchayat.President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed condolences over the death of people.“Deeply saddened by the news of the death of many people in a landslide in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. Express my deepest condolences to the bereaved families and wish the injured people a speedy recovery,” Kovind tweeted in Hindi.Modi said all arrangements are being made for the treatment of those injured and announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 to the injured from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who is on a three-day visit to Mandi, also expressed grief over the deaths and asked the district administration to ensure immediate relief and rescue operations.“I spoke to the Kinnaur district administration and inquired about the accident. The administration has started rescue operation... I pray to God for speedy recovery of the injured,” he said in a Twitter post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-tourists-killed-3-injured-in-himachal-landslides-101627260400915.html
26-07-2021||NA||Parliament session highlights: Both Houses adjourned till July 27||The ongoing monsoon session of Parliament recommenced on Monday and opposition parties continued to target the Centre over various issues including the Pegasus hacking controversy, Covid-19 pandemic and the farmers agitation against the farm laws. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were adjourned multiple times.The Lok Sabha, which passed two important bills today- the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021 and the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, has been adjourned till 11am tomorrow. The Upper House of Parliament is also adjourned till 11am tomorrow. The Centre is keen to push key bills this week since there remain only 14 working days in the ongoing session, people familiar with developments told Hindustan Times.It has listed five ordinances to be taken up during this week’s proceedings.They are -- The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance and The Essential Defence Services Ordinance.Follow all the updates here:Both Houses adjourned till July 27The Lok Sabha and The Rajya Sabha have been adjourned till tomorrow 11am. No consensus among opposition parties on any issue: Piyush GoyalUnion minister and leader of House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal said on Monday that there is no consensus among opposition parties on any issue, adding he personally reached out to different opposition parties on a daily basis. Rajya Sabha again adjourned till 5pmThe Upper House of Parliament is again adjourned till 5pm today. Rajya Sabha resumes after being adjournedThe session of the Upper House of Parliament has resumed after it was adjourned till 4pm. National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021 passed in Lok SabhaThe National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021 was also passed in the Lower House. The bill seeks to declare two institutes, National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management at Kundli, and the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology at Thanjavur as instutes of national importance.Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 passed in Lok SabhaThe Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 passed in Lok Sabha today. It was introduced in the Lower House in September 2020 and seeks to liberalise the Factory Regulation Act of 2011 by widening the scope of entities involved in the factoring business.Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow 11am.The Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till tomorrow 11am. Govt reduced basic customs duty on Masur dal to nil: Nirmala SitharamanUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday that the Centre reduced the basic customs duty on Masur dal to nil and halved Agriculture infrastructure Development Cess on the lentil to 10 per cent."Basic customs duty has been reduced from 30 per cent to 20 per cent on lentils (Masur) originating in or exported from the USA. The Agriculture Infrastructure Development Cess on Lentils (Masur) has been reduced from the present rate of 20 per cent to 10 per cent," Sitharaman added. Govt didn't mention Pegasus in this week's agenda, says TharoorGovt has not mentioned 'Pegasus' in this week's agenda items. Also, they don't want to speak in the Lok Sabha on COVID management, vaccine policy, and hike in fuel prices: Chairman of Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT, Shashi Tharoor pic.twitter.com/2mYQh58byVCongress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Monday that the Centre did not mention the Pegasus project in this week's agenda, adding it does not want to speak on Covid management, vaccine policy, and hike in fuel prices in the Lok Sabha. Lok Sabha session resumes after being adjourned; opposition uproar continues over Pegasus hacking controversyThe session in the Lower House of Parliament has resumed. However opposition parties continue to raise the issues of the Pegasus hacking coLS adjourned till 2.45pm amid Oppn uproar over Pegasus projectLok Sabha has been adjourned till 2.45 pm as opposition parties continue to target the central government over the Pegasus hacking controversy. Opposition ruckus continues, Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid sloganeering in the House by Opposition MPs, against 'Pegasus Project' media report.Both Houses of Parliament adjourned till 12pmLok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 2 PM amid disruptions by opposition members. Earlier, the Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12pm following sloganeering by Opposition MPs demanding a discussion on 'Pegasus Project' report.Akali Dal, BSP protest against farm lawsMPs of Shiromani Akali Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party stage a protest at Parliament against the three agriculture lawsParliament lauds Mirabai Chanu, silver medal winner at Tokyo OlympicsLok Sabha and Rajya Sabha congratulate weightlifter Mirabai Chanu for winning a silver medal at Tokyo Olympics.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12pm amid Opposition ruckus over Pegasus issueRajya Sabha adjourned till 12pm following sloganeering by Opposition MPs demanding a discussion on 'Pegasus Project' report (ANI)Rahul Gandhi drives a tractor to Parliament, says govt must repeal farm lawsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi drives a tractor to reach Parliament, in protest against the three farm laws. "I've brought farmers' message to Parliament," he says. "They (the government) are suppressing voices of farmers and not letting a discussion take place in Parliament.""They'll have to repeal these black laws," he added. "The entire country knows these laws favour 2-3 big businessmen."DMK MP Tiruchi Siva gives suspension of business notice in Rajya Sabha over Pegasus issueDMK MP Tiruchi Siva gives suspension of business notice in Rajya Sabha, demanding a discussion on 'Pegasus Project' report.Opposition leaders meet at Mallikarjun Kharge's office to strategise over monsoon sessionFloor leaders of Opposition parties in Rajya Sabha meet at Mallikarjun Kharge's office in Parliament, to discuss the strategy regarding the issues raised by them in the House.Congress MPs Manish Tewari and Manickam Tagore give adjournment notice in Lok Sabha over Pegasus issueCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss the 'Pegasus Project' report(File photo) pic.twitter.com/VKxBM7Bs3CUnion finance minister to introduce amendments to bankruptcy code todayUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharam will introduce a Bill to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, in the Lok Sabha on Monday.The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, is the bankruptcy law of India that seeks to consolidate the existing framework by creating a single law for insolvency and bankruptcy. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2015 was introduced in Lok Sabha in December 2015.Bill allowing change of power connections to soon be taken up in ParliamentThe Union cabinet is expected to take up for approval soon the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. The Bill, once passed, will allow consumers to choose electricity connections from multiple service providers and change one as per their convenience on the lines of mobile connections.Amid protests, govt looks to push key bills in HouseAfter the first week of Parliament’s monsoon session was mostly washed out due to disruptions by the Opposition, the ruling dispensation plans to push key bills this week as there are just 14 working days remaining in the session, people aware of the developments said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-live-updates-monsoon-session-reconvenes-today-key-bills-lined-up-101627259900675.html
26-07-2021||India||Urban poor, rural population ill-prepared to deal with Covid at home: Survey||The poor in urban areas and those in rural India are not prepared to deal with Covid-19 at home, many did not have the basic medical equipment to check vital health parameters and also lacked awareness about the symptoms of the coronavirus disease, a survey conducted across 10 states has said.The survey was conducted by Sambodhi Panels, an initiative of Sambodhi Research and Communications, between June 30 and July 11 in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Rajasthan. It came just after the peak second wave of the pandemic and as several states eased Covid-19 restrictions. It also comes at a time when experts have warned of the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic.Also read | Half of total Covid-19 deaths logged between April, MayThe survey by the research organisation shows that among 7,116 households only around 20 per cent had thermometers and about 50 per cent had drugs available to treat symptoms like fever and headaches. "Only 9 per cent households had oximeters while a dismal 3 per cent had access to oxygen cylinders. Also, only 40 per cent of respondents were aware of medical suppliers/shops nearby to access in case they had COVID symptoms," Sambodhi Panels said in its survey.According to the survey, people in the 10 states are largely uninformed about newer variants of the coronavirus and the symptoms associated with the disease.The respondents also did not know when to take a person with Covid-19 to the hospital, the survey showed. About 35 per cent of the respondents said that patients should be hospitalised at the onset of the first symptom and 18 per cent were of the view that a Covid positive result was reason enough to get the person admitted to a hospital."It seems that there is a need to increase information dissemination among vulnerable sections of society on newer Covid variants, associated symptoms and recommended treatment protocols so that people take appropriate measures," Swapnil Shekhar, co-founder of Sambodhi, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Covid-19 can infect embryos, result in miscarriages: StudyNearly respondents or 95 per cent were able to associate at least one of the early symptoms to Covid-19 such as fever, dry cough, difficulty in breathing and headaches. And only 18 per cent of them associated diarrhoea with Covid-19 and just 4 per cent and 2 per cent with conjunctivitis and skin rashes respectively.However, the survey shows around 88 per cent knew about how to care for Covid-19 patients at home and 70 per cent of the respondents said they had arrangements for isolating Covid positive family members and 76 per cent said they would be able to arrange food for them.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urban-poor-rural-population-ill-prepared-to-deal-with-covid-at-home-survey-101627258486744.html
26-07-2021||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas 2021: India to honour fallen heroes, 559 lamps lit in Ladakh||India celebrates Kargil Vijay Diwas on July 26 every year to mark the anniversary of the Indian Army's victory against Pakistan on this day in 1999, after more than 60 days of armed conflict on the highlands of Kargil in Ladakh. In what was perhaps the most recent example of high-altitude warfare in mountainous terrain, the Indian Army ousted the neighbouring nation's military forces and took back control of the high outposts in the region.Also Read | Fathers pay tribute to their martyred sons a day before Kargil Vijay DiwasPresident Ram Nath Kovind is scheduled to visit Drass on Monday to pay homage at the memorial, located on the foothills of Tololing. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat will also participate at the Kargil Vijay Diwas celebrations, agencies added.Kargil Vijay Diwas is observed in honour of Kargil's war heroes, the lives that were lost as a result of the war; soldiers who died in the line of duty serving their motherland. On this day every year, the Prime Minister pays his tributes to the armed forces at the 'eternal flame', Amar Jawan Jyoti, at India Gate in Delhi. Celebrations are also conducted in the Kargil sector and elsewhere across the country to commemorate the contributions of the Indian Army.Dubbed 'Operation Vijay', the military campaign held in the month of July in 1999 saw the Indian Army troops clearing the Kargil sector of the infiltrators, which included both Pakistani soldiers and rebel forces. Defeating its adversaries in the war, the Indian Army finally hosted the national flag at Kargil on July 26. It is estimated that as many as 527 Indian soldiers died in the war, while more than 1,300 were injured.Also Read | ‘Nation first…’: PM Modi talks Kargil war, Amrit Mahotsav on Mann Ki BaatKargil Vijay Diwas 2021 arrives in the backdrop of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India, for which the celebrations will be toned down this year, army officials told news agencies. A solemn ceremony was organised in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur to sound the bugle of celebrations of 22 years of victory of Kargil War, but all Covid-19 protocols were strictly followed during the entire event.The epic battles of Tololing, Tiger Hill and others were recalled on Sunday and 559 lamps lit at the Kargil War Memorial in the Drass area of Ladakh, in a tribute to the martyrs. Top military officers, family members of the army personnel and others were present to mark the commencement of the 22nd Kargil Vijay Diwas celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kargil-vijay-diwas-2021-india-to-honour-fallen-heroes-559-lamps-lit-in-ladakh-101627256690029.html
26-07-2021||NA||Breaking News highlights: JEE (Advanced) 2021 examination for admission into IITs to be held on October 3||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:JEE (Advanced) 2021 exams to be held on October 3: Dharmendra PradhanJEE (Advanced) 2021 examination for admission in #IITs will be held on the 3rd October, 2021. The examination will be conducted adhering to all Covid-protocols.@DG_NTA @PIBHRD @EduMinOfIndia @IITKgp @PMOIndiaThe JEE (Advanced) 2021 examination for admission to IITs will be held on October 3 following Covid-19 protocols, tweeted Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan.Mizoram CM Zoramthanga calls for peaceful resolution of border issue with AssamThe Government of Mizoram desires that the inter-state border issue with Assam be resolved in an atmosphere of peace and understanding. Accordingly, we call upon the State of Assam to create a congenial environment for peaceful resolution of the dispute: Mizoram CM ZoramthangaMizoram chief minister Zoramthanga called on the Assam government to create a congenial environment for peaceful resolution of the border dispute between the two states, reports ANI.6 Assam Police personnel dead during clashes at Assam-Mizoram border, says Himanta Biswa SarmaI am deeply pained to inform that six brave jawans of @assampolice have sacrificed their lives while defending constitutional boundary of our state at the Assam-Mizoram border. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted six personnel of Assam Police were dead following the clashes at border with Mizoram.Billionaire businessman Najib Mikati elected as new Prime Minister of Lebanon#BREAKING Lebanese lawmakers pick billionaire businessman Najib Mikati as new prime minister pic.twitter.com/WjKDB6xnbHBillionaire businessman Najib Mikati elected as the new Prime Minister of Lebanon by the country's lawmakers, reports AFP.Covid-19: 39 new cases, 1 more death in Delhi in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 39 new #COVID19 cases, 80 recoveries and one death in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 537Total recoveries: 14,10,368Death toll: 25,044 pic.twitter.com/i6WNT2uzNrDelhi reported 39 new Covid-19 cases and one related fatality in the last 24 hours, reports ANI citing a bulletin from the health department.'Firing still on from Mizoram side, yet to determine number of injured': Assam minister says on border tensionFiring is still on from the Mizoram side. We are yet to determine the number of injured persons. The CM has taken stock of the situation and has spoken to the Centre: Assam Minister Parimal Suklabaidya on border tension with Mizoram pic.twitter.com/qMiF2un9vhAssam minister Parimal Suklabaidya said that the firing is still on from the Mizoram side and that the number of people injured is yet to be determined. He also said that Himanta Biswa Sarma has spoken to the centre over the issue, reports ANI.Police forces return from disputed site at Assam-Mizoram border after Amit Shah asks CMs to resolve issueUnion Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to the Chief Ministers of Assam & Mizoram & asked them to resolve the border issue. Both the Chief Ministers have agreed to resolve the issue&maintain peace. Police forces from both states have returned from disputed site: Sources(File pic) pic.twitter.com/Su1wR26ijTUnion home minister Amit Shah had asked Assam and Mizoram chief ministers to resolve the border issue between the two states following which police forces have returned from the disputed site at the border, reports ANI citing sources familiar with the developments.Kindly urge Assam Police to withdraw: Mizoram CMHon'ble @himantabiswa ji, as discussed I kindly urge that Assam Police @assampolice be instructed to withdraw from Vairengte for the safety of civilians. @narendramodi @AmitShah @PMOIndia @HMOIndia https://t.co/wHtMPhFRpP"I kindly urge that Assam PolicE be instructed to withdraw from Vairengte for the safety of civilians," tweets Mizoram CM Zormathanga.Assam-Mizoram border row: Assam CM offers to visit MizoramI have just spoken to Hon’ble Chief Minister @ZoramthangaCM ji.I have reiterated that Assam will maintain status quo and peace between the borders of our state. I have expressed my willingness to visit Aizawl and disscuss these issues if need be @AmitShah @PMOIndia"I have expressed my willingness to visit Aizawl and discuss these issues if need be," tweets Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma on border flare-up with Mizoram.Protesting farmers to hoist national flag at Ghazipur border on August 15, says Rakesh TikaitWe will go by tractors to Ghazipur border on August 14 and 15. On August 15, we will hoist flag. Tractors from two districts will go. We did not remove national flag on January 26: Rakesh Tikait, Bhartiya Kisan UnionBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said that the farmers from two districts will go to Ghazipur border to hoist the national flag on August 15, reports ANI.Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma seeks Mizoram CM Zoramthanga's intervention on border disputeHonble ⁦@ZoramthangaCM⁩ ji , Kolasib ( Mizoram) SP is asking us to withdraw from our post until then their civilians won't listen nor stop violence. How can we run government in such circumstances? Hope you will intervene at earliest ⁦@AmitShah⁩ ⁦@PMOIndia⁩ pic.twitter.com/72CWWiJGf3Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma sought the intervention of Mizoram CM Zoramthanga's intervention in the border dispute between the two states. He also tweeted a video of the police forces in the border.BS Yediyurappa's supporters shut down shops in Shivamogga following his retirementSupporters of Caretaker Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa at his hometown Shikaripura, in Shivamogga district shut down shops and commercial establishments in disappointment after he resigned from CM post. pic.twitter.com/hoNXYoEZvjDisappointed with BS Yediyurappa's decision to retire, his supporters shut down shops and restaurants at his hometown Shikaripura (Shivamogga district), reports ANI.Army pays tributes to its soldiers at Drass war memorialThe Army paid rich tributes to the soldiers who lost their lives in the 1999 Kargil War against Pakistan at the Drass war memorial in Ladakh on Monday.In 1999, the Indian armed forces defeated attempts by Pakistan to capture strategic heights in Kargil. It was named 'Operation Vijay' (victory).The solemn ceremony to celebrate the 22nd anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas was held at the Kargil War Memorial, Drass, Srinagar-based PRO Defence Col Emron Musavi said.PIL in HC seeks separate toilets for transgendersA PIL in the Delhi High Court on Monday sought direction to authorities to construct separate washrooms for the third gender on the ground that absence of separate public toilets for transgenders make them prone to sexual assault and harassment.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices and sought responses of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Delhi government, New Delhi Municipal Corporation, Municipal Corporations of East, South and North Delhi on the petition which submitted that absence of gender-neutral toilets goes against the directions of the Supreme Court.Mixed AstraZeneca-Pfizer shot boosts Covid-19 antibody level: StudyA mixed vaccination of first AstraZeneca and then a Pfizer Covid-19 shot boosted neutralizing antibody levels by six times compared with two AstraZeneca doses, a study from South Korea showed.The study involved 499 medical workers - 100 receiving mixed doses, 200 taking two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech shot and the remainder getting two AstraZeneca shots.All showed neutralizing antibodies, which prevent the virus from entering cells and replicating, and the result of the mixed schedule of vaccines showed similar amounts of neutralizing antibodies found from the group that received two Pfizer shots.Maha deputy CM Ajit Pawar tours flood-hit villages in SangliMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar toured various rain-hit villages in Sangli district on Monday and used a rescue boat to reach out to flood victims in some areas. Pawar also interacted with the flood-affected people and assured them of rehabilitation and all help from the state government.HC orders notice to EC on petitions challenging election of Duraimurugan and othersThe Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice to the Election Commission on petitions challenging the win of three candidates, including Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, in the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu.Justice V Bharathidasan ordered the notice to the respective successful candidates and the Election Commission of India, returnable by September 6.Over 3.09 crore unutilised vaccine doses available with states, private hospitals: CentreOver 3.09 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday.It said that more than 45.37 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 59,39,010 doses are in the pipeline.Arunachal Pradesh logs 164 new Covid-19 cases, three more fatalitiesArunachal Pradesh witnessed a sharp dip in daily Covid-19 cases as 164 more people tested positive for the infection on Monday, down from 515 the day before, pushing the tally in the state to 45,867, a senior health official said here. The toll rose to 216 with three more persons succumbing to the infection, he said.Rajnath Singh pays tribute at National War Memorial on Kargil Vijay DiwasDefence Minister Rajnath Singh and Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt paid tribute to fallen soldiers at National War Memorial on the occasion of Kargil Vijay Diwas on Monday.Remembering the war heroes, Singh tweeted: "On the occasion of Kargil Vijay Diwas, I salute the indomitable valour and sacrifice of the Indian Army."CM Uddhav Thackeray to visit Patan Taluka todayCM Uddhav Thackeray will visit the flood-affected areas of Patan taluka in Satara district today. He will also visit relief camps set up for citizens displaced by the floods.Delhi Metro trains start running with 100 pc seating capacity; standing not allowed in coachesIn view of the improved coronavirus situation, the Delhi Metro services began running with full seating capacity from Monday, but there is still no provision for standing travel for commuters, officials said.The DMRC, till Sunday, was running trains with 50 per cent seating capacity since June 7 when the services had resumed after a long hiatus.India records 39,361 new Covid-19 cases, 416 deathsIndiChina urges Washington to stop "demonising" it during US official visitBeijing urged the US to stop "demonising" China during Monday talks with Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman, the highest-level official to visit under President Joe Biden's administration.Sherman arrived in the city of Tianjin on Sunday, aiming to seek "guardrails" as ties between the world's top two economies continue to deteriorate on a range of issues from cybersecurity to human rights.Virus on rise in eastern Chinese city of NanjingNew coronavirus cases continue to grow in the major eastern Chinese city of Nanjing, with another 38 reported on Monday, bringing the total to more than 60 over recent days.Tens of thousands of people are under lockdown and authorities are conducting mass testing of the population, standard practices in China that have generally been successfully in controlling the spread of the virus.French lawmakers approve bill to tackle fourth wave of coronavirusThe French parliament on Monday approved a bill which will make Covid-19 vaccinations mandatory for health workers as well as require a bolstered health pass in a wide array of social venues as France battles with a fourth wave of coronavirus infections.PM Modi pays tribute, says 'we remember their sacrifices'Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid a tribute to the martyrs of the Kargil war, which India fought with Pakistan in 1999 and won, on Kargil Vijay Diwas and said the bravery of those who sacrificed their lives motivates Indians every single day. The Prime Minister also shared an excerpt from his last year's monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.Indian Coast Guard carry out relief, rescue operations in floods-hit statesIndian Coast Guard (ICG) has deployed its resources to aid the civil authorities in relief and rescue operations in flood-hit areas of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka and have despatched Disaster Relief Teams (DRT) with inflatable Gemini boat and life-saving gear to the affected areas, the Ministry of Defence said on Sunday.As per an official release, the DRTs reached areas rendered unapproachable due to water inundation especially in the Chiplun and Mahad districts of Maharashtra and Umlijoog, Khargejoog, Bodjug Island and Kinnar village in Uttar Kannada district of Karnataka. "The teams evacuated the stranded people and provided relief material," the Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-26-july-2021-101627257228637.html
26-07-2021||India||From jobless construction worker to YouTube sensation, Odia man gets a mention in Mann ki Baat||Soon after the lockdown was announced last year in the wake of the Covid outbreak in India, 35-year-old Isak Munda, a tribal construction worker from a remote village of Sambalpur district in Odisha lost his job. With no money and four kids and a wife waiting for food at home, Munda was desperate for work.A Class-7 pass-out, Munda thought of earning money by uploading videos on YouTube and monetizing those. He took a loan of ₹3,000 from a microfinance company and uploaded a clip of him having rice and sambar at his house. As the video went viral he started posting more such videos on YouTube becoming an Internet sensation which brought him lakhs of rupees from the social media site for the viral videos.On Sunday his sudden fame on YouTube earned him praise from PM Modi during his Mann ki Baat radio talk when the PM said the Odia tribal youth was celebrating culture as well as cuisine and motivating everyone.“His initiative is unique in many ways, especially because it provides an opportunity to the urban people to see a lifestyle of which they know very little. In his video, he highlights local delicacies, traditional recipes, his village, lifestyle, family and food habits,” the prime minister said.A visibly elated Munda said he never thought PM Modi would talk about his videos. “My and I family are feeling very happy about it. I would keep posting more such videos,” he said over the phone from his village Babupali in Jujumara block of Sambalpur.It was on March 26 last year when Munda first uploaded a clip of him having rice and sambar at his thatched house.After losing his livelihood, he was watching videos on his mobile phone when a video popped up. In the video, the presenter suggested making videos and uploading them on YouTube to earn money. He watched the video on a loop and decided to give it a try.He soon created a YouTube channel called “Isak Munda eating”, he started posting 3-7 minutes-long video clips wherein he would consume staple food of fermented rice with green chilli or sometimes mutton and chicken curry. The first video of him eating rice and sambar garnered 7.7 lakh views, his most popular one so far, while the subsequent ones also gathered views ranging from 60,000 to 7 lakh. Most of his videos showed him having fermented rice, mushroom curry, egg curry, fish curry and tomato curry with his wife, an eight-year-old daughter, a six-year-old son, a five-year-old daughter and a three-year-old daughter.With more and more people subscribing to his YouTube account, the social media platform started sharing its revenue with Munda as advertising is the most common way for YouTube creators to earn money on the platform. Advertising revenue is generated when people watch advertisements that run on YouTube videos. Munda’s miseries ended in July last year when he received ₹37,000 in his bank account from YouTube. A month later, he got ₹5 lakh as people started liking his videos.With the money from YouTube, Munda’s life has started looking up as he built a pucca house for his family and bought furniture. He now has over 7.7 lakh subscribers, far higher than some Odia news channels. He is being invited to people’s homes for dinner while video bloggers are visiting him to show his rise to fame. “I earn around ₹2 lakh a month. I would help my near and dear with the money that I am earning from YouTube,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-jobless-construction-worker-to-youtube-sensation-odia-man-gets-a-mention-in-mann-ki-baat-101627242448522.html
26-07-2021||India||BSY govt completes 2 years today, decision on his future as CM likely||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Sunday a decision on whether he will remain in office was likely to be known by Monday, the day his government completes two years in office.Preparations for a grand event to commemorate the second anniversary of the Yediyurappa government are underway at the Karnataka Vidhan Soudha, even as there is no clarity regarding the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) decision on his future as the chief minister. On Thursday, Yediyurappa said that following the event, an announcement on whether he will continue as the CM will be made.He said he will speak on the achievements of his government at the function, as planned, on Monday. “After that, other things you will come to know”.Talking to reporters in Belagavi on Sunday morning, the Lingayat strongman said that no decision had been conveyed to him by the BJP high command so far. He was in the district to inspect flood-hit areas. On his return to Bengaluru later in the evening, Yediyurappa said the situation remained the same.“I’m going to work till the last minute. If they (central leadership) ask me to continue as the chief minister, I will. If they ask to resign, I will do so and continue working for the party,” he said in Bengaluru.When asked when the decision could be made known to him, he said: “I hope that the decision will be given by today (Sunday evening) or tomorrow (Monday) morning.” Yediyurappa said he will continue to work for the party for another 15-20 years.Amid speculation about a change of guard in Karnataka, BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday ruled out any leadership crisis in the state and said Yediyurappa has done good work. “Karnataka is doing well. Yediyurappa is taking care of the things in his own way.” When asked if there was a leadership crisis in the state, Nadda said: “That is what you feel. We don’t feel so.”During this visit to flood-affected areas in Belagavi on Sunday morning, when questioned about the possibility of a Dalit chief minister replacing him, Yediyurappa said: “I’m not the one to decide about it, it is for the high command to decide. Let’s first see what decision they will take…”Asked whether he was satisfied with his work in the last two years, he said: “If you are satisfied, that’s enough for me.”Reiterating that he will abide by the decision of the central leadership, the 78-year-old said he was “content and satisfied” and will not cross the disciplinary line. “I got most of the positions in the party which no one else might have got in Karnataka, for which I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, and party president JP Nadda”, Yediyurappa said.While the BJP is yet to make any announcement, Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said the state government is interested more in politics than issues affecting the people.“People of the state are struggling to save their lives due to flood and Covid and the government has failed to save them. Hence, he (the CM) has asked to dissolve this assembly and go to the people and get a fresh mandate.”Speaking to reporters at his Sadashivanagar residence in Bengaluru, he said: “Dissolve the current assembly and face the elections. Let us see who will form a new government as per the people’s mandate. The day Yediyurappa took over, he himself mentioned that a big political instability is prevailing. This is his administration and this is his gift to the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsy-govt-completes-2-years-today-decision-on-his-future-as-cm-likely-101627237827595.html
26-07-2021||India||Telangana temple conferred UNESCO heritage tag||The Ramappa temple at Palampet in Telangana’s Warangal has been conferred the tag of UNESCO World Heritage site, the culture ministry said on Sunday.“It gives me immense pleasure to share that @UNESCO has conferred the World Heritage tag to Ramappa Temple at Palampet, Warangal, Telangana. On behalf of the nation, particularly from people of Telangana, I express my gratitude to Hon PM @narendramodi for his guidance & support,” Union Culture Minister G Kishan Reddy said in a tweet.Ramappa temple, a 13th century engineering marvel named after its architect, Ramappa, was proposed by the government as its only nomination for the UNESCO World Heritage site tag for the year 2019.“Excellent! Congratulations to everyone, specially the people of Telangana. The iconic Ramappa Temple showcases the outstanding craftsmanship of great Kakatiya dynasty. I would urge you all to visit this majestic Temple complex and get a first-hand experience of its grandness,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.As many as 22 sites in the southeastern Chinese city of Quanzhou including a temple with links to Hinduism were inscribed on to the UNESCO World Heritage List on Sunday.The new listing of “Quanzhou: Emporium of the World in Song-Yuan China” by the world’s top cultural organisation boosts the credentials of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s maritime silk road, the sea route part of the Belt and Road Initiative’ (BRI), which aims to link China with Asia and beyond through infrastructure projects on land and sea.China has been promoting the coastal province Fujian and the city of Quanzhou as an important ancient sea trade zone where multicultural communities including from Tamil Nadu mingled a millennia ago.The listing decision was made on Sunday during the UNESCO World Heritage Committee’s 44th ongoing online session chaired from Fuzhou, the capital of Fujian, the same province where Quanzhou is located.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Xi had decided to establish “sister-state relations” between Tamil Nadu and Fujian during the latter’s visit to Mamallapuram for the second informal summit in October, 2019 – it was because of Quanzhou’s ancient links with Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-temple-conferred-unesco-heritage-tag-101627237770269.html
26-07-2021||India||After six-month delay, start-up targets satellite launch in October||The earth observation satellite developed by the Indian start-up Pixxel will target an October launch with Indian Space Research Organisation mission, a company official said on Sunday. The satellite was to be launched aboard the PSLV-C51 mission in February this year but the company had to back out due to a last minute glitch in the software.“There was a problem with GPS acquisition and logging in the satellite which we were able to resolve in a couple of days. But we had missed the window to ship the satellite to ISRO launch site. The satellite is completely ready and we used the time to do another round of testing. We were waiting for the next opportunity that ISRO mission would go to the orbit we need. We will be launching the satellite in October,” said Awais Ahmed, founder and CEO of the company (incorporated as Sygyzy).The work on the second satellite, in a planned constellation of 36, is also 60% complete and is likely to be launched in December. “We have been working on two more satellites in parallel; they are 30% complete and will be launched next year,” said Ahmed.The company aims to complete the constellation of hyperspectral satellites by 2023.This would be first satellite by an Indian start-up; barring the satellite of the non-profit SpaceKidz India that was launched as per a non-commercial agreement by ISRO on PSLV C51 mission in February. The PSLV C51 mission carried on board a three-satellite system developed by an industry consortium and SindhuNetra by DRDO for monitoring the Indian Ocean Region.Pixxel is designing the world’s highest resolution hyperspectral imaging satellites that can provide 10 to 50 times more detailed information. “A normal phone camera works in the visible RBG range, whereas something like a night goggle works in the infrared range. A hyperspectral image can capture data in both visible and infrared spectrum thereby providing great details,” said Ahmed. Explaining it further, he said, “If we take agriculture for example, our satellite will be able to provide granular data on not just the health of soil but the nutrients present in it. It will be able to identify the crop. It will be able to tell whether the crop has been under-irrigated or over-irrigated from soil moisture data.”After a break of over four months due to the second wave of the pandemic, ISRO is targeting a launch next month of its own earth observation satellite GISAT 1 (also known as EOS-3 as per the new nomenclature). The satellite launch was postponed last year after a technical glitch and then later because of the ongoing pandemic.Ahmed said that the opening up of the space sector last year was a great help for start-ups like his. Pixxel had initially planned launches with the Russian space agency and had to get the testing done in Netherlands.“Testing a satellite in another country is expensive and time consuming. Once the space sector was opened up in the country, we wanted to go with ISRO for the launch. What was better, we were able to use the ISRO satellite testing facility in Bangalore. This was the first time that their testing facility was opened up for a commercial satellite. Not only did we get the facility, which would have been expensive to set up. We also got the expertise of scientists who have been testing all ISRO satellites,” said Ahmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-six-month-delay-start-up-targets-satellite-launch-in-october-101627237587576.html
26-07-2021||India||Half of total Covid-19 deaths logged between April, May||About half of India’s Covid-19 deaths since April 2020 were reported in just two months, April and May this year, according to government data, which underlines how deadly the second wave of the pandemic in the country was and how it overwhelmed the health care infrastructure.Forty-one per cent of the total Covid-19 deaths in April and May in India came from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi, according to the data shared by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) with HT in reply to a Right To Information application.NCDC said that of the 329,065 people who died of Covid-19 between April 2020 and May 2021, 166,632 fatalities were reported in April and May 2021. As many as 120,770 people died in May and 45,882 in April, two months when the second wave of the pandemic was raging across the country.Close to 60% of the total Covid-19 deaths in 14 months in Delhi, Karnataka and Punjab, took place in April and May this year, the data shows.In June, 69,354 Covid-19 deaths were recorded, which included those added after data was reconciled. Before April-May, the highest deaths reported in a month was in September 2020, with 33,035 deaths. September-October was considered the peak of the first Covid-19 wave.All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Dr Randeep Guleria has said that the devastation of the second wave should prepare people for the third wave, especially with the possibility of new variants emerging. “As of now, there are no signs to indicate that third wave would be as lethal as the second one,” he added.Experts said that the indications of another Covid-19 wave began emerging in March this year, when the Covid-19 deaths more than doubled nationally, with spikes seen in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. This was also the time when political parties were aggressively campaigning for assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu and preparations were being made for the Mahakumbh in Haridwar.“The (increased) deaths indicate that state governments ignored the second wave signs and reacted late,” said Dr Shaheed Jamil, who earlier headed the central government’s advisory group on Covid-19 genome sequencing.NCDC is the health ministry’s nodal agency to maintain all Covid-19 disease records under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). However, non-Covid-19 deaths are not reported to IDSP, NCDC joint director Dr Vinay Kumar Garg said in the RTI response. He added that they don’t have data on the cause of deaths reported during the pandemic.Uttar Pradesh, which reported a total of 20,346 deaths between April 2020 and May 2021, recorded 8,108 deaths in May, 2021, and 3,438 in April, 2021. Its neighbour, Uttarakhand, which has 1/20th of UP’s population, reported 3,899 deaths in May, which is 48% of the total deaths in Uttar Pradesh for that month. Close to 1,100 Covid-19 deaths that took place in April and May in Uttarakhand were reconciled in the June data and not reflected in NCDC’s May Covid-19 death data.Bihar, which reported 2,624 deaths in May, added 3,951 deaths in the first week of June, taking the death toll to 6,575. These cases were added after the Patna high court asked the state government to conduct an audit of all deaths in the state. “This includes deaths that took place in April and May,” said a senior Bihar health department official, asking not to be named.Dr DS Negi, director general, medical health, Uttar Pradesh, said their strategy was to test, trace and treat suspected patients, which helped in quick isolation of positive cases and identification of contacts. “This helped us to identify positive Covid cases and isolate them early. Patients got critical care and we could save many lives,” he said.If Covid deaths of all states are compared, Maharashtra reported the highest Covid-19 deaths (26,859) among Indian states in May followed by Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.The highest death rate for a million people for both the entire Covid-19 period and April-May this year was of Goa followed by Delhi, Puducherry, Maharashtra, Chandigarh and Uttarakhand, showed the analysis of NCDC’s death data along with the 2021 Census population projection.“We are reporting all the deaths because our surveillance is stringent and our machinery is robust. Not just Covid, we are topping deaths due to Swine Flu and its cases. This isn’t anything to be proud of but it is because we report all deaths. This year, we have reported around 80,000 deaths due to Covid-19,” said Maharashtra surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said: “While we understand the gravity of the situation it is also important for one to understand that the data presented by the Delhi government has been completely transparent at all points, even if it gave others the opportunity to take jibes at us.” Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said despite a spurt in Covid cases, the state was able to save many lives because of adequate health facilities.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha on July 20, said health was a state subject and the central government has provided all help to the states. “Due to concerted actions of central and state governments, the isolation bed capacity and ICU bed capacity, which was merely 10,180 and 2,168 before the first lockdown (as on 23rd March 2020), could be increased to 18,21,420 isolation beds and 1,21,671 ICU beds (as on 16th July 2021),” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/half-of-total-covid-19-deaths-logged-between-april-may-101627237468817.html
26-07-2021||India||In Mann Ki Baat, Modi urges citizens to lead ‘Unite India movement’||Ahead of the 75th Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called on Indians to follow the “Nation First, Always First” mantra and lead a “Bharat Jodo Andolan” (Unite India Movement) in the same manner Mahatma Gandhi led the “Bharat Chhoro Andolan” (Quit India Movement) in 1942.“Just like Bapu (Mahatma Gandhi) led the ‘Bharat Chhoro Andolan’ (Quit India movement), every Indian must lead the ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’ (Unite India Movement). It is our responsibility that we do our work in such a manner that it helps in uniting our country which is full of diversities,” Modi said in his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast. The need of the nation is to unite and work towards national progress, he added.The PM also reiterated the Centre’s plan to celebrate “Amrit Mahotsav” to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence in a befitting manner through several programmes, and highlighted the culture ministry’s initiative to have a record number of Indians sing the national anthem together. “On the 15th of August this time…this is an endeavour connected with the National Anthem. It’s an effort on [the] part of the ministry of culture to have a maximum number of Indians sing the national anthem together… I hope you connect yourselves with this novel initiative,” the Prime Minister said.For this, he added, a website http://rashtragan.in has been created where people upload their renditions of the anthem.During his address, Modi also wished the Indian contingent participating in the Tokyo Olympics and called on people to support the team on social media by joining the “Victory Punch Campaign”. “You also share your victory punch along with your team and cheer for India,” he said.PM Modi also spoke about the Kargil Diwas on Monday, observed in honour of the those killed during the 1999 war when Indian forces recaptured crucial strategic heights and the Indian territory that was surreptitiously captured by Pakistani forces.In his address, the Prime Minister spoke of a number of people such as farmers cultivating apples and ‘ber’ (Indian jujube) to earn livelihood, a Chandigarh food stall owner offering free Chole Bhature to vaccinated people.Among other issues, the Prime Minister highlighted the importance of adhering to Covid-appropriate protocols ahead of the upcoming festivals, saying: “You must remember that Corona has not yet gone from amongst us. You must not forget the protocols related to Corona.”He also urged people to conserve water, and pointed out how “we used to yearn for rainfall and therefore saving every single drop of water has been part of our customs”.Citing a study conducted by MyGov, the PM highlighted that close to 75% of people sending messages and suggestions for Mann Ki Baat are below the age of 35 years. “It means Mann Ki Baat is being guided by the views of the youth of India. Mann Ki Baat is a medium where there is positivity and sensitivity,” he said.Ahead of the PM’s address, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi questioned the pace of Covid-19 vaccination, and said had the country’s “Mann ki Baat” been understood, such would not have been the state.“Had you understood the country’s ‘Mann ki Baat’, such would not have been the state of vaccinations,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, with the hashtag “WhereAreVaccines”.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mann-ki-baat-modi-urges-citizens-to-lead-unite-india-movement-101627237287504.html
26-07-2021||India||Uneven, sub-par monsoon drags kharif sowing||An erratic monsoon, consistent with weather patterns thought to be linked to the climate crisis, has been a drag on India’s summer or kharif crops, with planting down 8% from a year ago, official data shows. Farmers have only a slim window or time-frame left for normal sowing, which is usually until the last week of July.The June-to-September rainy season is critical for the Indian economy, Asia’s third largest, as nearly half the population depends on the farm sector and almost 60% of the net-sown area lacks irrigation access.Good summer harvests, which boost rural income, are important to support the broader economy trying to recoup losses from a second wave of Covid-19 during April and May.The rain-bearing system, which was nearly 8% deficient around the middle of July since its onset, has picked up. The rain tapered off around June 19 unexpectedly. The deficit, as on July 25, has narrowed. The monsoon is now 1% lower than normal.Rainfall was fairly poor in many parts in the initial weeks of July, agriculturally the most critical month. More than the deficiency, this year’s uneven rain has been a cause of concern, agriculturally and climate-wise.When compared to normal levels for this time of the year, total sowing is down 3%, the latest available official data shows. Average acreage of the past five years is considered normal.“I expect sowing to catch up as the rains have revived,” said KJ Ramesh, a climatologist and former chief of the India Meteorological Department, the national weather forecast agency.Longer monsoon pauses and short spurts of very heavy rainfall are tell-tale signs of the climate crisis, experts say. “The consensus is that the number of rainy days will decrease because of climate change but overall quantum of rainfall will remain same. So, there will be segments or periods of very heavy rain,” Ramesh said.Jeet Singh Sandhu, vice-chancellor of the SKN Agricultural University, Jaipur, said: “Rainfall in the month of July is most important for kharif crops. The sowing window lasts till about July 25-28 after which late-sown varieties can be sown.” Most such crop varieties are a fallback option.“There could be a major shift in soybean, cotton and maize acreages across the rainfall deficit states if monsoon fails to revive as forecast,” said Hetal Gandhi, an economist with Crisil Ltd, Mumbai, a ratings firm.As on July 23, farmers have planted 72 million hectare in all compared to 79 last year. The normal area for the corresponding week is about 74 million hectares.The area under rice, the biggest summer staple, stands at nearly 20.7 million, which is nearly normal but less than the 22 million hectares sown last year.However, pulses sowing has taken a hit, with farmers being able to sow about 87 million hectare, which is 12% below normal. The country occasionally witnesses a shortage of pulses. Soaring prices of pulses prompted the government to invoke the Essential Commodities Act on July 7 to regulate its trade. The curbs were eased last week.The acreage for oilseeds, which give edible oil, stands at 14.5 million hectare against a normal of 14.7 million hectare. Coarse cereals have been sown on 11 million hectares, down from a normal of 13 million hectare, a 15% shortfall.India meets two-thirds of its domestic edible oil requirements through import. Last month, the government had to cut duties on edible palm oil by 5% and lifted restrictions in its imports to ease prices.The monsoon has dumped catastrophic excess rainfall in some states, such as Maharashtra, where flooding has claimed several lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uneven-sub-par-monsoon-drags-kharif-sowing-101627237227476.html
26-07-2021||India||Amid protests, govt looks to push key bills in House||After the first week of Parliament’s monsoon session was mostly washed out due to disruptions by the Opposition, the ruling dispensation plans to push key bills this week as there are just 14 working days remaining in the session, people aware of the developments said on Sunday.Protests rocked Parliament last week over the alleged targeting of phones with Israeli military-grade spyware, three controversial farm laws, and income tax raids at a newspaper office, forcing repeated adjournments and allowing little business to be conducted in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha.“The passage of bills to replace ordinances are high in the priority of our legislative business. We have a total of 25 bills and the ordinances in this monsoon session,” a senior minister said on condition of anonymity.According to notices issues by the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, the government has listed five ordinances to be taken up during this week’s proceedings. They are: The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance and The Essential Defence Services Ordinance.The shelf life for an ordinance is up to six weeks after the first day of the subsequent Parliament session following its promulgation. If the government fails to replace the ordinances with bills in this session, the executive orders for laws will lapse and the government will need to bring fresh ordinances or let the temporary laws expire. The ordinance on air quality management in the national capital region and neighbouring areas expired in a similar fashion earlier this year.Another ordinance on The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) has not been brought as the Opposition and the government have reached an agreement that it will be sent to a select committee for further review, the people quoted above said.The government also wants to seek approval of the Lok Sabha for the Factoring Regulation Bill and The National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill in this week. These two bills were slotted in the last week but couldn’t be passed due to the din over the Pegasus snooping charges, fuel price hikes and the farm laws.The Upper House of Parliament has listed The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill and The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill.In the five days of the Monsoon Session of Parliament since Monday last week, only a debate on the Covid-19 pandemic in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday can be counted as substantive business so far, underlining the Opposition’s emphasis on protests over discussions on the other issues.The government and the chairmen of both Houses have repeatedly urged protesting MPs to participate in debates.Amid this planned flurry of legislative business, both Houses are also expected to discuss the country’s economic situation, a pet topic of the opposition parties. “It is likely to be discussed on Thursday in the Rajya Sabha,” a senior MP said, asking not to be named.But uncertainty over the legislative agenda continues as the Opposition is determined to carry over their last week’s protests into this week. The Congress is likely to demand a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the Pegasus issue and will only allow a debate on the snooping charges if the Union home minister participates in the debate, a person aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.Other opposition parties including the Trinamool Congress are also likely to step up their offensive against the government and participate in little business. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is visiting Delhi on Monday and her presence (she is set to come to the party’s parliamentary office) is likely to boost her party’s fight in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-protests-govt-looks-to-push-key-bills-in-house-101627237168993.html
26-07-2021||India||No differences remain, Rajasthan Cabinet rejig soon: Ajay Maken||After a public resolution to the turmoil in its Punjab unit, the Congress appears to have shifted its focus to Rajasthan.Central Congress leaders, tasked with addressing the concerns raised by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his supporters last year, held a meeting with state party leaders in Jaipur on Sunday, and said they have reached a consensus on the issue of state cabinet expansion but the final decision will be taken by the party high command in Delhi.The meeting, called by the state party chief Govind Singh Dotasra, was attended by 26 legislators, 12 ministers and 28 party office-bearers, according to a state Congress leader who asked not to be named. Among them was Pilot and nine legislators who back him, the person added.Congress general secretary Ajay Maken, who is in charge of Rajasthan for the party, presented a unified front after Sunday’s meeting. “I can say that there is no disagreement or contradiction among the party leaders and they all have left the final decision about the cabinet expansion to the party high command,” he told reporters, adding that the decision of the Delhi leadership will be accepted by all.He did not give a timeline for the cabinet expansion, one of the key demands of the Pilot camp, but party functionaries aware of the mattersaid the announcement may be made next month.Maken and All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal arrived in Jaipur from Delhi on Saturday, and held discussions with chief minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence in the state capital the same day.The central leaders on Saturday spoke to the CM about the issues raised by the Pilot camp: cabinet expansion, political appointments in state boards and corporations, and implementation of promises made before the 2018 assembly elections in Rajasthan, said a person familiar with the development.This was the first time since the Pilot camp’s rebellion that the central Congress leaders held such discussions with Gehlot, he added.In July last year, Pilot and 18 MLAs revolted against the chief minister, leading to a 30-day-long turmoil that ended with a compromise formula after the party high command in Delhi was roped in. Pilot was removed as the deputy to the CM, but the party formed a three-member panel comprising Maken, Venugopal and late Congress leader Ahmed Patel to resolve the issues raised by them.Nearly a year on, the Congress’s swift response in mitigating a similar crisis in Punjab — of infighting between the factions led by chief minister Amarinder Singh and newly appointed state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu — reinvigorated the Pilot camp.Since June, Pilot and his supporters have publically demanded that their issues be addressed by the party.In an interview to HT in June, Pilot said: “It has now been 10 months. I was given to understand that there would be swift action by the committee, but now half of the term is done, and those issues haven’t been resolved. It is unfortunate that so many of the party workers who worked and gave their all for getting us the mandate are not being heard.”Last week, the 43-year-old leader said he was in touch with senior Congress leaders and hoped that the required steps will be taken soon. “We are in touch with the high command and I believe that the AICC is going to take necessary steps required to be taken,” he said on Wednesday.Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki, a Pilot supporter who attended Sunday’s meeting, indicated that the outcome could be positive. “We met Maken and Venugopal, who assured us that the party leadership is looking into the issues, and soon expansion and appointments will be made on merits,” he said.At present, there are 21 members (including the chief minister) in the state cabinet, and nine slots are vacant. Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers.Maken is set to return to Jaipur later this month and hold individual discussions with Congress MLAs. “I am returning on July 28-29 and will hold a one-to-one dialogue with Congress MLAs over district and block (appointments) as AICC wants to know the feedback of MLAs before taking any decisions. We will also ask them for good names for appointments on boards and corporations,” he said.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, however, said a cabinet expansion will not be the solution to Congress’s problems in Rajasthan. The Gehlot government is “going to fall and the cabinet expansion, appointments and organisational posts cannot save them... The posts are limited and expectations of their workers and leaders are high”, said BJP legislator and state spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma.The Congress’s pivot to Rajasthan comes after the party averted a political crisis in Punjab, which goes to the polls early next year. Another panel formed by the party quelled Sidhu’s dissent against CM Amarinder Singh, and coronated the cricketer-turned-politician as the Congress Punjab unit chief last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-differences-remain-raj-cabinet-rejig-soon-maken-101627237167581.html
26-07-2021||India||India ready to discuss rights, democracy with US’s Blinken||India has signalled that it is open to engaging on human rights and democracy with those who recognise the value of diversity in the backdrop of reports that US secretary of state Antony Blinken will raise these issues during his visit to New Delhi this week.Ahead of Blinken’s visit that has been scheduled on July 27 and 28, US acting assistant secretary for South and Central Asian affairs Dean Thompson said last week that both human rights and democracy would be raised during the secretary of state’s engagements in India.“With respect to the human rights and democracy question, yes, you’re right; I will tell you that we will raise it, and we will continue that conversation because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don’t,” Thompson said in response to a question during a news briefing on July 23.“And we believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward,” he added.People familiar with the planning for Blinken’s visit said on condition of anonymity on Sunday that India, as a long-standing pluralistic society, is open to engaging with those who recognise the value of diversity.“Issues such as human rights and democracy are universal and extend beyond a particular national or cultural perspective. India is proud of its achievements in both domains and is always glad to share experiences,” one of the people cited above said.The Indian side will also raise global issues such as political and cultural rebalancing, especially New Delhi’s support for a multi-polar, democratic and diverse world order. The Indian side expects international conversations on these issues to reflect this evolution.“We believe in equity and fairness, whether in development, climate change or global decision-making,” the person cited above said.Discussions during Blinken’s visit will also cover working together at the United Nations, especially with India holding the presidency of the Security Council in August.Despite the growing convergence between India and the United States on security and strategic issues as well as the fight against Covid-19, human rights and freedom of expression have emerged as potential irritants between the two sides. Following the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, the US had called for the easing of restrictions on the region.In February, during his first phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after assuming office, US President Joe Biden had “underscored his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world and noted that a shared commitment to democratic values is the bedrock for the US-India relationship”.Also in February, the US had urged the Indian government to resume talks with protesting farmers who have gathered on the outskirts of New Delhi since late 2020. The American side has in the recent past also expressed concerns over India’s amended citizenship law.The Indian side has usually rejected such criticism by foreign governments, including the US, and said the country’s institutions and Constitution provide adequate safeguards for human rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ready-to-discuss-rights-democracy-with-us-s-blinken-101627236927473.html
26-07-2021||India||Assam opted for growth by re-electing BJP: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the people of Assam voted for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the second consecutive term because “they have permanently given up agitations, terrorism and arms in favour of development”.“A lot has been written and discussed about the BJP’s return to power in Assam. In my view, the party’s win means that Assam has permanently given up agitations, terrorism and arms in favour of development,” Shah said in Guwahati — his first visit to the region since the April-May election in Assam, in which the BJP swept to victory.Giving the analogy of construction, Shah said the first five years of the BJP government in Assam were akin to the laying of the foundation of a building, and the next five will be spent on the construction of it.Shah said that the faith reposed by the voters in the BJP once again showed that they approved of the five years of the government headed by Sarbananda Sonowal and were confident that chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma would carry on with the good work.“Only in the BJP you can witness an incumbent CM making way for another after running a state successfully for five years, and Sonowal happily welcomed Sarma. The move has benefited Assam as Sonowal is now a cabinet minister while Sarma handles the state,” the home minister said.Shah, who was on a two-day visit to Meghalaya and Assam, mentioned that it is the first instance since Independence that the northeast has five ministers in the Union cabinet. He said development of the region is a priority of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He informed that a new peace deal with insurgent groups in the Karbi Anglong region of Assam will be signed soon, and all peace accords signed with groups in the northeast will be implemented.Shah laid the foundation stone of a new medical college hospital at Tamulpur in lower Assam and launched an Assam government scheme to provide ₹1 lakh each to the family members of the nearly 5,000 people who died due to Covid-19 in the state by handing over cheques to three beneficiaries.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also spoke at the gathering and listed the schemes launched by his government to provide financial aid to various people affected by Covid-19: children who lost parents, women who lost husbands and families that lost their loved ones.Shah had earlier inaugurated a new radiotherapy block and linear acceleration machine at the State Cancer Institute attached to the Guwahati Medical College. He returned to Delhi after the event.Earlier in the day, Shah visited Sohra (Cherrapunjee) in Meghalaya, which was formerly the wettest place on earth. He was accompanied by Union ministers G Kishan Reddy, BL Verma and Jitendra Singh, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma and officials of the Assam Rifles, Shah planted saplings as part of a green drive called Green Sohra Plantation Drive. It’s part of the Assam Rifles’ Sohra Afforestation Project that is spread over almost 10,000 hectares.Shah then inaugurated the Greater Sohra Water Supply Scheme funded by the ministry for the development of the northeastern region or DoNER under the North East Special Infrastructure Development Scheme with a sanctioned amount of ₹2,481.25 lakh.CM Conrad Sangma called it a first-of-its-kind initiative of the Meghalaya government to bring together the ministry of home affairs, defence officials, and village communities for a novel and humanitarian purpose in the field of natural resource management in a very important and ecologically fragile landscape.The home minister also paid floral tributes at the statue of Swami Vivekananda at Ramakrishna Mission, Sohra.Earlier on Saturday, Shah met a delegation of the Meghalaya cabinet led by CM Sangma and promised that the Centre would examine in detail the demand for the implementation of the Inner Line Permit (ILP) in Meghalaya.Rural development minister Hamletson Dohling told journalists after the meeting that the minister gave them a patient hearing. Dohling claimed that this is the first time that the Union government has given the state a chance to raise the issue at the national level.“He (Shah) gave a patient hearing when I raised this issue. He said that he would look into it and let us know (about the Centre’s decision),” he said.On Saturday evening, the home minister met with the leaders of a few select civil society groups to discuss their demands, especially for ILP and solution of the boundary row with Assam. Attendees later said there was no commitment from the top National Democratic Alliance leader and it remained a routine assemblage.“The Union home minister only listened to our submission on the ILP but there was no assurance or commitment on it, which is a big insult to the people of the state,” Khasi Students Union president Lambokstarwell Marngar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-opted-for-growth-by-re-electing-bjp-shah-101627236928094.html
