27-07-2021||India||Meghalaya’s response helped defuse a conflict||SHILLONG: A timely response by the Ri-Bhoi district administration of Meghalaya thwarted off what could have been another border clash with Assam on Monday. What began as a mere civic amenity project by the Meghalaya Energy Corporation Limited (MeECL) by way of erecting electricity poles in Iongkhuli village on the same stretch where its Assamese counterpart had erected electric poles earlier in January, almost snowballed into a physical confrontation between Assam police and officials and members of the public in the area.According to Meghalaya officials, while the work was going on, at around 11am, a large posse of Assam government officials and senior police officials arrived at the scene and dismantled the erected poles. The act was not received well by the local residents who offered stiff resistance which almost led to fisticuffs.A timely response by the Ri-Bhoi additional district magistrate, the Superintendent of Police and senior police officials who arrived at the spot helped defuse the situation. On Tuesday, the Chief Executive Member (CEM) of the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC) Titosstarwell Chyne expressed concern over Assam’s intentions while observing that while on the one hand it sounds keen to resolve the border dispute, on the other it seems to openly encourage disputes with Meghalaya. “Iongkhuli village has never been in any of the disputed areas with Assam. I am surprised how it has happened like this,” he wondered.Meghalaya has identified 12 areas of difference with Assam and submitted documents on these, starting August 9, 2011. The hill state has been asking for the creation of a boundary commission monitored by the Centre to resolve the disputes. The total disputed area is around 2700 sq km. In recent years, the Assam government’s guest house which was used as the official residence of former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi was caught in a row between the two states. The residence located on a small hillock within Khanapara and Pilangakata has often been claimed by Meghalaya as part of its territory. In the past, Meghalaya government had said that it had records to prove its claim on the land.During last week’s meeting between Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K Sangma, it was decided to no longer maintain status quo on the boundary issue but instead proceed on resolving it at the earliest. The next round of CM level meetings will be in Dispur on August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalayas-response-helped-defuse-a-conflict-101627410319962.html
27-07-2021||India||Mizoram, assam lock horns over border clashes||GUWAHATI: Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana said on Tuesday that the violent clash along the border between both states on Monday that claimed seven ives and injured 41 (on the Assam side) was the outcome of provocation by the neighbouring state, rejecting Assam’s version of events.  Assam maintains that Mizoram police were the first to start firing at its (Assam’s) police personnel and civilians, but Lalchamliana stated that his state’s security forces responded to firing initiated by the Assam side. “Yesterday’s incident was unfortunate, but Assam police should not have entered Mizoram forcibly to remove residents,” the home minister said refuting the comments of Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. On Tuesday, Sarma, who visited Silchar and met those injured in clashes a day earlier, told journalists that Assam administrative and police officials who went to the border on Monday to request the Mizoram side to maintain status quo of the disputed area were first attacked by a mob of miscreants and later fired upon by Mizoram police personnel. “One shouldn’t believe all statements made by the Assam chief minister. It was Assam police personnel and civilians who entered Mizoram’s territory on Monday and created problems. When Assam police started firing, our forces had to retaliate to save themselves,” said Lalchamliana. “Assam police personnel came heavily armed and were the first to open fire. Our personnel, who were also armed with automatic weapons and light machine guns (LMGs), responded to the attack. Whatever has happened in unfortunate,” he added. On Tuesday, Lalchamliana visited the area in Vairengte where the border clashes took place a day earlier. As per a Mizoram government release, the state police has been deployed at three places along the border where “tension surged up recently due to incursion by Assam Police”. Mizoram has not put out an official statement on casualties it suffered in the clash. A staffer at the Mizoram CM’s office told HT over phone on Monday that three people sustained injuries. On Tuesday, Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweeted a photo of one injured getting treated at a hospital in Kolasib for ”grievous injuries”. “The situation along the border is peaceful on Tuesday. We believe violence will not solve anything and we want resolution of the border issue through talks. I can’t comment on when and where the CMs of both states will have a meeting to discuss the issue,” said Lalchamliana. He added that the union home secretary has called for a meeting with chief secretaries and police chiefs of both Mizoram and Assam at New Delhi on Wednesday to discuss Monday’s incident and also the border issue. “But the union home secretary is an IAS-office of the Assam-Meghalaya cadre. Can we expect a neutral outcome from the talks?” questioned the Mizoram home minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-assam-lock-horns-over-border-clashes-101627410260010.html
27-07-2021||India||China created Covid-19 as ‘biological weapon’: Plea in Delhi court seeks NIA probe||Former director general of health services Dr Jagdish Prasad moved a Delhi court on Tuesday seeking directions to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to lodge an FIR and commence a probe into the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, news agency ANI reported.In his plea, Dr Prasad stated that it is “clear” the virus that has “origins in China” has been “deliberately, artificially created as a biological weapon, and spread as [the same] as part of a conspiracy” with the aim to cause widespread human and financial loss in India and worldwide.“All this has been the result of a possible deliberate conspiracy by state and/or non-state actors in China, as part of a coordinated creation and transmission of the virus,” the plea further said.The petition also highlighted that though intelligence agencies and agencies accountable for overviewing immigration into China were aware of the risk linked to the coronavirus, they refrained from issuing warnings or directions or even taking measures to check its spread in the early stages. Dr Prasad said that the roles of such agencies should be scrutinised as part of the NIA investigation.The plea said that officials associated with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), and the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), among others, are “material witnesses” in the investigation process.Dr Prasad stated that owing to the “nefarious, terrorist, expansionist, aggressive and animus behaviour of China at the borders in the northeast region of India,” it would be dangerous to not undertake a “detailed investigation of the origins and spread of the virus from China to India.” The plea added that the probe will help disclose the “entire truth” and the “guilty can be punished in accordance with various provisions of Indian laws.”The petition has moved through advocate Mahmoood Pracha and sought filing of FIR under section 156 (3) Cr PC and section 16 of the NIA Act.This follows China’s latest jibe at the US over investigation into the origin of Covid-19 pandemic. Spokesperson of China’s Foreign Affairs Ministry, Zhao Lijian on Monday took to Twitter to state that laboratories are to be probed. The World Health Organisation (WHO) officials should “go to Fort Detrick.”“Only in this way can truth be revealed to the world,” Zhao wrote on the microblogging site.Earlier this month, the WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that a second stage of the international probe should include “audits of relevant laboratories and research institutions operating in the area of the initial human cases identified in December 2019.Last month, Ghebreyesus had urged China to cooperate with the ongoing probe. “We need transparency to understand or know or find the origin of this virus... after the report was released, there were difficulties in data sharing, especially with raw data,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-created-covid-19-as-biological-weapon-plea-in-delhi-hc-seeks-nia-probe-101627408757501.html
27-07-2021||India||Covishield vaccine reduced new Covid-19 cases by 93%, deaths by 98%: Centre||Covishield, the vaccine against Covid-19 manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, reduced fresh cases of the disease by 93% and reduced related deaths by 98%, the ministry of defence said on Tuesday citing a vaccine effectiveness study conducted by the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS).At a press briefing earlier in the day, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said that the study was conducted on 1.5 million doctors and frontline workers. “Protection to the extent of 93% was seen (in people who were administered the Covishield vaccine) and this was during the second wave which was driven by the Delta variant of Covid-19... also 98%mortality reduction was seen,” Dr Paul said, while presenting the findings of the study.The AFMS on Tuesday published the Vaccine effectiveness among healthcare and frontline workers of Indian Armed Forces (Vin-WIN) cohort study in Medical Journal Armed Forces India, a peer reviewed scientific journal.Also read | Zydus Cadila submits additional data on its Covid-19 vaccine to DCGI: ReportAccording to the study, the Covishield vaccine reduced fresh infections by 93% and deaths by 98%. The study was largely conducted on healthy males with few comorbid illnesses. Moreover, children and the elderly were not included in the study. The study is possibly the largest study worldwide on Covid-19 vaccine effectiveness so far.According to the press release, 1.59 million healthcare workers and frontline workers of the armed forces were among the first recipients when India launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive earlier on January 16.Calculating vaccine effectivenessBoth the incident rate and the incident rate ratios were calculated by the authors in the Vin-WIN study. Vaccine effectiveness was calculated as a one-incident ratio.Both crude and corrected rates were estimated and adjusted for the force of pandemic, second wave and the changing numbers in the three groups on a daily basis. The study was achieved at no additional cost by analysing available data, according to the official release.The director general of the AFMS said that the study was carried out on anonymised data from the existing Armed Forces health surveillance system which had been enhanced for monitoring Covid-19, the release further showed.Also, data about the daily vaccinations with first and second doses, dates of testing positive for Covid-19 and deaths were present in the surveillance system, which were analysed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-vaccine-reduced-new-covid-19-cases-by-93-deaths-by-98-centre-101627408533018.html
27-07-2021||India||Covid-19 snatched 14.5 million tourism jobs in Q1 of 2020-21 fiscal, shows data||An estimated 14.5 million tourism-related jobs were lost in the first quarter of 2020-21 fiscal, and the sector experienced a financial setback of nearly 43% owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent nationwide lockdown, Union tourism minister G Kishan Reddy informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.In a written reply, Reddy said that the pandemic affected 34.8 million people that the tourism sector directly employed. “As per the results of the study conducted by National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), due to the overall economic slowdown during 2020-21, tourism economy or tourism direct gross value added (TDGVA) saw a fall of 42.8% in Q1,” he added.However, the sector’s economic situation improved marginally in the second and third quarters of the previous financial year when the TDGVA declined by 15.5% and 1.1%, respectively.Owing to the significant drop in tourist arrivals and the financial crisis during the pandemic, the TDGVA is estimated to have plummeted by as much as 93.3% in the first quarter of 2020-21 over its level in the same quarter of the preceding year.“A significant number of jobs were lost in the tourism sector after the lockdown was implemented,” Reddy added.The minister informed the Parliament that the tourism sector lost nearly 5.2 million and 1.8 million jobs in the second and third quarters of the previous financial year against an estimated “34.8 million (direct) jobs in the pre-pandemic period of 2019-20.”This development follows a recent survey finding by online platform LocalCircles, which revealed that 28% of Indians plan to travel from August to September this year despite the imminent possibility of a third wave of the coronavirus. The survey that analysed responses from over 18,000 Indians living in 311 districts said that 5% of those planning to travel have already made bookings for their accommodation. Meanwhile, as many as 9,146 people (63%) said that they don’t have any travel plans.The Centre on Tuesday warned that the pandemic is “far from over” with 22 districts – the maximum being in Kerala (seven) and Manipur (five) — witnessing an upward swing in the daily Covid-19 cases during the last four weeks.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-snatched-14-5-million-tourism-jobs-in-q1-of-2020-21-fiscal-shows-data-101627407513224.html
27-07-2021||India||Second Bommai to become CM, checks all boxes for BJP||For the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), Basavaraj Bommai is the ideal candidate to replace BS Yediyurappa. The 61-year-old is a Lingayat, obedient to the Central leadership and a close associate of BS Yediyurappa. According to party insiders, all groups within the BJP are happy with the decision and believe that the change of power, that could have affected the party adversely, has culminated well with Bommai’s appointment. Unlike Yediyurappa, who was part of the BJP from its inception, Bommai started his political career with the Janata Dal and worked with senior leaders including HD Deve Gowda and Ramakrishna Hegde during this time. In 2008 he left the Janata Dal (United) and joined the BJP. A graduate in mechanical engineering, Bommai was elected as a member of the Karnataka Legislative Council in 1998 and 2004 from Dharwad. He was thrice elected to Karnataka Legislative Assembly from the Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district in 2008, 2013 and 2018. This is the second time in the state’s political history that a father-son duo would have held the chief minister’s post. His father SR Bommai was instrumental in the Janata Party forming a government in the state for the first time in 1983 and became the CM in 1988, after then chief minister Ramakrishna Hedge resigned over snooping charges. The other father-son duo to have achieved this feat are Janata Dal Secular President HD Deve Gowda and his son Kumaraswamy. His socialist father is best remembered for a landmark battle in the Supreme Court known as SR Bommai versus Union of India case that he fought after his government in Karnataka fell following defections. The judgment in that case laid down certain guidelines against the misuse of Article 356 of the Constitution by the Central governments to impose President’s Rule on states with unfriendly governments. He had moved court against the governor’s refusal to provide him an opportunity to prove his majority on floor of the house. The selection of junior Bommai, a Lingayat, comes after several pontiffs from Lingayat mutts in the state warned the BJP central command against removing Yediyurappa, a tall leader of the Lingayat community. The Lingayat community forms close to 16% of the state’s population and they have been a loyal vote base for the saffron party. His appointment is expected to appease the community, according to BJP leaders. During this term as the home minister, he made headlines over his announcement to conduct National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Karnataka, even before the Union government issued any orders. In October 2019, he said the Karnataka government is collecting information on immigrants in the state and will work towards Assam-like NRC after a discussion with the Central government. However, following a backlash, he claimed that it will only be a survey of overstaying foreigners and not be an NRC. He was also a trusted lieutenant of BS Yediyurappa, who often spoke in the assembly on behalf of the government. “Even though he was the home minister, he knew about the development in all departments. You find him often in the assembly, answering the questions on behalf of several departments with clarity,” pointed out a BJP leader. Political analyst and a faculty at the Azim Premji University, A Narayana, said the appointment of Bommai was a win-win situation for all stakeholders in the party. “First of all, he is a Lingayat, which takes care of the party’s biggest vote bank. He is close to Yediyurappa, which makes the veteran leader less unhappy with the new appointment. For Modi and Amit Shah, he is someone who will be obedient...,” he said. However, a senior leader in the BJP, on the condition of anonymity, said that even though he is close to Yediyurappa, more than Bommai’s appointment, the position given to his son would decide Yediyurappa’s approach towards the party. “As long as Bommai doesn’t become a powerful leader, who pushes back against the central leadership, he will remain in the post. As of now, he is an ideal candidate for the central leadership,” said the leader who didn’t want to be named..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-bommai-to-become-cm-checks-all-boxes-for-bjp-101627407919769.html
27-07-2021||India||Centre allocates ₹73,000 crore for MGNREGA for 2021-22 fiscal||The Centre has allocated ₹73,000 crore at the Budget Estimate stage for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) for the 2021-22 fiscal year. The allocated budget is 34% less than the revised estimate of ₹1,11,500 crore 2020-21 financial year, a statement released by the ministry of rural development on Tuesday revealed.However, in terms of budgetary allocation, there has been an increase of ₹11,500 crore, from ₹61,500 crore to ₹73,000 crore during the period under review.The hike in MGNREGA allocation comes a week after Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) announced an assistance package of ₹532 crore for 32 lakh MGNREGA workers, who have worked in the state for the past three months. In addition to the daily wage of ₹207 that workers are given under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, they will receive an additional ₹50 for each day of work done, said a press release from panchayati raj department.MGNREGA is a socio-economic measure introduced by the United Progressive Alliance government in 2005. It provides at least 100 days of employment to adult members of every household, in a bid to provide livelihood security in rural areas.“During the previous financial year 2020-21, at least 11.19 crore people were provided employment and more than 389.23 crore person-days were generated. In the current financial year 2021-22 (as on 23.07.2021), 6.51 crore persons have been provided employment and more than 130.9 crore person-days have been generated under Mahatma Gandhi NREGS. During the financial year 2020-21, an amount Rs. 1, 11, 170.86 crore has been released and an amount of Rs. 41,187.06 crore has been released in current financial year 2021-22 (as on 20.07.2021) for the implementation of the programme,” the ministry said in the release.Andhra Pradesh has the highest number of beneficiaries enrolled under the MGNREGA scheme, followed by the states of Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allocates-73-000-crore-for-mgnrega-for-2021-22-fiscal-101627405998139.html
27-07-2021||India||US backs India as global power and vital partner in Indo-Pacific as Blinken begins visit||The US said on Monday it backs India’s emergence as a leading global power and a vital partner to make the Indo-Pacific a region of stability and economic inclusion as secretary of state Antony Blinken began a two-day visit to the country. Blinken, the third senior member of the Biden administration to travel to India this year, is expected to hold wide-ranging discussions on issues such as the situation in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific during his meetings with external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The secretary of state flew into New Delhi hours after US defense secretary Lloyd Austin accused China of working against the shared principles and interests of the US and its partners across the Indo-Pacific. While the US and its friends are committed to inclusion and freedom of the seas, China had shown “unwillingness to resolve disputes peacefully and respect the rule of law”, he said. Opposing China’s claim to the majority of the South China Sea, Austin said: “We have also seen aggression against India…destabilising military activity and other forms of coercion against the people of Taiwan…and genocide and crimes against humanity against Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang.” A fact sheet issued by the US state department soon after Blinken arrived in New Delhi on Monday evening said his engagements will reaffirm Washington’s commitment to strengthen the bilateral partnership and underscore cooperation on shared priorities. “The United States supports India’s emergence as a leading global power and vital partner in efforts to ensure that the Indo-Pacific is a region of peace, stability, and growing prosperity and economic inclusion,” the fact sheet said. The US and India are closely coordinating on regional security issues, such as Afghanistan, and are also partnering to strengthen the global Covid-19 response, on issues ranging from addressing infectious disease outbreaks to securing global supply chains. Besides working to expand cooperation in international organisations, the US will host the fourth 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers later this year. At the maiden Quad Leaders’ Summit in March, US President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined their Japanese and Australian counterparts in pledging to respond to the economic and health impacts of Covid-19, combat the climate crisis and address shared challenges in cyber-space, critical technologies, counter-terrorism, quality infrastructure investment, and maritime security. The US has provided more than $200 million for India’s Covid-19 relief and response efforts, including more than $50 million in emergency supplies and training for more than 218,000 frontline health workers. US pharmaceutical companies coordinated with Indian counterparts on issues such as voluntary licensing and technology transfer agreements to increase global manufacturing capacity for Covid-19 vaccines, therapies and conducting clinical trials. Though the US has also outlined plans to share millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccines from its surplus stocks, actual supplies have been held up by differences over the issue of indemnity for American manufacturers of the jabs. Under the US-India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership launched in April, the two sides intend to launch a new climate action and finance mobilisation dialogue and relaunch the strategic clean energy partnership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-backs-india-as-global-power-and-vital-partner-in-indo-pacific-as-blinken-begins-visit-101627406300292.html
27-07-2021||India||Covid: Assam issues revised SOPs, 2 districts to observe round-the-clock curfew||The Assam government on Tuesday issued a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The directives will come into effect from 5am on Wednesday.The order issued by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said two districts, including Golaghat and Lakhimpur, will remain under total containment zone owing to high Covid-19 positivity rate. All commercial and business establishments, offices, restaurants, eateries, resorts, takeaway of food items from restaurants and eateries among others will be closed in these districts.The revised order continued with the ongoing ban on inter-district movement of people.Five districts — Goalpara, Morigaon, Jorhat, Sonitpur and Biswanath — which have reported moderate positivity rate, will be under curfew between 2pm and 5am while restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles in other districts will be from 5pm till 5am, the order further said.(1/2) SOP | The following directives for both rural and urban areas will remain in force w.e.f 5 AM of July 28, 2021 until further order. #Assam #Guwahati #COVID19 #ASDMA #NDMA #SOP pic.twitter.com/xj20yCPFgPShops selling groceries, fruits and vegetables and dairy items will be allowed to operate till 5pm in districts with high and moderate positivity rate. However, business and commercial establishments can open till 1pm in districts with moderate positivity rate.In districts where there is an improvement in the positivity rate, the establishments, including shops selling groceries, fruits and vegetables and dairy items can operate till 4pm.“There is a total ban on movement of all public and private transport in total containment districts. However, movement of goods shall continue,” the order said. Public gatherings remained banned in such districts.All other previous directives such as mandatory wearing of masks in public places, online classes for schools, colleges and other educational institutions, odd-even formula for plying of vehicles will continue.Assam on Monday recorded 1,528 new Covid-19 cases and 26 more deaths, which pushed the caseload and death toll to 560, 019 and 5,162 respectively, the health department’s bulletin said. As many as 1,830 were recovered on Monday and the total recoveries have climbed to 539, 928, while the active cases stand at 13,582.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-assam-issues-revised-sops-2-districts-to-observe-round-the-clock-curfew-101627404743059.html
27-07-2021||India||Clash over land leaves 13 injured at Tripura-Mizoram border||A clash over a plot of land between two different communities left at least 13 injured at Damcherra in North district of Tripura, said police on Tuesday. Damcherra is Tripura’s last village before the inter-state boundary with Mizoram. Of the injured persons, seven are from the Bru community while the rest are from the Halam community. This is likely to be the first noteworthy incident of violence involving the Brus since the process to settle around 30,000 members of the community in Tripura started earlier this year in April, when about 1,600 Bru families were permanently settled in Dhalai and North Tripura districts. Halam communities of Tripura belong to the Kuki-Chin tribes of Tibeto-Burmese ethnic group.“We took a suo moto case. No one has been arrested so far. We have imposed Section 144 in the area for an indefinite period,” said superintendent of police (SP) of North district Bhanupada Chakraborty. Police said there was tension between the two communities over possession of the land since the past 15 days which ended in a clash on Monday leaving 13 injured. Two among the injured Brus were admitted to a hospital in Dharmanagar with serious head injuries. A quadripartite agreement signed between the Centre, Tripura and Mizoram governments and Bru leaders in January last year allowed over 32,000 Brus permanent resettlement in Tripura. The Centre also announced a ₹600 crore package for resettlement of the migrants in clusters.The decision led to several protests by a few local organisations against their permanent settlement. Two persons including a fireman were killed and 20 others injured during the anti-Bru settlement protests last year. The Brus came to the state in 1997 to escape an ethnic clash in Mizoram and started staying at six relief camps in the North District. Nearly 5000 Bru families have been repatriated since 2009 in the ninth phase of repatriation. Expressing deep concern over the issue, CPM demanded that the state government take measures to restore peace and normalise the situation in the affected area. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee said the party suspected “a conspiracy” behind the incident. “We believe that police will investigate the matter and take proper action,” Bhattacharjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clash-over-land-leaves-13-injured-at-tripura-mizoram-border-101627404500053.html
27-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai is new Karnataka CM: List of other father-son chief ministers||Basavaraj Bommai, the son of 11th chief minister of Karnataka, SR Bommai, was on Tuesday formally announced by the ruling Bharaitiya Janata Party (BJP) as the southern state’s next CM, a day after BS Yediyurappa stepped down from the post. Bommai and his father, who held the office from August 1988 to April 1989, join several other father-son duos who have been chief ministers.Also Read: Basavaraj Bommai is Karnataka’s new chief ministerHere are some such pairings who became CMs of their respective states:(1.) HD Deve Gowda and HD Kumaraswamy: Beginning with Karnataka, Deve Gowda was its 14th chief minister, from December 1994 to May 1996, after which he resigned to take over as the prime minister. As PM, Deve Gowda was in office from June 1996 to April 1997. His son Kumaraswamy, meanwhile, was chief minister across two terms and was heading the Congress-JDS coalition government which collapsed in July 2019, paving the way for Yediyurappa to return to power for a fourth term which came to an end on Monday.(2.) M Karunanidhi and MK Stalin: In neighbouring Tamil Nadu, DMK patriarch Karunanidhi held its chief ministership across five terms between 1969 and 2011. His son Stalin is the incumbent and first-time CM; under Stalin’s leadership, the DMK ousted arch-rivals AIADMK from power in the recently-held assembly elections.(3.) YS Rajasekhara Reddy-YS Jagan Mohan Reddy: Andhra Pradesh, another southern state, elected YS Rajasekhara Reddy as its 14th chief minister and he held the post across two terms, from 2004-2009. His son, Jagan Mohan Reddy, is the incumbent chief minister in his first term, since May 2019.(4.) Biju Patnaik-Naveen Patnaik: In Odisha, Biju Patnaik held the state’s top job twice, from 1961-1963 and 1990-95. Naveen, meanwhile, is another incumbent CM and has been in office since 2000, across five terms.(5.) Mulayam Singh Yadav-Akhilesh Yadav: In the country’ most populous state of Uttar Pradesh, Mulayam Singh Yadav was in CM’s chair across three terms while Akhilesh was in office for a single term, from 2012-17.(6.) Shibu Soren-Hemant Soren: In Jharkhand, Shibu Soren was the chief minister for three terms while Hemant Soren, a 2-term CM, began his current stint in December 2019.Other father-son chief minister pairings include Shankarrao Chavan-Ashok Chavan (Maharashtra), PA Sangma-Conrad Sangma (Meghalaya) and Dorjee Khandu-Pema Khandu (Arunachal Pradesh). Conrad Sangma and Pema Khandu are both incumbent chief ministers.Additionally, the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, now a Union territory, has had both father-son and father-daughter pairings as CMs. Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar, and Mufti Mohammad Sayeed and Mehbooba Mufti were all chief ministers of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basavaraj-bommai-is-new-karnataka-cm-list-of-other-father-son-chief-ministers-101627402049573.html
27-07-2021||India||‘You may be tired, but Covid is not’: Centre warns as fear of third wave lingers||Addressing a press briefing on Tuesday, the joint secretary of the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) Lav Agarwal said that there is a “noticeable increase” in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the globe and that remains the “area of concern.”"We've to work on containing the spread of the virus with strictness," he further said, adding that the pandemic is “far from over” if gauged from the global perspective.Citing data on Worldometer, the Centre pointed out that as of July 26, as many as 5,27,828 new Covid-19 cases are being reported across the globe on a daily basis. Although the number is less in comparison to April and January this year when the global daily case count was 9,03,306 and 8,40,131, respectively, it is still higher to assume that the pandemic has subsided.Coronavirus cases in the United States have witnessed 1.4 times increase in the past 14 days, while in France it has surged 3.5 times. Infections have gone up by 2.7 times in Italy and 1.2 times in Japan as well, according to data from Outworldindata.“This is an indication for us that we still cannot relax and must continue to strictly follow Covid management rules in order to contain the virus,” the government said, adding that “we may be tired, but the virus is not.”Indonesia has become the new epicentre for Covid-19 cases after the country reported 45,416 fresh cases on Sunday, thereby overtaking India, Brazil and the US in terms of new infections, Worldometer data revealed.As far as India is concerned, it reported less than 30,000 new cases on Tuesday – the first time in 132 days with 29,689 infections, Union health ministry’s bulletin data showed.The warning comes at a time when India is fearing the probable arrival of a third wave of Covid-19, even as declining new Covid-19 cases has resulted in ignorance towards following pandemic protocols such as maintaining social distance and wearing of masks.Furthermore, the Delta variant that was first identified in India, has become the most dominant of its kind with it being found in 124 countries now, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said last week. “It is expected that it will rapidly outcompete other variants and become the dominant circulating lineage over the coming months,” the UN health agency said in its epidemiological update on July 21.Notably, Delta variant accounts for over 75% of the Covid-19 cases across the world, including Great Britain, Russia, Australia, South Africa, Bangladesh, Singapore and India, among others, the WHO report stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-may-be-tired-but-covid-is-not-centre-warns-as-fear-of-third-wave-lingers-101627400899187.html
27-07-2021||India||Exclusive: Rakesh Asthana appointed Delhi Police Commissioner||Director General of Border Security Force (BSF) Rakesh Asthana was on Tuesday appointed as Commissioner of Delhi Police by the Narendra Modi government. A 1984-batch IPS officer from Gujarat cadre, Asthana was appointed as Delhi police chief, three days before he was to superannuate."Consequent upon appointment of Shri Rakesh Asthana, IPS (GJ:84), Director General, BSF, as Commissioner of Police, Delhi, the competent authority has approved that Shri S. S. Deswal, IPS (HY:84), Director General, ITBP shall hold additional charge of the post of DG, BSF vice Shri Asthana, till the appointment and joining of the regular incumbent or until further orders whichever is earlier," the order from the Union home ministry said.Known for his professional competence and integrity, Asthana was drawn into an unsavory controversy when he locked horns with then CBI Director Alok Verma as a Special Director on conduct over high profile cases. Asthana was shunted out along with Alok Verma, on January 10, 2019, and appointed to the post of Director General Bureau of Civil Aviation Security and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB).While the government had given additional charge of Delhi Police to Balaji Srivastava after the retirement of S N Shrivastava on June 30, the decision to appoint Asthana has been taken as the Home Minister Amit Shah wants to reform Delhi Police by making it more professional and responsive. Asthana is known for criminal investigation and was the key player in the unravelling of the Indian Mujahideen in Gujarat in the past decade.Although Asthana was the front runner for appointment to the Director CBI after Rishi Shukla, he was overlooked on technical legal grounds raised by the committee members.Asthana as DG of NCB has been at the forefront of drug seizures and has directed the investigation into the influx of cocaine and synthetic drugs in the Mumbai film industry. As DG BSF, he has been pushing the force to make borders more secure by unravelling tunnels used by Pakistan-based terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-asthana-to-take-over-as-delhi-police-commissioner-101627400466804.html
27-07-2021||India||Misrepresented facts: Centre quashes reports on missing half a billion Covid vaccine goal by July 31||The Centre on Tuesday quashed media reports stating that India will miss its target of administering half-a-billion Covid-19 vaccine doses by July 31 and called them “ill-informed” and “clearly misrepresented the facts.” The reports also cited the Indian government claiming in May 2021 that it would make 516 million jabs available by the end of July.In a statement, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said, “The facts are that a total of more than 516 million vaccine doses will indeed be supplied from January 2021 to July 31, 2021.”It added that the reports “might have picked up” the figures of the 516 vaccine doses from “various sources which informed about the likely availability of the vaccine doses” during the timeline.The health ministry statement further stated that coronavirus vaccine jabs are supplied to the states and Union territories according to advance allocation and information regarding the doses to be sent are conveyed beforegan.“Vaccines are supplied in various schedules throughout the month. Therefore, availability of 516 million doses till the end of a particular month does not mean that every dose supplied till that month is going to be consumed or administered,” it read.The Centre explained that vaccine supplies remain in pipeline, which should be available for the next few days till the next batches of vaccine jabs materialise in a particular state or district or sub-district to keep the vaccination process going.Between January and July 26, the Centre supplied a total of 457 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to the states and Union territories, and an additional 60.3 million doses are expected to be supplied by July 31, the health ministry projection showed. “This will amount to a total of 517 million doses supplied from January 2021 to July 31, 2021,” the statement added.India has administered 440 million vaccine doses under the nationwide vaccination drive so far, which the Centre claims to be the “largest number achieved in the world”. Of these, 9.6 beneficiaries got both doses of the vaccine, the health ministry statement said.As many as 11.97 crore jabs were administered in June while 10.62 crore jabs were given in July (till July 26). “It is the endeavour of the government to provide vaccination to eligible citizens in the shortest possible time as per availability of the Covid-19 vaccines,” the health ministry said.India on Tuesday reported 29,689 fresh Covid-19 cases, which was the first time in 132 days (since March 16) that the country’s daily case count was less than 30,000, health ministry’s bulletin data showed. The figures were 10,000 less than Monday’s when 39,361 new cases were reported. The active caseload stands at 3,98,100, which is 1.27 per cent of the total cases, according to the bulletin data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-quashes-reports-on-missing-half-a-billion-covid-vaccine-goal-by-july-31-101627399475683.html
27-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre cautions Covid-19 pandemic 'far from over' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.54 districts reporting more than 10% positivity; Covid-19 pandemic ‘far from over’: CentreThe Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday said that the number of new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have continuously declined following its peak in early May. Read MoreZydus Cadila submits additional data on its Covid-19 vaccine to DCGI: ReportAhmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, which has developed what, if approved, will be India's second home-made shot against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has reportedly submitted additional data related to immunogenicity and safety of the vaccine to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the country's drug regulator. Read MoreIMF downgrades India’s growth projection due to second wave of Covid-19 pandemicThe second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has set back the Indian economy severely, according to the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) projections for the world economy released on Tuesday. Read MoreAssam-Mizoram border sealed, MHA calls meeting of officialsThe home ministry has called a meeting of senior officials from Assam and Mizoram even as the Central Reserve Police Force has increased deployment of personnel at Assam-Mizoram border, which remained tense on Tuesday, a day after violent clashes between two states claimed 6 lives and left 50 others injured. Read More'After Virat, he is the most complete player in batting': Harbhajan names India batsman who is 'must' in all squadsThe India vs Sri Lanka series was always expected to be a pre-curser to the T20 World Cup which is to be played later this year, with the six matches providing a platform for the younger members of the team to present a case for themselves when the global ICC event comes rolling. Read MoreIf you are under 16 Instagram is going make your account private, restrict ads, and hide unwanted adult contactInstagram has announced some important changes they are bringing in for users under the age of 16 on the platform, including changes to its advertising algorithms. Read MoreShruti Seth’s belt supported abdominal workout is perfect Iyengar Yoga for homeWhen not lighting up our feeds with joy by sharing lively clips of her 5-year-old daughter, actor Shruti Seth is seen motivating fans towards a fitter lifestyle and this work week is no different. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-cautions-covid-19-pandemic-far-from-over-and-all-the-latest-news-101627398324043.html
27-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai is Karnataka’s new chief minister||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) named 61-year-old Basavaraj Bommai as Karnataka’s new chief minister following the legislative party meeting at Bengaluru’s Capitol hotel on Tuesday evening. Arun Singh, in charge of party affairs in Karnataka, and Central observers held the crucial meeting in Bengaluru. BJP’s parliamentary board had appointed Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy as Central observers for selection of new leader. Basavaraj Bommai was the home minister in Yediyurappa’s council of ministers, which was dissolved following the 78-year-old leader’s resignation as chief minister on Monday. Bommai is considered a close confidant of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa. Son of former chief minister S R Bommai, Basavaraj Bommai started his political career with the Janata Dal and worked with senior leaders including HD Devegowda and Ramakrishna Hegde. He left the Janata Dal (United) and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in February 2008. A graduate in mechanical engineering, Bommai was elected as a member of the Karnataka Legislative Council in 1998 and 2004 from Dharwad. He was thrice elected to Karnataka Legislative Assembly from the Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district in 2008, 2013 and 2018. The selection of Bommai, who is from the Lingayat community, comes after several pontiffs from Lingayat mutts in the state had warned the BJP central command against removing Yediyurappa, a tall leader of the Lingayat community. The Lingayat community forms close to 16% of the state’s population and they have been a loyal vote base for the saffron party. Even though there were speculations that the BJP may appoint a leader from a different community, it eventually zeroed down on the Lingayat leader. BS Yediyurappa resignation on Monday ended months of speculation following growing dissidence within the Karnataka unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The 78-year-old leader made the announcement in an emotional speech at an event celebrating two years in power before submitting his resignation to governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. “I’m not sad. I’m happy. I can’t thank in words PM Modi, Amit Shah, and JP Nadda for letting me be the chief minister even though I was over 75 years of age,” Yediyurappa said. “There is no question of political retirement for any reason, I’m with the karyakartas and the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basavarai-bommai-is-karnataka-s-new-chief-minister-101627398551452.html
27-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila submits additional data on its Covid-19 vaccine to DCGI: Report||Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, which has developed what, if approved, will be India's second home-made shot against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has reportedly submitted additional data related to immunogenicity and safety of the vaccine to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), the country's drug regulator.Previously, the DCGI had asked the firm to return with more data on this front. However, as per phase 1 trial results, the DNA plasmid-based vaccine, ZyCoV-D, was found to be immunogenic and safe. The result of the 48-participant trial was published by Lancet.Also Read | Cadila jab immunogenic, safe: Phase 1 trial data"Immunogenicity" is defined as the ability of a foreign substance to trigger an immune response in the body of a human being or an animal.An emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the DCGI will be granted after it reviews data recommended in the meeting of its Subject Expert Committee (SEC). If satisfied, the regulator is expected to approve the vaccine in August.On July 1, Zydus Cadila submitted an application, seeking EUA for its three-dose vaccine for citizens above the age of 12. It mentioned in its application that the vaccine showed an efficacy of 66.6% in an interim analysis of phase 3 trials. ZyCoV-D is one of two vaccines which, experts believe, will soon be granted approval to be administered to children; Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, the country's first indigenous anti-Covid jab is the other. Currently, those aged 18 and above are eligible for vaccination against Covid-19.Also Read | ‘Efficacy 67%’: Zydus seeks nod for vaccineOnce cleared, ZyCoV-2 will be India's fifth vaccine against the coronavirus disease. Covaxin, Covishield, Sputnik V and Moderna are the other four. The former two were approved in January and have been used since the nationwide vaccination drive commenced on 16th of that month, while the latter two were approved in April and June, respectively.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-submits-additional-data-on-its-covid-19-vaccine-to-dcgi-report-101627395762453.html
27-07-2021||India||54 districts reporting more than 10% positivity; Covid-19 pandemic ‘far from over’: Centre||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday said that the number of new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have continuously declined following its peak in early May.However, the ministry also noted that in the past few weeks the rate of the decline has slowed down which remained an area of concern and the issue is being discussed with the states.Joint secretary of the health ministry, Lav Agarwal, said that the number of districts reporting over 100 new cases everyday has reduced since the past two months.While 379 districts witnessed over 100 daily infections till a month ago (May 25), the number further reduced to 121 districts as of June 25.On that day, as many as 62 districts in India reported over 100 new cases in a 24-hour-span, data shared by the joint secretary during Tuesday’s press briefing showed. Agarwal also said that such districts are very localised and in a limited set of areas.Also read | Private hospitals procured 1.27 crore Covid-19 vaccines doses in May: CentreDuring the past four weeks, 22 districts witnessed an increasing trend in the daily cases. Kerala, with seven districts — Alappuzha, Kottayam, Malappuram, Thrissur, Wayanad, Ernakulam and Pathanamthitta — contributed the maximum to the list. While Manipur added five districts, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh added three each. Maharashtra contributed two districts and Assam and Tripura added one each.Further, another list of 54 districts were flagged by the ministry for reporting more than 10% positivity as of the week ending on July 26. Kerala and Manipur contributed the maximum to this list too, with 10 districts each.The ministry said that the active caseload continued to decline and stood at 398,100 as of Tuesday and the cumulative recovery rate was recorded at 97.4% as of date.On the Covid-19 vaccination front, over 440 million doses have been administered in the country so far. This includes the 18 million doses administered to healthcare workers, 28 million doses to frontline workers, 240 millions doses given to people over 45 years of age and the 140 million doses to those between 18 and 44 years.The ministry also strongly cautioned against the rising number of cases worldwide and said that the “pandemic is far from over.” The United States, France, Japan, Italy, Malaysia and Thailand, the ministry noted, witnessed their number of infections going up.Agarwal also warned of the impending dangers of co-infections due to the monsoon season such as Malaria and Dengue and stressed on the need for extra precautions. Covid appropriate behaviour, control of vectors such as mosquito that spreads these diseases and targeted vaccinations were among the measures suggested by the ministry.Dr VK Paul, member of health, Niti Aayog, who was also present at the briefing, said that the second wave of infections was not over yet and some states like Kerala continued to remain a concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/54-districts-reporting-more-than-10-positivity-covid-19-pandemic-far-from-over-centre-101627397559774.html
27-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border sealed, MHA calls meeting of officials||The home ministry has called a meeting of senior officials from Assam and Mizoram even as the Central Reserve Police Force has increased deployment of personnel at Assam-Mizoram border, which remained tense on Tuesday, a day after violent clashes between two states claimed 6 lives and left 50 others injured. As Mizoram increased deployment of security personnel on its side of the contentious border, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said they will deploy 4,000 commandos along 165 km Mizoram border and will move Supreme Court seeking protection against construction of roads by Mizoram government in region, Assam considers to be its own territory.The border dispute is primarily a difference of perception. While the Mizoram government goes by 1875 border alignment to separate plains of Cachar from Lushai Hills (present day Mizoram), Assam follows 1933 demarcation, done to identify districts of present day Manipur carved from some parts of Lushai Hills. On Tuesday, the Assam-Mizoram border shared by Cachar’s district Lailapur and Kolasib district’s Vairengte, the epicentre of the bloodiest border violence between the two states, was tense but calm with the CRPF deploying additional personnel. CRPF director general Kuldiep Singh said, “Five companies (close to 500 personnel) have been deployed and another two are on standby”. The border check-posts are manned by CRPF personnel as it falls in no man’s land between the two states.“We can’t do what Mizoram has done yesterday. Assam will never use bullets against any Indian citizen, this is not in our DNA. We don’t have political fights with Mizoram but there is a reason behind yesterday’s incident. We have discussed the matter and asked Mizoram to investigate properly,” Sarma said on Tuesday, while addressing the media in Silchar. Mizoram refuted his claim and said the Assam police entered Mizoram and started firing first.“Our police personnel only fired in retaliation to firing by Assam police. It was Assam police that entered Mizoram and started assaulting our people. Any violence is unfortunate and we condole the deaths,” said Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla will be meeting chief secretaries and director generals of police (DGPs) of Assam and Mizoram on Wednesday in his office over the border dispute, people familiar with the developments in the ministry said on condition of anonymity. Other senior officers of the MHA as well as intelligence agencies and paramilitary forces are expected to attend the meeting. The MHA has asked the states to resolve the border dispute amicably without any violence and the Wednesday meeting is being seen as first steps towards facilitating such talks. Junior Union home minister, Nityanand Rai, said the ministry only acts as a facilitator for amicable settlement in case of border disputes between states and such disputes can only be resolved with the cooperation of the concerned state governments. There are at least seven such inter-state disputes with Assam being involved in four, he said. Assam has border disputes with Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Meghalaya. On Tuesday morning, Assam CM visited Silchar Medical College and Hospital (SMCH) and met the injured police personnel and civilians. He also paid a floral tribute to the five police personnel killed and announced a compensation of ₹50 lakhs for their families and a government job for a family member. “The moment when the firing started, senior police officers of Assam and Mizoram were sitting and discussing the dispute. Home minister Amit Shah has spoken to the Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and me several times since yesterday. We have assured that there will be no violence from our side but we will not let Mizoram to encroach one more inch from Assam’s territory.On reasons behind the attack, Sarma alleged that they stopped several illegal activities like drugs, cattle smuggling and infiltration from Mizoram side in the past few months. “People who have entered Mizoram from Myanmar are trying to come to Assam and stay in Dima Hasao district. But we did not allow them,” he said. Sarma claimed that on June 8 this year, Assam gave a proposal to the Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga to sign an MOU that forest land will not be destroyed on either side of the border. But he (Mizoram CM) did not agree, he claimed. Lalchamliana denied Sarma’s claim of Mizoram carrying out developmental activities in Assam’s territory and pushing migrants into Assam. “We have been carrying out developmental activists in our territory, whereas people from Assam are regularly entering our area and trying to block the works,” he said.The Assam government also airlifted superintendent of Cachar district police Vaibhav Chandrakant Nimbalkar to Mumbai for further treatment. Dr Bhaskar Gupta, head of Silchar Medical College and Hospital said SP was taken to Mumbai in a special air ambulance. “He has severe injuries in the lower part of his body. The family members decided to shift him to Mumbai for better treatment,” he said. Nimbalkar will be admitted to Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital and Medical Research Institute, Mumbai, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-sealed-mha-calls-meeting-of-officials-101627396991296.html
27-07-2021||India||Private hospitals procured 1.27 crore Covid-19 vaccines doses in May, administered 83.61 lakh jabs till June 15: Centre||Minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that private hospitals have directly procured 1.27 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in May. "Under the 'Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy', which came into effect from May 1, a total of 127.34 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines were procured directly by private hospitals in May," Pawar said in a written reply.But the private hospitals administered only 83.61 lakh doses between May and June 15. "A total of 83.61 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered at private Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) from May to 15th June, 2021," she told the Upper House of the Parliament.The Centre introduced the ‘Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy' to ensure flexible pricing, procurement, and administration of vaccines and to augment production and availability across the country. Under the policy, the states and the private hospitals were allowed to directly procure up to 50% of the vaccine doses produced by the manufacturers.Pawar’s response comes a few days after Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy once again requested the Centre to take back unused vaccine doses procured by private hospitals and re-allot them to the states in a bid to boost their vaccination drive.“In reality, the private hospitals are not vaccinating fully to their capacity. Whatever these people are earmarked and whatever they are not able to proceed with, if that quota (of vaccines) is re-allotted to the state government, it would help us in doing a better job,” Reddy told the Prime Minister on July 17, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-procured-1-27-crore-covid-19-vaccines-doses-in-may-administered-83-61-lakh-jabs-till-june-15-centre-101627395018409.html
27-07-2021||India||'Inter-state disputes to be resolved with cooperation of states; Centre to act as ‘facilitator’, Lok Sabha told||Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that inter-state disputes have to be resolved only with the cooperation of the states concerned and the Union government can only act as a “facilitator for amicable settlement.”"The approach of the Central Government has consistently been that inter-state disputes can be resolved only with the cooperation of the states. Governments concerned and that the Central Government acts only as a facilitator for amicable settlement of the dispute in the spirit of mutual understanding," Rai said in the Lower House.Rai’s statement comes a day after violent clashes along the Assam-Mizoram border claimed six lives, including five police personnel, and left nearly 50 others injured. The two neighbouring states have been feuding for over five decades, ever since Mizoram was carved out of Assam, as a then Union territory in 1972.The chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zormathanga, got embroiled in a verbal spar on Twitter until Union home minister Amit Shah intervened, following which the chief ministers spoke on the phone and agreed to maintain status quo and peace on their respective borders. Sarma belongs to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while Zoramthanga’s Mizo National Front is a partner in the National Democratic Alliance government at the BJP-led Centre.Rai, who was responding to a question submitted by Bahujan Samaj Party MP Haji Fazlur Rehman, said issues regarding demarcation of boundaries and claims and counter-claims over territories have also risen between Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka, Assam and Nagaland, Assam and Meghalaya and Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, all of which can only be resolved if the states cooperate with the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interstate-disputes-to-be-resolved-with-cooperation-of-states-centre-to-act-as-facilitator-lok-sabha-told-101627394448601.html
27-07-2021||India||Shilpa Shetty yet to get clean chit in pornography racket case: Crime branch||The crime branch of Mumbai Police said it was yet to give a clean chit to Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in connection to the adult film racket in which her businessman-husband Raj Kundra is allegedly involved in.A Mumbai crime branch official told news agency ANI they were exploring all possible angles and have appointed forensic auditors to look into the transactions in the bank accounts held by her.Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra was on Tuesday sent to 14-day judicial custody after the police custody, following his arrest last week for his alleged involvement in the adult film racket, ended.Mumbai Police called Raj Kundra a "key conspirator" and charged him with cheating and for obscene and indecent advertisements and displays under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. The police have also used sections of the IT Act and Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act against Kundra. He was arrested on July 19 along with 10 others for their alleged role in the production of pornographic content through an app called Hotshots. The crime branch official said other directors of Viaan Industries, Raj Kundra's company, would be called to depose before it. Meanwhile, actor Sherlyn Chopra, who is among the people that exposed the alleged racket, was called for her statement as a witness earlier in the day.People familiar with the developments said Shilpa Shetty faced questioning by the crime branch sleuths during a raid at Raj Kundra's house.The crime branch official further said police suspected although Raj Kundra's brother-in-law, Pradeep Bakshi, was used as the face of the production house it was Kundra who looked after the operations of Hotshots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shilpa-shetty-yet-to-get-clean-chit-in-pornography-racket-case-crime-branch-101627390705477.html
27-07-2021||India||Heavy rain likely in Punjab, Haryana in next 48 hrs, orange alert for MP regions||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday that the rainfall activity is likely to increase over Punjab and Haryana during the next 48 to 72 hours. The IMD's regional centre in Chandigarh forecast "heavy to very heavy rainfall" at isolated places in both the states.The weather department has also issued an orange alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall for Sheopur Kalan, Morena, Bhind, Datia, Guna, Gwalior, Shivpuri and Ashoknagar districts in Madhya Pradesh. Further, in its weather bulletin, the IMD announced a yellow alertwarning of moderate to heavy rains accompanied by lightning for 10 districts of the state for the next 24 hours.The MeT office issues colour-coded warnings to alert the public ahead of severe or hazardous weather which has the potential to cause "damage, widespread disruption or danger to life".In the wake of a number of deaths due to lightning in the past few weeks in many states, the IMD also suggested action during such conditions.It has asked people not to take shelter under isolated trees. "Immediately get out of and away from ponds, lakes, and outdoor watery area," the IMD said in the advisory.It asked people to go indoors or seek safe pukka shelters after hearing thunder, further asking them to stay indoors for 30 minutes after hearing the last clap of thunder."If no shelter is available, immediately get into the lightning crouch (a ball-like position with your head tucked and hands over your ears so that you are down low with minimal contact with the ground)," the IMD advisory said.The weather department further asked people to stay inside car or bus or train durign travel when thunderstorm occurs. It said that people should stay away from electric/electronic appliance and downed power lines.Meanwhile, heavy rain on Tuesday morning led to extensive waterlogging at several road stretches across national capital Delhi, including near Pragati Maidan in the central part of the city and Dhaula Kuan in the southern part, affecting traffic movement.The IMD said 100 mm of rainfall was recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative data for the city, in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-punjab-haryana-in-next-48-hrs-orange-alert-for-mp-regions-101627392055977.html
27-07-2021||India||Centre seeks data from states, UTs on deaths due to oxygen shortage during second Covid-19 wave||The Union government, which triggered severe outrage when it said in the Rajya Sabha that no death took place due to shortage of oxygen during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, has written to states and Union territories (UTs) seeking data on deaths due to oxygen shortage, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday quoting officials.Also Read | No deaths reported due to lack of O2 by states in 2nd wave: CentreThe data, it said, will be shared in Parliament before the ongoing monsoon session ends on August 13.The Centre has written to States for data on deaths related to Oxygen shortage. The data is likely to be presented in Parliament before the Monsoon Session ends on August 13: Sources“The Centre has written to states for data on deaths related to oxygen shortage. The data is likely to be presented in Parliament before the monsoon session ends on August 13,” officials said.Responding to a question by Congress MP KC Venugopal on July 20, minister of state (health) Dr Bharti Pravin Pawar said, “Since health is a state subject, all states and UTs reports cases and deaths to the Union health ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by states and UTs.” Pawar’s response, which came on day 2 of the monsoon session, triggered much furor among the Opposition ranks.Also Read | Not just lack of oxygen, but want of sensitivity and truth too: Rahul GandhiHowever, at least eight states, including those governed by Opposition parties, too, said that no death took place due to lack of oxygen.Also Read | States still say no deaths took place due to oxygen shortageDuring the second Covid-19 wave, which was at its peak in April and May, several hospitals from across the country reported an acute shortage of medical oxygen. In many cases, hospitals were forced to approach courts seeking directions to authorities to facilitate its supply. The ministry of railways ran special Oxygen Express trains to deliver oxygen to states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-data-from-states-uts-on-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-during-second-covid-19-wave-101627391572592.html
27-07-2021||India||‘Dictatorship in country’: Opposition mounts attack at Centre on Pegasus row||The Congress on Tuesday again lashed out at the government for allegedly permitting snooping on “army officers, judges, journalists and opposition leaders” using the Pegasus spyware.Mallikarjun Kharge, the leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, accused the government of imposing dictatorship in India and absolving itself from “solving issues in a democratic manner”. He added that a Supreme Court monitored probe should be carried out so that the truth about the alleged hacking could finally come out.Also Read | Liberal democracies must stand upKharge said no democracy in the world would allow such alleged snooping. He alleged dictatorship prevails in the country. “(Prime Minister Narendra) Modi is not ready to solve issues in a democratic manner. We are ready for discussions,” he told reporters outside Parliament.Kharge asked the government to call an all-party meeting on the alleged snooping while vowing to continue fighting against it.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation into the alleged snooping explains, the presence of a number on the database of the alleged targeted numbers for snooping does not indicate an individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The leaked database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices associated with 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of the 37, 10 were in India.The government has rejected reports of snooping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dictatorship-in-country-opposition-mounts-attack-at-centre-on-pegasus-row-101627390810764.html
27-07-2021||India||Unesco World Heritage tag: Here's list of all 40 Indian sites after Dholavira addition||Unesco on Tuesday inscribed Dholavira, an ancient Harappa city situated in present-day Gujarat, on the World Heritage List, making it the second Indian site to be accorded the tag this year. Announcing the decision of the World Heritage Committee, Unesco said Dholavira’s water management system, multi-layered defensive mechanisms, extensive use of stone in construction and special burial structures set the ancient city apart from other cultural sites.“The ancient city of Dholavira is one of the most remarkable and well-preserved urban settlements in South Asia dating from the 3rd to mid-2nd millennium BCE (Before Common Era),” the UN cultural agency said in a statement.Union minister for culture G Kishan Reddy called the latest inscription another feather in India’s cap as the country entered the “Super-40 club” for World Heritage inscriptions. Taking to Twitter, Reddy said India has added 10 new World Heritage sites, one-fourth of India’s total sites on Unesco’s list.“Today is a proud day for India, especially for the people of #Gujarat. Since 2014, India has added 10 new World Heritage sites - one fourth of our total sites. This shows PM @narendramodi's steadfast commitment in promoting Indian culture, heritage and the Indian way of life,” the minister tweeted.Also Read | Ramappa Temple: How a site is selected for World Heritage ListOn Sunday, the Unesco committee inscribed Telangana’s iconic Kakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple on the World Heritage List. The UN agency said that the two inscribed World Heritage Sites from India offer “great insight into the knowledge and ways of life of earlier societies, customs, and communities.”Here’s the list of 40 World Heritage Sites in India:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unesco-world-heritage-list-here-are-all-40-indian-sites-after-dholavira-addition-101627389792414.html
27-07-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee meets PM Modi; discusses Covid, demands more vaccines for Bengal||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday - the first proper meeting between the two leaders after Banerjee became the state’s chief minister for a third consecutive time. The two leaders had met very briefly when PM Modi visited West Bengal to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in May.Calling it a “courtesy” meeting, Banerjee, who is also the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief, told reporters that she raised the issue of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and also demanded more vaccines and medicines for West Bengal.“During the meeting, I raised the issue of Covid and the need for more vaccines & medicines in the state. I also raised the pending issue of the change of name of the state. On this issue, he said, “He will see,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Her visit comes at a time when Parliament's monsoon session is on in which the opposition parties are protesting on a range of issues including the allegations of surveillance through Pegasus spyware, price rise, and repeal of three farm laws.Banerjee said that PM Modi should call an all-party meeting over the Pegasus hacking controversy, and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter. The chief minister's request for a probe comes exactly one day after the West Bengal government ordered an inquiry into the snooping scandal, the first state across India to do so.Earlier in the day, Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Anand Sharma met the Trinamool Congress chief."I appreciate her for how she fought the recent polls and won. She has come to Delhi for the first time after victory, so I came and had tea with her," Sharma told mediapersons after the meeting.Banerjee, who has been in the national capital since Monday, is also expected to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday along with other opposition leaders such as Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-meets-pm-modi-discusses-covid-demands-more-vaccines-for-state-101627387072197.html
27-07-2021||India||At 24.8°C, Srinagar sees hottest July night after 33 years||Srinagar recorded its hottest July night after 33 years as the minimum temperature rose to 24.8 degrees Celsius (°C) on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. July is the hottest month in J&K.The local weather office said the minimum temperatures were high owing to the heatwave conditions in the region, and cloudy nights. “The minimum temperature last night was 24.8°C which is around 6°C above the normal. It is the hottest night since 1988,” said Farooq Ahmad Bhat of the meteorological department (MeT).“The nights are getting particularly hot as the clouds trap heat,” he said. He said the hottest July night recorded in Srinagar in the past four decades was in 1988 when the mercury climbed to 25.2°C on July 21. On July 9, 2006, the minimum temperature was recorded at 24.4°C.The maximum temperature in Srinagar on Monday was 33.3°C, 3.8°C degrees above normal.The heatwave conditions are expected to improve from Wednesday.MeT director Sonam Lotus said that a brief spell of light rain was likely in the evening at some places of Jammu and Kashmir. “Expect good monsoon showers especially in morning hours from July 28-30th with downpour in Jammu region. We expect a significant rise in water levels in all the rivers, especially of Jammu region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-24-8-c-srinagar-sees-hottest-july-night-after-33-years-101627387990143.html
27-07-2021||India||Yogi govt building 1.70 lakh Anganwadi centres to give quality education to kids||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has highlighted the importance of Aanganwadi centres in its mission to make quality education accessible to children living in rural areas. The state government said that these centres should be rejuvenated so that everyone can get the benefits of its education schemes.The Uttar Pradesh government announced on Tuesday that it is constructing 1,70,896 Anganwadi centre buildings equipped with booklets and pre-school kits for the smooth implementation of Early Childhood Children Education (ECCE) scheme. In addition, the centres will also provide assessment cards for children.Under the New Education Policy 2020, pre-school kits have been distributed to children at 1,06,128 Anganwadi centres spread over 44 districts of UP as part of the ECCE scheme, the government said in a release.Besides, the National Book Trust (NBT) is providing story books for three to six-year-olds, apart from conducting field visits to the centres to promote activity-based learning, it further said.The government also said that an ECCE manual named 'Pahal' has been prepared by the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) for the Anganwadi workers. The manual has been prepared as per the syllabus developed by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and distributed in 44 districts.The Anganwadi centres are being constructed in UP as per the guidelines of the Government of India through convergence of MGNREGA, Panchayati Raj, and Child Development and Pushtahar. The government had set a target of constructing 10,187 Anganwadi Centres in four years; out of these, 8,820 have been built while 1,367 are under construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-govt-building-1-70-lakh-anganwadi-centres-to-give-quality-education-to-kids-101627387309583.html
27-07-2021||India||CBI probe sought into death of Odisha forest officer, police probe questioned||Orissa high court has been petitioned by a non-governmental organisation for a CBI or special investigation team (SIT) probe into the mysterious death of a young forest officer, found charred at his residence. The plea has questioned the police probe which has cleared a superior officer, initially suspected to be involved in the death along with the deceased officer’s wife.Surendra Panigrahi of Bharatiya Bikash Parishad in his PIL filed before the HC demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the death of assistant conservator of forest of Paralakhemundi, Soumya Ranjan Mohapatra, who was found with over 95% burn injuries at his government quarter on July 11 and died two days later during treatment at a hospital on July 13. In the PIL, the petitioner has made Odisha chief secretary, state home secretary, director general of police (DGP), Gajapati superintendent of police (SP) and Paralakhemundi police station inspector parties.Earlier, the Odisha Police had lodged a murder case against Mohapatra’s wife Bidyabharati Panda and his superior officer and Paralakhemundi divisional forest officer (DFO) Sangram Keshari Behera. A case under sections 302 and 120 (b) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Paralakhemundi police station. However, Gajapati SP Tapan Kumar Patnaik later ruled out the DFO’s involvement in the death case on the basis of call records analysis and his interrogation.The PIL came a day after the family members of the deceased officer were given the post mortem report which said his death was due to burn injuries.The petitioner in his PIL demanded a detailed probe raising doubts over the way the investigation was being conducted by the state police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-probe-sought-into-death-of-young-odisha-forest-officer-police-probe-questioned-101627387510186.html
27-07-2021||India||Kerala flags Covid-19 vaccine shortage, to approach Centre for increased supplies||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said that his government would approach the Union government to provide more Covid-19 vaccines to the state. Vijayan also denied Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya’s claims that 1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses remained unutilised with Kerala and said that only 500,000 doses were with the state when the minister made that statement.Vijayan said that Kerala was one of the states which had implemented the vaccination drive against the disease in an effective manner. However, he also said that the state was facing challenges in fighting the pandemic.“The present circumstance is that we are facing [an] acute shortage of the jab. That is the truth,” news agency PTI quoted the chief minister as saying earlier on Tuesday.Also read | Zika virus cases in Kerala soar past 50 with 3 new infectionsMandaviya had told the Lok Sabha that 1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses remained with Kerala that were yet to be utilised. Members of Parliament (MP) from Kerala TN Prathapan and Hibi Eden said that the health minister raised the question when they went to file a petition about the vaccine shortage in the state, Malayalam news website Mathrubhumi had reported on July 23.The minister had asked the MPs why the number of cases in Kerala has not gone down despite improved health facilities, to which the ministers replied that the condition in the state would improve if the Centre helped by providing adequate vaccine doses, Mathrubhumi mentioned in its report.“When the minister had made such a statement, there were only five lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine with the state,” PTI quoted Vijayan as saying. He further said that there was no lapse on part of the state’s immunisation drive and the available vaccine stocks were not enough to meet the demand currently.Meanwhile, on Monday 11,586 people tested positive for the disease in the state, taking the total confirmed infections to 32,83,116. The death toll climbed to 16,170 with 135 more fatalities. The state has 136,814 active cases of the disease at present, a bulletin from the state health department on Monday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-flags-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-to-approach-centre-for-increased-supplies-101627387000994.html
27-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram clashes: Himanta Sarma govt declares 3-day state mourning||The Himanta Biswa Sarma government in Assam declared a three-day mourning in view of violence at Mizoram border in which six people were killed. The move has been announced as a mark of respect to the cops and a civilian who died in Monday's clashes.“The state government of Assam expresses its profound sorrow at the sad demise of five Assam Police personnel and one civilian at Lailapur of Cachar district while defending the borders of Assam on July 26, 2021. As a mark of respect to the departed souls, the Government of Assam has declared state mourning for three days with effect from July 27,” an official order from the Assam government said. Due to the mouring, the national flag would be flown at half-mast where it is regularly flown and no public entertainment will be permitted for three days.More than 50 people were injured in the border clashes which broke out over the encroachment issue in the border areas. The dispute has been going on for decades and this is not the first time that clashes took place along the Assam-Mizoram border. However, Monday’s episode has been the most violent till now.Earlier in the day, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma paid tributes to the five police personnel who were martyred and also paid a visit to the Silchar Medical College and Hospital to meet the injured personnel of the force.“We are deeply anguished by the loss of lives of our brave @assampolice personnel. I visited the Silchar SP Office and paid floral tributes to the five martyrs and saluted their sacrifice,” Sarma posted on Twitter.Late on Monday, the Assam government issued a statement where it urged Mizoram to restrain its citizens and the police from indulging in wanton violence and work towards restoring peace. “The government of Assam is committed to maintaining cordial relations and peace, while restoring neighbourly relations,” the statement added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-clashes-himanta-sarma-govt-declares-3-day-state-mourning-101627386478552.html
27-07-2021||India||Bengal govt rejects NHRC report on post-poll violence||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) inquiry committee on alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal was set up to “spearhead a witch hunt” against and was part of a “concerted effort to discredit a democratically elected state government, the latter has said in an affidavit in the Calcutta high court. The affidavit said some of the committee members have a close association with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Central government and that they were deliberately chosen to give “a negative report” against the state.“The Committee has been deliberately constituted to spearhead a witch hunt against the entire state machinery in West Bengal….In conclusion, it is stated that concerted efforts are being made by those behind the Committee to completely discredit a democratically elected state government,” stated the 95-page affidavit.Also Read | WB govt steps in as students continue protests against Class 12 exam resultIn June, a five-judge bench of the court directed the NHRC to constitute a committee to examine all cases of alleged human rights violation during the violence after the March-April assembly polls. The seven-member committee led by NHRC member Rajiv Jain submitted an interim report on July 2. The final report was submitted on July 13.“Several members of the Committee are either members of the BJP or are known to be closely associated with the ruling dispensation in the Central Government. Therefore, the credibility of the Committee inasmuch as they are expected to investigate in an unbiased and neutral manner is questionable,” said the affidavit. It called the petitions on post-poll violence politically motivated.NHRC officials refused to comment on the affidavit saying the matter was being heard by the court.The NHRC’s inquiry report has recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the alleged cases of violence and that trials related to them be held outside the state. It said the violence in the state showed “a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus”.The affidavit insisted the committee has no power to recommend any course of action. “Thus, in purporting to recommend the investigation by CBI and trial of post-poll violence outside the state of West Bengal, the committee has exceeded its mandate and in doing so, the committee has clearly demonstrated its bias.”The report slammed the state government calling the violence “death knell” for democracy. It added the situation in West Bengal “is a manifestation of the law of ruler, instead of rule of law”.The affidavit filed on Monday called “concerted efforts to discredit a democratically elected state government” the real “death knell for democracy in this great nation”.The matter is likely to be heard by a five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta high court, Rajesh Bindal, on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-rejects-nhrc-report-on-post-poll-violence-101627386370634.html
27-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border dispute has origin in British era notifications||The dispute over the 165-km Assam-Mizoram border has its origin in British era demarcations and has since led to persistent conflict. Here is all you need to know about it:In 1875, the first exercise to demarcate present-day Mizoram, then Lushai Hills, from the plains of Cachar in Assam was undertaken to introduce the inner line permit (ILP) regime. The British government demarcated the Lushai Hills under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873. The regulation introduced the ILP regime in the northeast. ILP is a document issued for allowing the travel of an Indian citizen into a protected area for some time.In 1933, the British conducted demarcations in the northeast for separate districts based on culture, linguistic and tribal lines. This led to a new boundary separating Lushai Hills, Cachar, and the former princely state of Manipur. As part of this trifurcation, some parts of Lushai Hills went to Manipur.Also Read | Why northeast has hot internal bordersDisputeMizoram backs 1875 demarcation, saying it took place in consultation with then Mizo tribal chefs. Mizoram has rejected the 1933 demarcation saying Mizo tribal chiefs were not consulted then.Assam backs the carving of districts in north-eastern states as per the 1933 demarcation.In 1972, Mizoram was carved as a Union territory on basis of 1933 demarcationWhen Mizoram was granted statehood in 1987, Mizo tribal leaders raised the border dispute claiming that Assam had taken away their land.In 1995, the first major skirmishes were reported in Lushai Hills along the border when the Mizoram government tried to settle people there as per the 1875 demarcation. Nearly 50 persons, including journalists, were injured in action by Assam police in 2018 after some Mizo civil society groups tried to set up a hut on the disputed boundary.In 2019, the two states agreed to maintain a status quo and have no man’s land in the disputed area.Skirmishes in October 2020 left several injured on both sides and resulted in a blockade of National Highway 306, the lifeline to Mizoram, for 12 days.Days before this clash, on October 9, similar violence took place on the border of Karimganj (Assam) and Mamit (Mizoram) districts.Assam’s other border disputesAssam also has border disputes with Nagaland, Meghalaya, and Arunachal Pradesh, the other states carved out of Assam.Nagaland and Arunachal border dispute cases are pending in the Supreme Court.Over 100 people have been killed, most of them on the Assam side, in attacks by armed men from Nagaland in separate incidents in 1979, 1985, and 2014.The Meghalaya government informed the state assembly in 2020 that 56 incidents related to the border dispute with Assam have taken place since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-dispute-has-origin-in-british-era-notifications-101627385890004.html
27-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Umar Khalid's bail plea in riots case 'meritless' say Delhi police and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi Police calls Umar Khalid's bail plea in riots case 'meritless'The Delhi Police said on Tuesday there was no merit in the bail application of student leader Umar Khalid who was arrested under stringent provisions of the UAPA in the northeast Delhi riots case. Read moreGuj to provide ₹2,000 as monthly aid to kids who lost 1 parent due to Covid-19The Gujarat government said on Tuesday that children who have lost a parent to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will receive a monthly assistance of ₹2,000 under the existing scheme of the Mukhya Mantri Bal Seva Yojna. Read more'We've been transparent': Centre dismisses study which put India's 'real' toll due to Covid-19 at 2.7-3.3 millionThe Union government on Tuesday responded to a report which claimed there have been at least 2.7-3.3 million deaths in India due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till now, stating in a press release it has been “transparent” in its approach related to Covid-19 data management. Read moreKrunal Pandya tests positive for Covid-19, 2nd India vs Sri Lanka T20I postponed -ReportThe second T20 international between India and Sri Lanka, scheduled to be played on Tuesday, has been postponed after an Indian player tested positive for Covid-19, according to media reports. Read moreRakeysh Omprakash Mehra reveals Daniel Craig auditioned for Rang De Basanti, but James Bond came callingDirector Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra has revealed that Daniel Craig auditioned for the role of James McKinley in Rang De Basanti. But when the actor was approached for the role of James Bond, he requested for some time. Read moreHyundai India puts Ioniq 5 on display, says government support key for EV pushHyundai Motor India Limited on Tuesday inaugurated its new corporate headquarters in Gururgam and on the occasion, put up the much fancied Ioniq 5 on display here. Read moreKatrina Kaif works like a beast to be her fittest best for Salman Khan's Tiger 3The new schedule of Tiger 3, which is the third film in the successful Ek Tha Tiger franchise, has begun at YRF Studios in Mumbai with lead actors Katrina Kaif and Salman Khan under a closely guarded set with no picture leaks expected. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-umar-khalid-s-bail-plea-in-riots-case-meritless-say-delhi-police-and-all-the-latest-news-101627384639506.html
27-07-2021||India||Not a ‘political’ issue: Himanta Biswa Sarma on Assam-Mizoram border clashes||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Tuesday that clashes at its border with Mizoram was “not a political issue” but a long-standing dispute between the two states. “This is a boundary dispute between two states. This is a long-standing border dispute. There was a dispute even at the time when the Congress government was there on both sides. This is a dispute between two states,” he said.Sarma added that three battalions of commandos would be deployed in Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi districts bordering Mizoram to quell violence.The move followed after six Assam police personnel were killed and 50 others injured during clashes at the border between Assam’s Cachar and Mizoram’s Vairengte on Monday. Visuals that surfaced on social media showed civilians on both sides of the border pelting stones at each other and attacking security personnel with sticks and rods.Sarma further stated that he ordered a probe into the incident and find where civilians procured arms and ammunition from. The chief minister also visited Silchar Medical College and Hospital to meet the injured state police personnel.Monday’s violence broke out over allegations of encroachment. Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana claimed that Assam police entered Mizoram’s territory and committed arson. In a statement, he added that “upon learning of the arson, residents of Vairengte…proceeded to the site to inquire” when Assam police assaulted these “unarmed civilians” by lathi charging them and firing tear gas canisters. The state’s deputy inspector general of police (northern range) Lalbiakthanga Khiangte said that eight unoccupied farm huts were set ablaze by unidentified persons on Sunday around 11.30pm.The incident even saw the chief ministers of both states engage in a war of words on Twitter. While Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga accused the Assam government of “intrusion and aggression” into the state, Sarma said civilians of Mizoram attacked security personnel stationed in Lailapur to encroach into Assam’s territory. Later, both the chief ministers held a meeting after which Sarma tweeted that Assam will maintain “status quo and peace between the borders.”A battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was deployed in both the states between 4pm and 4.30pm as per the orders of home secretary under the direct supervision of Union home minister Amit Shah – whose intervention was sought by both the chief ministers.Also Read | Assam-Mizoram clash: Culmination of simmering discontent between 2 statesThe clashes broke out after Shah’s recent visit to Meghalaya’s capital Shillong during which he chaired a meeting with the chief ministers of all eight northeastern states and reportedly discussed inter-border disputes. In the meeting, Zoramthanga said that “large tracts of areas claimed by Assam to be within its constitutional boundary” have been used by the people of Mizoram for the past 100 plus years.“Assam started claiming these areas only fairly recently due to population pressure apparently caused by the large-scale influx of migrants from outside Barak valley,” Zoramthanga added.Addressing this issue, Sarma on Tuesday said that the dispute is “not regarding land [but]…forest.” “Assam wants to protect the forest. It’s not organising any settlement in the forest area, we don’t want any settlement there,” he further said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-political-issue-himanta-biswa-sarma-on-assam-mizoram-border-clashes-101627384271596.html
27-07-2021||India||Guj to provide ₹2,000 as monthly aid to kids who lost 1 parent due to Covid-19||The Gujarat government said on Tuesday that children who have lost a parent to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will receive a monthly assistance of ₹2,000 under the existing scheme of the Mukhya Mantri Bal Seva Yojna, news agency PTI reported.Additional chief secretary of the social justice and empowerment department Sunaina Tomar said chief minister Vijay Rupani would launch this provision on August 2. Tomar wrote to the district collectors instructing them to open bank accounts for eligible children within three days.Until now, only those children who lost both parents to the viral disease were covered under the Mukhya Mantri Bal Seva Yojna and were entitled to get a monthly assistance of ₹4,000 till they turned 21. In case they chose to opt for higher studies after 21, the government would pay them ₹6,000 per month till they turned 24.As many as 776 children, who lost both parents, received the first monthly instalment of ₹4,000 each earlier in July, according to a report published in PTI.On July 9, Rupani had increased the age limit of Mukhya Mantri Bal Seva Yojna from 18 to 21 years. He said any undergraduate and postgraduate course would be considered for availing benefits, adding children will also be given priority in various government schemes offering scholarships within India and abroad irrespective of their income criteria.Gujarat has so far reported nearly 825,000 cases, 10,076 deaths and 814,356 recoveries due to the coronavirus disease. On Monday, the state saw 31 new cases, zero deaths and 49 patients were discharged. As per the health department’s bulletin, the state has seen no deaths due to Covid-19 for nearly 10 days. There are 312 active cases at present of which five are in critical condition, the bulletin said. Nearly 176,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Monday, which pushed the cumulative vaccination figure to 31,806,252, the bulletin also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guj-to-provide-rs-2-000-as-monthly-aid-to-kids-who-lost-1-parent-due-to-covid19-101627384427603.html
27-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram clash: Culmination of simmering discontent between 2 states||Monday’s violent clash along the Assam-Mizoram border that claimed six lives including those of five policemen and left nearly 50 others injured on the Assam side was the culmination of simmering discontent between the two states since October 2020 when skirmishes left several injured on both sides and resulted in a blockade of NH 306, the lifeline to Mizoram, for 12 days. Though it wasn’t the first time violence has erupted along the 164km boundary between both northeastern states, Monday’s incident was the bloodiest till date. The border dispute between both states is nearly five decades long and started after Mizoram, which was earlier a part of Assam was declared a union territory in 1972 and gained statehood in 1987. While Assam claims Mizoram has encroached its “constitutional boundary”, the latter maintains the area belongs to it . Also Read | Why northeast has hot internal bordersThree districts of Assam, Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj, share borders with three districts of Mizoram, Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl. The main bone of contention is a 509-square mile stretch of the inner line reserve forest on the interstate boundary that Mizoram claims as its own. The origin of the dispute lies in two different notifications issued during the British era. Mizoram wants delineation of the border based on a 1875 notification framed under Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873 that sought to demarcate the Lushai Hills (the earlier name of Mizoram) from the plains of Cachar (in Assam) and also introduced the inner line permit regime (ILP) that regulates entry of outsiders to the area, now Mizoram, even today. Assam follows a 1933 notification through which delimitation of the earlier boundary between Lushai Hills and the former princely state of Manipur was modified. As expected, there have been allegations and counter-allegations on what ignited Monday’s clashes. Mizoram’s home minister Lalchamliana issued a statement in the evening accusing Assam police personnel of entering the state and indulging in violence. The statement added that Mizoram police retaliated after tear-gas canisters and grenades were hurled by Assam’s security forces. Late at night, Assam responded by issuing a statement that blamed Mizoram of breaching existing agreements and status quo on the border and accusing police of the neighbouring state of firing on its security forces and civilians using light machine guns (LMGs). Earlier in the day Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma indulged in a blame game on Twitter. It ended with intervention of union home minister Amit Shah, after which the two CMs talked over phone, agreed to maintain status quo and work for peace. Besides Mizoram, Assam has border disputes with Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. Assam shares an 804km long boundary with Arunachal Pradesh. Though there was no dispute initially, over the years allegations of residents of one state encroaching land on the other have led to disputes and violence. A suit has been pending in Supreme Court since 1989 on the issue. Earlier this month, Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu had expressed hope of solving border dispute with Assam out of court. Nagaland and Assam share a 434km boundary and a dispute that’s going on for over five decades. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court on the issue since 1988. There have been several violent clashes on the issue. Over 100 people have been killed, most of them on the Assam side, in attacks by armed men from Nagaland in separate incidents in 1979, 1985 and 2014. The Assam-Meghalaya border dispute is at least four decades old and there is contention between both states at 12 points along the 733km boundary they share. Several rounds of talks have failed to solve the issue. Last week CMs of Assam and Meghalaya met and agreed to use a pragmatic approach to sort their boundary problems. The long standing border disputes were expected to change with change in power equations in the region over the past five years. Since 2016 when a BJP-led coalition first formed government in Assam, the Congress has been wiped out from the region. The BJP is heading governments in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura and is part of the ruling coalition in Meghalaya and Nagaland. In Mizoram, Mizo National Front (MNF), which is a constituent of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a BJP-led front of anti-Congress parties in the region formed in 2016, is in power. Monday’s incident came two days after Amit Shah interacted with CMs of all eight northeastern states in Shillong where the long pending interstate border disputes were also deliberated upon. The union home minister urged all states to resolve their issues before the 2024 general election. Significantly, during the 4th NEDA conclave held in Guwahati in September 2019, Shah urged all chief ministers of the region to address all border disputes in a time-bound manner before India celebrates 75 years of Independence in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-clash-culmination-of-simmering-discontent-between-2-states-101627383250265.html
27-07-2021||India||'We've been transparent': Centre dismisses study which put India's 'real' toll due to Covid-19 at 2.7-3.3 million||The Union government on Tuesday responded to a report which claimed there have been at least 2.7-3.3 million deaths in India due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till now, stating in a press release it has been “transparent” in its approach related to Covid-19 data management, according to news agency ANI.Also Read | 2.7-3.3 million Covid-19 deaths in India: Study"It is clarified that the Union government has been transparent in its approach to Covid-19 data management and a robust system of recording all Covid-19 related deaths already exists. All states and union territories have been entrusted with the responsibility to update the data on a continuous base," the release read. It also dismissed as "totally fallacious" the study's conclusion of the country's "actual" toll due to the coronavirus disease being "7-8 times higher than the official toll."The Union Govt has been transparent in its approach to COVID data management & a robust system of recording all COVID-19 related deaths already exists. All States & Union Territories have been entrusted with the responsibility to update the data on continuous basis: Govt of India pic.twitter.com/K9vexYGkK1The statement further said the robustness of the statute-based Civil Registration System (CRS) ensures all the births and deaths in the country get registered. "The CRS follows process of data collection, cleaning, collating and publishing the numbers which, though a long-drawn process, ensures no deaths are missed out. Because of the expanse and amplitude of the activity, the numbers are usually published the next year," it said.The release also mentioned Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) "Guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India" which, it said, was released last May to avoid any confusion or inconsistency in the number of fatalities being reported."During the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, in April and May, recording of Covid-19 deaths could have been delayed as health infrastructure was focused on cases requiring medical help. However, these were later reconciled by states and Union territories," the government explained.The aforementioned study was authored by Dr Prabhat Jha from the Centre for Global Health Research at the University of Toronto and Dr Paul Novosad from the department of economics at the Dartmouth College in New Hampshire, United States. A separate report, co-authored by India's former chief economic advisor, Arvind Subramanian, projected as many as "4.9 million excess fatalities" during the pandemic.Also Read | India's excess deaths during Covid-19 pandemic up to 4.9 million: StudyOfficially, the country has registered 421,382 fatalities till now including 415 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). About half of the total deaths took place in April and May this year, as per data shared by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weve-been-transparent-centre-dismisses-study-which-put-india-s-real-toll-due-to-covid-19-at-2-7-3-3-million-101627379579740.html
27-07-2021||India||₹700 cr approved for Maharashtra flood relief: Minister Tomar to Parliament||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, replying to a question in Lok Sabha, said on Tuesday that the Centre had approved nearly ₹700 crore towards relief of farmers in flood-hit Maharashtra, even as Opposition members continued disrupting the lower chamber for the fifth straight day. Speaker Om Birla urged the Opposition to join in the proceedings repeatedly but the question hour had to be adjourned many times. The first hour of Lok Sabha is reserved for question on any public issue from lawmakers and called the Question Hour, according to Lok Sabha conventions. The members of the Opposition kept up protests demanding discussions on the Pegasus Project, the recent case of data leaked to a consortium of news media, suggesting a spyware was used to track various people in India. The Opposition began protests with noisy slogans, prompting the Speaker to intervene. “Please return to your seats and take part in the proceedings. You can get the government to answer all your questions. Please cooperate,” Birla said, making similar requests frequently. Also Read | Covid: Vaccination for kids likely to begin next month, says health ministerAmid stormy scenes, Tomar made a statement on the catastrophic flooding in Maharashtra, which has reportedly killed hundreds of people and affected thousands of families. “We have received and analysed a detailed report of destruction in the state due to the recent floods, especially to farmers. The home ministry has approved ₹700 crore towards relief,” Tomar said. The farm minister, who is facing protests also from farmers who want the government to scrap three recent agricultural laws, said nearly 1.1 million farmers were given claims under a flagship state-run agricultural insurance scheme. Farmers will receive additional compensation under the state’s disaster relief fund, he said. The first of the several adjournments happened within nearly 40 minutes of the day’s session. Tomar seized the opportunity to slam the Opposition. “Speaker Sir, through you, I want to tell all the members of the house and particularly the Opposition members that there are more than 15 questions related to village and farmers in the today’s list of business. If the Opposition members have even the slightest regard for the farmers, they should sit in their places peacefully. You should raise you issue through these questions and listen the reply of the government,” Tomar said. “Due to the uproar, the dignity of the House is being destroyed, the public is also being harmed and the character of the opposition parties towards the farmers is also evident,” he said. Members of the Trinamool Congress continued to protest. They had brought placards that had protest messages, such as “Master of Digital Invasion” and “Big Brother is watching”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-700-cr-approved-for-maharashtra-flood-relief-minister-tomar-to-parliament-101627382469810.html
27-07-2021||India||Dholavira gets World Heritage tag, minister says India now in Super-40 club||Dholavira, a Harappan-era metropolis situated in Gujarat, has been accorded the World Heritage tag by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Union culture minister G Kishan Reddy called it another feather in India's cap."Dholavira: A Harappan City, in India, just inscribed on the @UNESCO #WorldHeritage List. Congratulations!" UNESCO tweeted.Reddy said Dholavira is the 40th treasure in India to be given UNESCO’s World Heritage inscription. "Another feather in India’s cap as we now enter the Super-40 club for World Heritage Site inscriptions," the culture minister said in a tweet.It gives immense pride to share with my fellow Indians that #Dholavira is now the 40th treasure in India to be given @UNESCO’s World Heritage Inscription. Another feather in India’s cap as we now enter the Super-40 club for World Heritage Site inscriptions. pic.twitter.com/yHyHnI6sug"Since 2014, India has added 10 new world heritage sites - one fourth of our total sites. This shows PM @arendramodi's steadfast commitment in promoting Indian culture, heritage and the Indian way of life," the Union minister further said on Twitter.Gujarat so far has three world heritage sites - Champaner near Pavagadh, Rani ki Vav in Patan and the historic city of Ahmedabad.The current session of the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO is being held online in China's Fuzhou. It started on July 16 and will end on July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dholavira-gets-world-heritage-tag-minister-says-india-now-in-super-40-club-101627382163434.html
27-07-2021||India||Potential clash on Assam-Meghalaya border prevented||A timely response by the Ri-Bhoi district administration of Meghalaya thwarted off what could have been another border clash with Assam on Monday. What began as a mere civic amenity project by the Meghalaya Energy Corporation Limited (MeECL) by way of erecting electricity poles in Iongkhuli village on the same stretch where its Assamese counterpart had erected electric poles earlier in January, almost snowballed into a physical confrontation between Assam police and officials and members of the public in the area.According to Meghalaya officials, while the work was going on, at around 11am, a large posse of Assam government officials and senior police officials arrived at the scene and dismantled the erected poles. The act was not received well by the local residents who offered stiff resistance which almost led to fisticuffs.Also Read | Why northeast has hot internal bordersA timely response by the Ri-Bhoi additional district magistrate, the Superintendent of Police and senior police officials who arrived at the spot helped defuse the situation. On Tuesday, the Chief Executive Member (CEM) of the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC) Titosstarwell Chyne expressed concern over Assam’s intentions while observing that while on the one hand it sounds keen to resolve the border dispute, on the other it seems to openly encourage disputes with Meghalaya. “Iongkhuli village has never been in any of the disputed areas with Assam. I am surprised how it has happened like this,” he wondered.Meghalaya has identified 12 areas of difference with Assam and submitted documents on these, starting August 9, 2011. The hill state has been asking for the creation of a boundary commission monitored by the Centre to resolve the disputes. The total disputed area is around 2700 sq km. In recent years, the Assam government’s guest house which was used as the official residence of former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi was caught in a row between the two states. The residence located on a small hillock within Khanapara and Pilangakata has often been claimed by Meghalaya as part of its territory. In the past, Meghalaya government had said that it had records to prove its claim on the land.During last week’s meeting between Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K Sangma, it was decided to no longer maintain status quo on the boundary issue but instead proceed on resolving it at the earliest. The next round of CM level meetings will be in Dispur on August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/potential-clash-on-assam-meghalaya-border-prevented-101627382230017.html
27-07-2021||India||Delhi Police calls Umar Khalid's bail plea in riots case 'meritless'||The Delhi Police said on Tuesday there was no merit in the bail application of student leader Umar Khalid who was arrested under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the northeast Delhi riots case.It stated, "The application filled by the applicant/Umar Khalid has no merit as would be revealed and demonstrated before this Court by reference to the charge-sheet filed before this Court and as such the prosecution does not seek to file a detailed reply to the present application."Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat then adjourned the hearing to August 7 for detailed arguments on a request from Khalid’s lawyer, Trideep Pais, who received the prosecution’s reply only this morning, according to a report in The Indian Express.Also read | They are not gangsters: Court rejects plea to produce Umar Khalid, Khalid Saifi in handcuffsKhalid was arrested on September 13, 2020, in connection with communal clashes that had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.On April 16, Khalid was granted bail in another related case (over violence in the Khajuri Khas area), but has been languishing in Tihar Jail over conspiracy charges under UAPA. The provisions of the anti-terror law have been slapped against several other student leaders and activists in the case.Also read | 3 JNU alumni among activists in Pegasus snoop list, says reportPolice have submitted that the present case pertains to a larger conspiracy that was registered on March 6, 2020. Besides Khalid, other students from Jawaharlal Nehru University, including Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Jamia Millia Islamia's Asif Iqbal Tanha, former Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain, and several others, have also been booked under the UAPA.The Delhi high court, in a recent judgement has granted bail to Tanha, Kalita and Narwal Narwal in the same case.More than 750 cases were registered over the northeast Delhi violence, while over 250 chargesheets have, so far, been filed in related cases.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-calls-umar-khalid-s-bail-plea-in-delhi-riots-case-meritless-101627379935244.html
27-07-2021||India||Children orphaned during Covid-19 should be covered under welfare schemes: SC||The Supreme Court observed on Tuesday that the Centre's welfare schemes should cover all the children who were orphaned after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic struck, and not limit its benefit to those kids who lost their parents to the infection.The observarion was made by a two-judge bench of Supreme Court Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose that was hearing a suo motu case regarding the condition of children in institutionalised care during the pandemic.The Supreme Court noted that government-run schemes such as PM-Cares Fund, which proposed a corpus of ₹10 lakh for children till they turn 23, covered only those who became oprhans after losing their parents to Covid-19.Additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati who represented the Centre told the apex court that the PM-Cares scheme covers children who have lost both the parents or the lone surviving parent or the legal guardian. The counsel said the scheme does not cover a child till he or she attains majority. It takes care of children who would go for higher education, etc and a sum of 10 lakh would be given. "The scheme has been devised for a special mechanism due to the pandemic," Bar and Bench quoted Bhati as saying in a Twitter post.The Supreme Court told the counsel that while it doesn't seek an extension of any scheme, it is studying how the orphaned children could be given immediate benefits. Justice Rao said, "The order that we passed covers all children who became orphans during this period and not just due to deaths due to Covid-19." "What we are thinking is to take care of all children who have been orphaned whether Covid or not Covid. We cannot restrict the orders passed to only orphans who lost both parents to Covid 19", Justice Rao said, according to LiveLaw.inThe bench also pointed out that India is a signatory to the Convention on the Rights of Child and, therefore, the country has an obligation to take care of orphans. The court also stressed the need to ensure that the schemes announced reach the real beneficiaries and not just remain on paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-orphaned-during-covid-19-should-be-covered-under-welfare-schemes-sc-101627378749600.html
27-07-2021||India||Chhattisgarh health minister walks out over allegations of attacking Congress MLA||Chhattisgarh minister T S Singh Deo on Tuesday walked out of the state assembly demanding a “clear statement” from the government over fellow Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh’s allegation that he was “attacked” at the former’s behest on Sunday.It is rare for a minister to stage such a walkout and signals an escalation in the rift within the ruling Congress. Deo was seen among the contenders for the chief minister’s post when the party swept back to power in 2018. Singh has linked the alleged attack to his praise of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and backing his continuation as the state’s top elected official. He claimed Deo held a grudge against him over his position.Singh has alleged his convoy was allegedly attacked by three persons, one of whom is a relative of Deo. Deo has denied the allegation and claimed that he instructed police to take strict action against the accused.The controversy has erupted amid talk of a purported formula under which Deo and Baghel agreed to share the chief minister’s post over five years. Home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, who was seen as the other leading contender for the top post in 2018, made a statement in connection with “a road rage incident” involving Singh’s convoy on July 24. Amid the chaos over the issue in the House, Deo said, “Yesterday (Monday) chief minister (Bhupesh Baghel) called us in his chamber and a discussion took place...”Deo said he is not in a position to attend the House till there is clarity from the government over the issue. “I do not consider myself eligible to participate in the proceedings...,” he said. “I do not find myself worthy to be part of the session of this House until the government orders an inquiry or issues a statement.’ Deo soon left the assembly while refusing to speak to the media.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) questioned Sahu’s statement saying it had no reference to Singh’s allegations against Deo.Assembly speaker Charan Das Mahant said he has not received any complaints either from Singh or Deo.The BJP on Monday demanded that the House take cognisance on its own over the issue and order an inquiry.Dharamlal Kaushik, the opposition leader, called the alleged attack an “unfortunate incident” for Congress as well as the state as such allegations have never been levelled in the state’s history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-health-minister-walks-out-over-allegations-of-attacking-congress-mla-101627378089142.html
27-07-2021||India||France to deliver 35 Rafales by 2021-end, a solo fighter will join in Jan 2022||France will have delivered a total of 35 omni-role Rafale fighters by end-2021 to India with a last fighter making a solo journey to soon to be activated Hashimara air base in north Bengal in January 2022. Already 26 fighters have been delivered with 24 landed in India and remaining two kept for IAF pilot and technician training in France.Given the reliability of strategic ally France, the Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Indian Navy have evinced keen interest in Rafale platform due to its weight to power ratio and maritime strike capabilities. Apparently, the IAF leadership wants to acquire another 36 Rafales in future and the Navy is looking at Rafale-M as a fighter option onboard INS Vikrant (Indigenous aircraft carrier-1), to be commissioned next year.The induction of Rafale into western and eastern theatre has force multiplied Indian war making capabilities as the French fighter is armed with the longest range air-to-air Meteor missile in the sub-continent, Hammer air to ground smart munition and long range SCALP air to ground weapon. The Hammer missile, which has been acquired by India under emergency purchases, can be released at a height of mere 500 feet to hit a high altitude target more than 70 km away. The missile hugs the terrain and then climbs to a height of over 4000 metres before striking the target from a top down action. The Indian Rafales carry specially modified Hammer missiles due to high altitude targets, mountainous terrain and Chinese recently acquired Russian S-400 air defence systems. In fact, the French have offered to jointly develop Hammer and Meteor missiles with India with extended range and heavier payload.While the French Rafale deliveries are slightly ahead of time, all eyes are on the activation of the Hashimara air base, which will house the second squadron of Rafale fighters with the first squadron being home based in Ambala. The presence of Rafale in India’s eastern sector will add teeth to its military response in the sector with both Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh being a defence priority.The positioning of Hashimara is such that it covers the Chumbi Valley, Sikkim and the sensitive Siliguri corridor. While both Ambala and Hashimara are home bases of Rafale, the fighters with nuclear capability will be flying all over India and its littoral territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-deliver-35-rafales-by-2021-end-a-solo-fighter-will-join-in-jan-2022-101627377558804.html
27-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Vaccination for kids likely to begin next month, says health minister Mandaviya||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday the government is likely to begin vaccinating children against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in August, according to news agency ANI. Mandaviya reportedly made the statement during a parliamentary party meeting of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which was also attended by prime minister Narendra Modi.In BJP Parliamentary Party meeting today, Union Health Min Mansukh Mandaviya said that govt would likely start vaccinating children next month for #COVID19. He also said that India is soon going to be largest vaccine producing country as more companies will get production licence"We would likely begin vaccinating children from next month," the health minister reportedly said during the meeting. Currently, every citizen who is aged or 18 above is eligible for a shot against the viral disease.Mandaviya's statement comes at a time when there are concerns over the impact on kids of a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. That a vaccine is yet to be cleared for this age group has only added to worries.Also watch, ‘Covid vaccines for children by next month’: Health Minister Mandaviya tells PM ModiPreviously, experts, including AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria projected a timeline of September by which a vaccine would be available for children. According to Dr Guleria, data from clinical trials of Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on children is likely to be available in September and, if found safe, the shot could be approved for kids the same month.Also Read | Covid vaccines for kids likely by September: Dr Randeep GuleriaAdditionally, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, on July 1, filed an application for emergency use authorisation (EUA) with the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission for its vaccine candidate to be administered to everyone above the age of 12.Also Read | 'Need more data to make Zydus' anti-Covid shot available for children': VK PaulTill now, 441,912,395 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard. Of these, 6,603,112 doses were given in the last 24 hours, the data shows. The nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus pandemic began on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-for-kids-likely-to-begin-next-month-says-health-minister-mandaviya-101627375245463.html
27-07-2021||India||Ups and downs part of politics: Yediyurappa shocked at supporter's 'suicide'||Outgoing Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday expressed his shock and pain over the death of a youth who allegedly ended his life pained by his resignation. The senior BJP leader, who put an end to days of speculation and put in his papers on Monday, said ups and downs are common in politics, and urged his supporters to not take their regard for him to an extreme level. Yediyurappa, who is also popular as BSY, said taking one’s life over such issues in unacceptable as nobody can bear the family’s loss.According to reports, Rajappa (Ravi), aged about 30, from Bommalapura in Gundlupet taluk in Chamarajanagara district, allegedly killed himself, shocked by Yediyurappa's exit from the CM’s chair. Taking to Twitter, the 78-year-old leader from the Lingayat community said, "... this news has caused me deep pain and grief. Ups and downs are common in politics, ending life for this is always unacceptable. No one can bear the loss that the family has to go through because of it."Also read | Why BS Yediyurappa matters for the BJP in Karnataka?"I appeal with folded hands that regard should not go to extremity. I'm with Ravi's family in their pain," he said.Having come to power for the fourth time after bringing down a coalition government of the Janata Dal-Secular and Congress, Yediyurappa had been facing internal dissent for months before submitting his resignation to governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on Monday. His resignation came on the same day the BJP government completed its two years in power in the state.Soon after, Gehlot dissolved the Council of Ministers headed by him with immediate effect. A notification from the Raj Bhavan said Yediyurappa shall continue to function as chief minister till alternate arrangements are made.Meanwhile, a team of Central leaders will leave for Bengaluru to finalise the next chief minister after holding talks with state BJP leaders.Yediyurappa has said he would not leave Karnataka for any role outside the state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ups-and-downs-part-of-politics-bsy-pained-shocked-at-supporter-s-suicide-101627373601639.html
27-07-2021||India||Day after debate between their power ministers, Delhi, Goa CMs spar on Twitter||A day after a televised live debate between their power ministers over the promise of free electricity, the chief ministers of Delhi and Goa took potshots at each other via Twitter.After the debate ended on Monday, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant hit out at Delhi power minister Satyendar Jain for what he called an “unacceptable” reference to Goa’s politicians as “third class”. “AAP has always indulged in cheap politics through constant protests and theatrics. But to say Goans are third class politicians is an insult to great sons-of-the-soil like Bhausaheb Bandodkar (Goa’s first chief minister), Jack Sequeira (João Hugo Eduardo de Sequeira, Goa’s first opposition leader), Manohar “Bhai” Parrikar, Rajendra Arlekar (Governor of Himachal Pradesh) or Shripad “Bhau” Naik (Union Minister of State for Ports and Shipping),” Sawant tweeted. “AAP is free to create hype for their political benefits but to come to Goa and insult our leaders is unacceptable,” he added. This morning, Kejriwal responded by saying that “buying and selling” MLAs was the real disservice to Goa’s eminent politicians. “Pramod-bab, by comparing the present set of politicians to such political greats, you are insulting them. Current BJP neither has the greatness of Bhausaheb Bandodkar, integrity of Dr Jack Sequeira or [the] vision of Manohar Parrikar,” he tweeted. “Bhausaheb Bandodkar has been insulted by the way MLAs have been bought and sold. Dr Jack Sequeira didn’t fight to see Goan votes being bought and sold. Manohar Parrikar didn’t work tirelessly to see Congress MLAs being bought wholesale,” he added. A section within the BJP reportedly resents the ten Congress MLAs who joined the party in 2019. Atanasio Monserrate, for instance, now represents the Panaji seat that Manohar Parrikar represented for five terms. AAP is hoping to tap into this resentment and promises to take Parrikar’s legacy forward despite attacking the BJP for forming governments without having the people’s mandate. In 2017, Parrikar quit as the defence minister to become Goa chief minister with the help of the Goa Forward Party, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Independents despite the party being routed at the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-debate-between-their-power-ministers-delhi-goa-cms-spar-on-twitter-101627373588644.html
27-07-2021||India||'Centre only acts as facilitator for settlement': MHA on inter-state disputes||The Centre on Tuesday informed Parliament that it only acts as a facilitator for amicable settlement of an inter-state dispute. Replying to questions on the the issue, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said that seven such disputes exist in the country.He also said that these can be resolved with the cooperation of the state governments concerned."As per available information, there are boundary disputes arising out of demarcation of boundaries and claims and counter claims over territories between Haryana-Himachal Pradesh, UT of Ladakh-Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra-Karnataka, Assam-Arunachal Pradesh, Assam-Nagaland, Assam-Meghalaya and Assam-Mizoram," said Rai.He added that occasional protests and incidents of violence are reported from some of the disputed border areas."The approach of the Central Government has consistently been that inter-state disputes can be resolved only with the cooperation of the State Governments concerned and that the Central Government acts only as a facilitator for amicable settlement of the dispute in the spirit of mutual understanding," Rai further said.The questions were asked in connection with the border dispute between Assam and Mizoram in which five policemen were killed and over 50 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-only-acts-as-facilitator-for-settlement-mha-on-inter-state-disputes-101627370864495.html
27-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM asks BJP MPs to expose Oppn for stalling Parliament and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi asks BJP MPs to expose Opposition for stalling Parliament businessPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to expose the Opposition for not coming to meetings or letting Parliament conduct any business in either of the Houses. Modi made the statement during a parliamentary party meeting of the BJP that was held during the day over Opposition leaders' attempts to stall work during the ongoing Monsoon session. Read moreDeclared bankrupt, Vijay Mallya launches rant on TwitterAfter being declared bankrupt by a British court allowing Indian banks to pursue his assets worldwide, Vijay Mallya launched a tirade on Twitter as he accused lenders pursuing of making him bankrupt. "ED attach my assets worth 14K crores at behest of Govt Banks against debt of 6.2K crores. Read moreAssam-Mizoram border clash latest updates: Himanta Sarma meets injured copsAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday paid tributes to the policemen who lost their lives in clash along the Mizoram border. He also visited Silchar Medical College and Hospital to meet those who were injured in Monday's clashes. Read moreCovid-19 origin: 'Go to Fort Detrick lab in US', China tells WHOChina has hit back at the United States over investigation into the origin of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said on Monday that if labs are to be investigated, the World Health Organization (WHO) officials should go to Fort Detrick. Read moreSupreme Court notice to Centre, Delhi govt on plea for vaccination of beggarsThe Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to central and Delhi governments on a petition seeking vaccination and rehabilitation of homeless and beggars during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic across India. Read moreMimi movie review: Kriti Sanon's film is nothing unexpected; wastes Pankaj Tripathi, Manoj PahwaBollywood’s relationship with surrogacy dramas has not evolved beyond Chori Chori Chupke Chupke, it seems. Even as harrowing cases of abuse and exploitation emerge every other day, surrogacy is still just another avenue for our movies to romanticise motherhood. Read moreAmazon Prime Day 2021: Big price cuts! Here are the best offers on smartphones, computers and moreAmazon Prime Day 2021 is currently offering exclusive deals across various product categories such as smartphones, tablets, laptops and desktop computers and accessories, audio equipment and Amazon-branded products. While some devices are already sold out due to the increased demand from Prime customers, the many popular devices are still up for sale for very cheap prices. Read moreTata Motors rolls out 10,000th Safari from Pune production lineTata Motors on Tuesday announced that it has produced 10,000 units of its new-gen Safari SUV from its Pune-based manufacturing plant. The company said that while the first 100th unit of the car was rolled out in February 2021, the remaining 9,900 units of the new Safari were produced in less than four months. Read moreBoss Lady Kiara Advani pulls off a bold look in tangerine pantsuit for Shershaah promotionsShershaah actors Kiara Advani and Sidharth Malhotra may be back from Kargil after launching the trailer of their film, but the pictures of the two stars are still creating a buzz online. The Shershaah team had unveiled the trailer one day before Kargil Vijay Diwas. Kiara rolled out one noteworthy look after the other for her visit to Kargil, from sheer embellished floral saree to the recent tangerine pantsuit. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-asks-bjp-mps-to-expose-oppn-for-stalling-parliament-and-all-the-latest-news-101627368789374.html
27-07-2021||India||Journalists N Ram, Sashi Kumar move SC seeking inquiry into Pegasus use||Journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar have moved the Supreme Court seeking an inquiry by a retired or sitting judge of the top court into alleged surveillance through Israeli Pegasus spyware and to ascertain the extent of the alleged surveillance on Indian citizens and entities responsible for it.In their petition filed through advocate Shadan Farasat, the two said the alleged snooping “prima facie constitutes an act of cyber-terrorism”. It describes Pegasus as an extremely sophisticated military software. “Such mass surveillance using a military-grade spyware abridges several fundamental rights and appears to represent an attempt to infiltrate, attack and destabilize independent institutions that act as critical pillars of our democratic set-up.” The plea added the alleged snooping has several “grave political and security ramifications, especially considering that the devices of government ministers, senior political figures and constitutional functionaries which may contain sensitive information have been targeted.”The petition called for viewing the snooping allegations with seriousness as it impacts rights to privacy and free speech protected under the Constitution’s Articles 21 and 19(1)(a). It noted the alleged hacking of mobile phones using Pegasus spyware constitutes a punishable offence under the Information Technology Act. The petition alleged the surveillance has been done bypassing the legal regime provided under Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act, which provides for it on grounds of public emergency or in the interest of public safety.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation into the alleged snooping explains, the presence of a number on the database of the alleged targeted numbers does not indicate an individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The leaked database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices associated with 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of the 37, 10 were in India.The plea of the journalists has sought a response from the Centre whether it or any of its agencies obtained license for Pegasus spyware or have used it to conduct surveillance on Indian citizens. It added it is concerning to note that the government has not categorically ruled out obtaining Pegasus licenses to conduct surveillance, citing Union Ashwani Vaishnav’s statements in this regard.The petition said prominent journalists, politicians, activists and scientists are among those on the list of potential surveillance by Pegasus. It added despite this no steps have been taken by Centre to ensure a credible and independent investigation.Advocate ML Sharma and John Brittas, a Rajya Sabha member, have earlier filed two petitions seeking inquiry into the alleged snooping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalists-n-ram-sashi-kumar-move-sc-seeking-inquiry-into-pegasus-use-101627370588685.html
27-07-2021||India||6 more months needed to frame CAA rules, MHA informs Parliament||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) informed Parliament on Tuesday that it has sought six more months to frame rules for the Citizenship Amendment Act or CAA. The MHA saidit has asked committees on subordinate legislation in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha time till January 9, 2022.Replying to a question posed by Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said that the CAA has been notified on December 12, 2019 and has come into force from January 10, 2020."The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been requested to grant further extension of time upto 09.01.2022 to frame the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019," Rai further said in his reply.The CAA allows persecuted minorities belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan to avail Indian citizenship.People belonging to these communities who arrived in India till December 31, 2014, due to religious persecution in these three countries will not be treated as illegal migrants but will be provided with Indian citizenship, according to the provisions of the act.In case a person belong to the aforementioned faiths, from these three countries, does not have proof of birth of parents, they can apply for Indian citizenship after six years of residence in India.President of India Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the legislation on December 12, 2019.Opposition parties and several groups have protested against the implementation of CAA. CAA’s detractors believe that the law coupled with the National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise is intended to target the minliving in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-more-months-needed-to-frame-caa-rules-mha-informs-parliament-101627369964926.html
27-07-2021||India||PM Modi asks BJP MPs to expose Opposition for stalling Parliament||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to expose the Opposition for not coming to meetings or letting Parliament conduct any business in either of the Houses. Modi made the statement during a parliamentary party meeting of the BJP that was held during the day over Opposition leaders' attempts to stall work during the ongoing Monsoon session.Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi and V Muraleedharan briefed the MPs of the recent happenings in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha that have seen frequent adjournments due to sloganeering and protests by Opposition leaders over the farmers’ protest and Pegasus controversy.Speaking about the Congress' decision to boycott all-party meeting called last week to review the pandemic situation in the country, Modi reportedly said the grand old party had also prevented others from attending. The PM asked BJP MPs to "expose this behaviour of the Congress and some opposition parties in front of the media and the public", according to an NDTV report.On July 19, Modi had to even cut short his speech which introducing his new council of ministers due to protests from Opposition MPs. However, Modi later also urged his party MPs to share a good relationship with the Opposition leaders.Meghwal, who is the Union minister of state for parliamentary affairs, said the PM further spoke about ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ and called for coming up with an action plac for the next 25 years. “The PM said people have blessed us and it is an opportunity to inculcate the feeling of serving the country among them. MPs were told that they too habe to ensure everyone is connected to it,” Meghwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“PM said in 2047 when we'll complete 100 years of Independence, we have to collect ideas from people on how we can achieve the best benchmarks and create an action plan for the next 25 years,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-asks-bjp-mps-to-expose-opposition-for-stalling-parliament-business-101627367865145.html
27-07-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to Centre, Delhi govt on plea for vaccination of beggars||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to central and Delhi governments on a petition seeking vaccination and rehabilitation of homeless and beggars during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic across India.The notice was issued on a petition filed by one Kush Kalra, which sought a rehabilitation plan for such persons and highlighted the threat of Covid-19 spread due to lack of vaccination and medical facilities.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah also made it clear that it would not take an "elitist view" to stop begging in public places and streets as this is a socio-economic problem. The court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to assist it in the matter which will now be heard after two weeks.The top court's bench agreed to issue notice on the second prayer in the petition seeking rehabilitation and vaccination for beggars. However, the bench directed the petitioner to carry out amendments in the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-delhi-govt-on-plea-for-vaccination-of-beggars-101627363851488.html
27-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram clash: Cong's Gaurav Gogoi gives adjournment notice, seeks probe||Assam MP and deputy leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi on Tuesday gave an adjournment motion notice to discuss the border clash with Mizoram that claimed lives of six police personnel on Tuesday. He further sought an inquiry into reports that light machine guns (LMGs) were used during the exchange of fire in the disputed area.“Some media reports say LMG was used (during the Assam-Mizoram border clash yesterday). Are we in our country or on the borders of the country? We demand an inquiry into this incident,” the Kaliabor MP said.On Monday, Gogoi said Sarma was ready to pass the buck, forgetting that he claimed the credit for the growth of NEDA (North-east Development Alliance), a regional coalition formed by the BJP in 2016. “Is this unprecedented tragedy the outcome of his back channel manouvering for NEDA?” he wrote on Twitter.Chief Minister Assam is ready to pass the buck, forgetting that he claimed the credit for the growth of NEDA for so many years. Is this unprecedented tragedy the outcome of his back channel manouvering for NEDA ? https://t.co/gpvye3TUoiEarlier in the day, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma laid wreaths and paid tribute to the policemen who lost their lives in the border clash in Silchar.The decades-long border dispute that sparked violent clashes on Monday prompted Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga to publicly trade charges, following which Union home minister Amit Shah had to intervene.Violence broke out along the border shared by Cachar district's Lailapur in Assam and Kolasib district’s Vairengte of Mizoram around 11.30am over allegations of encroachment. Thousands of civilians on either side of the border hurled stones and charged at each other and security personnel with sticks and rods. Visuals showed policemen firing tear-gas shells and air pellets as people torched vehicles and huts.Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana said on Monday around 200 Assam Police personnel had forcibly crossed duty posts and the inter-state border issue should be resolved soon.The hostilities pared down after the two chief ministers spoke over the phone and Shah urged the duo to resolve the border tension amicably.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-clash-cong-s-gaurav-gogoi-gives-adjournment-notice-seeks-probe-101627364087194.html
27-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to receive widespread rainfall in next 4 days||Widespread rainfall is likely to occur across Tamil Nadu in the next four days due to monsoon activities and convection, Regional Meteorological Centre at Chennai predicted. Tamil language newspaper Hindu Tamil reported that moderate rainfall to thunderstorms will occur in the five districts of the state bordering the Western Ghats and coastal districts.Regional director N Puviarasan said that districts like the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Theni, Dindigul and Tenkasi bordering the Western Ghats will receive moderate showers. Scattered rainfall ranging from light to moderate rainfall with thunderstorms will occur in coastal districts of Tamil Nadu, interior Tamil Nadu, and Union territory of Puducherry and Karaikal on Tuesday.The regional centre also predicted the weather pattern likely to continue in Tamil Nadu on July 28, 29, and 30. The skies will remain cloudy in Chennai city and suburban areas. Some parts of the city are likely to receive mild showers on Tuesday. Puviarasan attributed the rainfall to monsoon action of southwest monsoon turning vigorous in the country as well as convective rainfall in the state.Pandalur in the Nilgiris received the maximum rainfall of 16 centimetres in 24 hours by Monday morning. Another town, Devala in the Nilgiris, received 10cm of rainfall while Oothukottai in Thiruvallur district received 9cm. City areas like Royapettah, Triplicane, Mylapore, Mount Road, Madhavaram, Kodungaiyur, Vyasarpadi, Perambur, and Puzhal areas received heavy rains for more than an hour on Monday.Heavy winds ranging from 40 to 50 kilometres per hour are likely to occur in the northeast, central east Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea on July 28 and the heavy winds will shift to the northwest Bay of Bengal on July 29 and 30. The centre warned fishermen not to venture into these areas for fishing these days.Tamil Nadu has been receiving heavy rainfall ever since the southwest monsoon began in June this year. Most of the reservoirs in western and southern Tamil Nadu filled due to good showers in these two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-receive-widespread-rainfall-in-next-4-days-101627363960205.html
27-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border clash: Himanta Sarma meets injured cops, adjournment notice in Lok Sabha||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday paid tributes to the policemen who lost their lives in clash along the Mizoram border. He also visited Silchar Medical College and Hospital to meet those who were injured in Monday's clashes.Five Assam Police personnel lost their lives after an exchange of fire during the clashes and 50 others were injured."Visited SMCH to meet injured police officials & directed doctors to ensure best treatment to them. Asked to send seriously injured personnel for higher level treatment by air ambulance on priority," Sarma tweeted after his visit to the hospital.Here are the latest developments on the issue:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-clash-latest-updates-himanta-sarma-meets-injured-cops-101627363947762.html
27-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 440 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 440 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, July 26. As per the CoWIN app, close to 10% of India’s eligible population has been fully vaccinated for Covid-19.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Monday, 441,057,103 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,748,692 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 2,720,900 were given the first dose while 349,496 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 141,955,995 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 6,572,678 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.On Tuesday, India logged less than 30,000 new cases for the first time since March 16 with 29,689 fresh infections being registered in the last 24 hours. This took the country active case tally to 398,100 which is 1.27% of the total cases. The fall in active caseload below 400,000 is also after 124 days, according to the latest updates from the Union Health Ministry’s Covid bulletin. The daily positivity rate stands at 1.73%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-440-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101627363430135.html
27-07-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi tomorrow||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday during her stay in the national Capital. Banerjee is scheduled to meet Gandhi in the afternoon in what will be the first meeting of the two leaders after Trinamool’s sweeping victory in the West Bengal assembly elections in May this year. Even as the Congress and Trinamool relationship has been tumultuous, Banerjee’s personal equation with Gandhi has stood the test of time. While there is no fixed agenda of the meeting, the two leaders are expected to focus on long-term goals of the Opposition bloc with an eye on the next national elections, due after three years. The meeting also assumes significance in the backdrop of the ongoing Parliament session where the Opposition has launched massive protests against the government over the Pegasus snooping row and to demand repeal of the three controversial farm laws. Congress functionaries added that party leader Rahul Gandhi too might drop in at the Mamata-Sonia meeting. While Banerjee’s equation with Rahul has faced a few hurdles in the past, poll strategist Prashant Kishor has reportedly worked as an emissary between the two sides and functionaries claim that the equation has improved over time.Banerjee arrived at Delhi on Monday evening. On Tuesday, she will meet former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, followed by a meeting with senior Congress leader Anand Sharma. Nath, who lived in Kolkata for a long time, enjoys a good rapport with the Bengal chief minister. Sharma’s equation with Banerjee goes back a long way as the Congress leader was her senior in Indian Youth Congress. Also Read | Mamata forms committee to probe Pegasus snooping rowBanerjee’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled at 4pm on Tuesday. According to one of her trusted aides, Banerjee is expected to raise the issue of GST dues and financial package for West Bengal to ease its credit burden. The two leaders are also expected to discuss political issues. Her last meeting scheduled for Tuesday is with Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi who also fights key cases for the West Bengal government. The West Bengal chief minister will pay a courtesy visit to President Ram Nath Kovind and might also meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. While her party is very active in Parliament, Banerjee is unlikely to visit Parliament during her stay. “There are restrictions in entry of visitors in Parliament due to Covid. She might not like to go there now,” said the aide. Usually, Banerjee always goes to Parliament if she is in Delhi during the session. She has been a seven-time MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-to-meet-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-tomorrow-101627363010380.html
27-07-2021||India||Stampede at Ujjain's Mahakaleshwar temple, many hurt; virus norms go for a toss||A stampede-like situation took place at the Mahakaleshwar temple in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh on Monday causing injuries to many, including women and children. The heavy crowding led to flouting of several coronavirus-related norms guidelines, including maintaining distance and wearing masks.The situation worsened and security officials struggled with crowd management due to visits by heavyweight citizens, including chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and BJP leader Uma Bharti.Watch: Stampede at Ujjain’s Mahakaleshwar temple amid VIP presence; many injuredThis was the first Monday of the Hindu month of Shravan, considered auspicious by a large number of Hindus who visit temples of Lord Shiva to offer their prayers.The stampede was reportedly witnessed at gate number four of the temple, one of the 12 Jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva. At a point, the security personnel were overpowered following which people rushed in. Soon after, many of the devotees lost their balance and others fell on them.Around 8:30am, a large number of people tried to enter for darshan and in the process broke the barricade at gate number four of the temple complex. After the barricade broke, several people tried to run towards the main deity but thankfully there was no untoward incident," the temple's assistant administrator Moolchand Joonwal.भगवान महाकाल से प्रार्थना है कि वे सभी विपत्तियों से लड़ने की शक्ति हमें दें, मध्यप्रदेश और देश का कल्याण करें, सभी जीवों का कल्याण करें, सबके जीवन में सुख-समृद्धि लाएँ और सबकी मनोकामनाएँ पूरी करें।ॐ नमः शिवाय। pic.twitter.com/lbqRrt3Po1The temple had reopened last month, but only visitors who have received at least one dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 or had a negative RT-PCR test report issued 48 hours prior to the visit have been allowed.As many as 3,500 devotees have been granted permission to visit the temple between 6am and 8pm with 500 people allowed to enter the premises in two hours.Ujjain District Collector Ashish Singh said the situation would be normal next Monday. “Covid protocol cannot be followed in the kind of free-for-all we had today. This was an exception but we will revise the plan for next Monday and ensure social distancing,” Singh was quoted as saying in a report."Due to it being the first Monday of the holy month of Shravan, people were allowed to stand in queues for darshan apart from pre-booking. However, the crowd that turned up was much larger than what we expected," Joonwal said.Officials said visits by VIPs like Chouhan and Bharti only added to the chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stampede-at-ujjain-s-mahakaleshwar-temple-many-hurt-virus-norms-go-for-a-toss-101627361410254.html
27-07-2021||India||CRPF Raising Day: PM Modi, Union minister extend greetings to soldiers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union ministers extended greetings to the soldiers of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on its 83rd Raising Day. The force has a mandate to secure internal security scenario of the country.In a tweet, PM Modi lauded the CRPF personnel for their valour and professionalism and said that their contributions to further national unity are appreciable."Greetings to all courageous @crpfindia personnel and their families on the force's Raising Day. The CRPF is known for its valour and professionalism. It has a key role in India's security apparatus. Their contributions to further national unity are appreciable," Prime Minister Modi tweeted.Greetings to all courageous @crpfindia personnel and their families on the force’s Raising Day. The CRPF is known for its valour and professionalism. It has a key role in India’s security apparatus. Their contributions to further national unity are appreciable.Home minister Amit Shah said CRPF plays a vital role in India's growth by preserving internal security of the country. "Raising Day greetings to our brave @crpfindia personnel. This valorous force plays a vital role in India's growth by preserving the internal security and national integrity of the country. Nation salutes their dedication and commitment to safeguarding the motherland," he tweeted.Raising Day greetings to our brave @crpfindia personnel.This valorous force plays a vital role in India's growth by preserving the internal security and national integrity of the country.Nation salutes their dedication and commitment to safeguarding the motherland.Union minister Hardeep Puri also used the occasion to courageous and dedicated soldiers of CRPF. "Greetings to the courageous & dedicated bravehearts of @crpfindia on the occasion of 83rd Raising Day of CRPF. Jai Hind!" PUri said in his tweet.Meanwhile, the CRPF in a tweet also hailed its personnel and extended them best wishes on the occasion."Best wishes to all the CRPF Bravehearts and their families on the 83rd CRPF Raising Day. With its glorious history as a guiding light, the force is resolutely committed to serve the nation with all its might," the CRPF said.The CRPF came into existence as Crown Representative's Police on July 27, 1939. It became the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on the enactment of the CRPF Act on December 28, 1949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-raising-day-pm-modi-union-minister-extend-greetings-to-soldiers-101627361668986.html
27-07-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu, Union ministers pay tribute to ex-president APJ Abdul Kalam on his death anniversary||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and several Union ministers paid tribute to India's former president APJ Abdul Kalam on his sixth death anniversary and remembered the tall leader for his contribution to the country.Naidu talked about APJ Abdul Kalam's "stellar contribution" as he remembered the country's 11th president. "My humble tributes to former President, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam on his Punya Tithi today. He was a distinguished scientist, a visionary statesman & above all a great human being. His stellar contribution strengthened our defence & space capabilities," Naidu tweeted.Union of minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal also extended his tribute to APJ Abdul Kalam. "He ignited our minds and dreamt of India as a developed, innovative and prosperous nation. Let us now realize our country's brilliant destiny. My humble tribute to the Missile Man, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam on his death anniversary," Goyal also posted on TwitterUnion minister of petroleum and natural gas Hardeep Singh Puri recalled the times he worked with Kalam. "Remembering one of India's most popular & admired former Presidents Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Ji on his death anniversary. I had the privilege of working with him when he was the Scientific Advisor to RM & I was a JS in MoD. Has always been an inspiration," Puri said in a tweet.Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul Kalam was called the ‘Missile Man of India’ for his contributions towards the development of India's missile projects. He was born on October 15, 1931, at Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu and died of cardiac arrest on July 27, 2015, while giving a lecture at the Indian Institute of Management in Shillong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-union-ministers-pay-tribute-to-ex-president-apj-abdul-kalam-on-his-death-anniversary-101627357893016.html
27-07-2021||India||430 civilians stranded during gunfight rescued from Kashmir’s Aharbal: Police||Four hundred and thirty civilians who were stranded at Aharbal tourist resort in South Kashmir due to a gunfight between militants and security forces on Monday were rescued by evening, said the police on Tuesday.An unidentified militant was killed during the exchange of fire, said a police spokesperson.“The movement of people was halted for their own safety after exchange of fire between militants and security forces. Towards the evening, the civilians were safely taken to an evacuation point under the armed protection of policemen and 40 vehicles were arranged for their transportation,” the spokesperson said, adding that senior officers supervised the rescue operation.Police have not revealed the identity of the militant killed in the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/430-civilians-stranded-during-gunfight-rescued-from-kashmir-s-aharbal-police-101627360664656.html
27-07-2021||India||Opposition to move resolution against IBC (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 today||Opposition leaders will on Tuesday move a resolution in Lok Sabha disapproving the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance. The ordinance was enacted to amalgamate laws relating to the insolvency resolution of business firms. It lays down clear-cut and faster insolvency proceedings to help creditors, such as banks, recover dues and prevent bad loans.An ordinance is a law promulgated when Parliament is not in session.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday introduced the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill 2021, in Lok Sabha. The proposed law aims at reworking some of the processes to deal with small businesses going belly up. The bill was necessitated by the financial stress wrought by the pandemic.Sitharaman was supposed to make an explanatory statement on the Bill. She tabled it amid pandemonium as Opposition members resumed protests no sooner than the House began its proceedings.Also Read | FM Sitharaman tables bankruptcy code bill aimed at small firmsAdhir Ranjan Chowdary, Adoor Prakash (Congress), and Trinamool Congress’s Saugata Roy will be among the leaders who will move the resolution.Congress leader Manickam Tagore also plans to move for the adjournment of business in Lok Sabha for the third time for discussion on the Pegasus snooping row “in the presence of Prime Minister or home minister”.Union ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and Smriti Irani are scheduled to table Marine Aids to Navigation Bill and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill in Rajya Sabha. Protests over alleged snooping prevented them from tabling the bills last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-move-resolution-against-insolvency-bankruptcy-ordinance-101627359164291.html
27-07-2021||India||India sees less than 30k new infections since March 16, positivity rate at 1.73%||India registered less than 30,000 new coronavirus cases for the first time in 132 days (March 16) with 29,689 fresh infections being registered in the last 24 hours. This took the country active case tally to 3,98,100 which 1.27% of the total cases. The fall in active caseload below 4 lakh is also after 124 days, according to the latest updates from the Union Health Ministry’s Covid bulletin. The daily positivity rate stood at 1.73 per cent. The number of cases registered in the last 24 hours is about 10,000 less than the number of samples that tested positive on Monday when the count of new cases was 39,361 which constituted1.31 per cent of the active cases. As many as 415 lives were lost to the virus in the last 24 hours, while 42,363 patients were discharged from hospital during the same. This took the cumulative count of deaths to 4,21,382 and recoveries to 3,06,21,469. On Monday, discharges and fatalities stood at 35,968 and 416m respectively.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 17,20,100 samples were tested for coronavirus in the last 24 hours taking the total tally to 45,91,64,121.As many as 66 lakh doses of vaccines against Covid-19 were administered during the day which upped the cumulative count of inoculation to 44.19 crore as part of the national vaccination drive, the health ministry said.In an earlier update, the ministry had said over 14 lakh beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years across states/UTs have received their first dose and more than 65 lakh have received their second dose since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-less-than-30k-new-infections-since-march-16-active-caseload-at-127-101627356924062.html
27-07-2021||NA||Parliament Monsoon Session: Lok Sabha adjourned till 11 am tomorrow||Amid an uproar by the opposition members, both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha were adjourned for the day on Monday. The proceedings in both the Houses were repeatedly disrupted as opposition members protested on the phone-tapping, farm laws and other issues and demanded a discussion.The Lok Sabha passed two important bills on Monday- the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2021 and the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021.The Centre has listed five ordinances to be taken up during this week’s proceedings. They are -- The Homoeopathy Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, The Indian Medicine Central Council (Amendment) Ordinance, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance and The Essential Defence Services Ordinance.The sixth session of the seventeenth Lok Sabha began from July 19 and will have 19 business days.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till 11 am tomorrowLok Sabha adjourned till 11 am tomorrow as Opposition MPs raise 'Khela hobe' slogans pic.twitter.com/rZdVOEdiceRajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrowRajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrow.Lok Sabha adjourned till 4pm Lok Sabha was once again adjourned for 30 minutes after resuming at 3:30pm due to sloganeering by the opposition.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 4pm amid sloganeeringThe Upper House of the Parliament was adjourned till 4pm amid sloganeering by Opposition MPs.Lok Sabha adjourned till 3:30pm amid sloganeeringLok Sabha was once again adjourned till 3:30pm due to sloganeering by opposition MPs demanding an investigation into the Pegasus controversy.Lok Sabha adjourned till 3pm amid sloganeeringLok Sabha was further adjourned till 3pm due to sloganeering by Opposition Member of Parliaments (MPs).Parliament adjourned amid sloganeering over PegasusLok Sabha has been adjourned till 2:30 pm, and Rajya Sabha till 3 pm amid sloganeering by Opposition MPs for a discussion on the 'Pegasus Project' reportShiromani Akali Dal MPs protested against 3 farm laws at Parliament earlier in the dayMPs of Shiromani Akali Dal stated a protest against the three agriculture laws at Parliament earlier today, reports news agency ANI.Dictatorship prevailing in country: Mallikarjun KhargeIT Act says permission is needed for surveillance. This government gave permission (for alleged snooping via Pegasus) and is involved in snooping on judges, Army officers, journalists and Opposition leaders. No democracy in the world would do it. Dictatorship is prevailing in the country. Modi Ji is not ready to solve issues in a democratic manner. We are ready for discussions. Government should call an all-party meeting... We all are going to fight on this issue: LoP in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge.Lok Sabha adjourned till 2 pmLok Sabha adjourned till 2 pm.Process of issuing rejections slips has been postponed: Nityanand RaiDue to outbreak of Covid-19 and flood situation, the process of issuing rejections slips (to those excluded from the final NRC) has been postponed: MoS MHA Nityanand Rai in Lok Sabha.Cong MP Shaktisinh Gohil gives Suspension of Business notice in Rajya SabhaCongress MP Shaktisinh Gohil has given Suspension of Business notice under rule 267 in Rajya Sabha to have a discussion in the presence of Prime Minister or Union Home Minister on 'Pegasus Project' media report.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 2pm after continued uproar by opposition members over Pegasus snooping issue.Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 12.30pmLok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 12.30pm due to protest by Opposition members.Om Birla led the House to pay tributes to Anerood Jugnauth and David Buchizya KaundaLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla led the House to pay tributes to Anerood Jugnauth, former President of Mauritius and Kenneth David Buchizya Kaunda, first President of Zambia.PM Modi asks ministers, MPs to have good relationship with OppositionIn the BJP Parliamentary Party meeting today, PM Narendra Modi asked the ministers and MPs to have good relationship with Opposition MPs: Sources, reports news agency ANI.Congress MP Ripun Bora demand discussion on Assam-Mizoram border clashCongress MP from Assam, Ripun Bora gives a short duration discussion notice in Rajya Sabha, under rule 176, and demands discussion on yesterday's Assam -Mizoram border clash which claimed the lives of six personnel of Assam Police.Parliament is meant for making laws and to discuss public issues: Venkaiah NaiduI am concerned about the media reports that some sections of the House are determined not to allow the House to function for the remainder of the session. Parliament is meant for making laws and to discuss public issues: Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu before the adjournment.Lok Sabha adjourned till 11:45amLok Sabha adjourned till 11:45am amid protests by the Opposition.Rajya Sabha adjourned for an hourRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for about an hour as opposition parties continue to disrupt functioning over snooping and farm laws.PM Modi asked party MPs to expose OppositionAfter Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi and V Muraleedharan briefed BJP Parliamentary Party meeting on what happened in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha in the past week, PM Modi asked party MPs to expose Opposition as it isn't coming to the meetings or letting the House conduct any business, reports ANI.Opposition MPs continue sloganeering in Rajya SabhaOpposition MPs continue sloganeering in Rajya Sabha, demanding a discussion on the 'Pegasus Project' report.CPI(M) MP Elaram Kareem gives notice in Rajya Sabha to discuss PegasusCPI(M) MP Elaram Kareem has given a suspension of business notice under Rule 267 in Rajya Sabha for discussion on the alleged Pegasus scandal, reports ANI.Ready for discussion on whichever topic opposition wants: Mukhtar Abbas NaqviWe had discussions with Opposition leaders and said that we are ready for discussion on whichever topic they want. We hope that Opposition will give notice and let Chairman and Speaker decide under which rule and when should it happen: Deputy Leader of House in RS, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi.Standing Committee Report on Covid-19’s impact on MSME Sector will be tabled in RSIn Rajya Sabha, the Standing Committee Report on Covid-19’s impact on the MSME Sector will be tabled.BJP Parliamentary Party meeting underwayBJP Parliamentary Party meeting is underway at Parliament on the Opposition's attempts to stall business during the monsoon session.Gaurav Gogoi gives adjournment motion in LS to discuss Assam-Mizoram border clashDeputy Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Gaurav Gogoi gives an adjournment motion notice to discuss the Assam-Mizoram border clash, which claimed the lives of 6 police personnel yesterday.I have submitted an adjournment motion on this issue (Assam-Mizoram border clash) and separately written a letter to the Home Minister demanding an enquiry: Deputy Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Gaurav Gogoi.Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice for discussing 'Pegasus Project' reportCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice for discussing the 'Pegasus Project' report in Lok Sabha.PM Modi, BJP leaders reach Parliament for BJP Parliamentary Party meetingPM Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, BJP chief JP Nadda, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and other BJP leaders reach Parliament for BJP Parliamentary Party meeting.Union ministers scheduled to table key bills in Rajya SabhaUnion ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and Smriti Irani are scheduled to table Marine Aids to Navigation Bill and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill in Rajya Sabha.Congress MP gives adjournment motion in LS for discussion on Pegasus project reportCongress MP Manickam Tagore has given adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha for a discussion on the 'Pegasus Project' report in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Pralhad Joshi also to speak at BJP Parliamentary Party meetBesides Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief JP Nadda, Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi also to speak at BJP Parliamentary Party meet on the Opposition's attempts to stall business during the monsoon session, reports ANI.Opposition to move resolution against IBC (Amendment) Ordinance 2021 todaySeveral Opposition leaders will on Tuesday move for a statutory resolution disapproving the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 tabled by the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101627346365044.html
27-07-2021||India||Aadhaar card: No fingerprint, eye scan for children below 5 years||Fingerprints and an eye scan are not required for getting an Aadhaar card for children below 5 years of age, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has said. UIDAI said a child below the age of five can get a blue colour Baal Aadhaar card. However, the authority said that biometric update is mandatory after children turn five."In #Aadhaar, fingerprints and iris scans are not captured while enrolling the children below 5 years of age, only a photograph is taken. Once the child attains the age of 5, biometrics need to be updated mandatorily," UIDAI tweeted.#AadhaarChildEnrolment In #Aadhaar, fingerprints and iris scans are not captured while enrolling the children below 5 years of age, only a photograph is taken. Once the child attains the age of 5, biometrics need to be updated mandatorily. #AadhaarEnrolment #BiometricUpdate pic.twitter.com/Fn6mHSW1UiIf a child is below 5 years, one of the parents or guardians has to authenticate on behalf of the child and also give consent for enrolment of the minor by signing the enrolment form, according to UIDAI.UIDAI said that if the child is an NRI, then a valid Indian passport of the child is mandatory as Proof of Identity (PoI). It also said that if the child is an Indian resident, then any valid proof of relationship documents such as a birth certificate, along with the Aadhaar of the parent or guardian can be used for enrolment.It also said that if the child is between 5 to 18 years of age, one of the parents or guardians has to give consent for enrolment of the minor by signing the enrolment form.Aadhaar is a 12-digit unique random number issued by UIDAI to all Indian residents and is considered as a new-age document that also serves as an important identity proof. This card has demographic and biometric information collected during the enrolment procedure and is issued free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-card-no-fingerprint-eye-scan-for-children-below-5-years-101627353199035.html
27-07-2021||India||Covid-hit mothers may continue to breastfeed newborns, says health ministry||A woman who has tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease can continue to breastfeed her baby, but should maintain a physical distance of 6 feet at all other times, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has said.Also, there is no evidence yet to suggest that a foetus may contract the virus from the mother, but pregnant women need to take all possible precautions to stay away from being infected, the ministry quoted a senior doctor from an interview.The ministry spoke to Dr Manju Puri, who heads the department of obstetrics and gynaecology at Lady Hardinge Medical College in New Delhi, over several related concerns, including vaccine hesitancy and what precautions an infected woman needs to take to protect her newborn. Dr Puri said vaccines that are being administered against coronavirus do not have any adverse effect on reproductive organs or fertility.Stressing the importance of inoculation, Dr Puri said the doses will help prevent severe diseases in pregnant women. "Also, vaccinating a mother is likely to give some degree of protection to the newborn as the antibodies developed in the mother's body post-vaccination will pass on to the developing foetus through her blood. In the case of lactating mothers, an infant gets these antibodies through the mother's breast milk," Dr Puri said.Regarding fears of any impact of the doses on fertility, Puri said it was all a rumour that gets circulated on social media, adding misinformation is far more dangerous than the virus itself.She said while the anti-virus vaccines are relatively new, these have been developed using time-tested techniques. "Vaccines help the body develop immunity against a specific pathogen, it does not affect any other body tissue. In fact, we give some vaccines such as hepatitis B, Influenza, pertussis vaccine to women even during pregnancy to protect them and their unborn child from various diseases," she said.Besides, regulators have approved the administration of the vaccines during pregnancy only after they were confident of their safety, she said. "There is no scientific data or studies that show that vaccines can cause infertility. These vaccines do not affect the reproductive organs in any way," she said.Speaking more on caring for newborns, Dr Puri said an infected mother should continue to breastfeed the baby, but keep a distance of six feet otherwise. Help from a caregiver who has tested negative from the virus may also be sought during the period. Dr Puri said an infected mother should wash her hands, wear protective gear such as a mask and face shield before breastfeeding the newborn. Frequent sanitisation of the surroundings is also helpful."If there is no one else to take care of the child, a mother should wear a mask all the time, and maintain physical distance from the child as much as possible. The mother and the child should stay in a well-ventilated room. And she should regularly wash her hands and sanitise the surroundings," Dr Puri said.The senior doctor said that while pregnancy and childbirth are social events in Indian society, expectant mothers should take adequate precautions, including wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing even at home. This is because she may not be going out, but may contract the disease from her family members who could be going out for work.She said if a pregnant woman develops any symptom of Covid-19, she should get herself tested at the earliest, "as the sooner we diagnose, the better we can manage the disease".The management of COVID-19 is almost the same during the pregnancy as it is for others, but it should be done only under the strict supervision of a doctor, she said."A woman should isolate herself, drink plenty of fluids, check her temperature and oxygen saturation every four-six hrs. If the temperature does not come down even after taking paracetamol, she needs to get in touch with a doctor. If there is a fall in oxygen concentration or if there is a decreasing trend for example if it is 98 in the morning 97 in the evening, and then drops further the next day, she needs to speak to her doctor," Dr Puri said.Besides, women who have associated illnesses such as diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, obesity, etc, need to be more careful, as they may need hospitalisation.Hence, consulting and staying in touch with a doctor are very important during the entire period. “We strongly recommend an overall health check-up post-COVID recovery to ensure that the mother and the foetus are doing fine," she said.The doctor further said there is an increase in mental health problems among women during pregnancy and post-childbirth and these are times when a woman undergoes a lot of hormonal and physiological changes.Dr Puri said pregnant women have poor coping skills and need social support. Isolation for 15 days is difficult for everyone, but more so for pregnant women and postnatal mothers. During this time, the additional anxiety about her child's health can severely affect her mental status. So, it is important to provide constant support and assurance to women during this time. Family members should observe her and if there is any drastic change in her mood, may seek medical help.She also spoke on counselling expectant women about various contraceptive methods during pregnancy and offering them postpartum intra-uterine device that can be inserted immediately after childbirth or caesarean delivery."It saves them from an unnecessary visit to the hospital after childbirth and reduces the risk of an unplanned pregnancy," Puri said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covidhit-mothers-may-continue-to-breastfeed-newborns-says-health-ministry-101627355530136.html
27-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD predicts heavy rain in most parts of northwest India till July 30 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Widespread, heavy rain in most parts of northwest India till July 30: IMDThere is likely to be widespread and heavy rain over most parts of northwest India till July 30 according to India Meteorological Department (IMD), which also issued a moderate rain warning for many parts of Delhi on Tuesday early morning for the next few hours. Read moreAssam accuses Mizoram of breaching status quo on borderAssam hit out at Mizoram late on Monday for breaching agreements, status quo, and said the Mizoram Police used light machine guns (LMGs) in the clashes that left five Assamese police personnel dead hours earlier along the border between the two states. At least 50 policemen and civilians were also injured in clashes. Read moreDelhi weather: Early morning showers bring relief from humidityAfter a hot and humid weekend, Delhi received rainfall early Tuesday morning. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an orange alert for Tuesday predicting “moderate to heavy” showers that may cause waterlogging in low-lying areas and result in traffic snarls. Read moreCovid-hit mothers may continue to breastfeed newborns, says health ministryA woman who has tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease can continue to breastfeed her baby, but should maintain a physical distance of 6 feet at all other times, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has said. Read more‘Doesn’t seem like he’s playing his first season for India’: Ramiz Raja lauds India youngster, calls him a ‘great find’Former Pakistan cricketer Ramiz Raja has heaped praise on Indian batsman Suryakumar Yadav who played a fantastic knock in the first T20I against Sri Lanka on Sunday. Read moreDeepika Padukone paints the internet a romantic red in ₹4k keyhole-neck dressActor Deepika Padukone surely knows how to make heads turn with her voguish fashion choices, be it on the red carpet or simply with an ad shoot. Read moreEijaz Khan on whether ‘politics’ in Bollywood affected his career: ‘I got trapped...’Actor Eijaz Khan, who is known for television shows such as Kkavyanjali and Kyaa Hoga Nimmo Kaa, appeared in a handful of films including Just Married and Tanu Weds Manu. In a new interview, he was asked if he feels that he did not get his due in Bollywood because of ‘politics’ in the industry. Read moreShilpa Shetty broke down, fought with Raj Kundra during raid at home in porn case: ReportActor Shilpa Shetty fought with her husband, businessman Raj Kundra, during a raid at their home by the crime branch, Mumbai Police sources told ANI on Monday. She is said to have burst into tears during the argument and the team had to step in to calm her down. She also told the cops that she was not in the know of his actions. Read moreJammu and Kashmir: One unidentified terrorist killed in Kulgam during encounterAn unidentified terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-imd-predicts-heavy-rain-in-most-parts-of-northwest-india-till-july-30-and-all-the-latest-news-101627350619232.html
27-07-2021||India||45 elephants, 204 people lost lives in man-animal conflict in 3 yrs: C’garh govt||In Chhattisgarh, 45 elephants, and 204 people were killed in their attacks across the state between 2018 and 2020, said the government in a reply to a question in legislative assembly on Monday.Of the 45 elephant deaths, 18 took place in 2020 while 2019 and 2018 saw 11 and 16 deaths respectively. Forest minister Mohammad Akbar, in a reply to a written question asked by Janata Congress Chhattisgarh MLA Dhamjeet Singh, said while 204 people were killed, 97 others suffered injuries in elephant attacks in the three years. “In total 75,081 cases of deaths, injuries, loss to crops, houses and other incidents of elephant attacks were reported, and compensation to the tune of ₹578,163,655 was given to the victims ,” said Akbar. The maximum deaths in such incidents were reported from the northern part of the state. North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants which roam in the forest lands in Surguja and the nearby regions, often triggering human-elephant conflicts. In the last decade, the state recorded an increase in its wildlife population including elephants, whose numbers rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-elephants-204-people-lost-lives-in-man-animal-conflict-in-3-yrs-c-garh-govt-101627355024002.html
27-07-2021||India||Widespread, heavy rain in most parts of northwest India till July 30: IMD||There is likely to be widespread and heavy rain over most parts of northwest India till July 30 according to India Meteorological Department (IMD), which also issued a moderate rain warning for many parts of Delhi on Tuesday early morning for the next few hours.There is a cyclonic circulation over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood. The western end of the monsoon trough at mean sea level is running along its normal position while its eastern end runs close to the normal position. The western end is likely to shift northward during the next 24 hours, bringing heavy rain to the Himalayan foothills A cyclonic circulation is lying over north Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood at mid and upper tropospheric level. Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood around July 28. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, and Uttar Pradesh till July 29 and will reduce thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on July 27 and 28 and over northwest Uttar Pradesh on July 27, 2021.Also Read | Delhi weather: Early morning showers bring relief from humidityWidespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Konkan, Goa, Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra during the next three days and will increase to isolated heavy to very heavy falls over the region from July 29.Enhanced rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is likely over east and adjoining Central India (Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar) from today.Satellite imagery shows moderate to intense convection over parts of north Punjab, South Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan west Bengal and Sikkim, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam & Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, North Chhattisgarh, north Odisha, East Rajasthan, West Madhya Pradesh and southeast Madhya Pradesh. It leads to the possibility of thunderstorm with lightning and spell(s) of light to moderate rainfall at isolated places over these areas during a couple of hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-heavy-rain-in-most-parts-of-northwest-india-till-july-30-imd-101627354244341.html
27-07-2021||India||IMD red alert for these states today, heavy rainfall forecast||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted isolated extremely heavy rainfall over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. IMD has also forecast enhanced rainfall activity with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall and isolated heavy to very heavy falls likely over east and adjoining central India including Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand from Tuesday.Konkan, Goa, the ghat areas of central Maharashtra are also expected to witness fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls during the next two days and an increase to isolated heavy to very heavy falls over the region from July 29, IMD said on Monday.Also read | MeT dept issues red warning for four Himachal districtsThe weather bureau has also said that due to the influence of the low-pressure area over northwest Madhya Pradesh, which has become less marked, and the associated cyclonic circulation over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Uttar Pradesh till July 29 and its intensity will reduce thereafter.According to IMD, another cyclonic circulation lies over the north Bay of Bengal and a low-pressure area is likely to form over the area and its neighbourhood around July 28 under its influence.Also read | 'Unprecedented' rains triggered floods in Sangli and Kolhapur: Ajit PawarIn Maharashtra, the death toll after floods and landslides has risen to 192 after 28 more bodies were recovered, most of them in Raigad, the state government said in a statement. There have been 95 deaths in Raigad, 45 in Satara, 21 in Ratnagiri, 12 in Thane, 7 in Kolhapur and two each in Sindhudurg, Akola, Pune and Wardha and in Mumbai, four people have died.The state government has said that as many as 48 people were injured in these incidents and 25 still missing.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-red-alert-for-these-states-today-heavy-rainfall-forecast-101627351884802.html
27-07-2021||India||Karnataka raises DA from 11.25% to 21.50% for govt employees||Karnataka has revised dearness allowance or DA from the existing 11.25 per cent to 21.5 per cent from January 2020 to June 2021 and ordered releasing its additional instalments. The Karnataka government froze the payment in view of the coronavirus pandemic."Government is pleased to release the additional installments of the dearness allowance for the period January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021," it said in an order. "Accordingly, the rates of dearness allowance payable to the state government employees in the 2018 revised pay scales shall be revised from the existing 11.25 per cent to 21.50 per cent of the basic pay with effect from July 1, 2021," it added.According to a PTI report, the Karnataka government also announced enhancing the rates of dearness allowance from the existing 11.25 per cent to 21.50 per cent of the basic pension or family pension with effect from July 1, 2021. This will be applicable to state government pensioners or family pensioners and pensioners or family pensioners of aided educational institutions whose pension or family pension is paid out of the consolidated fund of the state, the report said.The orders are also applicable to retired employees on UGC/AICTE/ICAR scales of pay, the Karnataka government said. It added that these orders will apply to full-time government employees, employees of zila panchayats, full-time employees of aided educational institutions and universities who are on regular time scales of pay.Authorities may take a decision on DA revision of employees covered under the Karnataka Daily Wage Employees Welfare Act, 2012; employees of boards, corporations, local bodies and employees of government or autonomous institutions under the control of state government whose dearness allowance order is regulated by the state government, according to the order.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-raises-da-from-11-25-to-21-50-for-govt-employees-101627347032191.html
27-07-2021||India||PM Kisan Samman Nidhi 2021: Payment for Andhra, UP farmers fails. Here's why||The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM KISAN) scheme along with the Digital India initiative has made it possible to reach the benefits to 12 crore farmers in the country. However, despite the transfer of money by the government, it does not always reach the farmers' accounts.A number of factors is responsible if farmers do not receive the benefit. The main reason for this is a mistake in Aadhaar, account and bank account numbers. Apart from this, if there is a mismatch in the spelling of the name in the bank account and the name entered on the Aadhaar card or the filling of the wrong IFSC code, farmers will fail to get the money.Due to these mistakes, the installments of 162,297 farmers in Andhra Pradesh are pending for April-July and the payment for 48,275 agriculturists has failed. At the same time, according to the data given on the PM Kisan Portal, the payment of 15,699 farmers of Chhattisgarh has also failed and the installment for 15,059 is pending. Similarly, payments of 133,790 farmers of Madhya Pradesh are pending and 38,576 have failed. On the other hand, the payment of 138,154 farmers of Uttar Pradesh has failed and the installment of 91,066 has been suspended.The government launched the PM-KISAN scheme to provide financial assistance of up to ₹6,000 annually to small and marginalised farmers across the nation.The financial benefit of ₹6,000 per year is to be released to the eligible farmers in three installments of ₹2,000 each every four-month trimester, i.e. April-July, August-November and December-March.This scheme is being implemented through an Aadhaar linked electronic database containing details of all members of the families of the farmers whose names appear in the land records.The PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme provides financial assistance to farmers irrespective of the size of their landholdings. The amount is directly transferred to the bank account of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-kisan-samman-nidhi-2021-payment-for-andhra-up-farmers-fails-here-s-why-101627345218071.html
27-07-2021||NA||Breaking New highlightss: Karnataka's new CM Bommai to take oath at 11am on July 28||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Today's top news: > Basavaraj Bommai elected as new chief minister of Karnataka> Assam-Mizoram border sealed, MHA calls meeting of officials> IMF projects 9.5% growth rate for India in 2021, 8.5% for 2022> Popular Chinese app WeChat suspends new registrations> Shilpa Shetty yet to get clean chit in pornography racket case: Crime branchFollow all the updates here:Karnataka's new CM Basavaraj Bommai to take oath at 11am tomorrowGovernor Thaawarchand Gehlot has invited me to form the government. I will take oath at 11 AM on July 28: BommaiDelhi reports 77 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths in last 24 hours🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 27th July 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/cQbBCdkyhcDelhi reported 77 new Covid-19 infections and two deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the cases tally reached 1,436,026 and the death toll climbed to 25,046.Basavaraj Bommai elected as new chief minister of KarnatakaFormer state home minister Basavaraj Bommai elected as the new chief minister of Karnataka following the BJP's legislature party meeting. Bommai was the home minister in Yediyurappa’s council of ministers, which was dissolved following the 78-year-old’s resignation on Monday.IMF projects 9.5% growth rate for India in 2021, 8.5% for 2022International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects 9.5% growth rate for India in 2021 and 8.5% for 2022. pic.twitter.com/yz0KhdHDKR'Courtesy meeting' with PM Modi, raised Covid-19, need for more vaccines in Bengal: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that it was a "courtesy meeting" with PM Modi during which she raised the issues of Covid-19 and need for more medicines in the state, reports ANI."PM should call an all-party meeting on the Pegasus issue. There should be a Supreme Court-monitored probe in this matter," Banerjee said.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee meets PM ModiWest Bengal CM @MamataOfficial called on PM @narendramodi. pic.twitter.com/KY8vEYmPwpWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his office tweeted.Karnataka minister says next CM to be elected in 'another 1 or 2 days'Everybody is an aspirant, everybody wants to be CM. But there is only one CM. That is why we'll follow party High Command's decision: Karnataka Minister R Ashoka "Another one or two days, 48 hours," minister R Ashoka when asked how long will it take for next CM to be elected pic.twitter.com/NroMNz2IxRKarnataka minister R Ashoka said that the next chief minister of the state would be elected in another one or two days. He also said that the party high command's decision would be followed, reports ANI.Bihar opposition to boycott assembly session until debate allowed on alleged manhandling of members on March 2021: Tejashwi YadavWe decided that all opposition parties will boycott the entire session in the Assembly, unless action is taken against those who have murdered democracy. We will go only when we are allowed to debate: Bihar LoP Tejashwi YadavBihar opposition parties would boycott the entire assembly session until a debate on the alleged manhandling of members inside the assembly, earlier on March 2021, would be allowed, says Tejashwi Yadav, reports ANI.Over 60 tourists stranded in HP's Kinnaur after landslides block roadsAbout 60 to 80 tourists have been stranded in two villages of Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district after multiple landslides on July 25 blocked roads, a senior official said on Tuesday.These tourists are stranded in Chhitkul and Rakshak, the last villages of the Bapsa valley, as the Sangla-Chhitkul road had been closed for traffic after the landslides, Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sidiq said.Kashmir to acquire its rightful place as India's 'crowning glory', says President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday said Kashmir is bound to acquire its rightful place as the "crowning glory of India" and the younger generation of the Union Territory will surely realise this dream.Addressing the 19th Annual Convocation of the University of Kashmir, the President shared his dream to see the Valley as a paradise on the Earth and said "I am squarely banking on the younger generation of Jammu and Kashmir to realise this dream which I am sure will come true sooner than later. Kashmir is bound to acquire its rightful place as the crowning glory of India."Hong Kong stocks plunge more than 5% in afternoonHong Kong shares plunged more than five percent Tuesday, extending the previous day's hefty losses on worries about a regulatory crackdown by China on a range of industries including private education and technology.The Hang Seng Index tumbled 5.32 percent, or 1,394.25 points, to 24,798.07 -- having lost more than four percent Monday, while it has now given up more than eight percent in three trading days.Tokyo daily Covid-19 infections hit record 2,848Tokyo reported daily Covid-19 cases hit a record high of 2,848 on Tuesday as infection spreads in the Olympic host city.BJP legislative party to meet today to elect Karnataka's new chief ministerIsrael minister to discuss Pegasus scandal in France visitIsraeli Defence Minister Benny Gantz will meet his French counterpart in Paris this week for talks that will include an "update" on the Pegasus spyware scandal, his office said Tuesday.A defence ministry statement said Gantz will leave Wednesday for talks with French Defence Minister Florence Parly on topics including the crisis in Lebanon, nuclear negotiations with Iran and the Pegasus malware made by Israeli firm NSO, which was allegedly used to target President Emmanuel Macron.Assam CM pays floral tributes to policemen killed in border clashesAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday paid floral tributes to the policemen who were killed in the Assam-Mizoram border clashes that took place on Monday.After visiting the injured Assam Police personnel at the Silchar Medical College and Hospital today, the CM paid a floral tribute to the fallen men.PM asks BJP MPs to organise programmes at village level to mark 75 years of independencePrime Minister Narendra Modi asked the BJP MPs on Tuesday to mark the 75 years of independence by organising programmes in each village of their constituencies, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal said.Sources said the prime minister also asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to expose the opposition parties as the government is ready for a discussion but they are not.Heavy rains cause extensive waterlogging in Delhi, traffic movement affectedHeavy rains on Tuesday morning led to extensive waterlogging at several road stretches across Delhi, including near Pragati Maidan in the central part of the city and Dhaula Kuan in the southern part, affecting traffic movement.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said 100 mm of rainfall was recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative data for the city, in the last 24 hours.Waterlogging was also seen at Mathura Road, Moti Bagh, Vikas Marg, Ring Road, Rohtak Road, Sangam Vihar and Kirari, among other places.Asian stock markets advance after Wall Street rises to recordAsian stock markets were mostly higher Tuesday as investors looked ahead to a Federal Reserve report for an update on when US stimulus might start winding down.Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul advanced while Hong Kong retreated.On Monday, Wall Street's benchmark S&P 500 index rose to a new record, shrugging off worries about the spread of the coronavirus's more contagious Delta variant.Rajnath Singh to leave for Tajikistan to participate in SCO Defence Ministers meetDefence Minister Rajnath Singh is set to leave for Dushanbe, Tajikistan to participate in Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Defence Ministers meeting.Tajikistan is this year's chair of the grouping and will be holding the SCO heads of state summit in the month of September.Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to visit flood-hit Raigad, RatnagiriMaharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is going to visit the flood-affected areas of Raigad and Ratnagiri districts today. The Governor will be visiting the Taliye village and Chiplun during his visit.Afghan soldiers flee attack, cross borderDozens of Afghan soldiers slipped across the border into northwestern Pakistan, the Pakistani army said Monday. The Afghan troops were fleeing after their border post was overrun, apparently by the Taliban.The statement said 46 members of the Afghan forces, including five officers, crossed the border late Sunday near the Pakistani border town of Chitral in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.India reports less than 30K cases for the first time after March 16, active cases less than 4 lakh after 124 daysIndia registered less than 30,000 new coronavirus cases for the first time in 132 days (March 16) with 29,689 fresh infections being registered in the last 24 hours.Australian city Melbourne ends 5th Covid-19 lockdownAustralia’s second-most populous city Melbourne will end its fifth lockdown on Tuesday with the Victoria state government declaring it had beaten an outbreak of the highly contagious Covid-19 delta variant for a second time.The five-day lockdown across Victoria ends at 11:59pm, allowing schools, pubs and restaurants to reopen, Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews said. But people will not be allowed to have visitors in their homes for another two weeks.PM Modi greets Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on birthdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi greeted Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on his 61st birthday on Tuesday.The youngest son of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray, Uddhav Thackeray became the state's chief minister in November 2019.Modi tweeted, "Birthday greetings to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray Ji. May he be blessed with a long and healthy life. @OfficeofUT."4 new Covid-19 cases in Olympic Games village, two of them athletesFour residents of the Olympic Games village, including two athletes, are among the seven new Covid-19 cases that the event organisers announced on Tuesday.With this, the total Games-related Covid-19 cases shot up to 155, 20 of them in the Games village.The four fresh cases in the village include two Games-concerned personnel.On Monday, Dutch tennis player Jean-Julien Rojer was forced to withdraw from after testing positive for the virus.Chinese President Xi Jinping visiting Tibet is a threat to India, says senior US CongressmanChinese President Xi Jinping visiting Tibet last week is a threat to India, an influential US lawmaker has said, accusing the Joe Biden-led administration of not doing enough to stop the Chinese "march".Xi on Wednesday last made an unannounced three-day trip to Nyingchi in Tibet, close to the border with Arunachal Pradesh. Xi, who is also General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, met top officials of the Tibet Military Command and reviewed development projects in the region.Maharashtra rains: Death toll rises to 192, Ajit Pawar tours flood-hit villagesThe death toll in rain-related incidents in Maharashtra rose to 192 on Monday after the recovery of 28 more bodies, most of them in Raigad, the state government said, while Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar toured flood-hit villages in Sangli district and said a decision on providing financial relief will be taken in a couple of days. As many as 48 persons were injured in these incidents and 25 still missing, while so far, 2,29,074 persons have been evacuated from the flood and rain-affected affected areas and moved to safer places, the government said in a statement in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-27-2021-101627344016378.html
27-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra, Ryan Thorpe police custody ends today in alleged pornography case||The police custody of Raj Kundra, businessman and husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, and his IT head Ryan Thorpe, arrested in connection with an alleged pornography case will end on Tuesday. A magistrate's court in Mumbai on July 23 extended their police custody till Tuesday.The police earlier told the court that the 45-year-old businessman was gaining financially from the illegal activity of making and selling pornographic material, news agency PTI reported.The police claimed that they have seized Kundra's mobile phone and its contents need to be scrutinised and also his business dealings and transactions have to be looked into. "This is why transactions between Raj Kundra's Yes bank account and United Bank of Africa account need to be investigated," Mumbai Police told the court, according to news agency ANI.On July 20, the Mumbai Police said that they have arrested Kundra and 10 others for their alleged involvement in the creation of porn films and publishing them through mobile apps. Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said in a statement that Kundra appears to be "the key conspirator." "We have sufficient evidence regarding this," Nagrale said.Maharashtra's anti-corruption bureau (ACB) said on Thursday that it has received four emails alleging that Kundra even bribed Mumbai Police officials with ₹25 lakh to avoid arrest.Kundra had a tie-up with a London-based company involved in streaming pornographic content through Hotshots, a mobile app, joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe said.The case was registered with Mumbai Police's crime branch in February this year about the creation of pornographic films and the use of apps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-ryan-thorpe-police-custody-ends-today-in-alleged-pornography-case-101627342264488.html
27-07-2021||India||Why BS Yediyurappa matters for the BJP in Karnataka||Exactly two years after he assumed the chief minister’s post in Karnataka, BS Yediyurappa has tendered his resignation. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is yet to name his successor. The fact that there is no obvious front-runner despite Yediyurappa’s resignation being in the works for months underscores his importance in Karnataka’s political landscape. There are two key challenges facing the BJP at the moment. One, making sure that Yediyurappa does not rebel against it, like he did in 2012, and two, maintaining the party’s support base in the Lingayat community, of which the outgoing CM is the tallest leader. Here are three charts which explain this.Lingayats voted for the BJP in 2019The BJP achieved its best ever performance in Karnataka in the 2019 elections winning 25 out of the 28 Lok Sabha seats. While the party had high levels of support across Hindus, it was an overwhelming 87% among Lingayats, who account for almost 16%-17% of the state’s population. The Congress-JD (S) government fell immediately after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and Yediyurappa, a Lingayat, was made the chief minister. (See Chart 1)Lingayats have been the core support-base of the BJP in Karnataka, but they are also loyal to Yediyurappa.Karnataka is the first and only southern state so far where the BJP has been able to capture power on its own. The BJP’s success story in the state is tied with Yediyurappa who has mobilised the Lingayats for the party.In the 2013 assembly elections, the BJP party realised the hard way that it cannot take Lingayat support for granted if Yediyurappa is not on board. Yediyurappa parted ways with the BJP and formed the Karnataka Janata Paksha (KJP) after he was made to resign as the chief minister in 2011. The KJP did massive damage to the BJP in the 2013 assembly elections in which its performance was the worst since the 1994 state polls. (See Chart 2)A comparison of community-wise vote shares from the 2008 and 2013 CSDS-Lokniti surveys shows that the Lingayats deserted the BJP in a big way in the 2013 elections. The Lingayat support returned in the 2014 elections (it was 63% according to CSDS-Lokniti), by which time Yediyurappa had been brought back into the BJP fold. (See Chart 3)BJP’s social engineering problem in KarnatakaCaste politics has always been important in Karnataka. In its heydays, the Congress, under the leadership of Devraj Urs perfected what it called the AHINDA coalition which included minorities, backward classes and dalits. The Congress fell between two stools in the 2018 elections, while trying to play the AHINDA card on the one hand and wooing Lingayats with a separate religious status on the other. While it did gain some ground among the Lingayats, it lost the support of other sections.The BJP, which is enjoying the peak of its political popularity in Karnataka if the 2019 results are any indication, will face a similar problem. It cannot alienate the Lingayats who are its most loyal supporters but must also be seen as offering a bigger share of power to other Hindus. Whether or not Yediyurappa’s successor is a Lingayat is the BJP’s first challenge on this front. We will know soon enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-bsy-matters-for-the-bjp-in-karnataka-101627339841665.html
27-07-2021||India||Plea against DMK, AIADMK leaders’ win: HC issues notice to EC, 3 candidates||Chennai: Hearing a batch of petitions filed challenging victories of leaders in the Tamil Nadu assembly election held on April 6, the Madras high court on Monday issued notices to the Election Commission of India and three candidates —S Duraimurugan, minister for water resources and two AIADMK leaders— former health minister C Vijayabhaskar and S Jayakumar from Perundurai constituency..Justice V Bharathidasan ordered a notice to senior DMK leader and minister Duraimurugan on an election petition challenging his victory from Katpadi constituency by a thin margin of 746 votes against rival AIADMK’s V Ramu. His victory has been challenged on the ground that they were in violation of the Representation of People Act and the Conduct of Election Rules. Ramu in his petition wanted to be declared as the winner on the basis of his complaint that votes polled in a particular polling station (110A) were never counted leading to the victory of Duraimurugan.The court also ordered a notice to Vijayabhaskar who has been re-elected from Viramalai constituency polling 53.8% of the votes. The petition was filed by DMK candidate M Palaniappan who was represented by senior advocate and DMK MP P Wilson. The petition sought to declare the election of Vijayabaskar as illegal and void on several grounds including distribution of cash.The case has been posted to September 6 by which time the elected candidates have to file their responses.GoI stance on filling AIQ seats by following reservation After the Madras high court said that it is unacceptable that the union government would not implement Other Backward Classes (OBC) reservation in state-surrendered medical seats for the All India Quota (AIQ) in Tamil Nadu and asked them to file their stance, the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court on Monday that the Centre is in an advanced stage on the matter. The Centre submitted that they require another week to submit their final decision. The first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthil Kumar Ramamoorthy adjourned the matter by a week. The case pertains to a contempt petition filed by the DMK stating that the order to grant OBC reservations in the All India Quota seats in medical and dental colleges was not obeyed by the Union government. P Wilson, senior advocate appeared for the DMK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-against-dmk-aiadmk-leaders-win-hc-issues-notice-to-ec-3-candidates-101627328560613.html
27-07-2021||India||TN issues order to implement 10.5% quota Bill for Vanniyars||Chennai: In a boost to the AIADMK’s ally, Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and the Vanniyar caste that they represent, the DMK government in Tamil Nadu late on Monday issued an order to implement the 10.5% internal reservation allocated for the community. “This reservation will be followed for government jobs and educational institutions from this academic year,” the order read. The previous AIADMK regime had on February 26 passed a legislation in the assembly to allocate 10.5% quota to the Vanniyar community within the existing 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes. The move was made ahead of the assembly elections that were held on April 6, to appease the PMK that threatened to walk out of the alliance if their demands weren’t met. The order issued by Mythili K Rajendran, secretary to the government said that the reservation which came into effect on February 26, will be applicable for new vacancies called by recruiting agencies and appointing authorities. PMK founder S Ramadoss thanked the former AIADMK leadership for enacting the law and chief minister M K Stalin for implementing the reservation. “The situation of the people from the Vanniyar community will gradually improve when the reservation is implemented in employment and education,” Ramadoss tweeted in Tamil. Just a day ago, Ramadoss had expressed his disappointment that admissions for courses in engineering, arts and science colleges were announced without mentioning the reservation for Vanniyars. This reservation has been a four-decade long demand of the PMK for the upliftment of the community which it reignited in the run up to the polls. Some of their protests during this time often turned violent. Former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s last act before the model code of conduct came into effect was passing the Bill offering a 10.5% internal quota for the Vanniyar community in educational institutions and appointments in government services and jobs within the existing reservation for MBCs. Despite its declining show in the electoral fray in the past decade, PMK retains clout amongst the Dravidian majors because of their dominating influence in the Vanniyar community- their core vote bank--in Tamil Nadu’s northern belt and a few districts in the western region. Necessary amendments to the Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Act, 2016 shall be issued separately, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-issues-order-to-implement-10-5-quota-bill-for-vanniyars-101627328500546.html
27-07-2021||India||CBI must probe ISRO spy case independently: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will have to conduct its investigation independently into the conspiracy by Kerala Police officials to frame former Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) scientist S Nambi Narayanan in the alleged 1994 ISRO spy scandal and that the agency cannot just rely on the findings of the committee headed by a retired Supreme Court judge.The Court was referring to the report prepared by a three-member Committee headed by former Supreme Court judge Justice (Retd) DK Jain which had named the police officials responsible for foisting a false case against Narayanan. Based on this report, the Court had directed CBI to take up the probe in April this year and had asked the agency to examine if a case was made out from the reading of the Committee’s findings.On Monday, the CBI represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the top court that the agency has decided to lodge a first information report (FIR). The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna allowed the agency to proceed in accordance with law and said, “Investigation agency must collect materials on its own. The report (by Justice DK Jain Committee) by itself cannot be the basis to proceed against the persons named as accused in the FIR. It is only to provide you initial information. Ultimately it is the investigation done by you that will have the consequence.”The Committee, formed by the top court on September 14, 2018 had done an exhaustive analysis into the conspiracy charge leveled by Narayanan in his petition before the Supreme Court. Finding merit in his allegation that he was framed by officers of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Kerala Police in the alleged scam, the top court ordered the probe and directed the Kerala government to pay a compensation of ₹50 lakh to the 81-year old scientist. The Committee had one representative each from Central and Kerala governments and the expenses of the Committee were borne by Centre.The SIT formed in November 1994 was headed by then Deputy Inspector General of Police (Crime) Siby Mathews, along with investigating officers e investigating officers S. Vijayan (then Inspector, Special Branch) and KK Joshua, (then Deputy Superintendent of Police, CB CID).With the report taken to its logical end, the bench found no purpose in continuing with it further and ordered the Committee to be wound up. Solicitor General informed the Court that on April 15 this year, when the Court directed CBI to examine the Justice DK Jain Committee report, a bar was placed on disclosing the report contents. Since some portions of the report were contained in the FIR, Mehta sought a clarification on making the FIR contents public.The lawyers representing the police officers sought for a copy of the Committee report. The bench clarified that the report was meant for the purposes of the Court and the accused can certainly be provided the copy of the FIR by CBI. The bench allowed CBI to upload the FIR on its website without passing any specific directions in this regard. Mehta informed the Court that the same would be done during the course of the day.Interestingly, this is not the first time the CBI is handling the ISRO spy scandal case. In December 1994, the Kerala government had handed over the case probe to CBI after SIT had arrested Nambi Narayanan and another scientist D Sasikumaran for the charge of passing secret documents related to ISRO to a Maldivian woman. The CBI in its final report found the allegations to be false. This finding led to the discharge of the two scientists by the trial court in May 1996.The state government was unhappy with these findings and ordered the state police to re-investigate the case. This notification of June 27, 1996 was challenged by Narayanan before the Kerala High Court. In November 1996, the High Court upheld the state notification which forced Narayanan to approach the top court. This appeal was decided in September 2018.Commenting on the trauma faced by Narayanan, the top court in its order had said, “The dignity of a person gets shocked when psycho-pathological treatment is meted out to him. A human being cries for justice when he feels that the insensible act has crucified his self-respect.”In 2001, the National Human Rights Commission awarded him a compensation of ₹10 lakh. Narayanan had told the top court that the malicious prosecution had a “catastrophic effect on his service career” that destroyed his career, life span, savings, honour, academic work as well as self-esteem. The peace of his family was affected. Despite all odds, Narayanan kept fighting to be redeemed of the ignominy facing him of being accused of espionage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-must-probe-isro-spy-case-independently-sc-101627328440549.html
27-07-2021||India||Top AIADMK leaders call on Modi in Delhi||AIADMK leaders Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam, along with senior party leaders, Monday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi, at a time when the party is facing the heat from several quarters back home.After the meeting, the leaders told reporters in New Delhi they discussed welfare measures and infrastructure for Tamil Nadu. However, party insiders said they did talk to PM Modi about the DMK government initiating a raid and filing a corruption case against former transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar last week. “They discussed the present situation in Tamil Nadu. They have discussed the raids and spoken about DMK ministers who amassed wealth and are holding a post now, and that Income Tax should look into such cases,” said a senior AIADMK leader who did not wish to be named.The dual leadership was accompanied by former municipal administration minister SP Velumani, Panneerselvam’s son and MP O P Raveeendranath and former Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai. The meeting went on for about 35-minutes. “We thanked Prime Minister Modi Ji for campaigning for alliance candidates in the assembly election,” Palaniwami told reporters after the meeting. “We have urged the Prime Minister to allocate sufficient Covid-19 vaccines for Tamil Nadu.”They also demanded that the Union government not permit Karnataka to construct the Mekedatu dam. Palaniswami reiterated how Panneerselvam, late J Jayalalithaa and himself, when they had occupied the chief minister’s chair, had urged the Centre not to clear the project. “If the dam is built the Delta districts would turn into a desert. About 14 districts are dependent on the Cauvery river for drinking water. So, we placed a demand before the Prime Minister on this. Also, to address the water scarcity in Tamil Nadu, we have asked him to implement the Godavari-Cauvery river link initiative as soon as possible.”Palaniswami didn’t answer a question on expelled leader V K Sasikala’s opinion that there has to be a single leadership in the AIADMK. “They didn’t discuss Sasikala. She hasn’t achieved anything for us to discuss. She is just making some noise after we lost the election,” the leader quoted above said. “Even in our meetings in the party headquarters, we have not been discussing her anymore.”It is the first time Palaniswami and Panneerselvam are meeting PM Modi together as their party grew closer to the BJP following Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016. Panneerselvam had earlier said in 2018 that he patched up with Palaniswami on Modi’s advice.On July 22, officials from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) raided 26 places linked to the former transport minister and seized ₹2,556,000 cash and other incriminating documents. They filed a case on a slew of charges, including disproportionate assets. It is seen as the beginning of a crackdown as one of the DMK’s election promises is to establish a special court to prosecute top AIADMK ministers including Palaniswami, Panneerselvam and Velumani on charges of corruption. The DMK, while in opposition, had submitted complaints of corruption against six AIADMK ministers to Governor Banwarilal Purohit.The AIADMK called the raid a political vendetta. The party plans to protest across Tamil Nadu on July 28 against the DMK for not fulfilling its election promises, such as abolishing NEET and cutting fuel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-aiadmk-leaders-call-on-modi-in-delhi-101627328380533.html
27-07-2021||India||Lingayat community unhappy with BSY resignation||Even though BS Yediyurappa claimed his resignation was voluntary, his removal presents a challenge for the saffron party in the coming days. The first signs of trouble came hours after his resignation when some seers of the Lingayat community warned the BJP of consequences for removing the 78-year-old leader. In some parts of the state, protests were reported against the high command. “BS Yediyurappa has given his resignation in pain. Karnataka BJP will be washed away in tears. BJP should reconsider its decision,” Dingaleshwara Swami, one of the prominent seers in Karnataka. The Lingayat community forms close to 16% of the state’s population and Yediyurappa has been the tallest leader of the community. Moreover, rumours that a non-Lingayat leader could be the next chief minister has irked the Lingayat community. “We have been hearing names of Brahmin and Vokkaliga chief minister candidates. These are only rumours and the decision will be taken by the central high command, considering all aspects but several Lingayat leaders are unhappy with this someone outside the community becoming a chief minister,” said Lingayat legislator on the condition of anonymity. Shikaripura, Yediyurappa’s constituency in Shimoga district, witnessed an undeclared bandh in the afternoon with shops and other commercial establishments shut in protest, soon after Yediyurappa’s resignation. Even though Yediyurappa was born in the Mandya district, Shikaripura became the base of his political activities. In Hassan, supporters of Yediyurappa took out a march on the main streets raising slogans. They criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, maintaining that they forced the chief minister to resign. Another leader added that among the other Lingayat leaders, no leader could be considered a leader for the community. “Yediyurappa is the only mass leader in Karnataka. More than the party, in many cases it is his following that brings the votes. In a way, it is good that the replacement is taking place now because we will have some time to calm nerves before the elections,” he said. For the BJP, the Lingayat seers are not the only problem. The 12 legislators from Congress and the JDS defected to the BJP and helped Yediyurappa form a government in July 2019. When there was a delay from the central leadership in accommodating these leaders into the cabinet, it was Yediyurappa who stood firm by them. With the news of Yediyurappa’s removal, these MLAs have got into a huddle. When asked about the future of these MLAs, Yediyurappa on Monday said that they are all together. However, it remains unclear whether these MLAs will keep portfolios they are holding now, with Yediyurappa having no say in deciding the cabinet. These MLAs resigned from the respective parties to join BJP on the promise of getting minister posts. In case, any of them are removed from the current posts, it could lead to problems for the BJP since the party came to power because of these turncoats. “He (Yediyurappa) was mentioning to me that on July 26, he may receive a favourable decision from the high command. But things have happened on the contrary. We all have to abide by the decision… but he is exiting only from the chief minister post and not from active politics,” said K Sudhakar, one of the turncoats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lingayat-community-unhappy-with-bsy-resignation-101627328321187.html
27-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa: A doughty fighter with a weakness for Parivar||In April this year, ground reports began to trickle in that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was trailing badly in the by-elections to Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. The bypolls were necessitated after the death of Union minister Suresh Angadi due to Covid-19. A popular MP, he had won the seat in 2019 for the fourth consecutive time with a margin of nearly four lakh votes. Taking into consideration the large margin of victory earlier, as well as to encash on the sympathy factor, the BJP had fielded Mangala Angadi, his wife, for the polls. But closer to voting day, internal party reports indicated that party was trailing as the Congress with a formidable candidate was giving it a tough fight. That is when the party sent an SOS to its most dependable vote-catcher in the state, chief minister B S Yediyurappa (BSY). The 78-year-old was down with a 102-degree fever and had gradually turned physically weak, having just recovered from a bout of Covid-19. But despite that and amid protests from family members, Yediyurappa flew to Belagavi to hold meetings and roadshows for two days, thus ensuring BJP’s victory, albeit with a small margin. It is this doughtiness and never say die attitude that has served Yediyurappa well over the last five decades of his political career. Born in Bookankere of Mandya district in southern Karnataka, it was however, Shivamogga in the Malnad region of the state - where he moved to become a clerk in a rice mill and eventually marry the daughter of the mill owner - that gave him a political career. He was elected eight times from Shikaripura (literally the ‘land of hunters’) constituency, served as leader of opposition thrice, deputy chief minister once and the chief minister of Karnataka four times. Yediyurappa tasted electoral defeat only once in 1999 when against his advice, the Sangh as a part of its longer-term plan, forced the BJP to enter into an alliance with the unpopular incumbent government of Janata Dal (United) led by J H Patel. BJP lost the battle but managed to win the war when large parts of the Ramakrishna Hegde-J H Patel-led Janata faction later merged into the BJP, enabling the saffron party under BSY to cement its position in the state. For the legions of his admirers, he is known as ‘Raja Huli’ (King Tiger, a reference to a popular Kannada movie), who built the saffron party in Karnataka when it was an unknown entity. Yediyurappa was already criss-crossing Karnataka on a bicycle to hear the woes of people, in 1987, a year when Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally joined the BJP. BSY helped build the party brick-by-brick, undertaking agitations on behalf of landless and bonded labourers. While other BJP leaders like Anant Kumar, Rama Bhat, B B Shivappa, K S Eshwarappa and V S Acharya too played an important role in building the party, two things helped BSY: loyalty and caste. He has been loyal to the Sangh Parivar, if not always to the BJP. In 1985, when BJP won only two seats - Yediyurappa himself and Vasant Bangera from Belthangady - both were offered incentives to move over to either the then ruling Janata Party or Congress. While Bangera crossed over, Yediyurappa stood steadfast. Even in 2012, when he got angry by the treatment meted out to him by the BJP high command and left to form the Karnataka Janata Paksha, he maintained cordial relations with the larger Sangh Parivar. The second key reason for his rise was that the Sangh - which was till then dominated by Brahmins and Vysyas (Banias) - quickly identified that Yediyurappa, a Lingayat whose fellow community members are nearly 17 per cent of the state population, would be a good asset in its social engineering outreach. With his overt religiosity and ability to network amongst the numerous Lingayat swamis and mutts, he helped the Sangh get an entry into numerous cooperative networks like regional banks, milk unions, farmer associations, sugar and rice mills, educational enterprises, apart from others. These institutions exert tremendous influence at a local district level by offering patronage and these networks, till then, were largely dominated by the Congress party. BSY also groomed a generation of young leaders and today, several of his proteges are in senior positions both in the party and the government. However, Yediyurappa’s rise as the ‘tallest’ Lingayat as well as BJP leader in the state has not always been benign. While senior BJP leaders like Anant Kumar or Sadananda Gowda who did not see eye-to-eye with him were forced to ‘exile’ themselves to national politics, even other Lingayat leaders like B B Shivappa and more recently, Basangouda Patil Yatnal or Jagadish Shettar, were cut to size in the party if they tried to overshadow him. While allegiance to the larger Sangh has been his strength, Parivar (family) has been his weakness. Even as the BJP accused Congress and others of corruption and promoting dynasties, Yediyurappa ensured that his elder son Raghavendra became the Shivamogga MP and the younger son Vijayendra was made a vice president of the state unit. His son-in-law and grandson have been accused of corruption while other members of his family allegedly interfered in the state administration. Yediyurappa also carries the opprobrium of being the only chief minister of the state who was arrested and jailed in a corruption case. Several other cases are pending investigation. Irrespective of the taints, Yediyurappa’s departure as chief minister and the BJP face in the state marks the beginning of a new political chapter in Karnataka’s politics. The BJP may struggle to find somebody whose name has the same brand cachet and recognition, both by its supporters and opponents, as Yediyurappa’s did. Also, like his peer, Deve Gowda, who is still active in politics at the age of 88, Yediyurappa is a round the clock politician who will find it hard to retire. It remains to be seen whether he accepts a rumored gubernatorial role and gracefully walks into the political sunset or has some other things planned for the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-a-doughty-fighter-with-a-weakness-for-parivar-101627328261025.html
27-07-2021||India||A span of challenges, unfulfilled dreams||BS Yediyurappa’s resignation as the chief minister of Karnataka brought down curtains yet another time for him at the helm. In a political career spanning five decades, the 78-year-old might be the only politician in India to become the chief minister of a state four times and never complete his term, an indication of turbulence he faced in his long political career.In 2007, he was in office for seven days, followed by the 2011 term, when he resigned over corruption charges after being CM for three years. In 2018, he was in office for two days, and in 2021, the BJP asked him to resign due to concerns over his age.Even though his days in power saw trouble, his political growth from a clerk to the chief minister was a remarkable journey. Bookanakere Siddalingappa Yediyurappa was born into a poor family in Mandya district in 1943. After finishing his education, he got a job as a first-division clerk with the social welfare department and got posted in Shimoga (now Shivamoga) district in Karnataka in 1965, which later became his political home ground. The same year, he resigned from the job and joined Shankar rice mill as a clerk. Within a year, he married the daughter of the mill owner and started a hardware store. Yediyurappa was involved with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) since his teenage days, and after moving to Shikaripura in Shivamoga, he began taking part in active politics. By 1970, he got appointed as the secretary of RSS in Shikaripura, and in 1980, when the Bharatiya Janata Party was formed, he became one of the leaders who built the party in the state. Since the formation of the BJP, his political career saw a steady growth. In 1983, he was elected to the assembly from Shikaripura. In 1988, he became the BJP state president, and by 1994, he became the leader of the opposition. Over the decades of political circus in the state, consisting of a series of splits between the Congress, Janata Party, a coalition of parties, and untimely deaths of Lingayat-supported leaders resulted in the community vote share shifting to the BJP, and Yediyurappa becoming the face of the community. With the support of the Lingayat community, under the leadership of Yediyurappa, the BJP became the single-largest party in 2004. Since the Congress and Janata Dal-Secular formed a coalition government, the party could not come to power. However, in 2006, that coalition collapsed. The JD(S) then approached the BJP with the offer to form the government. As per the deal struck between the two parties, JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy would become the chief minister for the first 20 months, and Yediyurappa will be at the helm for the next 20 months. However, Kumaraswamy refused to vacate the seat, which resulted in another collapse of the government. On November 12, 2007, Yediyurappa became the chief minister, but only for seven days. The JD(S) withdrew support, which resulted in the BJP walking out of the coalition. Riding on the sympathy wave, the BJP then swept the 2008 elections, and on May 30, 2008, Yediyurappa became the chief minister for the second time. However, the Karnataka Lokayukta investigating the illegal mining case submitted its report, indicting Yediyurappa for illegally profiteering from land deals in Bengaluru and Shivamoga. Yediyurappa was forced to resign on July 15, 2011, and in August 2011, he was arrested. Upset over the party asking for his resignation, Yediyurappa resigned from the BJP and formed his party – Karnataka Janata Paksha – in November 2012. This move cost the BJP the 2013 Karnataka legislative election as, despite Yediyurappa winning only six seats, he ate into the BJP vote bank, resulting in the Congress victory. In January 2014, after several rounds of talks with the BJP leaders, he returned to the party, and during the 2018 general election, the BJP emerged as the single-largest party. “In the 2018 elections, despite the Modi wave, the BJP was relying on Yediyurappa’s pull over the Lingayat community. With the Congress trying to create a separate Lingayat religion, Yediyurappa stood his ground that the community cannot be divided, and it resulted in BJP becoming the single-largest party,” said a Congress leader on the condition of anonymity. After the BJP became the single largest party, the Karnataka governor invited Yediyurappa to form the government but he could not prove the majority, resulting in him resigning as the chief minister on May 19, 2018, after two days in power. “Since the day Congress and the JD(S) formed the government he was trying to bring it down. He knew it was his last chance to be the chief minister, so they bought out MLAs offering them posts. He was desperate to become the chief minister in his last term,” the Congress leader added. With his resignation on Monday, there are several questions about his role in the party. Yediyurappa, too, has made it clear that he will not leave the state or active politics. On multiple occasions, he has reiterated that he will continue to strengthen the party he helped build.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-span-of-challenges-unfulfilled-dreams-101627328140547.html
27-07-2021||India||Franklin Templeton won’t launch new debt funds for now, Supreme Court told||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday got an undertaking from Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) against the launch of any fresh debt schemes till the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) takes a final call on the market regulator SEBI’s decision to bar the company from launching any new schemesThe top court was hearing an appeal filed by the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) against a June 28 order passed by SAT staying the SEBI order of June 7 that restrained Franklin Templeton from going ahead with the launch of any new schemes.Reminding the company that the public should not be cheated, the bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said the court was still struggling with the fallout of the company’s six schemes being abruptly shut down in April 2020 citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market.“You are well aware of what has happened to your six schemes. We are still struggling with those schemes. We are not concerned about the refund (to be paid by the company) but the public should not be cheated,” the bench said.On June 7 this year, SEBI ordered Franklin Templeton Asset Management Company (FTAMC) not to launch any fresh schemes and directed a refund of investment management and advisory fee along with interest calculated at 12% per annum. This amount came to a little over ₹512 crore.Appearing for SEBI, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the SAT figure of over ₹512 crore was not an imaginary figure as the same was calculated under statutory rules. He even sought a stay of the order passed by SAT that stopped the order prohibiting FTAMC from issuing fresh debt schemes.Senior advocates Harish Salve and Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for FTAMC, said they were willing to give an undertaking not to issue any fresh schemes till the disposal of their appeal by SAT. As the next date for the tribunal to hear the case is on August 30, Salve said, “Between today and 31st (of August), no scheme will be launched.”The bench took this statement on record and said in its order that FTAMC undertakes that no new scheme will be launched till the disposal of the appeal before SAT. On the issue of refund, Salve said this is an interim order by which the tribunal has directed the firm to deposit 50% of the total amount.The bench agreed that the order with regard to 50% deposit was “quite fair” and told SEBI that it could contest the appeal before the tribunal. The court gave four weeks’ time for SEBI to file its response before SAT. On July 14, the top court held that closure of any scheme will require the trustees to seek the consent of majority unitholders after publishing a notice giving reasons for winding up the said scheme.The closure of the six schemes led SEBI to order a forensic audit as the discontinued schemes had approximately ₹25,000 crore as assets. The schemes were Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. The probe by SEBI found “serious lapses” with regard to the closed schemes.Finding SEBI’s refund order against FTAMC as “excessive”, SAT ordered the company to deposit ₹250 crore in an escrow account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/franklin-templeton-won-t-launch-new-debt-funds-for-now-supreme-court-told-101627328021422.html
27-07-2021||India||Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team ‘confined’ to Tripura hotel||AGARTALA: At least 23 members of Prashant Kishor’s Indian Political Action Committee ( I-PAC) were on Monday asked to stay inside a hotel in Agartala till their Covid-19 test reports arrive, police said. The team arrived in the state last week to assess potentiality of Trinamool Congress (TMC) to expand its base in Tripura, which will go for assembly polls in 2023. The state is currently ruled by Bharatiya Janata Party- Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (BJP-IPFT) alliance. Police said some of these persons were found moving at different places amidst Covid-19 curfew. Police added that they visited their hotel on Monday and inquired about their purpose of visit, calling it a ‘routine check-up’. All of them underwent Covid-19 tests on Monday and were asked to stay inside a private hotel where they have been staying, till they get clearance from the health department, said a police officer from East Agartala police station. A person from the I-PAC team stranded at the hotel said they were not given any reason for staying in the hotel except that the order came “from the top”. The person added that the RT-PCR tests are suspected to have been so aligned that the visiting team members could board their flights back to Kolkata and do nothing apart from that. A state health department official said the team members had violated the mandatory RT-PCR negative test report to enter the state for non-residents. Meanwhile, TMC’s Tripura unit president Asish Lal Singh termed it as an attack on democracy. “The I-PAC team came here for a survey. The state government has put them under virtual house arrest as they are scared of their survey results...,” said Singh. President of BJP in the state Manik Saha said he is not aware of anything about this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-s-i-pac-team-confined-to-tripura-hotel-101627327660525.html
27-07-2021||India||2.7-3.3 million Covid-19 deaths in India: Study||There have been at least 2.7 to 3.3 million deaths due to the two waves of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, estimates a study authored by Dr Prabhat Jha from Centre for Global Health Research at the University of Toronto and Dr Paul Novosad from the department of economics at Dartmouth College. India’s official toll due to Covid-19 currently stands at just over 421,000.The study is based on excess mortality recorded across eight states and seven cities between June 2020 and 2021, and extrapolates this to arrive at the final estimate.The median excess mortality recorded during the first wave of the pandemic in 2020 was 22%; ranging from 63% in Andhra Pradesh to 6% in Kerala. This increased to 46% during the second wave of the pandemic between April and June this year and was as high as 198% in Madhya Pradesh.Excess mortality is the gap between the number of deaths due to any cause seen in 2020 and 2021 as compared to the years before. Researchers believe that most of these additional deaths are likely to have been due to Covid-19.The study did adjust for excess mortality below the age of 35 years, “which are unlikely to be from Covid.”The yet-to-be peer-reviewed study, which was recently uploaded on MedRxiv, has based the excess mortality figures on the civil registration system which records all births and deaths, data from several healthcare institutions collected through the health management information system, and a telephonic survey.The excess mortality estimated by the current study is certainly less than the 4.9 million excess deaths estimated by a study by the Center for Global Development . The report based the excess mortality estimates on international infection fatality rate – proportion of deaths among the total number of people infected – and the factor of undercounting infections according to the seroprevalence data. This was in addition to data from civil registration system and another longitudinal survey.Last week, responding to the CGD study without naming it, India issued a statement saying such numbers are “totally fallacious”. “Given the robust and statute-based death registration system in India, missing out on deaths is unlikely,” it added.In the latest study, the researchers estimated 0.63 million excess deaths for five states -- Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Haryana -- for which the researchers had data available for ten or more months, including for period when the number of cases were low. “This implies, crudely, about 3.2 million deaths nationally in both viral waves, assuming other states have also have five times more excess deaths,” the study said.The researchers also noted that much of this excess mortality in the states in question, 0.45 million , occurred during April and May when the second wave of the pandemic was at its height.“Three different databases: A survey, CRS, HMIS, all pointing towards at least 27% excess mortality over a year. Note that these results are after using UN/SRS baselines in the main. All 3 databases suggest that bulk of excess mortality was in the second wave. Our conclusion: India’s COVID death rate may be about 7-8 times higher than the officially reported 290/million population,” said Chinmay Tumbe, one of the authors of the paper and assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2733-million-covid-19-deaths-in-india-study-101627327600496.html
27-07-2021||India||O2 Audit: Around 20% of oxygen plants announced during second wave operational||The Union government has sanctioned 1,222 pressure swing absorption (PSA) plants that act as oxygen generators for hospitals, and of these, 245 – roughly a fifth – have been commissioned in different regions till July 20, the Union health ministry told parliament last week.The Centre announced new plants will be set up across the country after the April-May peak of Covid-19 triggered an unprecedented shortage of medical oxygen, with reports suggesting there may have been hundreds of deaths nationwide during this period because the gas was in short supply.In October 2020, during the first wave of Covid-19 cases, the central government invited tenders for 162 PSA oxygen plants -- by April 2021, only 33 of these were operational, according to a tweet by the Union health ministry on April 18.In the aftermath of the second wave, the government first announced on April 26 that 551 plants will be set up using the PM Cares funds. These were in addition to an unnamed number that were to be funded by central ministries and public sector units (PSUs).On June 14, a statement by the ministry of science and technology quoted Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) secretary C Satish Reddy as saying that the number of PSA plants to be set up under PM Cares was 850. DRDO has been executing some of the PSA plants projects, while for the rest, the government has floated tenders.In a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office on July 9, officials told the new cabinet that in all, over 1,500 PSA plants were set to be installed in the country. Altogether, these will support 400,000 beds, the statement added but without specifying by when these would be installed -- the Prime Minister directed officials to ensure it is done at the earliest.According to officials in the health ministry, who asked not to be named, an additional 250 PSA plants are expected to be installed by August 15 and the remaining from the lot of 1,222 sanctioned will be commissioned by the end of the year.The July 23 statement by the health ministry to parliament also states that the number of plants to be set up by central ministries and PSUs in addition to the 1,222 is 351, and that the states have separately informed the Union government that they are setting up 1,023 plants on their own.The health ministry’s reply in parliament said the 1,222 plants will together account for a capacity of around 1,771MT a day – which comes to about a fifth of the peak 9,690MT liquid medical oxygen dispatched by the Centre to states in a single day in the April-May period.Officials in other states indicated that the number of plants they are working on may be higher than for which information has been shared with the Centre. Uttar Pradesh, which got 127 plants from the Centre, has sanctioned 414 PSA plants on its own and 145 of them have become operational, an official said.Rajasthan, which got 51 from the Centre, sanctioned 429 plants on its own and of them 280 are operational, according to the state government.Similarly, health department officials in Maharashtra said the state planned 462 PSA plants and of them 98 are operational.According to projects.datameet.org, a portal that tracked reports about deaths due to oxygen shortage or disruption in hospitals in April and May this year, 619 people may have died during the crisis.The government in its response to parliament said oxygen supply for medical purposes increased to 9,690 metric tonnes in May 2021 from 5,770 in August 2020.The health ministry informed Parliament on July 23 that on July 15, 1,244 liquid medical oxygen tankers were available in the country as compared to 225 in March 2020.The ministry also said that in 2019-20, it released ₹1,113 crore to states under National Health Mission for Covid management, apart from ₹15,000 crore given under Covid Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness package. The phase two of the package of ₹23,132 crore (including state contribution) has also been approved, the ministry said.(With inputs from state bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-audit-around-20-of-oxygen-plants-announced-during-second-wave-operational-101627327540465.html
27-07-2021||India||Nearly 10% of eligible population inoculated: Co-WIN data||Close to 10% of India’s eligible population has now been fully vaccinated for Covid-19, data from the government’s Co-WIN system showed on Monday, when over 6.5 million doses were given across the country, according to its dashboard.In terms of partial protection, 26.5% of the 940 million eligible population has now had one dose. In all, there are now a little over 436 million doses given to people since the drive began on January 16.“Also, in another significant achievement today, Maharashtra became the first state to vaccinate more than 1 crore (10 million) people with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine,” the Union health ministry said in its latest Covid-19 vaccination update issued on Monday evening.In the last week, India administered an average of 4.1 million doses a day – far lower than its peak of 6.4 million doses a day recorded on average in the seven days ending June 26.On Monday, the number of second doses administered was a little over 30% of the doses given during the day but this share is likely to increase in coming days as the 18-plus age group, which became eligible for doses on May 1, is scheduled to take their second doses of Covishield beginning end of July.In terms of the most doses ever given, India’s record was on June 21 when the universal free adult vaccination programme was opened up by the Union government – that day, 8.8 million doses were administered.Monday’s vaccination numbers were the fifth highest recorded in the 192 days of the drive.The increase in vaccine coverage comes days after serological surveys suggested two-thirds of the country’s population, on average, may have some protection from the coronavirus due to either vaccination or an infection that left them with antibodies.Antibodies from a past infection are expected to wane in a matter of months, possibly enough to allow for a re-infection, although such an infection might still manifest itself in asymptomatic or a mild manner. Experts said this makes vaccines necessary since they also impart long-lasting adaptive immune memory.Government officials and experts have also cautioned against reading too much into population immunity estimates until there is ample coverage of vaccination.A country like Israel, which has one of the highest coverage of full vaccination at close to 62% of the population, has seen an increase in infections in recent weeks due to the more resistant Delta variant.India will need to significantly boost its vaccination rates since at the current pace of 4.1 million vaccination a day, the country will not meet its target of vaccinating the entire population by December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-10-of-eligible-population-inoculated-co-win-data-101627327420487.html
27-07-2021||India||Afghan Army chief postpones India visit over Taliban offensive||Afghan Army chief General Wali Mohammad Ahmadzai has postponed a visit to India this week because of the offensive by the Taliban in Afghanistan, the Afghan embassy said on Monday.The visit, though scheduled several months ago, would have coincided with US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s trip to New Delhi. Ahmadzai, who was appointed last month as part of a shake-up of the higher echelons of Afghanistan’s security set-up, was to visit India during July 27-30.The visit was postponed because of the “intensity of the war and Taliban’s increased assault and offensive” in the country, the Afghan embassy said without giving details.Ahmadzai was scheduled to hold talks with his Indian counterpart, General MM Naravane, and meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and other top security officials. He was also scheduled to travel to Pune to meet Afghan cadets being trained at various institutions.The visit was aimed at providing an opportunity for the two sides to hold consultations on the security situation in Afghanistan against the backdrop of a campaign by the Taliban to capture territory and crucial border crossings with other countries.Intense fighting has been reported from various parts of Afghanistan as Afghan forces attempt to take back districts and key centres captured by the Taliban in a campaign that has coincided with the speedy drawdown of US and NATO forces. The US recently conducted air strikes to slow down the advance of the Taliban.India plays a key role in training Afghan military personnel – some 300 cadets are currently training in the country – and is also helping in the medical treatment of injured Afghan military personnel, with a number of them being treated in hospitals across the country.For India, a key security concern is the presence in Afghanistan of more than 7,000 Pakistani terrorists from groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. These fighters are fighting alongside the Taliban in many areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-army-chief-postpones-india-visit-over-taliban-offensive-101627327360425.html
27-07-2021||India||No cyber breach in NIC email system, Parliament told||There was no breach in the government’s official email system maintained by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), the Union ministry of electronics and information technology told parliament last week, in a stand that appeared to contradict several cybersecurity incidents in the past year.In February, HT reported on a series of phishing mails by attackers who gained access to NIC domain email addresses, triggering multiple advisories by different government IT departments warning officials against opening attachments or links contained within them. HT is aware of at least two people – former defence ministry officials – whose devices were hacked at the time.“No,” the ministry said in response to a question by a Lok Sabha member who asked to know “whether there was a cyber security breach into the e-mail system of Government maintained by National Informatics Centre (NIC) in the recent past.”The response, by Union minister of state for the IT ministry Rajeev Chandrashekhar, also added: “The email system is equipped with a defense-in-depth security architecture with a layered security approach. All incoming mails are scanned for the presence of any malware, spam, phishing, spoofing, sender reputation etc. In addition to the above, network level firewall, application level firewall. Intrusion Prevention System etc. are deployed…”“In order to enhance the security of email accounts, National Informatics Centre (NIC) has implemented geo-fencing. This allows access to the users email account only from the country where the user is physically present,” the minister added.The government also added that it had made multi-factor user authentication “mandatory for email access and is being rolled out for email users to strengthen the email account security”. Multi-factor user authentication refers to a second requirement, usually a one-time password, for someone to access an email service in addition to their password.Altogether, HT is aware of at least six NIC domain addresses – five with @gov.in addresses and one with @nic.in, which have been used to send out phishing emails, prodding users to download attachments or click on links that could ultimately compromise their devices.A number of senior government officials, including those from the ministries of defence and external affairs, received this emails, some of the recipients confirmed to HT at the time.NIC, which runs the official email service for the government, at the time clarified that the compromised emails were blocked immediately and no breach or loss of data was reported.Experts said the multi-factor authentication in a system such as NIC’s may not make it fool-proof and that the reply does not take into acknowledge the magnitude of cybersecurity challenges. “NIC.IN domain, like every other email service, uses the SMTP protocol, which does not support 2FA (two-factor authentication), and is a known problem across every other email service. 2FA hence only provides some protection against web logins from automated attacks and do not prevent SMTP access,” said Anand Venkatanarayanan, cybersecurity strategy advisor to DeepStrat.Such vulnerabilities, he added, “allows compromised credentials (harvested from elsewhere) to send more malware to others, thus creating a chain of compromise, extending to everyone in the NIC domain”.“At that point in time, it is equivalent to compromising the entire domain, which the reply does not consider.“This is worrying because defence at depth, layered security etc are not disconnected from human errors and malware writers know how to evade firewalls, bypassing them via human channels,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-cyber-breach-in-nic-email-system-parliament-told-101627324300852.html
27-07-2021||India||Rain fury leaves 164 dead, 100 missing in Maharashtra||The search operation for the missing 31 people in Maharashtra’s landslide-hit Taliye village was called off on Monday, officials said, even as the death toll in the state pummeled by days of heavy rainfall rose to 164, with at least 100 people still missing.The Konkan and western districts in the state have witnessed heavy rainfall since last week, which triggered floods and landslides in several villages. According to official data, 890 villages in nine districts were affected.Rescue teams have recovered 53 bodies from the site of the landslide in Taliye village and five people were reported injured till Monday, Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhari said. The 31 people still missing will be declared dead following due process, she said.“The teams have stopped search and rescue operation at landslide-hit Taliye village. 31 missing people to be declared dead following due process. The search for these missing people has been called off after seeking the opinion of NDRF, SDRF, TDRF. The relatives of the missing people also demanded closure of the operations,” Choudhari said.The village, in Mahad taluka of Raigad district, was flattened out after a portion of a hillock collapsed after heavy rainfall burying several houses on Thursday night.Respecting sentiments of the survivors and relatives of the missing people, the operations to search for the 31 missing people have been officially called off, Chaudhari said.“It has been a painful experience for us. We have lost our near and dear ones,” said a resident of the village, whose five-year-old son died in the landslide.Till Monday, with 71 deaths, Raigad district has reported the maximum fatalities, while 41 people have died in Satara, 21 in Ratnagiri, 12 in Thane, seven in Kolhapur, four in Mumbai and two each in Sindhudurg, Pune, Wardha and Akola, the state government said in an official release.Over 229,000 people have been evacuated from affected areas, the release added.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar toured various rain-hit villages in Sangli district on Monday and interacted with the residents.“Maha Vikas Aghadi government will provide all possible help to those who have been affected by floods. I, cabinet ministers Jayant Patil, Vijay Wadettiwar, and minister of state Vishwajeet Kadam visited the flood-affected areas in the Sangli district and took stock of the situation. In the next two days, a final decision about (the relief) will be taken in the presence of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray,” Pawar, who also holds the Finance portfolio, told reporters.The work to assess losses caused due to floods is yet to be completed, Pawar said.“Real picture about the damage caused to crops and farms will emerge after the water recedes. I have instructed the district administration to continue with the assessment of losses at new places,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-fury-leaves-164-dead-100-missing-in-maharashtra-101627324300179.html
27-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa resigns as CM after a ‘trial by fire’||Bookanakere Siddalingappa Yediyurappa resigned as the chief minister of Karnataka on Monday, ending months of speculation due to growing dissidence within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the only southern state it has ever been in power.The 78-year-old made the announcement in an emotional speech at an event celebrating two years in power before submitting his resignation to governor Thaawarchand Gehlot . The four-time chief minister, who battled criticism and public attacks from within his party and cabinet over the past three months, said he quit “voluntarily” and thanked the BJP.“I’m not sad. I’m happy. I can’t thank in words PM Modi, Amit Shah, and JP Nadda to let me be the chief minister even though I was over 75 years,” said Yediyurappa. “There is no question of political retirement for any reason, I’m with the karyakartas and the people.”He also scotched rumours of having accepted a gubernatorial posting. “Atal Bihari Vajpayee had offered me to become the central minister when he was the PM, I had said no… There is no question of becoming governor. I will work to strengthen the organisation in Karnataka. I have not asked for any position, nor will accept it,” he said.The resignation -- which came roughly 10 days after he travelled to Delhi and met Modi and Shah -- triggered speculation about his successor.BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh said the decision was left to the party’s parliamentary board and legislature party. “I will not say now. The parliamentary board of the BJP will decide the next chief minister and in the legislature party meeting,” Singh told reporters in Delhi without mentioning a date for the meeting.But party leaders said on condition of anonymity said the meeting was likely to occur on Tuesday with Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan as the central observer. Gehlot asked Yediyurappa to continue as caretaker chief minister until his successor is appointed.When asked if he had suggested a replacement for chief minister, Yediyurappa said, “I have not given any names, nor will I suggest anyone. Who should be made [the next CM] is left to the central leadership. I will continue doing my work.”Senior party leaders told HT that among the contenders were Union minister Pralhad Joshi, BJP national general secretary CT Ravi, national organising secretary BL Santhosh, and assembly speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri. Joshi, Santosh and Kageri are Brahmins; Ravi, the MLA from Chikkamagaluru, is a Vokkaliga, Karnataka’s second-largest community concentrated in southern Karnataka, where the party is trying to make inroads.If the party looks to replacing Yediyurappa with another leader from the dominant Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, probable names include mining minister Murugesh Nirani, industries minister Jagadish Shettar and MLAs Arvind Bellad and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal.Nirani is a businessman-politician whose repeated Delhi visits in recent months have raised eyebrows in party circles. Shettar earlier served as chief minister between 2012 and 2013. Bellad and Yatnal were among the most trenchant critics of Yediyurappa who publicly sought his ouster.A Lingayat strongman, Yediyurappa is credited with having built the BJP from the grassroots in the 2000s and leading the party to its first victory in a southern state in 2008. He has pan-state appeal and nurtured the Lingayats -- comprising roughly 16% of Karnataka’s population -- as a reliable vote bank for the BJP. Even in his last days in office, he rallied support from influential Lingayat seers and mutts.But his legacy is tarnished by multiple corruption charges, including that of bribing and influencing Opposition legislators to prove his government’s majority. He resigned in 2011 after being indicted in a corruption case. He briefly left the BJP to form the Karnataka Janata Paksha, which bruised the BJP in the 2013 elections, before merging his outfit with the BJP a year later.He battled rising dissidence during his last year, especially over his son and Karnataka BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra. Several party leaders and ministers accused Vijayendra -- Yediyurappa’s younger son -- of corruption, heavy handedness and running a parallel administration. BY Raghavendra, Yediyurappa’s elder son, is the MP from Shivamogga.Yediyurappa became chief minister for a fourth time in 2019 after the previous Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) coalition government collapsed following the sudden resignation of 17 legislators.After surviving with a thin majority for four months, Yediyurappa led the BJP to success in assembly bypolls in 2019,with the party winning 12 of 15 seats.Ten of the former Congress-JD(S) legislators were made ministers later.In his final speech as chief minister, Yediyurappa termed the two years in office as a “trial by fire”, saying he was not allowed to form a cabinet when the state was marooned in devastating floods in 2019.“I had decided to resign two months ago, as we complete two years of our government today. I thought it was apt to resign now and have submitted the resignation to the governor, and he has accepted it,” he said.Asserting that he will continue in politics and work to bring the BJP back to power, he said, “The party has nurtured me to this height, most probably no other politician in the country has got the privileges that I have got,” he said.Shikaripura, Yediyurappa’s constituency in Shimoga district that he won eight times, wore a deserted look with shops and other commercial establishments shut in protest. In Hassan, supporters of Yediyurappa took out a march on the main streets and shouted slogans in his support.An influential religious leader who met Yediyurappa last week said the Karnataka BJP will be washed away in tears due to Yediyurappa’s resignation. “BS Yediyurappa has given his resignation in pain. Karnataka BJP will be washed away in tears. BJP should reconsider its decision,” Dingaleshwara Swami, the chief of Balehosur Mutt, said.The Congress demanded the ouster of the BJP government.“There is no benefit for the common man if one corrupt CM is removed to make another corrupt as CM. Instead, the whole BJP party, which is responsible for the miseries of people, should be ousted,” former chief minister Siddaramaiah, who is Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka assembly, tweeted.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-resigns-as-cm-after-a-trial-by-fire-101627323820714.html
27-07-2021||India||Assam, Mizo CMs face off over violence at their border; 6 cops killed in clashes||Six Assam Police personnel were killed and dozens injured as a decades-long border dispute with neighbour Mizoram sparked violent clashes on Monday, prompting both chief ministers to publicly trade charges, and forcing Union home minister Amit Shah to intervene.Violence broke out at the Assam-Mizoram border shared by Cachar district's Lailapur and Kolasib district’s Vairengte around 11.30am over allegations of encroachment. Thousands of civilians on either side of the border hurled stones and charged at each other and security personnel with sticks and rods. Visuals showed policemen firing tear-gas shell and air pellets as people torched vehicles and huts.“I am deeply pained to inform that six brave jawans of Assam Police have sacrificed their lives while defending constitutional boundary of our state at the Assam-Mizoram border. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families,” Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted.Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana accused Assam Police of entering Mizoram’s territory and committing arson. “Upon learning of the arson committed by Assam Police, residents of Vairengte town, Kolasib district proceeded to the site to inquire. These unarmed civilians were assaulted by Assam Police by lathi charging them and firing tear gas, thereby causing injuries to several civilians,” read the statement.The hostilities pared down after the chief ministers spoke on the phone. Shah also spoke to both chief ministers, asking them to resolve the border issue amicably without any violence, people familiar with developments said. Senior Union home ministry officials are closely watching the developments at the interstate border, said the people quoted above.Officials at Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH) in Assam confirmed on the condition of anonymity that 36 people were admitted with injuries from air gun shots and stone pelting. Cachar superintendent of police VC Nimbalkar was in the intensive care unit. Details of injuries on the Mizoram side were not available.The violence came two days after the chief ministers shared a stage with Shah and spoke of resolving the border dispute amicably. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power in Assam and Mizoram is ruled by the Mizo National Front.Assam’s Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6 km long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972 when it became a Union Territory. It became a state in 1987. The territorial dispute has festered since then and fuelled sporadic clashes, the latest of which rocked the region in August 2020 and February 2021.Tensions first flared up around 11.30am, when around 200 Assam Police personnel attempted to construct a camp inside Mizoram’s territory, according police. While discussions were on between police officials of the two states, a group of people from Mizoram allegedly started pelting stones, the officials said requesting anonymity. Locals on the Assam side retaliated, they added.Senior administrative and police officials were immediately rushed to the spot but the violence worsened around 3:45 pm. Assam residents alleged tear-gas shells and air guns were fired from the Mizoram side.“I was near border area when people from Mizoram started firing. We tried to run away but a bullet touched my right arm and I fell on ground,” 25-year-old Fajar Ali, a resident of Assam who sustained an air gun injury on his hand, said.In a statement, Lalchamliana rejected these charges and said Assam Police personnel forcibly crossed the border post and damaged vehicles on the National Highway. CRPF officials were not immediately available for comment.He said Assam launched a volley of tear gas canisters and grenades at Mizoram Police around 4:50 pm. “Mizoram Police responded spontaneously by firing back at Assam Police,” he said.Mizoram said after Shah spoke to both chief ministers, Assam Police withdrew and handed the post back to the CRPF.The clashes took a political turn at 1.50pm when Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted a video of the clashes and tagged Shah and Sarma. “Shri @AmitShah ji….kindly look into the matter. This needs to be stopped right now,” he wrote.At 2.53pm, he tweeted a video of a couple sitting in a car with windows smashed in. “Innocent couple on their way back to Mizoram via Cachar manhandled and ransacked by thugs and goons.How are you going to justify these violent acts?” he asked.Sarma responded four minutes later, blaming Mizoram for the flare-up.“Honble Zoramthanga ji could you please investigate why are civilians from Mizoram holding sticks and trying to incite violence? We urge civilians to not take up law and order on their own hands and permit peaceful dialogue to take place between governments,” he tweeted, tagging Shah and the Prime Minister’s Office.At 3.25pm, he further wrote, “ Honble @ZoramthangaCM ji , Kolasib ( Mizoram) SP is asking us to withdraw from our post until then their civilians won’t listen nor stop violence. How can we run government in such circumstances? Hope you will intervene at earliest.”The tensions appeared to ease as evening approached. Sarma tweeted at 4.36pm that he spoke to Zoramthanga and said Assam will maintain status quo and peace along the border. “I have expressed my willingness to visit Aizawl and disscuss these issues if need be,” he said.Zoramthanga responded minutes later. “Hon’ble @himantabiswa ji, as discussed I kindly urge that Assam Police be instructed to withdraw from Vairengte for the safety of civilians,” he said.Assam Police said it was determined to protect Assam’s border.“It is unfortunate that large number of miscreants from Mizoram are indulging in stone pelting and such forms of attack at Assam government officials stationed at Lailapur to protect Assam’s land from encroachment. We strongly condemn these acts of vandalism and reiterate our resolve to protect Assam’s boundary,” Assam Police tweeted from its official handle.The Opposition condemned the violence.“We condemn the incident of firing on Assam Police personnel from the Mizoram side as reported in media. It is a matter of disgrace that such incident took place hours after union home minister left Assam [on Sunday]. It is also a matter of concern and humour that CMs of both states are arguing on Twitter on this issue,” said Assam Congress media in-charge Bobbeeta Sharma||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-cms-face-off-over-violence-at-their-border-6-policemen-killed-in-clashes-101627323820113.html
27-07-2021||India||Personal details can’t be disclosed under RTI: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday said that personal information that has no relation to any public activity or interest, and the revelation of which can cause “unwarranted invasion” into the privacy of an individual, cannot be disclosed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act .A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said no larger public interest justifies the disclosure of the residential address of a candidate for a job, as well as their father’s name.The court’s order came while dismissing a plea by a man seeking the details of the address and father’s name of candidates appointed as multi-tasking staff in Rashtrapati Bhavan. The applicant was seeking the residential address and father’s name of the selected candidates.He challenged a January 29 decision of a single judge by the high court that dismissed his plea seeking the candidates’ details -- on the grounds that it was required to establish their bonafides -- under the RTI Act.The single judge had also imposed a cost of ₹25,000 on the man for concealing that his daughter also appeared for the same exam. The order also noted that providing him with details of the people who were appointed would be an invasion of their privacy.On Monday, the division bench upheld that decision, and said that the disclosure of personal information of the candidates has no relation to any public activity or interest.“The information which relates to personal information, the disclosure of which has no relation to any public activity or interest, or the disclosure of such information is unwarranted invasion of the privacy of the individuals; in such circumstances, personal information cannot be disclosed by the central or the state public information officer. Thus, section 8 of the Right to Information Act has categorically mentioned that personal information cannot be supplied which has no relation to any public activity,” the bench said in its oral order.The court also said that it was in full agreement with the reasons given by the single judge while dismissing the plea. It noted that while all the queries of the man were answered, only one piece of information could not be given.Advocate Anurag Alhuwalia, the central government’s standing counsel, told the court that while five of the six details sought were provided to the man, the last one -- phone numbers, name and address of the successful candidates -- was not given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personal-details-can-t-be-disclosed-under-rti-delhi-hc-101627323700048.html
27-07-2021||India||Parliament passes 2 bills amid disruption||The Lok Sabha on Monday approved two bills in the midst of Opposition protests over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws, as the government got down to business after a near-complete wash-out of the first week of Parliament’s Monsoon Session.The Opposition, meanwhile, toughened its stand. In the morning, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi drove a tractor to Parliament, leading protests against the three agriculture reforms laws. In the evening, top Opposition parties such as the Congress, the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party boycotted a meeting called by Rajya Sabha leader and Union minister Piyush Goyal to end the stalemate.The indication from the opposition camp is that the impasse is unlikely to get resolved soon. Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh announced that “the entire Opposition is united” and that their two key demands are: “a discussion on Pegasus snooping issue in the presence of Prime Minister or home minister; and a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry into the scandal.”HT reported on July 24 that the Congress would put these two demands before the government.Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien tweeted Jairam’s demands and said, “We need this in #Parliament. Not green tea at @PiyushGoyal office. Thanks. But no thanks.”In the Lok Sabha, many Opposition MPs objected to the motion to pass the Factoring Regulation Act (Amendment) bill, claiming that the House is not in order. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi backed the motion. “Five days have gone to waste. I appeal to all of you to participate in the discussion. This is a very important bill. We are ready to discuss your issues as well,” Joshi said, underlining that time was allotted for the bill in the Business Advisory Committee.Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury later tweeted, “In a brazen and egregious manner govt has been bulldozing the bills without discussion. When the house is not in order ― govt is passing the bills, thus depriving elected members from their constitutional right of the participation and ventilation of the public concern.”After that bill was passed in 12 minutes, another, the National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, piloted by the new food processing minister Pashupati Paras, was brought for passage. Amidst the din and furious protests by Opposition MPs, many of whom trooped to the well of the House, the bill was passed in seven minutes.Former Lok Sabha secretary general P Sreedharan maintained that the passage of bills in din is not unprecedented. “But it is not desirable. Parliament must debate, discuss before passing a bill. In 2008, eight bills were passed in 17 minutes amid din. But we should not rely upon the wrong precedence of the past.”On Monday morning, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi drove a tractor to Parliament along with senior party leaders Randeep Surjewala, Deepender Hooda and party MP Pratap Singh Bajwa to demand a repeal of the farm laws. Surjewala and some other leaders were even detained by the police and later released.Gandhi defended his action and said, “We have brought the message of farmers to Parliament. The government doesn’t allow discussion on the laws in Parliament. They are suppressing all the farmers of India. We have brought this (tractor) here. These black laws have to be withdrawn.”The government hit back. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, “Rahul Gandhi should not try to mislead the farmers and create an environment of anarchy in the country. Because of his habits and such a lack of understanding, he is not a universally accepted leader even in the Congress.”Both Houses faced repeated disruptions. In the Rajya Sabha, chairman Venkaiah Naidu expressed deep anguish at the continuous disruptions and said, “Members are being denied their opportunity. So, we are becoming helpless day by day. Important issues such as need for time-bound completion of Covid vaccination, unemployment caused due to pandemic, problems of students availing online education, hike in petroleum prices and essential commodities... could not be discussed because of this situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-2-bills-amid-disruption-101627323644960.html
27-07-2021||India||As BSY quits, buzz over his successor gains momentum||Soon after BS Yediyurappa announced his resignation on Monday, everyone's focus turned to his possible successor. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is yet to make an announcement on the new chief minister and state BJP leaders say a delegation from New Delhi will arrive in Bengaluru on Tuesday, and announce the decision.When asked if he had suggested a replacement for chief minister, Yediyurappa said, “I have not given any names, nor will I suggest anyone. Who should be made (the next CM) is left to the central leadership. I will continue doing my work.”HT spoke with several leaders in the party to get an idea of the names doing the rounds.A senior leader who has served in the Karnataka cabinet said that there could be a generational shift in the state’s leadership. “To give you an example, after the demise of Anant Kumar, the party chose to field Tejasvi Surya as the candidate. It was big change and it was for the long term. So such a change could be expected this time,” said this person, who didn’t want to be named.A state minister said the chief minister could be from the all-powerful Lingayat community to which Yediyurappa belongs , adding that picking a chief minister from any other community would be mistake. “The party knows the importance of the Lingayat community. We have seen in the last three days how Lingayat seers have rallied behind Yediyurappa. We are hearing some names of (Murugesh) Nirani and Arvind Bellad,” said the minister who too asked not to be named.Nirani and Bellad are Lingayat leaders from north Karnataka, which is the heartland of the community. Nirani, a three-term MLA from Bilgi constituency, is currently the minister for mines and geology. Nirani is from the Panchamasali sub-sect of the Lingayat community, the largest sub-sect in the Lingayat community. Since there has been a demand for a chief minister from this community and from north Karnataka, he stands a good chance, another party leader said.However, other leaders claimed that the Lingayat community didn’t want Nirani to be the chief minister. “He is a businessman, and the community wants someone who is a political figure and who will stand with the community,” an MLA from north Karnataka said on condition of anonymity.Bellad is a two-term MLA but he is yet to get a cabinet position. While being a Lingayat leader puts him on the list of probable candidates, his lack of experience may work against him.Meanwhile, there is also some talk within the party that a non-Lingayat leader could be selected for the top post and the names of Pralhad Joshi, CT Ravi and CN Ashwath Narayan have been doing the rounds.Joshi, who led the party in 2013, when the Yediyurappa left the BJP to form another party, is currently serving as the union minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal, and Mines. However, the state hasn’t had a Brahmin chief minister since 1988 and Joshi is a Brahmin from north Karnataka.Joshi did hold a meeting on the Karnataka issue in New Delhi on Monday, and there is some speculation that the BJP might opt for a Brahmin candidate. “But the fact is that if they are considering Brahmin candidate, as much as Joshi, BL Santosh (BJP General Secretary organisation) has a chance. After Yediyurappa, he is the tallest leader in the party and he is very close to the Prime Minister,” said a BJP legislator from south Karnataka who asked not to be named.CT Ravi and Ashwath Narayan, who are from the Vokkaliga community, which is the second-largest vote bank in the state, are on the list of probable candidates. “There has been a talk in the party to move away from its dependence on the Lingayat community. Having a chief minister from the Vokkaliga community will help us break into that vote bank. And leaders like Ravi and Ashwath are young. They are good choices,” said a senior leader who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-bsy-quits-buzz-over-his-successor-gains-momentum-101627323399984.html
27-07-2021||India||No stay on Gautam Gambhir’s prosecution: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday shot down a plea by cricketer-turned-politician Gautam Gambhir to stay the criminal prosecution of his foundation for stocking and distributing Covid-19 drugs during the second wave, observing that the common man had to run helter-skelter for these essential drugs.“We also read the papers. We have our ears to the ground. People were running helter-skelter for oxygen and drugs and then suddenly a trust comes and says we will give you medicines because we have it in plenty. This is not on. We cannot allow this to happen,” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah told the counsel for the Bharatiya Janata Party MP from East Delhi and his organisation, Gautam Gambhir Foundation.The bench added: “Individuals cannot distribute essential medicines. What was being distributed was a banned medicine. Everyone cannot start distributing it by procuring it somehow. We have seen how common man suffered. People were compelled to pay high prices.”The bench told senior counsel Kailash Vasudev, who appeared for Gambhir and his foundation, to approach the Delhi high court with their grievances after making it clear that the case is not at a stage for the top court to intervene.Vasudev, on his part, argued that Gambhir and his foundation tried to help people during the pandemic but the drug control department decided to prosecute them on the prodding of the high court.According to Vasudev, the drug control department initially cleared Gambhir’s foundation of any wrongdoing but then reversed its stand and launch a prosecution after the the high court refused to accept the first report. The counsel said that the high court order asking the drug control department to take action against Gambhir and his foundation required to be stayed.But the bench was not inclined to entertain the petition, saying Gambhir should put his defence before the high court by becoming a party in the case pending there.At this, Vasudev agreed to go back to the high court but requested for a stay on the prosecution process till the high court decides Gambhir’s plea, but the court turned down this plea, pointing out that the report by the drug control department highlighted several illegalities, which the high court noted in its order too.“You can pursue your remedies before the high court but we cannot help you. We cannot stay the prosecution. How can we stay the process? If you are in public life, you will have to go through this,” remarked the bench, compelling Vasudev to withdraw the petition.On July 16, Delhi’s drug controller, through an affidavit, informed the high court that it filed a prosecution complaint before a trial court against Gambhir’s foundation and that the medical dealers or retailers who provided medicines and oxygen devices for camps organised by the foundation were also suspended for 10 days. The complaint stated that the foundation violated the law since it did not have any licence to procure, stock and distribute drugs and oxygen.Gambhir did not comment on the apex court’s observations.Apart from Gambhir’s foundation, prosecution was initiated against Aam Aadmi Party MLAs Imran Hussain and Praveen Kumar for the alleged “unauthorised purchase or procurement, stocking and distribution of medicine and medical oxygen”.Gambhir distributed Fabiflu , an anti-viral medicine, at his office amid the second wave of the pandemic. Hussain and Kumar were allegedly hoarding oxygen devices for special camps.The report was filed in a public interest litigation seeking directions to lodge an FIR against the politicians for allegedly procuring and distributing large quantities of Covid medicines even as patients were scrambling to source them at the peak of the second wave in the Capital. Another application was filed by advocate Vedansh Anand in the pending petition, raising similar charges against Praveen Kumar and AAP MLA Preeti Tomar.On May 31, the court accepted the clean chit given to Tomar, though it slammed the drug controller for giving a clean chit to Gambhir. Three days later, the drug control department submitted yet another report stating that Gambhir’s foundation violated provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act as it did not have any licence to procure, stock and distribute drugs and oxygen.The matter before the Delhi High Court is listed for July 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-stay-prosecution-of-gambhir-s-foundation-in-covid-19-medicines-case-101627322441852.html
27-07-2021||India||VIP's Mukesh Sahni skips NDA meeting in Bihar, says only BJP, JD-U talk||Bihar’s animal husbandry minister and Vikasheel Insaaf Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni on Monday skipped the meeting of the ruling National Democratic Alliance held on Assembly premises, saying he boycotted the gathering as nobody is ready to hear views of ministers and MLAs.“I am very much part of the NDA government. There is no threat to it. But I wanted to send a message to the NDA leadership. It is an alliance of four parties, but only JD(U) and BJP talk. So why go for a formality?” Sahni told Hindustan Times.Upset over not being allowed by the Uttar Pradesh government to install a statue of bandit-turned-politician late Phoolan Devi and denied entry in Varanasi, Sahni reminded BJP and JD(U) leaders that it is a government of four parties. “Even though VIP and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) have only four MLAs each, both parties are represented by a minister each in Nitish Kumar government,” he said.Later in the evening, Sahni met HAM-S national president and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, but did not divulge what transpired between the two. “Manjhi is our guardian,” said Sahni.Manjhi, who attended the NDA meeting, had criticised the UP government decision not to allow Sahni to install the statue and hold a press conference at Varanasi on Sunday. He had also extended support to the VIP for UP elections.Sahni, who was made to return from the Varanasi airport itself on Sunday, said, “The threat of Son of Mallah (as he calls himself) is visible in Uttar Pradesh as well. Nearly 5,000 policemen were deployed there. PM Narendra Modi ji believes there should be development for all. Yogi ji needs to understand this.”Aware of repercussions for the NDA government should VIP quit the alliance, BJP’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal was quick to issue a clarification over statue row. “In UP, the high court has debarred installation of statues. Even Yogiji has petitioned the court to allow him to install statues but he has also not been granted the permission yet,” said Jaiswal.With an eye of UP polls next year, Sahni had planned to install statues of Phoolan Devi at several places, including in Varanasi, to mark her death anniversary as “martyrdom day”.Phoolan came from Mallah (boatmen) community to which Sahni too belongs. The community has significant presence in eastern UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sahni-skips-nda-meeting-says-only-bjp-jdutalk-101627314699766.html
27-07-2021||India||Joblessness grows in cities, villages: CMIE||India’s unemployment rate soared to 7.14% in the week ending July 25, compared to a 5.98% rise the previous week (ending July 18), as joblessness increased both in urban areas and the rural hinterland, data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) released Monday showed.However, on a monthly basis, the joblessness rate showed an improvement, inching down from the near 10% levels in June, with economic activities picking up pace as the second wave of coronavirus disease infections continues to ebb.Even so, unemployment, mainly due to the effects of restrictions imposed due to the pandemic, remains high, experts said. Unemployment data from the CMIE, a widely cited gauge, are not considered to be official, but the country doesn’t put out similar high-frequency employment/unemployment data.According to CMIE, which tracks the labour market with proprietary tools, urban unemployment continues to be higher than rural at 8.01%, up from 7.94% in the previous week. The rural joblessness rate stood at 6.75%, a sharper rise from 5.1% in the previous week.On Monday, another widely cited barometer of business expansion, the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), dropped to 95.3 for the week ending July 25 from 96.4 in the previous week. A fall in the index represents a dip in business activity. The index was “still at levels prior to the second wave but 4.7 percentage points below pre-pandemic levels”, Nomura, an investment firm which complies the index, stated.In any jobs survey, people with jobs are categorised as employed. People without jobs but looking for work are considered unemployed. The labour force participation rate is equal to people who are employed plus those who are not. Simply put, the unemployment rate is then the number of unemployed divided by the labour force times 100.Monday’s numbers show the rural impact of the second wave, which had a “deeper and wider penetration into the hinterland”, said Gautam Shahi, an economist with the ratings firm, Crisil Ltd.Most economists agree that growth and employment will see improvements in the coming weeks, but the key variable still is vaccination. “The pace of vaccinations stagnated, with the month-to-date average in July at ~3.7mn doses/day. We currently forecast a faster pace of vaccination starting in August, but the recent pace suggests risks are skewed towards a delay,” Sonal Varma, economist with Nomura Securities, wrote in a note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unemployment-rate-rises-in-both-urban-and-rural-areas-cmie-101627296519884.html
27-07-2021||India||Mamata forms committee to probe Pegasus snooping row||West Bengal has ordered an inquiry into the Pegasus snooping row that has rocked the nation since July 18, becoming the first state to do so. “The Cabinet has approved the appointment of a commission of inquiry comprising former Supreme Court judge, justice (retd) MB Lokur and retired chief justice of Calcutta high court, justice (retd) Jyotirmay Bhattacharya in exercise of the power conferred by section 3 of the Commission of Enquiry Act, 1952 in the matter of widely reported illegal hacking, monitoring, putting under surveillance, tracking, recording etc of mobile phones of various persons in the state of West Bengal,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said while addressing media at the state secretariat before leaving for Delhi. The Pegasus row erupted last Sunday before the beginning of the current monsoon session of Parliament after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were potentially targeted by Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software, Pegasus, with a forensic analysis of 10 of the targets proving they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so. Political strategist Prashant Kishor, widely seen as the man behind the Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) recent electoral success, and Banerjee’s nephew and TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee were named in the list of potential targets. “Over the past one week, we thought the Centre would initiate a probe, monitored by the apex court on which the citizens have faith. But when we saw that the Centre was apathetical, we decided to appoint a commission of inquiry comprising two retired judges. West Bengal is the first state to do this. This will look into how hacking was being done and who were the persons behind it,” she said. The West Bengal home department immediately issued a notification announcing the terms of reference of the commission. The panel was asked to submit its report within six months and empowered to formulate its own procedure, select venues of sittings and seek assistance from government officials and experts. “Reported interception may have landed in the hands of state and/or non-state actors, as being currently reported, which, if found to be true, can lead to a total breakdown of public order of the state and the same is a serious criminal offence,” said the notification. “The reported interception, if found to be true, shall cause a loss of public confidence on the rights guaranteed to the public under the Constitution of India,” it added.The notification said the panel will probe the people allegedly involved in the row, whether spyware was used in hte past or currently being used, if the information collected was altered, stored or used and whether anyone could carry out such interception without legal provisions. Whether the right to privacy of individuals was affected will also be a part of the inquiry. “A state government can always order an inquiry under the Commission of Enquiry Act, 1952. Such a commission is formed so that the government can inform itself with the help of the findings. However, the Centre is not bound to accept the report,” said former Supreme Court judge, justice (retd) A K Ganguly. Neither of the two judges were available for comment.“If someone is asleep, he must be awakened. This is a small step. Hopefully this would awaken others. This is has been approved in the cabinet today. We will now request the two retired judged to join and start the inquiry,” Banerjee said.A highly invasive malware, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning it into a pocket spy. Banerjee, who has for long claimed for long that her phone was being tapped, alleged last week that spyware was used to hack Kishor's mobile phone and record an entire meeting with him before the recent assembly elections. Her name, however, was not on the list of potential targets. The BJP countered Banerjee and said her move to set up a commission is nothing but a gimmick. “It appears nothing more than a political gimmick which lacks support of jurisprudence and support of the Indian legal mechanism. Since coming to power in 2011 her government has so far formed innumerable such commissions using public money. But none of the reports were published or placed in the Legislative Assembly. Earlier multiple political leaders alleged that their phones were tapped by the TMC government. Will the commission also prove all these?” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP vice president in West Bengal. In Delhi, Banerjee is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and many opposition leaders. “I am going to Delhi for two to three days...I had sought an appointment with the Prime Minister, and he has given me time. I will also try to meet the President. This apart, several political leaders have requested that they want to meet me,” Banerjee said last week while announcing her trip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-west-bengal-becomes-first-state-to-order-probe-101627295738007.html
27-07-2021||India||ED officer, Kejriwal’s aide among potential targets of hacking||Phone numbers belonging to former director-general of Border Security Force (BSF) K K Sharma, senior Enforcement Directorate (ED) officer Rajeshwar Singh and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s former aide V K Jain, among others, were potentially targeted for surveillance through Israeli firm NSO’s Pegasus spyware, a report said on Monday.According to The Wire, phone numbers used by a junior official in the Prime Minister’s Office, a retired officer of India’s external intelligence agency Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and two army colonels also figure in the database of 50,000 numbers possibility selected for surveillance by agencies that were also clients of the NSO Group.The database was first obtained by France-based nonprofit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with a consortium of 17 media organisations in 10 countries including The Wire. The presence of a number on this list does not imply the individual’s phone was hacked - just that it was of interest.The Wire, which is part of the consortium of media organisations, said K K Sharma’s number was placed on the list of probable targets for surveillance in 2018, barely a month after the 1982 batch IPS officer attended a conference by an affiliate of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) in Kolkata in February.Sharma, who retired in September, was appointed by the Election Commission as a special observer for the Lok Sabha elections in West Bengal and Jharkhand the following year but was quickly dropped after the Trinamool Congress cited his participation in the RSS event. Sharma didn’t respond to calls and texts to seek his response.The numbers of ED’s controversial joint director Rajeshwar Singh, currently posted in Lucknow, and his family members, were also selected for the possible surveillance between 2017 and 2019, The Wire reported.Singh, who has investigated some high-profile cases including the 2G spectrum allocation scam and the Aircel-Maxis case against former finance minister P Chidambaram, was in the news in 2018 when the Centre removed then Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) director Alok Kumar Verma and then special director Rakesh Asthana from the agency following their public spat. There have been reports that Rajeshwar Singh played a key role in the Verma-Asthana face-off. When contacted by HT, Rajeshwar Singh refused to comment.The Wire report said Arvind Kejriwal’s ex-advisor V K Jain’s name was added to the list in 2018 after he was questioned by the Delhi Police in connection with the alleged assault on the then Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash in February 2018. Jain resigned as Kejriwal’s advisor within a month, citing personal reasons. The police recorded his statement in this case but declined to share it with Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia. On July 1 this year, the Supreme Court rejected a request by the police to let it withhold Jain’s 2018 statement.Jain could not be contacted for his comments.The number of a former colonel Mukul Dev, who has been at loggerheads with the Centre on multiple issues including scrapping free rations for officers deployed in peace areas, degradation of armed forces and NFU (non-functional financial upgradation), was also placed as a possible target in 2019, The Wire added.Dev told HT: “I have been victimized by this government in every possible manner for fighting for the welfare of the armed forces. This is the state of present government. I knew back in 2018 that I am under surveillance when I filed a complaint with Punjab Police following a direct threat to me”.Another colonel-ranked officer, Amit Kumar, who filed a petition in the Supreme Court on behalf of 356 Army personnel against what they apprehended was an impending dilution of the Armed Forces (Special Forces) Act (AFSPA), was also placed on the list. The Wire report further said that BSF Commandant Jagdish Mathani, a retired RAW officer Jitendra Kumar Ojha, a senior official at Niti Aayog and a junior official at PMO were also on the snoop list.Mathani refused to comment while Amit Kumar and Ojha could not be contacted for their comments.The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.In all, The Wire has revealed the names of 142 people who were targets or potential targets for surveillance by clients of the NSO Group. Apart from at least 40 journalists, former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi, two of his aides, political strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Union minister Prahlad Patel were also allegedly targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-officer-2-colonels-former-bsf-chief-kejriwal-s-aide-also-on-pegasus-list-101627289438117.html
