28-07-2021||India||On 2 cases from UP and Odisha, SC makes 1 point on detention after charge sheet||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that a person’s custody may not be necessary after filing of charge sheet if he has remained on bail during the period of investigation.The court was dealing with two cases that posed similar questions concerning the liberty of the accused. In the first case, a person charged with a graft case in Uttar Pradesh was issued non-bailable warrants for not appearing despite being served summons by the trial judge. The accused was on bail throughout the investigation and even the charge sheet was filed in the case.The second case from Odisha presented similar facts before the court. An accused in a chit fund scam was denied permission to appear virtually before the trial judge due to the Covid pandemic and faced non-bailable warrants from the trial judge. In this case too, the charge sheet was filed and at no point during the investigation, the accused had been arrested.The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy protected both the accused from arrest by staying the non-bailable warrants. The court directed the accused to appear before the trial court and posted the matter for hearing on August 18.Both cases were probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In the UP case, senior advocate Sidharth Luthra appearing for the accused Satender Kumar Antil, pointed out a disturbing trend prevailing in the state. “The system sought to be followed especially in the state of Uttar Pradesh is that even if a person is not arrested during investigations, on charge sheet being filed, more so, in such cases of CBI, a person is sent to custody.”It was this apprehension that forced the accused to seek anticipatory bail that was rejected by the Allahabad High Court on July 1.Commenting on this trend, the bench said, “Prima facie, we cannot appreciate why in such a scenario is there a requirement for the petitioner being sent to custody. It will be appropriate to lay down some principle.”Antil was working as assistant provident fund commissioner when he was accused in August 2020 of being a beneficiary of ₹9 lakh bribe paid to an inspector working under him. The charge sheet was filed in October 2020, following which the special CBI court in Ghaziabad issued summons asking him to appear on February 2. The accused could not appear and his anticipatory bail was quashed by the trial judge, and non-bailable warrants issued.The top court on Wednesday wondered why the accused did not move a regular bail plea since the investigation in the case was complete. Luthra pointed out that in UP, once an accused appears on the summons, he is sent to custody regardless of the bail plea being filed.The bench felt that the issue raised a question of a person’s liberty. It was presented with the same situation while dealing with the Odisha case. This related to Amanpreet Singh, an accused in a chit fund scam. Singh was issued the summons to appear before the special chief judicial magistrate on June 9. Due to the pandemic, he requested for virtual appearance. The trial court rejected his request and issued non-bailable warrants.Senior advocate Maninder Singh, who appeared for Amanpreet, cited a June 4 order of the Orissa high court which only permitted entry into court premises to staffers due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Throughout the probe, CBI never sought his arrest and now his regular bail plea was rejected by Orissa High Court on July 9.The bench protected the petitioner from arrest and asked him to attend the trial proceedings virtually till there is a possibility to attend the courts physically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-2-cases-from-up-and-odisha-sc-makes-1-point-on-detention-after-charge-sheet-101627495429653.html
28-07-2021||India||NDRF team deployed at Amarnath cloudburst spot in Jammu and Kashmir: JP Nadda||Taking to Twitter on Wednesday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda said that a National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team has been deployed at the cloudburst spot in Amarnath for rescue operations.“After Kishtwar, a cloudburst hits near the holy cave of Amarnath, J&K. [The] NDRF team has been deployed at the spot…I pray for everyone’s safety,” the tweet further read.Nadda added Union home minister Amit Shah is in “constant touch” with the local authorities of Amarnath.After Kishtwar, cloudburst hits near the holy cave of Amarnath, J&K. NDRF team has been deployed at the spot.Hon. Home Minister @AmitShah Ji is in constant touch with the local authorities. I pray for everyone's safety.The cloudburst hit Amarnath in South Kashmir on Wednesday, even as at least seven people died and 17 others were injured in the cloudburst incident of Kishtwar district.Jammu and Kashmir Disaster Management Authority said that no casualties have yet been reported in the Amarnath cloudburst. Meanwhile, two State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) teams are present in the disaster-hit area near the cave. One additional SDRF team has been deployed from Ganderbal.A police officer said that following the incident, “big boulders came crashing down in the flash floods near the cave shrine” and that security personnel deployed near the area had a “narrow escape.”#WATCH Cloudburst hits near the Amarnath cave in Jammu and Kashmir; No loss of life reportedTwo SDRF teams are present at the cave; One additional team of SDRF deputed from Ganderbal(Video source: Disaster Management Authority, J&K) pic.twitter.com/UgtOOoGAZGEarlier in the day, Shah spoke to Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. “NDRF teams are being sent there for relief operations and an accurate assessment of the situation,” Shah said.This development comes after the Jammu and Kashmir government announced ex gratia of ₹5 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased persons in the Kishtwar cloudburst.“The grievously injured would be given ₹50,000 each and ₹12,000 under State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) shall also be disbursed,” a statement released by the office of Manoj Sinha.The statement added that the deputy commissioner's office would also provide a relief amount from the SDRF for the loss of houses, clothing, household items, livestock, cattle shed, agricultural land, and utensils to those affected by the disaster.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-team-deployed-at-amarnath-cloudburst-spot-in-jammu-and-kashmir-jp-nadda-101627493823867.html
28-07-2021||India||'Won't be a rubber stamp CM': Karnataka's new CM Basavaraj Bommai has a message for Yediyurappa||Karnataka's former chief minister BS Yediyurappa and new chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will not be two power centres in the state as the power will rest with the team, and not with any individual, new chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday after taking charge as Yediyurappa's successor. Dismissing speculations that with Yediyurappa being active in Karnataka politics, he might not have actual power, Bommai said, "In our system and the constitution there is the position of the Chief Minister, there is a cabinet, there is bureaucracy, executive and judiciary. The Chief Minister is first among equals, he is the team leader and I want to take everyone together.""When I say I will work under the guidance of Yediyuyrappa it means, following the strong and pro-people decisions taken by him during Covid. Despite corona and financial distress he had formulated several schemes in the budget and has given a good administration," he said making the power equation clear.Thank you Prime Minister @narendramodi ji for your kind wishes. I will definitely continue the good work done by state govt under able leadership of @BSYBJP. We, as team will work for the development of the state and the nation under guidelines of all our senior leaders https://t.co/WL6svbRTMXAs Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Basavaraj, he heaped praises on Yediyurappa and tweeted, "No words will ever do justice to the monumental contribution of Shri @BSYBJP Ji towards our Party and for Karnataka’s growth. For decades, he toiled hard, travelled across all parts of Karnataka and struck a chord with people. He is admired for his commitment to social welfare." Replying to PM Modi's tweet, the new chief minister wrote, "Thank you Prime Minister @narendramodi ji for your kind wishes. I will definitely continue the good work done by state govt under able leadership of @BSYBJP. We, as team will work for the development of the state and the nation under guidelines of all our senior leaders." Yeddyurappa too congratulated Basavaraj and wished him a successful tenure.On Thursday, the new CM will visit the flood-ravaged Karwar and then he has plans to fly to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP chief JP Nadda, which will depend on the availability of PM's appointment. He will also discuss cabinet expansion with the national leadership, he said.As Basavaraj Bommai took charge, lobbying for cabinet berth has already begun. When questioned whether he will continue with the same Ministers, Bommai said all these are part of the cabinet formation exercise and "everything will be decided together", PTI reported.Jagdish Shettar who was a minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet said he won't be part of the new cabinet as he is senior to Bommai and has served as a chief minister earlier. "As I am a former Chief Minister and have seniority, I have decided not to be a part of the new cabinet. I was Minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet despite being a former CM as he (Yediyurappa) is senior to me and I had worked in his government in the past too, but now keeping seniority and morality in view I am not ready to be part of the new cabinet," he told new channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-be-a-rubber-stamp-cm-karnataka-s-new-cm-basavaraj-bommai-has-a-message-for-yediyurappa-101627492959039.html
28-07-2021||India||Cloudburst in higher reaches of Amarnath shrine: No loss of lives or property||Another suspected cloudburst took place in higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday afternoon, sending gusts of water near the holy cave area of Hindu shrine of Shri Amarnathji and resulting in heavy discharge of water in the nallah adjoining the holy cave, officials said.The joint team of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB), police and army acted swiftly and evacuated all the staff close to the Nallah preventing any loss of human lives or property, officials said.“The situation is under control and the flow of water in the nallah is normal. A team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) is camping at Baltal and is on stand-by to meet future challenges. An NDRF team is also on stand-by in Srinagar to tackle natural calamities due to incessant rain in the region. The SASB and the administration are closely monitoring the situation,” Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha said.As per the latest report, the shrine is safe. Union home minister Amit Shah also spoke to the L-G, who briefed him about the present situation and efforts made by the joint team of officials, police and army. Earlier on Wednesday, at least seven people were killed and 17 others were injured, five of them critically while 26 remained missing after flash floods hit Honjar village in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kishtwar district following a cloud burst around 4am. Officials said they managed to rescue 17 people amid heavy rain in the region. At least 16 people were killed and 30 others were either injured or missing due to flash floods triggered by torrential showers in the hills of northern India on Wednesday. Authorities reported two separate cloudburst incidents in J&K’s Kishtwar district on Wednesday morning and Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti on Tuesday night.Flash floods were reported from Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and J&K with experts linking the devastating downpours to climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cloudburst-in-higher-reaches-of-amarnath-shrine-no-loss-of-lives-or-property-101627493389223.html
28-07-2021||India||CCTV footage of Dhanbad judge’s road accident emerges; SIT formed to probe death||RANCHI: A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted in Jharkhand to investigate the death of a judge who was hit by a three-wheeler early on Wednesday. Additional sessions and district judge Uttam Anand was out for his daily morning jog when a three-wheeler hit him.The SIT was set up after CCTV footage emerged in which the three-wheeler was seen suddenly swerving to the extreme left of the road and hitting the judge before fleeing the spotThe accident took place a little over 5am on Wednesday.Judge Uttam Anand was rushed to the city’s medical college by passers-by but doctors said he was dead by the time he was brought. No one knew who he was.It was only much later when the judge’s family, worried that he hadn’t returned home by 7am, notified the police.The judge’s driver who accompanied the police team after it was informed of a road accident, identified his body at the hospital. “I have constituted an SIT led by the city SP who will look into all possible reasons. The CCTV footage and all related aspects would be analysed and identify the vehicle. We have respected the victim’s family members to file a complaint and we will register an FIR,” said Dhanbad senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sanjeev Kumar. The judge is reported to have recently rejected the bail plea of an alleged contract killer from Uttar Pradesh, who is in Dhanbad jail in a high-profile murder case. But officials said it was too early to link the order to this case.Police said the SIT would look at footage from other CCTV cameras on the roads used by the three-wheeler to identify the vehicle and see if there was a pattern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cctv-footage-of-dhanbad-judge-s-road-accident-emerges-sit-formed-to-probe-death-101627492490202.html
28-07-2021||India||CAA, farm laws, China, Afghanistan figure in Blinken’s civil society meeting||Inter-faith relations, the farmers’ protest, freedom of expression and the Pegasus spyware issue figured at a civil society roundtable held by US secretary of state Antony Blinken ahead of his meetings with the Indian leadership on Wednesday.Concerns over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan and China’s aggressive actions were also raised by the seven civil society representatives who joined the roundtable with the theme “Advancing equitable, inclusive, and sustainable growth and development”, according to participants who declined to be named.Ahead of Blinken’s visit, the US had said it intended to raise human rights and democracy during his engagements in New Delhi. The US has in the recent past spoken out on issues such as the situation in Kashmir and movements such as the farmers’ protest on the outskirts of Delhi.Besides Geshe Dorji Damdul, director of the Tibet House in New Delhi and Inter-Faith Harmony Foundation of India head Khwaja Iftikhar Ahmed, the roundtable was joined by representatives of the Ramakrishna Mission and Sikh and Christian organisations. The seven representatives spoke for a few minutes each during the roundtable that lasted almost an hour.“The farmers protest, CAA, restrictions on the media, freedom of expression, rights of minorities, inter-faith relations and the Pegasus surveillance issue were all raised by the representatives but there was no substantial discussion on these matters,” said a participant who declined to be named.Besides issues of concern within India, regional issues such as the security situation in Afghanistan and China’s aggression were part of the discussions, said another participant, who too declined to be identified.Ahmed said he had spoken on the need for inter-faith relations to come to the centre stage while pointing out the challenges to the region due to developments in Afghanistan. “Afghanistan is a priority for both sides and it is high time for them to collaborate on this issue in the larger interest of global peace and security,” he said.The role of civil society in India also figured in the discussions, with Blinken saying in his opening remarks that democracies such as the US and India need a vibrant civil society if they are to be “more open, more inclusive, more resilient, more equitable”. He added that “all people deserve to have a voice in their government and be treated with respect”.Blinken said India and the US should continue to stand together as leading democracies at a time when global threats to democracy and international freedoms are increasing. Both sides talk about issues such as democracy as friends “because doing the hard work of strengthening democracy and making our ideals real is often challenging”, he said.Referring to efforts in the US to become a “more perfect union”, Blinken said that “sometimes that process is painful, sometimes it’s ugly, but the strength of democracy is to embrace it”. Blinken also tweeted about “India’s pluralistic society and history of harmony” and said civil society “helps advance these values”.It is understood that Blinken flagged the concerns of the US regarding democracy and human rights during his talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar.Asked about these issues at a joint media interaction with Jaishankar, Blinken said shared values and democratic traditions “were very much a part of our conversation today”. He described Indian democracy as a “force for good in defence of a free and open Indo-Pacific and a free and open world” and said both countries have “self-righting mechanisms” made up of free citizens of different faiths, a free media and independent courts powered by a system of free and fair elections.Jaishankar said he made three points to Blinken, including the fact that the “quest for a more perfect union applies as much to the Indian democracy as it does to the American one”.In an apparent reference to the Indian government’s actions such as enacting CAA, Jaishankar said it is the “moral obligation of all polities to right wrongs when they have been done, including historically, and many of the decisions and policies you have seen in the last few years fall in that category”.He also said freedoms are important but one could “never equate freedom with non-governance or lack of governance or poor governance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caa-farm-laws-china-afghanistan-figure-in-blinken-s-meeting-with-civil-society-101627491829146.html
28-07-2021||India||'Breathtaking': Heavy rains halt train passing through Goa's Dudhsagar waterfall||A train passing through Goa’s famous Dudhsagar waterfall had to be halted due to low visibility caused by heavy rainfall. The Dudhsagar falls offers an idyllic view from a nearby rail line connecting Goa with Bengaluru, especially during monsoon season as the falls form a huge force of water.In the video shared by Prasar Bharati, a large volume of water falling from the four-tiered waterfall can be seen as it covers the train partially. “WATCH: A train passing through Doodhsagar waterfall in South Western Railway, halted due to heavy rainfall,” wrote the public broadcasting agency while sharing the video.WATCH: A train passing through Doodhsagar waterfall in South Western Railway, halted due to heavy rainfall. @RailMinIndia pic.twitter.com/lrGbfPpYbdSocial media users were in awe of the scenic video as one of them called it “breathtakingly beautiful”. Dudhsagar waterfall is 60 km from Goa’s capital Panaji and becomes visible from a spot on Belgaum–Vasco da Gama rail route.On Tuesday, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted heavy rainfall over Goa and the Konkan region for the next five days. The IMD issued an orange alert for the region, saying there will be heavy to very heavy rainfall on July 30-31.Several areas in the state are reeling under extensive flooding over the last few days due to incessant rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breathtaking-heavy-rains-halt-train-passing-through-dudhsagar-waterfall-101627490295758.html
28-07-2021||India||J&K govt announces ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh for kin of Kishtwar cloudburst victims||The government of Jammu & Kashmir on Wednesday announced ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each for the next of kin of those who were killed in the cloudburst that occurred in Kishtwar district, a statement by the office of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha informed.“The grievously injured would be given ₹50,000 each and ₹12,000 under State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) shall also be disbursed,” the statement added.The deputy commissioner's office would also provide relief amount from the SDRF for loss of houses, clothing, household items, livestock, cattle shed, agricultural land, and utensils to those affected in the disaster. “The J&K government will do everything possible to support and protect the affected families,” the statement further read.A cloudburst hit Honjar village in the Dacchan area of Kishtwar district around 4am on Wednesday killing at least seven people and injuring 17 so far. Among the injured, six people were reported to be in a critical condition and were undergoing treatment at Kishtwar district hospital, officials said.Another officer at the Kishtwar police control room said that as many as 26 people were still missing and their “chances of survival looked grim.”Also Read | 16 dead, 20 injured or missing in rain related incidents in J&K and HimachalOfficials said SDRF teams from Jammu, Udhampur and Doda have been sent to Kishtwar for rescue operations while a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and SDRF each were on standby in Srinagar.“The area is in the upper reaches of Kishtwar and not accessible by road. Jammu SDRF is on standby. The weather is inclement. One team of SDRF from Srinagar is ready to be airlifted,” SDRF commandant VK Singh said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah took stock of the situation and assured that rescue operations would continue and all possible help would be extended for saving as many lives as possible.Meanwhile, fresh flash floods triggered by another cloudburst were reported near the cave shrine of Shri Amarnath in south Kashmir on Wednesday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its forecast that the “current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls” will likely continue over Jammu and Kashmir till July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-govt-announces-ex-gratia-of-rs-5-lakh-for-kin-of-kishtwar-cloudburst-victims-101627490021104.html
28-07-2021||India||'Seeing us together': What Anurag Singh Thakur said on sharing dais again with Nirmala Sitharaman||Following the Cabinet meeting of Wednesday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and information and broadcasting minister Anurag Singh Thakur announced the decisions of the Cabinet. While Nirmala Sitharaman was there to announce the Cabinet decisions regarding her ministry, her former junior minister Anurag Singh was there as the new information and broadcasting minister. "Seeing us together, you must have been expecting that we would announce a new package as that is how you have seen us..." Anurag Singh Thakur said, addressing the press meet. "But here we are to announce the decisions cleared by PM Modi-led cabinet which will benefit many people," the former finance minister of state quipped.A post shared by Anurag Thakur (@official.anuragthakur)Anurag Singh also posted a photo with Nirmala Sitharaman on Instagram and hashtagged it as 'Memories'. "Today’s Cabinet announcements press conference was held with Hon. FM Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman Ji. Reminded of the time we did the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package announcements together," the minister wrote.Minister of state for information and broadcasting L Murugan was also present at Wednesday's Cabinet briefing.In the recent reshuffle of the Cabinet, Anurag Singh Thakur has been promoted as the minister of information and broadcasting, replacing Prakash Javadekar. Since then, Anurag Singh is present at every Cabinet briefing according to his new role.Anurag Thakur and Nirmala Sitharaman made a series of joint appearances last year when the ministry announced the government's financial package amid the pandemic. They have also presented Budget 2020 and 2021 together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seeing-us-together-what-anurag-singh-thakur-said-on-sharing-dais-again-with-nirmala-sitharaman-101627488986235.html
28-07-2021||India||Maken in one on one meeting with Rajasthan Cong MLAs before cabinet rejig||In the run up to the cabinet rejig in Rajasthan, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of the state Ajay Maken engaged the Congress legislators in a consultation and feedback exercise on Wednesday to gauge their mood. Maken, who is in the state capital on a two-day visit, held one-on-one discussions with the legislators at the state assembly on Wednesday, inviting criticism from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which called it a misuse of a Constitutional building for a political party’s programme.Congress leaders aware of the developments said Maken had a set of close to a dozen pre-decided questions that he posed to the MLAs to get feedback on ministers’ performances in different districts and implementation of state government’s flagships schemes. Former BSP MLAs who merged with the Congress as well as independent legislators have also been called to the feedback exercise that would conclude by Thursday evening. The exercise was undertaken following a demand by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his loyalist legislators to be accommodated in the government. Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs had revolted against chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s leadership in July 2020 and had been demanding an overhaul in the cabinet and political appointments at the earliest. The demand gained momentum after the Congress Central leadership addressed similar disgruntlement in the party’s Punjab unit. Even as Maken was engaging with the MLAs in Jaipur, Pilot was camping in New Delhi, where he was expected to meet the top Congress leaders. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, on the other hand, will be reviewing the implementation of the party’s election manifesto promises. On the feedback, Transport minister and civil lines MLA Pratap Singh Khacharyiawas said that Congress was a democratic party and the high command hears all its members. “Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had said to us that he is our guardian. Maken is also holding meetings as the guardian,” he said. Khachariyawas said there was no dispute in the party and a cabinet reshuffle was the prerogative of the chief minister and a decision on this will be taken in discussion with the party high command. Chaksu MLA Vedprakash Solanki, a vocal MLA from Sachin Pilot group, said he had apprised Maken of all the issues. “I gave my suggestions and whatever I had to say, I told him. I am satisfied that our viewpoint is now being communicated directly to the party high command. Now, the high command is not listing only to us, but [is] listening to all [the] MLAs,” Solanki said. At the same time, leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria said the need to hold one to one discussion with MLAs made it clear that the government was not able to function well. “Such governments are not able to function well and serve the people,” he said. He also questioned the decision to hold Maken’s dialogue with MLAs in the assembly building. Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi dismissed his concerns calling it a meeting of party MLAs. In the assembly of 200 members, Congress has 106 MLAs while most of the 13 independents are in support of the ruling party. AICC general secretaries Maken and KC Venugopal had held meeting with Ashok Gehlot over Cabinet reshuffle last Saturday and Sunday. After Wednesday’s feedback meeting, Maken said the entire process of cabinet expansion, and political appointments were nearing completion.“I am very satisfied with the feedback. The MLAs I met today, over 50, (which also included the disgruntled) appreciated the government and development work done in their respective constituencies,” he said.He claimed that his interaction revealed how things had changed since his interaction with MLAs last year. “I interacted with the MLAs last year (during the internal crisis in state Congress) and now today. There is a huge difference, all are happy and satisfied,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maken-in-one-on-one-meeting-with-rajasthan-cong-mlas-before-cabinet-rejig-101627489128849.html
28-07-2021||India||Blinken meeting Dalai Lama’s representative in Delhi has 2 messages for China||US secretary of state Antony Blinken began his formal engagements in New Delhi on Wednesday by meeting a representative of the Dalai Lama, signalling the Biden administration’s support to the Tibetan cause.Blinken briefly met with Ngodup Dongchung of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) before his meetings with top Indian leaders. Dongchung presented Blinken a scarf from the Dalai Lama and conveyed the CTA’s gratitude for the US administration’s backing for the Tibetan cause, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The meeting was one of the most conspicuous contacts between American and Tibetan officials since President Barack Obama met the Dalai Lama in Washington in 2016 and former CTA head Lobsang Sangay was invited to the White House last November.The meeting also came two days after US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman met Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and raised American concerns about human rights, including abuses in Tibet, the anti-democracy crackdown in Hong Kong, and the genocide in Xinjiang.“Secretary Blinken had an opportunity to meet briefly this morning in New Delhi with a representative of His Holiness the Dalai Lama, Central Tibetan Administration representative Ngodup Dongchung,” a US state department spokesperson said without giving details.Another US official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity, said: “The Dalai Lama obviously is a globally revered spiritual leader and so the gesture was gratefully received and appreciated.”The people cited above said the meeting was being seen as a strong signal of support for the Dalai Lama and was also significant as it was held in India at a time when New Delhi and Beijing are locked in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“It was a clear signal that the Biden administration will continue the Trump administration’s high-level engagements and support to the Tibetan side. It also has to be seen in the context of the Tibet Policy and Support Act passed by the US Congress last year, which calls for the Tibetans to have the final say in choosing the successor to the Dalai Lama and the setting up of a US consulate in Lhasa,” one of the people cited above said.Geshe Dorji Damdul, the director of the Tibet House in New Delhi, was among the select group of people invited for a civil society roundtable with Blinken shortly after the meeting with Dongchung.There was no immediate response from the Chinese side to the meeting between Blinken and Dongchung.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-signals-support-for-tibet-cause-with-blinken-meeting-dalai-lama-s-representative-in-new-delhi-101627486368750.html
28-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: 7 bodies recovered, 26 missing due to J&K cloudburst and all the latest news||Kishtwar Cloudburst: 7 bodies recovered, 17 rescued, 6 critical, 26 missingAt least seven people were killed and 17 others were injured, five of them critically while 26 remained missing after flash floods hit Honjar village in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kishtwar district following a cloud burst early Wednesday. Read MoreUpset China gives lecture on democracy to India, USA seemingly upset spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry on Wednesday gave a lesson on democracy to India and the US, the largest and oldest democracies no less, after it appeared that the two had ganged up against authoritarian China. Read MoreCBI can probe ex-TMC leader Vinay Mishra in smuggling cases, says Calcutta HCThe Calcutta high court on Wednesday rejected former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Vinay Mishra’s request to stop the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against him in the coal and cattle smuggling cases. Read More'He might be the Player of the Series at T20 World Cup': Brad Hogg makes massive prediction regarding India batsmanThe T20 World Cup is three months away but all eyes are already on the ICC global event, which takes place in Oman and the UAE, starting October 17. Read MoreIt's official! RedmiBook India launch date revealed; here’s what we know about the laptopRedmiBook, Xiaomi’s first Redmi-branded laptop now has an official launch date. The company on Tuesday confirmed that it will launch its first laptop on August 3, and the announcement comes a few days after it teased the new device, which has previously been launched in three different variants in China. Read MoreAnushka Sharma can't get the viral Bachpan Ka Pyar boy out of her head. See her postAnushka Sharma has got an ear worm. Sahdev Dirdo, the young boy who has gone viral for his song Bachpan Ka Pyar, is giving her sleepless nights as well. Read MoreFrom booking Lalu to feud with CBI chief: Meet Rakesh Asthana, new Delhi top copRakesh Asthana took charge as the Commissioner of Delhi Police on Wednesday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-7-bodies-recovered-26-missing-due-to-j-k-cloudburst-and-all-the-latest-news-101627484150841.html
28-07-2021||India||Finance ministry invites entries for new DFI's name, logo||The finance ministry on Wednesday invited entries from citizens for name, tagline and logo for the new Development Financial Institution (DFI) that is touted as a gamechanger for infrastructure financing in the country.Earlier, the ministry had carried out a similar exercise for choosing the name for the flagship financial inclusion programme of the government -- 'Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna' -- in 2014."@FinMinIndia in association with @mygovindia is announcing a contest to crowdsource the name, tagline and logo of the new Development Financial Institution. Cash prizes of up to ₹5 lakh in each category! Last date for entries is 15.08.2021," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet.The setting up of a DFI was announced by the finance minister in Budget 2021-22.In March, Parliament passed the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill."Infrastructure is essential to building a new India. This would mean new projects, expanding existing infra and revitalizing decrepit infra. The National Infrastructure Pipeline of ₹111 lakh crore was a recognition of this need and accordingly over 7000 projects were identified. However, the execution and completion of these projects will require timely finance and the requirement of funds is large," according to mygov.in website.This Infra DFI will be a development bank with credibility and a mandate through explicit government support and this DFI will crowd in, not elbow out, other lenders, it said."It will not do everything itself. Therefore, it will not only be a provider of credit and credit plus services but equally, be an enabler and a catalyst for a new ecosystem for infra based on collaboration and on partnership. Its operations will prioritize risk mitigation, product innovation, accessing green and ethical funds and helping to develop a vibrant bond market," it added.The Department of Financial Services under the finance ministry has invited citizens to coin a name, suggest a tagline and design a logo for the DFI.It should in effect be like a visual signature, easy to recall and pronounce. Each of the three elements would stand out on its own but would represent a synergised approach, as per the website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-ministry-invites-entries-for-new-dfi-s-name-logo-101627483023669.html
28-07-2021||India||Assam Congress leaders prevented from visiting Mizoram border, lash out at CM||A group of Assam Congress leaders including Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Bhupen Bora, Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Debabrata Saikia, parliamentarians Gaurav Gogoi and Pradyut Bordoloi, deputy CLP Rakibul Hussain, president of All India Mahila Congress Committee Sushmita Dev, and APCC working president and lawmaker Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha were stopped few kilometres from the Mizoram border on Wednesday by Assam Police, citing the need to not let the situation turn volatile.The Congress leaders protested the move and attacked Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma.“Himanta Biswa Sarma was showing a strong attitude on Monday but we were shocked to hear what he said on Tuesday while visiting Silchar. We thought he is a strong personality but he turned out to be a weak man crawling before the Centre. [We] did not expect him to say that he will hand over Barak Valley or Nalbari, both in Assam, to anyone if the Centre instructs,” Sushmita Dev said.Gaurav Gogoi said the violent clash between people and police forces of Assam and Mizoram was due to the failure of the Central government and its policies.“We wonder how the Central government’s intelligence could not figure out that such a big attack was being planned. This is not a new issue but the discussion has been going on since long. At this moment, BJP has governments both at the Centre and in the state. Mizoram government is also a friend of the BJP. They could not initiate proper dialogue and provoked the common people to be violent. It is a failure of the Central government led by the BJP,” Gogoi said addressing a press conference at Indira Bhawan in Silchar.The Congress delegation appealed to Assam and Mizoram residents to maintain peace.BJP MP from Silchar Rajdeep Roy dismissed Congress criticism and said the saffron party did not want “suggestion or criticism from a failed leadership like the Congress party”. He added that the BJP was working “strategically” for overall development of entire northeast. “Congress has lost relevance in all Northeastern states and they are now trying to make themselves visible by accusing the BJP on false grounds,” he said.Roy said, “Congress ruled these states for almost 95 percent of the time since Independence but didn’t solve any issues. Present government in Assam is only 3-months old, how can one expect it to solve such long-pending issue all of a sudden,” he asked.He also criticised the Congress delegation alleging they were acting irresponsibly. “After the firing incident, Assam-Mizoram border has become a sensitive area. Even chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma did not go there immediately. But the Congress team led by Sushmita Dev tried to go there today and now they are making baseless allegations. This shows that she doesn’t have any administrative responsibility.”Meanwhile, shutdown called by various organisations in Assam’s Cachar district on Wednesday to protest the violence that led to deaths of six Assam policemen and one civilian received support from the residents. The protesters burnt an effigy of Mizoram chief minister ZoramThanga and called for a complete boycott of Mizoram.A group of students staged a protest in front of Mizoram Circuit House in Silchar. They were seen carrying banners condemning the Mizoram government. Throughout the demonstration, slogans like Mizo Police go back, Mizo aggressors go back, were heard.Protestors also removed a portion of the railway tracks in Hailakandi district, which connects Mizoram’s only railway station Bhairavi to other parts of the country. It was later restored by the railway department with the help of police.A 25-year-old driver Abdul Ali Laskar from Khulicherra area under Dholai constituency of Assam, who sustained bullet injury on Monday, said, “We are victims of violence from Mizoram’s side for years. We went to support the police but did not expect to get bullets on our bodies. A local chemist operated on my wound and took the bullet out from my forehead. We don’t want this sort of violence anymore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-leaders-prevented-from-visiting-mizoram-border-lash-out-at-cm-101627485229234.html
28-07-2021||India||'Poore desh me khela hobe': Mamata on Opposition’s unity ahead of 2024 elections||Addressing the media in Delhi on Wednesday, Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that in 2024 “poore desh me khela hobe” (game will be on all over the country), even as she has been meeting and holding discussions with several Opposition leaders during her five-day visit to the national capital.Terming the “khela” to be a “continuous process,” Banerjee said that in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the opposition will be stronger than the BJP and will create history. “When general elections come, it will be Modi versus [the] country,” the chief minister added.She said that “khela hobe” was the key slogan for the TMC during the recently concluded assembly elections in West Bengal, which it won “comprehensively” and regained power in the state.Amid the ongoing row between the Centre and the opposition over Pegasus snoop project and various other matters, Banerjee said, “We want to see ‘sacche din’, saw enough of ‘ache din’.”Notably, BJP’s slogan before the 2014 general elections was “ache din”.Talking about her meeting with Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, the TMC supremo said that even the latter wants “unity of opposition.”“Congress trusts the regional parties and regional parties trust Congress,” she added.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee meets Arvind Kejriwal in DelhiBanerjee further told media persons that her discourse with Sonia and Rahul Gandhi was “very good” and that she thinks a positive result must emerge from it in the future.“It is essential for everyone to come together in order to defeat the BJP. Alone, I am nothing – everyone will have to work together. I am not a leader. I am a cadre. I am a person from the street,” she said.However, Banerjee evaded questions regarding the face of Opposition in the 2024 elections, citing that she isn’t a “political astrologer.”Also Read | 'Khela hobe', says Mamata even as she skirts Delhi leadership queries“We will sit together and decide, I am not a political astrologer. The decisions depend on the system, and on political parties. I cannot impose my decision on others,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poore-desh-me-khela-hobe-mamata-on-opposition-s-unity-ahead-of-2024-elections-101627484108329.html
28-07-2021||India||Nishikant Dubey says Mahua Moitra called him 'Bihari Gunda', TMC MP says she's amused||A war of words broke out between BJP MP Nishikant Dubey and Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra inside and outside Parliament on Wednesday as Nishikant Dubey alleged that in the meeting of the IT committee, Mahua called him 'Bihari gunda' thrice. As the allegation was presented on Twitter, Moitra too responded on Twitter and said she is amused by the charge of name-calling as she said that the said meeting did not take place as there was no quorum. BJP MPs on Wednesday did not sign the attendance register of the IT meeting protesting against "the agenda of the meeting becoming public".BJP seeks Shashi Tharoor’s removal as House panel headतृणमूल @AITCofficial ने बिहारी गुंडा शब्द का प्रयोग कर बिहार के साथ साथ पूरे हिन्दी भाषी लोगों को गाली दी है,@MamataOfficial जी आप के सांसद महुआ मोइत्रा की इस गाली ने उत्तर भारतीय व ख़ासकर हिंदी भाषी लोगों के प्रति आपके पार्टी के नफ़रत को देश के सामने लाया है।Am a bit amused by charges of name-calling. IT mtng did not happen because NO quorum - members did not attend. How can I call someone a name who was not even present!!Check attendance sheet!@ShashiTharoor , @KartiPC @NasirHussainINC @MdNadimulHaque6Tagging Trinamool supremo Mamata Banerjee, Dubey wrote, "The way your MP abused, your party's hatred towards North Indians and towards Hindi-speaking people is now clear in front of the country.""Am a bit amused by charges of namecalling. IT meeting did not happen because NO quorum -- members did not attend. How can I call someone a name who was not even present! Check attendance sheet!" Mahua Moitra wrote on Twitter.However, the heated argument began in Parliament itself when BJP leaders boycotted the IT committee meeting and refused to sign the attendance register. Dubey asked why the agenda of the meeting was being made public, to which Mahua Moitra said, "if you refuse to mark attendance, then you are not present. They how are you asking a question?"On Wednesday, Dubey gave the notice to move a privilege motion seeking Congress MP Shashi Tharoor's removal as the head of the standing committee on information technology. The committee was scheduled to discuss the alleged Pegasus snooping, but the meeting could not be held as the BJP MPs refused to sign the attendance. The BJP MP said it is shocking that the Opposition does not want Parliament to function but wants the issues to be discussed at the committee meetings which the government is ready to discuss in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nishikant-dubey-says-mahua-moitra-called-him-bihari-gunda-tmc-mp-says-she-s-amused-101627483418013.html
28-07-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram to withdraw own forces; CRPF to take over till a solution: Centre||Assam and Mizoram will withdraw their respective police forces and Central paramilitary troops will be deployed at the disputed border site till a permanent solution is found. This was decided on Wednesday in a meeting called by Union home secretary to mediate between the sparring states, people familiar with the development said.The crucial meeting, called following clashes between the two sides on Monday resulted in deaths of five Assam policemen and a civilian, was attended by Assam chief secretary Jishnu Baruah and director general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta and their respective Mizoram counterparts Lalnunmawia Chuaungo and SBK Singh, apart from the director general of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) – Kuldiep Singh.After more than two hours of discussions, both the states agreed for deployment of a neutral force, therefore a Central paramilitary force will be posted along National Highway-306 under a senior officer, said a home ministry official, requesting anonymity.Subsequently, both the states decided to withdraw all their police officers from the site and “agreed to continue mutual discussions to resolve the border issue in an amicable manner”, this officer said.Assam CS Barua told reporters after the meeting, “Paramilitary forces will take over Veringte border. The process of withdrawal of state police is being worked out.”Mizoram CS Chuaungo said the situation was currently peaceful at the border. “We will try to maintain peace. There is no point indulging in violence. Forces are being withdrawn from the area”.MHA officials said they will continue to facilitate talks and monitor the ground situation.The CRPF already has five companies (around 500 personnel) deployed there while two companies are on standby.Assam and Mizoram had been talking through their chief secretaries in a Centre-chaperoned dialogue process to douse interstate border tensions before police forces of the two northeastern states fatally clashed on July 26, shocking the country.One round of talks in the national capital was held on July 8, an official aware of the development said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, too, told the media on Tuesday, putting out his version of the dispute that the talks failed at the final stage of a proposed memorandum of understanding.The official cited above said the talks between the two sides were focussed on some kind of “status quo ante”, which refers to a return to earlier positions. The process failed because differences persisted over what should be the point of the status quo ante, the person said.Assam proposed a satellite-based mapping of the disputed interstate border, a proposal that found its way into a draft memorandum of understanding, while Mizoram proposed chief secretary-level talks monitored by the Centre.“My proposal to him (Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga) was that we will carry out satellite photography of the borders as on the day of my swearing in (May 10 2021). In the talks, Assam had said that whatever is the status quo situation, be that on May 10 or six months ago or as on date, we should maintain status quo on the border as determined through satellite mapping,” Sarma said in one of his several media briefings on Tuesday.Northeastern states have a history of ethnic strife. Internal border disputes go back at least a century. The triggers often are disputed claims over land, forest resources, encroachment, ethnic differences and even rumours.Assam’s border disputes have their roots in how the state was carved up to form other states in the region. Mizoram, which became a state in 1987, was once a part of Assam.Mizoram’s home minister Lalchamliana declined to comment on the talks but said: “Mizoram stands for peaceful resolution of the border dispute. Assam policemen first crossed into our areas and overran police posts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-to-withdraw-own-forces-crpf-to-take-over-till-a-solution-centre-101627482348265.html
28-07-2021||India||Cong MP writes to Shah for all-party meet to resolve Assam Mizoram dispute||Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Assam Ripun Bora has written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah demanding an all-party meeting along with the stakeholders to resolve the border dispute between Assam-Mizoram.In the letter, Bora, former Assam Congress chief, said that the border disputes of Assam-Mizoram have arrived at a "volatile" stage.He further stated if the tension is not removed immediately with a "positive political response" to the matters related to the border disputes, situation in both the "States may go from bad to worst with its adverse impact in other north-eastern States"."As you know 6 Assam police personnel have lost their lives and more than 50 injured in Mizo Police firing and both the forces of Assam and Mizoram are still in retaliating mood in the border," he said.Stating that the news of the firings and killing of police jawans have spread all over the north-eastern states of the country, the Congress leader said that "we can apprehend further mob violence due to the tense situation prevailing in the two states"."I urge upon you to urgently call a meeting of both the Chief Ministers of the two States and all the political parties of north-eastern States including national, regional and local political parties with other stakeholders in presence of Prime Minister so that a permanent solution can be availed. It is a high time to avoid vested political interests for the greater public interests of the people," the Rajya Sabha MP stated in a letter to the Union Home Minister."I sincerely hope you will do the needful to protect the peace and harmony of the two states in particular and NE Region in general," he added.On Monday, the border dispute between Assam and Mizoram peaked and a fierce gun battle between the forces of the two states resulted in the death of six Assam police personnel and one civilian. At least 50 were injured in the incident. A total of six companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have been deployed at the site where the policemen died.Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla is set to hold a meeting with the chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram as well as senior officers of the two states on the issue, sources had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-mp-writes-to-shah-for-all-party-meet-to-resolve-assam-mizoram-dispute-101627476162795.html
28-07-2021||India||US announces additional $25 million to support India's vaccination program||US secretary of state Antony Blinken on Wednesday announced an additional $25 million in financial assistance from the US government to support India’s vaccination program. After delegation-level talks between the two sides, Blinken told a press briefing that the funding will help save lives by strengthening vaccine supply chains across India as the country is yet to reach a double-digit mark in the percentage of fully vaccinated individuals."This funding will contribute to saving a life by strengthening vaccine supply chain logistics, addressing misinformation, vaccine hesitancy and helping to train more health care workers," he said.During the joint press conference, external affairs minister S Jaishankar acknowledged Biden’s administration response in keeping the raw materials supply chain open for vaccine production in India and thanked the US for the “exceptional” support during the second Covid wave.Also Read | 'Few relationships more vital': Blinken says US won't forget India's early pandemic aidThe latest funding through the US Agency for International Development (USAID) is on top of more than $200 million worth of Covid-19 assistance announced by the US government. Blinken stressed that the two countries are determined to end the Covid-19 pandemic in India and the United States.Today, I'm proud to announce an additional $25 million from the U.S. government, through @USAID, to support India’s COVID-19 vaccination program. The United States’ support will help save lives by strengthening vaccine supply chains across India. pic.twitter.com/In45qnrgIDThe top US diplomat said the Covid-19 hit both countries very hard and the US will not forget the aid and assistance India provided early in the pandemic. “I am proud we could return the gesture to India,” he added.The two sides discussed a range of issues including regional security, travel challenges during the Covid-19 pandemic, and cooperation on defence and security. Speaking on the Afghan issue which has tremendous implications on regional security, Blinken said both sides are committed to the proposition that there is no military solution to the conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-announces-additional-25-mn-to-support-india-s-vaccination-program-101627480539219.html
28-07-2021||India||Kishtwar Cloudburst: 7 bodies recovered, 17 rescued, 6 critical, 26 missing||At least seven people were killed and 17 others were injured, five of them critically while 26 remained missing after flash floods hit Honjar village in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kishtwar district following a cloud burst early Wednesday. Officials said they managed to rescue 17 people amid heavy rain in the region.“Seven bodies have been recovered so far from the debris and 17 injured were rescued. Out of the injured, six critically injured were shifted to Kishtwar district hospital,” additional director general of police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh said. He added that a rescue team of Kishtwar police was at work.Another officer at the Kishtwar police control room said 26 people remained missing and “chances of their survival looked grim”. He said the cloud burst was reported at 4 am on Wednesday and initially 28 people were reported missing. A defence spokesman too confirmed that approximately 26 persons were feared to be missing.“On a request from the civil administration, two columns of the Indian Army were launched to carry out rescue operations in village Honzar. The village was caught in a flash flood due to a cloud burst, which led to the sudden rise in water level in the Malu and Nath rivulets. Approximately 26 persons are feared to be missing and more than 15 houses and dhoks (sheds of nomads) have also been submerged under the water or were washed away,” he said.The Indian Army has also made provision of meals for 100 persons and provided dry rations to the affected. The weather conditions over the village continue to remain poor, thereby increasing the difficulty in rescue and relief operations.Earlier, Kishtwar’s senior police superintendent Shafqat Bhat said they believed 30 to 40 people were in Honjar village, around 50km from Kishtwar district headquarters, at the time of the cloudburst. He said bridges have been washed away in the area and a local river was in full spate.In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the Centre is closely monitoring the situation. “...in the wake of the cloudbursts in #Kishtwar and #Kargil (Ladakh). All possible assistance is being made available in the affected areas. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being.”Officials said air force, army, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams were rushed for the rescue operations.Union Home minister Amit Shah said saving as many lives as possible was the priority. “I have spoken to the L-G (lieutenant governor) and the DGP (director general of police) of Jammu & Kashmir regarding the cloudburst in Kishtwar. SDRF, Army & local administration are carrying out the rescue operation. NDRF is also reaching there.”Officials said SDRF teams from Doda, Udhampur, and Jammu have been rushed to Kishtwar while a team of NDRF and SDRF each were on standby in Srinagar. SDRF commandant VK Singh said a police team left for the scene on foot. “The area is in the upper reaches of Kishtwar, not accessible by road. Jammu SDRF is on standby. The weather is inclement. One team of SDRF from Srinagar is ready to be airlifted,” said Singh.A number of big and small bridges in Dachhan, Kundal and Chasoti area of Paddar and Dachan in Kishtwar had been washed away along with several other bridges between Gulabgarh to Machail.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said widespread intermittent rain was most likely to continue till July 30 in Jammu & Kashmir. “Heavy to very heavy rain is also possible at some places,” it said. The department warned that heavy rains may lead to flash floods, mudslides, landslides, and water logging in low-lying areas. “Accordingly, people are once again advised to remain alert and very cautious as water levels have risen in all rivers. Don’t venture out on hilly and landslide, mudslide prone areas.”Meanwhile, another cloudburst triggered flash floods near the cave shrine of Shri Amarnath in South Kashmir on Wednesday.“The incident occurred near the cave shrine. There was no loss of life but big boulders came crashing down in the flash floods near the cave shrine. Security personnel deployed near the cave shrine had a narrow escape,” said a police officer.The pilgrimage was cancelled for the second year running in view of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-7-bodies-recovered-17-rescued-6-critical-26-missing-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101627480668071.html
28-07-2021||India||Explained: Does Kerala have lowest immunity against Covid-19?||The Union health ministry on Wednesday released state-wise seroprevalence data which showed that Madhya Pradesh has the highest percentage of seroprevalence while Kerala has the lowest. The Centre has also asked the states to conduct local seroprevalence surveys in consultation with the Indian Council of Medical Research so that district-level data can be generated on the percentage of people who have antibodies against Covid-19. The state-wise seroprevalence data is part of ICMR's fourth national serosurvey in which it was found that one-third of the Indian population is still vulnerable to the infection, while two-thirds have antibodies.According to the ICMR's 4th serosurvey, conducted in 70 districts of the country, Madhya Pradesh reported the highest seroprevalence of 79 per cent. Madhya Pradesh is followed by Rajasthan (76.2%), Bihar (75.9 %) etc.Also Read: How close is India to achieve herd immunity? What experts sayThe lowest seroprevalence was reported from Kerala (44.4%), preceded by Assam (50.3 per cent) and Maharashtra (58.0%).Overall, 70 per cent of Indians have antibodies against Covid, the survey, published a few days ago, revealed.Statewise seropositivity rate and the significance of the dataKerala scores lowest in serosurvey: What does this mean?Does this mean that Kerala scores lowest in herd immunity? In a way yes, as the present Covid-19 situation of the state also highlights the same. The state is now contributing to 50 per cent of fresh cases being reported daily in India. The fact that these many people are contracting the infection at a time when the pandemic is on the decline in most other states implies that this population of Kerala did not have antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. Kerala Covid expert committee member Dr Anish told ANI that Kerala has vaccinated proportionately more people than the national average. The centre should give more vaccines to Kerala since it is behind the national average of herd immunity threshold.Natural infection plus vaccination is seroprevalenceSerosurvey reveals how many people have antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. These antibodies might be a result of vaccination or natural infection. Kerala's Covid expert committee's Dr Anish said since Kerala's vaccine coverage is proportionately more than many other states, its low score in herd immunity implies that the number of people developing antibodies through natural infection is low.Serosurvey and third waveHow telling are the serosurvey findings in connection with the possible third wave of the pandemic? The bottom three states in herd immunity against Covid-19 are Kerala, Assam and Maharashtra. While the situation in Kerala is worrisome with daily cases not going down, the Covid-19 graph in Maharashtra has plateaued. Northeast states are also reporting a higher number of Covid-19 cases. States which have lower seroprevalence are still reporting a higher number of fresh infections and thereby are at a greater risk of any possible future wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-scores-lowest-in-icmr-s-seroprevalence-survey-madhya-pradesh-highest-explained-101627478969937.html
28-07-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee meets Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee called on her Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday evening. The Trinamool Congress supremo's visit to Kejriwal followed her meetings with Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi earlier in the day and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday.Mamata Banerjee is in the national capital for the past five days, during which she met a host of opposition leaders, including Congress' Kamal Nath and Anand Sharma on Tuesday.Following her stellar victory in the assembly elections in West Bengal, where she faced the Bharatiya Janata Party in a do-or-die battle, Mamata Banerjee emerged as a prominent figure among the opposition camp's attempt at stitching together a unified anti-BJP coalition ahead of the 2024 general elections.ALSO READ | Khela hobe: Congress, TMC display bonhomie ahead of Mamata's Delhi visitThe talk of an anti-BJP front gained pace after leaders of various political parties and prominent individuals gathered at NCP chief Sharad Pawar's New Delhi residence last month.Mamata avoided comments on leadership queries and said the opposition parties would convene and decide on the prime ministerial face against PM Modi.“Poore desh me khela hoga. It's a continuous process... When Modi will fight the next election, it will be with the country", she said earlier in the day.'Khela hobe' was the catchphrase of Trinamool Congress during the West Bengal assembly elections.Speculations are rife over Mamata being considered as a potential face of united opposition parties against Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the 2024 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-meets-arvind-kejriwal-in-delhi-101627479520356.html
28-07-2021||India||'Legal protection must,' says Gavi as Moderna, Pfizer still await India's nod||Pfizer and Moderna doses through World Health Organization's vaccine alliance Gavi have reached Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. But in India, the issue is still stuck at the question of indemnity, or legal protection, as the government has not yet decided to extend legal protection to foreign companies, as that would raise similar demands from Indian vaccine makers as well. "Our team is in continuous dialogue with Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to discuss and address various issues including the issue of indemnity," Bharati Pravin Pawar said in Parliament on Tuesday.According to a Reuters report, Gavi authorities said that legal protections for vaccine suppliers were mandatory. "All facility participants must have signed indemnity agreements with the manufacturers in question in order to receive doses through COVAX – which would also be true for doses received via bilateral deals," a Gavi spokesperson said in an email to Reuters. India is also a participant in the Gavi alliance.When will Moderna, Pfizer, J&J vaccines will arrive in India?The government had earlier announced that vaccines that are already recognised by WHO and similar other authorities of other countries won't have to undergo local trials. Moderna applied for permission to the Drug Controller General of India which was granted but Pfizer and J&J did not yet apply.Attributing to government sources, Reuters reported that Moderana's Indian partner Cipla had offered to shoulder some legal responsibilities which Moderna rejected. "The government cannot give indemnity to anyone. The government is saying domestic companies can give indemnity on behalf of their foreign partners," Reuters said quoting sources.It has been one month since Moderna was okayed by the Indian drug controller, but the United States is yet to receive a green signal from India, which is stuck over the issue of legal protection. The foreign vaccine manufacturers do not want to be dragged to court in case of any post-vaccination adverse effect. But India has not yet extended this protection to any vaccine maker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legal-protection-must-says-gavi-as-moderna-pfizer-still-await-india-s-nod-101627476497942.html
28-07-2021||India||48% parents unwilling to send kids to school till they are vaccinated against Covid-19: Survey||A recent survey conducted in India with more than 32,000 parents across 361 districts showed that 48% of the parents were not willing to send their children to school till they are vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency PTI reported on Wednesday. Of these 32,000 parents, 47% were from tier 1 districts, 27% from tier 2 districts and 26% were from tier 3, 4 and rural districts.Several states including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh partially reopened schools earlier this month amid a downfall in their daily cases of the viral disease. On the other hand, states such as Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh are in the process of reopening their schools from August.“Vaccinating children in the coming months is going to be key if children are to go to schools for physical classes. Forty-eight per cent of the surveyed parents said they are not willing to send their children to schools till they are vaccinated,” the survey conducted by an online platform, Local Circles, said.It pointed out that only 21% of the respondents agreed to send their children to schools whenever they reopened. While 30% said they will send their wards to schools if Covid-19 cases come down to zero in their districts, the survey by Local Circles further showed.Schools across India were shut in March 2020 when the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the viral disease. They were partially reopened in October in adherence with Covid-appropriate behaviour but were again closed in April this year as the country witnessed a highly infectious second wave of the pandemic.India has so far recorded 31,484,605 cases, 422,022 deaths and 30,663,147 recoveries due to the coronavirus disease till now. On Wednesday, the country saw 43,654 new cases and 640 more deaths. Even though the daily cases haven’t spiked since the peak of May 7, India continues to stare at an upcoming third wave of the pandemic, which is likely to affect children most.In a major development on Tuesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that the Centre is likely to begin administering vaccines to children from next month.“In BJP Parliamentary Party meeting today, Union Health Min Mansukh Mandaviya said that the government would likely start vaccinating children next month for Covid-19,” sources told news agency ANI on Tuesday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48-parents-unwilling-to-send-kids-to-school-till-they-are-vaccinatedsurvey-101627476421521.html
28-07-2021||India||Covid-19 guidelines for states, UTs extended till August 31||The Centre on Wednesday extended the containment measures for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for states and Union territories till August 31. In a letter to the chief secretaries of states and Union territories, secretary of the Union home affairs ministry Ajay Bhalla asked them to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour in each districts."There is no room for complacency," Bhalla wrote in his letter and said the process of relaxing restrictions should be carefully calibrated. The letter comes at a time when many states and Union territories have begun to relax lockdown-like measures and reopening activities in a phased manner, as Covid-19 cases are gradually declining. Highlighting the possibility of gathering of people during festive days ahead, Bhalla asked the states and the UTs to focus on five-fold strategy of testing, tracking, treating, vaccinating and adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour to effectively manage the containment of Covid-19.He directed the states to hold officials responsible for any laxity in "strict enforcement" of Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-guidelines-for-states-uts-extended-till-august-31-101627473543645.html
28-07-2021||India||Govt says facial recognition different from authentication, experts disagree||The Central government on Wednesday informed the Lok Sabha that facial recognition is distinct from facial authentication measures, with the latter “utilising one-to-one face matching for authentication after obtaining consent of the individual”, even as the use of the technology continues to be mired in controversy with experts raising concerns regarding privacy and skewered access to government schemes. “Facial recognition is a way of identifying or confirming an individual’s identity using their face. Facial recognition systems can be used to identify people in photos, videos, or in real-time. Right to privacy is an intrinsic part of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. Any solutions employing facial recognition technology should address privacy concerns,” union minister of state for electronics and information technology Rajeev Chandrashekhar said in response to an unstarred question. He added that facial recognition technology is distinct from face authentication mechanisms. “Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is using one-to-one face matching for providing digital marksheets to students through a consent-based framework,” he said. Also Read | ‘Modi ji sent a weapon in your phone’: Rahul Gandhi attacks govt on PegasusThe question was put forth by Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Abhishek Banerjee’s name recently appeared on Pegasus’ database, reports regarding which alleged that opposition politicians, journalists, activists and even government’s own ministers were snooped upon using the Israeli surveillanceware. To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation into the alleged snooping explains, the presence of a number on the database of the alleged targeted numbers does not indicate an individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.In response to his question regarding whether the government was planning to integrate facial recognition with Aadhaar, Chandrashekhar said that the project is in the proof of concept (PoC) phase. “Face authentication may be used as one of the authentication mechanisms apart from biometric and iris-based authentication procedures with the informed consent of the individual,” he said.The government also courted controversy when it proposed integrating Aadhaar-based facial authentication system with the Covid-19 vaccination process. HT reached out to National Health Authority chief RS Sharma for updates on the process, but did not receive a response immediately. Anushka Jain, associate counsel for surveillance and transparency at the Internet Freedom Foundation said that facial recognition is not different from authentication-- the latter is actually part of the larger recognition process. “Facial recognition comprises 1:1 authentication and 1:n identification, thus authentication is a part of facial recognition. For facial authentication, the technology still needs to recognise your face and match it to the one on the pre-existing database to provide you with access to the government scheme for which it is being used,” she said. She further added that the use of the technology for government schemes is extremely harmful, as the technology is not perfectly accurate, it could lead to false negatives wherein the person’s identity is not authenticated against the database, thereby leading the person to be excluded from access to government schemes. “The government is using facial recognition technology for multiple reasons; the NCRB is using it to develop AFRS which will help with police investigations, the MCA is using it to facilitate paperless travel wherein a person will be able to check-in using their face, the Telangana election commission is using it for voter verification. Additionally, a number of government departments are using it for attendance purposes,” Jain said. Jain cautioned that use of the technology could lead to mass surveillance. “Use of this technology in the absence of a data protection law, strong surveillance reform and a specific FRT regulation will mean that it could potentially be used for state-sponsored mass surveillance as we will not know how it is being used, by whom and for what reasons, and there will be no legal safeguard in place to protect the privacy of citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-facial-recognition-different-from-authentication-experts-disagree-101627475449997.html
28-07-2021||India||As Kerala battles rising Covid cases, opposition says govt’s tall claims exposed||Amidst the threat of a possible third Covid wave, a steady rise in infections in southern Kerala is posing a big challenge to the state’s overstretched health system and exposing the government to opposition attacks.On Tuesday, the state accounted for 22,129 out of 42,498 cases recorded in the country, nearly 50% of the national figure and its average test positivity rate of 12.35% was almost four times the national average of 3%. Kerala was the first state to report a Covid case in the country in January 2020 and the pandemic has shown no signs of abating here in the last three months, health ministry statistics show.It is the first state in the country to report over 20,000 Covid-19 cases in the last two months, leading to a worried Union health ministry asking it to ramp up its virus control measures. A team of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders met Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday urging him to ensure that the state takes proactive measures to contain the surge in cases.The intensity of surge in Kerala can be gauged when compared with the situation in the neighbouring states. Cases in Tamil Nadu have come down from 20,421 on June 6-- the last occasion when any Indian state reported more than 20,000 infections-- to 1,767 cases on Tuesday. Karnataka, which witnessed a high volume of cases in April-May, only reported 1,501 new cases on Tuesday with a TPR of 1.46%. Kerala, on the other hand, continues to report a high number of cases, which have now crossed 3.3 million, second only to Maharashtra which has a caseload of 6.2 million.Out of 450,000 active cases in the country, Kerala’s share is 145,000.Most of the vacant Covid beds are getting occupied in the state and demand for ventilators is also on the rise while an estimated 14.8 million residents above 18 years of age are still to be given the first dose of Covid vaccine due to limited supply. Worried experts suggest a steady rise in cases could be the sign of a possible third wave in the state.The fourth round of the sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research showed antibody prevalence was 67. 7% nationally but it was only 42.7 % in Kerala, meaning a huge chunk of its population is still susceptible to the virus.With high density of population (859 people per sq km) and a large number of elderly population (at least 15% are above 60 years of age) and high volume of lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, the state will have to go an extra mile to contain the contagion. Experts said low testing rate, obsession with rapid antigen tests and over dependence on bureaucracy was among the reasons responsible for slowing down Kerala’s fight against the pandemic.“The government sniffs politics in every aspect of the pandemic. Experts and medical bodies have been kept away deliberately. Inflated records won’t stand forever and now it stands exposed,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert who worked with the World Health Organisation for many years. “Mere lockdown won’t do any good. It is time for the state to redraw its strategies,” said Dr N M Arun, another public health expert.Though there is no shortage of oxygen or beds, the health system is still overburdened. Compared to last week, there was a 14% hike in demand for beds and 80% of Covid beds were occupied this week, health ministry statistics show. 10 of the 30 worst Covid affected districts in the country are in the state. Malappuram tops the chart with 4,037 active cases.Despite the grim reality, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has put up a brave face saying the situation is well under control. “Second wave started late in the state and about 50% of the state population are yet to contract the virus. So we expected this increase,” he said. He said there was a shortage of vaccines which was delaying the state’s universal inoculation programme. But the opposition parties, the Congress and the BJP say the government is to be blamed for the sorry state of affairs.“Its lies are falling flat. The government fudged data to give a rosy picture but now skeletons are tumbling out of its cupboard. The RTI reply we received shows more than 7,316 [Covid] fatalities were not accounted for. And its Covid stimulus package [has] turned out to be a big farce,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. He said the government relegated virus management to bureaucrats and they framed rules and regulations with no thought for human woes.“We have appraised the Union government and party central leadership about the ground situation in the state. The state government can’t hide the truth for long,” said BJP state president K Surendran. He said at many places, local CPI(M) leaders were controlling the vaccination process. But the ruling CPI(M) denied these charges and blamed opposition parties “for playing dirty politics” even during the pandemic. “Both the Congress and the BJP are in the same boat and are yet to learn a lesson from their recent assembly poll debacle,” said party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-kerala-struggles-with-rising-covid-cases-opposition-says-govt-s-tall-claims-exposed-101627475027904.html
28-07-2021||India||11 million people took flights from April to June amid Covid second wave: Centre||Nearly 11 million people availed of flight services between April and June this year amid the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Union minister of state for civil aviation VK Singh informed the Parliament on Wednesday. The number is 53 per cent less than the January to March period when India was reporting comparatively lesser number of new cases daily.“The domestic passenger traffic has decreased from over 23 million in January to March 2021 to around 11 million in the April to June period – a decline of 53%. This has had an adverse impact on the financial position of the airline industry,” the minister added in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha.He further informed the House that as many as 5,637 domestic flights were cancelled during the March to June period this year. At the moment, owing to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and various restrictions imposed by state governments across the country, full-scale domestic flight operations are yet to resume.According to the rules laid down by the Union ministry of civil aviation, Indian carriers cannot operate more than 65% of their pre-Covid domestic flights.Meanwhile, various domestic airlines saw a reduction of more than 7,900 employees between March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021 due to the effect of the coronavirus pandemic, Singh said in his reply. On March 31, 2020, around 74,800 employees were associated with the airlines and the number diminished to nearly 66,900 as on March 31, 2021.Last month, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data revealed that domestic passenger traffic witnessed over 63% drop in May this year as opposed to April due to the second wave of the virus outbreak. As many as 5.7 million domestic passengers travelled via flights in April, whereas the number dropped to around 2.1 million in May.Domestic flights were suspended last year in March soon after the nationwide lockdown was imposed at the start of the coronavirus crisis. It was resumed only with limited operational capacity on May 25, 2020 following a gap of two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-million-people-took-flights-from-april-to-june-amid-covid-second-wave-centre-101627473560511.html
28-07-2021||India||Why I went to the SC on Pegasus: MP John Brittas||Ever since the Pegasus row erupted, after an international media consortium reported that numbers of many Indian politicians, activists, business executives and journalists were on a list of potential surveillance targets, Parliament has not functioned effectively.Rajya Sabha member of Parliament and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader John Brittas, last week, took the demand for an inquiry to the Supreme Court. The first time MP, who served as Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s media advisor, spoke to HT about the issue:Why did you take the Pegasus issue to the Supreme Court?I am a member of Parliament, but more than that, I feel I am a journalist. I have been in journalism for the last 30 years, and I think that the Pegasus issue is eating into the vital organs of democracy. For a week now, we have been trying to shake the indolence of the government, trying to extract a statement from the government as to whether they have bought the Pegasus spyware or they haven’t. So far, the government has been evading this and they have not spoken categorically in the reply to the parliament.In this context, I had only one option — to seek the help of the Supreme Court. I filed a writ requesting the court to go for a special investigation team (SIT) investigation, monitored completely by the Supreme Court to ensure that the truth is found.Also Read | BJP seeks Shashi Tharoor’s removal as House panel headThe government has pointed out that the stories on Pegasus and statements of groups such as Amnesty say that it is not clear if all the numbers on the list were hacked. Do you think that kind of takes away from the shock value of this particular case?Just dragging Amnesty International cannot absolve the government of the responsibility. Let us be very clear about it. Seventeen media organisations — and some of them are very reputed — have vetted everything and have categorically said that India is one of the countries where spying, snooping or surveillance is involved. Now, if the Indian government says that they are not part of this Pegasus spyware, then a foreign agency must be doing this. It’s all the more important. That means it’s a breach of our sovereignty and the independence of the nation.So, it is for the government of India to be categorical and make its stand very clear whether they have bought or hired Pegasus spyware. Since the government of India is evading this cardinal question, the only way to unearth the reality or the truth is to seek the intervention of the honourable Supreme Court.Also Read | To reopen schools, India must go localOtherwise, just think about which are the organisations that have come under the spyware — the media, legislature, political personalities, investigating officers, activists, a judge; none is left out of the Pegasus network. So in this context, to reassure Houses that India is a democratic country, we need to have the reality.The government has been trying to get the House to run. What are the managers of the ruling party saying to you about this?I don’t think the government is very sincere with regard to the functioning of the House. The only thing is that the government has to make it categorical whether they have bought the Pegasus spyware or hired it. In 2019 itself, when this issue came up in Parliament, the then minister Ravi Shankar Prasad hadn’t replied to it properly. So, this issue is looming over India for the last two or three years and now we have to get an answer to it. The Bengal government has gone ahead and ordered a judicial inquiry but we really want an investigation that is fruitful.I think a lot of people feel that this is an elitist issue in the Indian context. People are worried about survival; they may not be worried about their phones being listening devices or relaying their location or privacy. Do you think that this is true? Do you think that this is something that will resonate with voters across the country?It is very easy to belittle the issue. In fact, when the session started, there were multiple issues at the fore — price hike, fuel prices, farm laws and agitation. Pegasus was one among the issues. We really want all these important issues to be debated and deliberated on the floor.But on Pegasus, let’s understand that if democracy has been crippled, if all the pillars of the democracy are being crippled, then what is the purpose of the constitution that we swore to? It is not just an invasion of privacy but crippling of the democratic system and democratic process. Since Supreme Court is the custodian of this democracy and the constitution, we feel that it can come up with a probe that will bring the reality out.(Transcribed by Umar Sofi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-i-went-to-the-sc-on-pegasus-mp-john-brittas-101627474067397.html
28-07-2021||India||Widespread rainfall to continue in J&K, Himachal and Uttarakhand till July 30||The extreme weather conditions in Jammu and Kashmir and northern hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will continue till July 30, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted in its afternoon bulletin on Wednesday.“[The] current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh till July 30,” the IMD said.The bulletin has, however, predicted that the weather condition will improve thereafter.The IMD alert followed a cloudburst in Kishtwar district in Jammu region early on Wednesday that claimed the lives of at least seven people while many are reported to be missing. A police control room official has put the initial number of missing people at 28.The cloudburst occurred over Honjar village in Kishtwar’s Dacchan area around 4am on Wednesday. As many as 17 persons have been rescued so far, of which, five are critically injured. “The rescue operation is on,” additional DGP Mukesh Singh said.Also Read | Seven dead, 17 rescued after cloudburst in Jammu’s Kishtwar districtSuch extreme weather conditions due to heavy rainfall led to rising water level at Chenab River in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district. On Wednesday, deputy commissioner of Ramban district took to Twitter to alert people about the swelling river. “River Chenab is flowing far higher than its normal water level. People are advised not to venture anywhere near riverbanks of all water bodies in district Ramban,” the tweet read.In another tweet, the commissioner mentioned that a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) arrived in Ramban district on Wednesday and initiated a rescue operation for missing persons after a vehicle they were travelling in “rolled down into River Chenab near Mehar” on July 26.Meanwhile, flash floods triggered by yet another cloudburst in Himachal Pradesh has so far led to nine fatalities while seven were reported missing, news agency ANI reported citing Disaster Management Authority.Flash floods and rain-triggered landslides have been occurring in several places of Himachal Pradesh. An incident of flash flood was reported in Keylong village due to which the Leh-Manali highway was closed. Furthermore, the Kullu-Manali highway remains closed at multiple spots owing to landslides. District authorities earlier rescued as many as 70 people stranded at Chitkul in Kinnaur after nine people died on Sunday when boulders rolled down on the valley.In Uttarakhand too, the water level of Ganga in Gangotri rose significantly due to heavy rainfall and after parts of a mountain near the Gangotri Dham fell into the waterbody, district administration told ANI on Wednesday.Also Read | Heavy to extremely heavy rain likely over Uttarakhand and northwest UP todayAccording to IMD’s afternoon bulletin, Uttarakhand is expected to receive “extremely heavy rainfall” at isolated places on Wednesday and Thursday while Himachal Pradesh would witness heavy rainfall throughout the day today.The department stated a well-marked low-pressure area lies over coastal Bangladesh and adjoining West Bengal, and it is likely to move westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during next 48 hours. A cyclonic circulation also lies over north Pakistan and adjoining Punjab in the lower levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rainfall-to-continue-in-j-k-himachal-and-uttarakhand-till-july-30-101627471906848.html
28-07-2021||India||Militancy-related incidents in J&K dipped by 59% in 2020: Govt in Parliament||There was a 59% decrease in militancy-related incidents in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020 compared to 2019, the Centre told Parliament on Wednesday. It added the incidents dipped by 32% until June this year compared to the corresponding period in 2020.Union minister of state Nityanand Rai, who gave the information in Rajya Sabha in response to lawmaker Sasmit Patra’s question on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, said the region is much peaceful. “...shops and business establishments, public transport, government offices, educational and health institutions, etc are functioning normally in (the) UT (Union Territory).”Also Read | Land transfer okayed for flats for displaced Kashmiri Pandit employees in ValleyRai said the government has taken multiple steps to strengthen security apparatus and to strictly enforce the law against “anti-national elements”. He added they have intensified cordon and search operations to effectively deal with the challenges posed by the terrorist organisations.“The government has also continuously encouraged policies to mainstream the youth, including providing employment opportunities to wean them away from militancy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militancyrelated-incidents-in-j-k-dipped-by-59-in-2020-govt-in-parliament-101627473047644.html
28-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP seeks removal of Tharoor as House panel head and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP seeks Shashi Tharoor’s removal as House panel headThe ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday moved a privilege motion seeking Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor’s removal as the head of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology. It came hours before the committee is scheduled to meet at 4pm to discuss the alleged Pegasus snooping. Read more'Khela hobe', says Mamata even as she skirts Delhi leadership queriesTrinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has been holding talks with a number of Opposition leaders during her five-day visit to the national capital, skirted questions on probable leadership at the central level. Read morePegasus row: Rahul Gandhi, other Oppn leaders submit adjournment motionCongress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders jointly submitted an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy in the “presence of the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and/or (Union) Home minister (Amit Shah)”. Read more'Few relationships more vital': Blinken says US won't forget India's aidUS secretary of state Antony Blinken on Wednesday said that there are few relationships more vital than the one between India and the United States. Speaking at a joint press conference after India-US delegation-level talks, Blinken said the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hit both countries very hard and the US will not forget the aid and assistance India provided early in the pandemic. Read moreICC T20 Rankings: Virat Kohli, KL Rahul retain spots in top-10; Bhuvneshwar, Yuzvendra Chahal move upIndia skipper Virat Kohli has maintained his fifth spot with 747 rating points while KL Rahul stayed put at sixth in the latest ICC rankings T20I batsmen rankings, released on Wednesday. Both cricketers are currently in England for the upcoming 5-match Test series which begins from August 4 in Nottingham. Read moreAditya Narayan says he turns down crores, doesn’t need to rely on ‘rubbish contracts’ since he’s a ‘big television host’Singer Aditya Narayan spoke about his first step in television when he hosted the singing reality show Sa Re Ga Ma Pa at the age of 18. He said that he was paid Rs7,500 per episode then. He is currently hosting the reality show Indian Idol 12. Read moreTata Motors likely to hike prices of cars next week for the third time this yearTata Motors is likely to hike price of its passenger vehicles across the entire range next week. The increase in prices of its cars is aimed to tackle the steep rise in procurement cost of essential materials like steel and precious metals. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-seeks-removal-of-tharoor-as-house-panel-head-and-all-the-latest-news-101627469407411.html
28-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 445 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 445 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, July 27. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya told BJP MPs that Covid vaccination drive for children could begin in September.He said the government has sanctioned ₹900 crore to undertake research on the vaccine.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 445,839,699 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,687,239 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 1,771,541 were given the first dose while 269,421 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 144,308,571 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 6,872,779 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.India recorded 43,654 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,484,605 while the death toll climbed to 422,022 with 640 daily fatalities, according to Union health ministry update on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-445-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101627471472308.html
28-07-2021||India||Ministers meet PM, seek reservation for OBC, EWS from all-India quota for NEET||A group of ministers and NDA lawmakers on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand that reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) and Economically Weaker Section (EWS) candidates be made from the all-India quota for undergraduate (MBBS) and post-graduate courses under National Eligibility cum Entrance Examination (NEET-UG and NEET-PG).The group, which included BJP’s Bhupendra Yadav, Apna Dal’s Anupriya Patel, JDU’s RCP Singh, in a submission to the PM said candidates from the OBC category have been “denied” reservations under the all-India quota.As per the provisions of NEET, the state government colleges and private medical and dental colleges are required to give 15% of the total number of seats in diploma and undergraduate courses and 50% in postgraduate courses against all-India quota and these can be availed by students from across the country. “…Notably as per the constitutional scheme of things, the said quota of all-India seats is further subject to SC, ST, OBC and EWS reservation criterion. However, candidates from the OBC category have been denied reservation under the all-India quota,” the letter said.The meeting comes a day after the PM held a review meeting on the issues pertaining to OBC and EWS reservation in the all-India quota for medical education. The issue had been a long pending demand from the OBC groups. “A Madras high court order of 2020 said that OBC students can avail reservation too, however it has been hanging fire. The PM has also asked the ministry of health and family welfare to implement the EWS as well,” said a person aware of the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-meet-pm-seek-reservation-for-obc-ews-from-all-india-quota-for-neet-101627470752360.html
28-07-2021||India||Dharmendra Pradhan urges Centre to preserve heritage monuments in Puri’s Ratnachira valley||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan urged the minister for tourism and culture, G Kishan Reddy, on Wednesday to direct the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) into undertaking preservation of Swapneswar Mahadev temple and other heritage monuments at Ratnachira valley in Puri district."Keeping in immense historical, spiritual and socio-cultural importance of the Swapneswar Mahadev Temple and heritage monuments in Ratnachira valley, I seek your personal intervention in directing the ASI to undertake all possible measures for preservation of this ancient temple and also documentation and conservation of other heritage monuments in Ratnachira valley," Pradhan wrote to his cabinet colleague.The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) unearthed the ruins of the Swapneswar Mahadev temple at Biropurusottampur in Pipili area, around 40km north of the holy town of Puri. The INTACH team believes it is one of the earliest temples of the post-Gupta period and may date back to the 6th-7th century Common Era. "Ratnachira Valley is a gold mine of ancient Kalingan monuments, most of which were undocumented till recently," Pradhan wrote.Also Read: Puri becomes the first city in country to have ‘drink from tap’ facilityThe Ratnachira river which runs in the valley has mythological significance as it is believed to have been created by Lord Rama to quench Sita’s thirst, a point which Pradhan highlighted in his letter, reported news agency PTI.Pradhan insisted that the temple, which is locally revered amongst the masses as a temple of Lord Shiva, is estimated to be around 1,300-1,400 years old and is one of the best-preserved examples of early Kalingan architecture in the region. "However, I am distressed to learn that the temple structure is in a precarious state and in need of immediate preservation measures," he wrote to the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-pradhan-urges-centre-to-preserve-heritage-monuments-in-puri-s-ratnachira-valley-101627469695644.html
28-07-2021||India||Congress loses another MLA in Manipur as ex-state chief resigns from assembly||Congress MLA Govindas Konthoujam on Wednesday resigned from the Manipur legislative assembly, officials said. This followed his resignation from the post of Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president. Confirming this, the assembly secretariat issued a bulletin in this regard.“Shri Konthoujam Govindas, elected from 26-Bishnupur Assembly Constituency has resigned his membership from the Manipur Legislative Assembly,” says secretary M Ramani Devi of Manipur Legislative Assembly in the bulletin. “Consequent upon his resignation,26-Bishnupur assembly constituency is now lying vacant with effect from Wednesday, the 28th July 2021.”With Konthoujam’s resigntaion, the Congress, which won 28 seats in the 2017 elections, is reduced to 16 MLAs in the assembly.Also Read | Assam-Mizoram border dispute has origin in British era notificationsMPCC sources said Konthoujam,a seasoned politician, also resigned from the primary membership of the Congress. MPCC interim president Nameirakpam Loken Singh told media that the party is yet to accept the resignation. On reasons why Konthoujam resigned, Singh said, “It could be some personnel issues.”Loken said Konthoujam’s phone was switched off and Congress Legislature Party leader O Ibobi Singh, Congress Working Committee member Gaikhangam, and AICC in-charge for Manipur Bhakta Charandas had failed to contact him.HT tried to contact Konthoujam, a former minister and six-time MLA from Bishnupur district, but the call didn’t go through.In 2017 assembly elections, Congress emerged as the single largest party in Manipur by winning 28 of 60 seats. Despite winning 21 seats, BJP formed the government with support of four National People’s Party MLAs, four Naga People’s Front MLAs and one MLA each from TMC, Lok Janshakti Party and an Independent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-loses-another-mla-in-manipur-as-ex-state-chief-resigns-from-assembly-101627469251824.html
28-07-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt rejects allegations against TS Singh Deo levelled by Cong MLA||The Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday said that Congress lawmaker Brihaspat Singh’s allegation that his convoy was attacked last Sunday at the behest of senior party leader and health minister T S Singh Deo was false.The allegations had exposed the rift within the state Congress with Singh Deo walking out of the assembly on Tuesday, demanding to know where the state government stood on the allegations made by Singh, who had also claimed that the attack by the minister’s man was a result of Singh's support to chief minister Bhupesh Baghel.However, on Wednesday, Singh apologised in the assembly and said his allegations against Singh Deo were an “emotional outburst”. “If I have hurt anyone’s sentiments ...I apologise for that,” the MLA said.Chhattisgarh home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu said the incident involving Singh’s convoy was that of road-rage and Singh Deo had no connection with it.“The allegations levelled against him are false and baseless,” Sahu said, clarifying the government’s stance on the matter. On Tuesday, Singh Deo had walked out of the assembly saying he was upset with the home minister’s short statement on the issue, which was not “clear”.After the government’s statement on Wednesday, Singh Deo came to the House and attended the proceedings. “The issue has been resolved and the focus will now be on discharging the responsibilities towards the state as a team,” he said.It all started last Sunday when Singh, the MLA from Ramanujan seat, alleged his vehicle was attacked by three persons including a relative of Singh Deo. Singh further alleged that he was attacked since he had praised chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and backed him to continue in his post for the rest of the term inviting Singh Deo’s anger.Singh Deo is seen as one of the top state Congress leaders who were contenders for the chief minister’s position after the party came to power in Chhattisgarh in December 2018. Since then, speculations have been rife about possible formula for top leaders to share power. However, this was recently ruled out by the chief minister.After the whole issue blew up in the government’s face on Tuesday with Singh Deo walking out of the assembly and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding a probe into the issue, the state Congress issued a notice to Brihaspat Singh last night, seeking his reply within 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-rejects-allegations-against-ts-singh-deo-levelled-by-cong-mla-101627468771492.html
28-07-2021||India||'Khela hobe', says Mamata even as she skirts Delhi leadership queries||Trinamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has been holding talks with a number of Opposition leaders during her five-day visit to the national capital, skirted questions on probable leadership at the central level. Stating that she is not a political astrologer, Banerjee said the matter will be discussed at the appropriate time and all the parties will work together.On a political high since her recent thumping win against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Bengal Assembly election, Banerjee has been keen on stitching an Opposition alliance to take on the saffron camp in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. On Tuesday, she met several top Congress leaders, including Kamal Nath and Anand Sharma. In the evening, she also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence and discussed various issues related to the state.On Wednesday, she said Opposition parties will sit together and decide who would become the candidate against Modi. “When Modi will fight the next election, it will be with the country.”She said there are three more to go before the next general election is held. “I am meeting (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi, (AAP convener) Arvind Kejriwal. Discussions about our political future will start soon.”Reiterating her party’s winning slogan for the assembly election ‘khela hobe' (game on), the TMC supremo said, “I am not a political astrologer. The leadership issue depends on the situation, structure and system in place. It is not that everybody can take the lead. When the matter is discussed, we can work together.”Speaking about the Pegasus controversy, Banerjee said her phone has already been hacked. “When I talk to (election strategist) Prashant Kishor, (nephew and TMC general secretary) Abhishek Banerjee, my phone is hacked. Please remember that,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khela-hobe-says-mamata-even-as-she-skirts-delhi-leadership-queries-101627466558326.html
28-07-2021||India||'Modi ji sent a weapon in your phone': Rahul Gandhi attacks govt on Pegasus||The voices of Opposition parties echoed louder on Day 7 of Parliament's ongoing monsoon session where key parties like Congress, Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party among several others put up a united front against the government on Pegasus snooping allegations. Led by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, the Opposition pressed its demand for a discussion on the purchase of the spying software by the government to tap on privacy of many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists. The leaders representing India's democratic institutions were potentially targeted by Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software, Pegasus.Demanding an answer from the government, Gandhi asked, "We want to ask just one question. Has the Government of India bought Pegasus? Yes or No. Did the government use Pegasus weapon against its own people?""We have been told clearly by the government that no discussion will take place on Pegasus in the House," he said, addressing the media outside Parliament.So far, the government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware but has rejected reports of snooping.Explaining the controversy and directing a question to people, Gandhi asked why should the issue not be discussed in the Parliament."I want to know from the youth of the country - Narendra Modi Ji has sent a weapon in your phone. This weapon (Pegasus) has been used against me, Supreme Court, many leaders, people in the press and activists. So why it should not be discussed in the House?" Gandhi asked.Accusing the government of using software meant for terrorism activities, Gandhi said, "This weapon (Pegasus) has been used against India. It should be used against terrorists and anti-nationals."Even as Parliament session enters the second week, both the houses have seen repeated and consecutive adjournments on the premise of protests by the Opposition parties demanding discussion over Pegasus in the Parliament. "It is being said about us that we're disturbing Parliament proceedings. We are not disturbing the House. We just want to fulfil our duties," Gandhi said."We want to know from Narendra Modi and Amit Shah - why you used this weapon (Pegasus spyware) against India's democratic institutions," he asked, terming the controversy a matter related to nationalism and treason."This weapon has been used against democracy. For me, it's not a matter of privacy. I see it as an anti-national act. Narendra Modi and Amit Shah Ji have attacked soul of India's democracy," Gandhi alleged.The entire Opposition is and will remain united on the issues of national security and farm laws, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, standing alongside Gandhi, said outside Parliament.Opposition protest intensified post noon and Congress members were seen throwing papers at the Chair and Treasury benches while protesting Pegasus and other issues, following which the House was adjourned.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation into the alleged snooping explains, the presence of a number on the database of the alleged targeted numbers for snooping does not indicate an individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The leaked database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices associated with 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of the 37, 10 were in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-ji-sent-a-weapon-in-your-phone-rahul-gandhi-attacks-govt-on-pegasus-101627460767612.html
28-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra's bail plea rejected by Esplanade Court; 'Is he a terrorist,' asks lawyer||Mumbai Esplanade court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of businessman Raj Kundra, arrested in connection with a porn racket which the crime branch of Mumbai Police is investigating. On Tuesday, Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra was arrested and was remanded in police custody till July 27. On Tuesday, as his custody ended, he was sent to 14 days' judicial custody, while the bail plea was slated to be heard on Wednesday. As the hearing started, the public prosecutor opposed the plea and said that as he is an influential person, he can intimidate the witnesses which will derail the probe. To this, Kundra's lawyer said, "Is Raj Kundra a terrorist?"Kundra's lawyer also said that the chargesheet was already filed in April and many of the accused are out on bail. But the prosecution objected and said Kundra is a key conspirator of the case and rejected the bail plea of both Kundra and his business associate Ryan Thorpe.Raj Kundra earned ₹1.1cr from app in 5 months: Mumbai PoliceOn Wednesday, a fresh FIR has been lodged in connection with the pornography case against Raj Kundra in which the name of actor Gehana Vashishth has also been mentioned. Apart from cheating, charges of robbery have also been included in this FIR.Kundra has also moved the Bombay high court against his arrest which his lawyers termed illegal as he was not served notice. The high court heard the case on Monday and allowed no immediate relief to Kundra. The case will again come before the high court on Thursday.In the latest updates in the ongoing case, the Mumbai crime branch has appointed forensic auditors to look into the financial transactions and bank accounts of Kundra. Actor Shilpa Shetty who was interrogated in connection with the case is also not above doubt, Police said.Investigations into Kundra's HotShots app, which was officially owned by Kudra's brother-in-law, revealed that Kundra earned at least ₹1.17 crore between August and December in 2020 before the app was taken down by Apple and Google Playstore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-s-bail-plea-rejected-by-esplanade-court-is-he-a-terrorist-asks-lawyer-101627463743722.html
28-07-2021||India||Land transfer okayed for flats for displaced Kashmiri Pandit employees in Valley||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha-led Jammu & Kashmir Administrative Council has approved the transfer of land in five districts for the construction of 2,744 flats for displaced Kashmiri Pandit employees in the Valley under the 2015 Prime Minister’s Development Package.Also Read | Jammu & Kashmir to get full statehood after normalcy is restored: CentreIn a statement, the Union Territory administration said the flats will be built at the estimated cost of ₹356 crore at seven locations, and the construction is expected to be completed in 18 months. “(The construction)...will provide employment to approximately 413 skilled and unskilled workers... On completion, the residential buildings will provide government accommodation with basic services to the Kashmiri migrant employees engaged under the Prime Minister’s Relief Package.”In 2015, the Centre approved the construction of 6,000 transit accommodation units in the Kashmir Valley for the displaced Kashmir Pandit employees under the package at the cost of ₹920 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/land-transfer-okayed-for-flats-for-displaced-kashmiri-pandit-employees-in-valley-101627462951308.html
28-07-2021||India||BJP seeks Shashi Tharoor’s removal as House panel head||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday moved a privilege motion seeking Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor’s removal as the head of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology. It came hours before the committee is scheduled to meet at 4pm to discuss the alleged Pegasus snooping.The snooping row erupted on August 18 before the beginning of Parliament’s ongoing monsoon session after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen, and journalists were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software Pegasus. A forensic analysis of 10 of the targets proved they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so.BJP lawmaker Nishkant Dubey, who moved the motion for Tharoor’s removal, said it is shocking that the Opposition does not want the Parliament to function but wants the issues to be discussed at the committee meetings which the government is ready to discuss in the House. Dubey said until there is a decision on the notice, no meetings of the committee should be held.The motion was moved a day after BJP members staged a walkout from a meeting of the panel. The BJP has said the committee’s meetings should not be scheduled when the House is in session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-seeks-shashi-tharoor-s-removal-as-house-panel-head-101627462831088.html
28-07-2021||India||Jammu & Kashmir to get full statehood after normalcy is restored: Centre||Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that the statehood for Jammu & Kashmir would be granted after normalcy is restored.Jammu and Kashmir lost its statehood following the abrogation of Article 370 and 37A in August 2019. The erstwhile state was then divided into the Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.Rai was responding to a written query of Shiv Sena's Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi who asked if the Centre had any proposal to reinstate the statehood of Jammu & Kashmir in the future.She also asked if the government was making any effort to end the year-long ban different means of communication.Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha told the Hindustan Times on Tuesday that Union home minister Amit Shah had assured in the Parliament of granting statehood to the Union territory at an appropriate time."The Prime Minister also said this when he addressed the nation. Recently, when representatives of various political parties met in Delhi on June 24, the question was raised again," he said, adding, "I believe the people of the nation and Jammu & Kashmir must trust them."Nityanand Rai also informed the Rajya Sabha in response to a separate query that terror-related incidents in Jammu and Kashmir reduced by 59% during 2020 in comparison of 2019 and by 32% till June 2021 when compared with the corresponding period upto June last year."Shops and business establishments, public transport, government offices, educational and health institutions, etc are functioning normally in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, " Rai told the Upper House in a written response.The minister that the Centre adopted a zero-tolerance policy towards terrorism and has taken measures such as strengthening of security apparatus, intensified cordon and search operations to effectively deal with the challenges posed by the terrorist organisation. "The security forces also keep a close watch on persons who attempt to provide support to terrorist groups," Rai said in his response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-kashmir-to-get-full-statehood-after-normalcy-is-restored-centre-101627459718905.html
28-07-2021||India||Pegasus row: Rahul Gandhi, other Oppn leaders submit adjournment motion||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders jointly submitted an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy in the “presence of the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and/or (Union) Home minister (Amit Shah)”.The motion was submitted after Opposition parties met twice on Tuesday and Wednesday and decided to move it together as part of a united strategy. Representatives of 14 Opposition parties attended the second meeting under Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge’s chairmanship on Wednesday.Also Read | Parliament passes 2 bills amid disruptionGandhi was among those who attended the meeting and some of the leaders asked him to take the lead. “Sitting with the entire Opposition is extremely humbling. Amazing experience, wisdom, and insights from everyone present,” Gandhi said.Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress said they are with the other Opposition parties and informed Congress about their inability to attend the meeting.Leaders of 10 Opposition parties earlier met on Tuesday. “...there will be better coordination among all of us as the government does not want to discuss the matter (alleged snooping) at all,’’ said one of the leaders, requesting anonymity.Kharge and Manickam Tagore have also submitted adjournment motions earlier in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.The Pegasus row erupted on August 18 before the beginning of Parliament’s ongoing monsoon session after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen, and journalists were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software Pegasus. A forensic analysis of 10 of the targets proved they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so.Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the Congress can’t even handle its internal troubles. “But it is hell-bent on forcing its views on other Opposition parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-other-opposition-leaders-submit-adjournment-motion-101627461750823.html
28-07-2021||India||Blinken, Doval discuss Taliban offensive in Afghanistan and Indo-Pacific||National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval met US Secretary of State Antony Blinken today and had a frank and candid exchange over situation emerging in Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific and the regional and global security situation.The meeting in which both sides were seem to be converging on developing conflict situation across the globe went on for over an hour at Doval's South Block office in New Delhi this morning."The meeting was marked with warmth and convergence with Secretary of State Blinken sharing his perspective over Afghanistan and the Chinese belligerence in South China Sea and Indo-Pacific. The National Security Advisor, on his part, shared the Indian security perspective on Af-Pak region, Taliban offensive in Afghan and the situation in East Ladakh. Both the sides had a very frank exchange on the security scenario in the region and discussed ways to stabilise Afghanistan in the wake of the Taliban offensive," said a senior South Block officer.Both sides also discussed strategic issues of importance in security, defence, economic and technology-related sectors. Special attention was laid on long-term measures to take the relationship of both the countries to the next level.The two sides also discussed the forthcoming Quad summit in the US in October. While India, US and Australia are all for an early October summit in Washington, Japan is still to confirm the date in October due to general elections in the country.The two leaders exchanged views on contemporary and futuristic issues related to regional and global security.Blinken's India visit comes just days after his deputy, Wendy Sherman, was in China. He will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi later today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blinken-doval-discuss-taliban-offensive-in-afghanistan-and-indopacific-101627459539879.html
28-07-2021||India||Badminton legend Nandu Natekar passes away at 88, condolences pour in||Nandu Natekar, one of the legends of Indian badminton, passed away at his residence on Wednesday. The 88-year-old, who won over 100 national and international titles in his career, was suffering from age-related ailments.In a message, the Natekar family said, “With deepest sorrow, we would like to inform you that our beloved father Nandu Natekar passed away on 28th July, 2021. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 guidelines, we will not be having a condolence meeting. Please keep him in your thoughts and prayers.”Natekar, a tennis and cricket player before he excelled in badminton, dominated the world stage from 1950 to 1970. The Pune resident became the first Indian player to win an international event when he won the Sellanger International in Malaysia in 1956. The former World No. 3 made it to the quarter-finals of the prestigious All England Championships in 1954. He won the Men’s Doubles National Championship a total of six times, the Men’s Singles National Championship a total of six times, and the Mixed Doubles National Championship a total of five times.He won 12 out of 16 singles matches and eight out of 16 doubles matches as part of the Indian team at the Thomas Cup between 1951 and 1963. He also had the distinction of leading the country in the tournament in 1959, 1961 and 1963. He represented India at the 1965 Commonwealth Games in Jamaica.Also Read | Olympics: Chirag-Satwik fail to reach men’s doubles knockouts despite winNatekar is survived by a son and two daughters.“He passed away peacefully at home and we were all with him. He had been ailing for the last three months,” said his son Gaurav Natekar, a seven-time Indian national champion in tennis.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled his demise. “Shri Nandu Natekar has a special place in India’s sporting history. He was an outstanding badminton player and a great mentor. His success continues to motivate budding athletes. Saddened by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” he tweeted. Sports minister Anurag Thakur also condoled his death and said, “Sh. Nandu Natekar was an exceptional badminton player who leaves behind an outstanding sporting legacy. In 1961 he was conferred with the prestigious Arjuna Award. A generation of athletes have drawn inspiration from him. Sincere condolences to his family & friends.”Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted, “A heartfelt tribute on behalf of all the people of Pune to the Arjuna Award winner, the hero of Indian sports, the great badminton hero Nandu Natekar.”Om Prakash Bakoria, the Maharashtra commissioner of sports, tweeted, “Extremely saddened to know about the sad demise of 6 times Men’s Singles National Badminton Champion and First Arjun Awardees in 1961 Shri NanduNatekarji. His passing away is a loss to Sports World. Condolences to his family, friends and innumerable admirers.”Nikhil Kanetkar, who represented India in the Summer Olympics 2004, said it was sad news for the sports fraternity across the country. “... my condolences to his family. I was fortunate to get training under him when I was 12 years old at Poona District Metropolitan Badminton Association. When he used to step on court it was a treat to watch his stroke play,” saidAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also paid tribute to Natekar. He wrote, “One of the towering icons of Indian badminton, Nandu Natekar leaves behind a rich legacy, that we shall cherish forever. 6-time national champion & first Indian to win an international title in 1956, Natekar shall be remembered fondly for his drives, drops & smashes. Condolences.”With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badminton-legend-nandu-natekar-passes-away-at-88-condolences-pour-in-101627459410297.html
28-07-2021||India||Odisha police bust child selling racket; arrest 9||The Odisha Police have said they busted a racket in Rourkela allegedly involved in selling children to childless couples in Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, and Chhattisgarh and arrested nine people.“A woman struck a deal with Sangita and Neeta Agarwal to sell her 1.5-year-old granddaughter. The woman was asked to come to the Idgah Ground (Rourkela) for the money. On Sunday night, the woman arrived at the designated location where she handed over her granddaughter to Seema and Sarita. However, instead of paying her, they fled with the child. The woman then lodged a police complaint,” said Bikram Keshari Bhoi, additional police superintendent, Rourkela.On the basis of her complaint, police registered a case. Police said the gang would lure poor people to sell their children.Last month, police in Bhubaneswar rescued a 10-day-old baby who was sold to a couple for ₹10,000 by his parents. Similarly, a woman in the Kendrapara district last month sold her 10-month-old baby for ₹5,000 to a childless couple as she was unable to sustain her family due to the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-bust-child-selling-racket-arrest-9-101627458990309.html
28-07-2021||India||Nadda launches BJP's health volunteers programme: All you need to know||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Wednesday launched Rashtriya Swasthya Swayamsevak Abhiyan (a health volunteers programme) from the party headquarters in Delhi.Nadda said that through this programme, the BJP aims to reach two lakh villages in the country by imparting training to four lakh volunteers. "I am happy that more than 48,000 volunteers have registered with the programme in a single day (on Wednesday)," the BJP chief said.He added that in all the countries across the world, it was the government which fought the coroanvirus disease (Covid-19), but in India, under the leadership of PM Modi, the people of the country fought against the disease along with the government.The Swasthya Swayamsevak Abhiyan is an initiative taken by the BJP to prepare health volunteers ahead of the likely third wave of Covid-19.Here is everything you need to know about the programme:8.The RSS' Akhil Bharatiya Prachar Pramukh Sunil Ambekar said in a statement that the programme will have a special module to enable workers to provide help to mothers and children with all necessary measures and precautions required to protect them from the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-launches-bjp-s-health-volunteers-programme-all-you-need-to-know-101627455536776.html
28-07-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram were in talks in Delhi before their police forces fatally clashed||Assam and Mizoram had been talking through their chief secretaries in a Centre-chaperoned dialogue process to douse interstate border tensions before police forces of the two northeastern states fatally clashed on July 26, shocking the country.One round of talks in the national capital was held on July 8, an official aware of the development said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, too, told the media on Tuesday, putting out his version of the dispute, that the talks failed at the final stage of a proposed memorandum of understanding.Top bureaucrats and police chiefs of the two states on Wednesday were due to arrive in Delhi for fresh talks. Five Assam policemen and a civilian were killed in Monday’s clashes along a stretch in southern Assam, bordering Mizoram.Several people and policemen were reportedly wounded on the Mizoram side, although Mizoram has not put out a number.The official cited above said the talks between the two sides were focussed on some kind of “status quo ante”, which refers to a return to earlier positions. The process failed because differences persisted over what should be the point of the status quo ante, the person said.Assam proposed a satellite-based mapping of the disputed interstate border, a proposal that found its way into a draft memorandum of understanding. Mizoram proposed chief secretary-level talks monitored by the Centre.“My proposal to him (Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga) was that we will carry out satellite photography of the borders as on the day of my swearing-in (May 10). In the talks, Assam had said that whatever is the status quo situation, be that on May 10 or six months ago or as on date, we should maintain status quo on the border as determined through satellite mapping,” Sarma said in one of his several media briefings on Tuesday.Northeastern states have a history of ethnic strife. Internal border disputes go back at least a century. The triggers often are disputed claims over land, forest resources, encroachment, ethnic differences, and even rumours.Assam’s border disputes have their roots in how the state was carved up to form other states in the region. Mizoram, which became a state 1987, was once part of Assam.Mizoram’s home minister Lalchamliana declined comments on the talks but said: “Mizoram stands for peaceful resolution of the border dispute. Assam policemen first crossed into our areas and overran police posts,” he said.A Mizoram government statement late on Tuesday said: “With the intervention of the Honarouable Union Home minister (Amit Shah), who spoke to both the chief ministers, Assam police have withdrawn from the place and the duty post have (sic) been handed back to CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) personnel.”In his version of the events, Sarma said he telephoned his Mizoram counterpart on the day of his swearing-in. “...I rang up Mizoram chief minister Zomramthangiji. During the conversation, I had told him friendly relations must go on so that economic development can carry on.”The Assam leader claimed that a draft memorandum of understanding would have gone through had Mizoram agreed to sign it. HT could not independently verify this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-were-in-talks-in-delhi-before-their-police-forces-fatally-clashed-101627458690289.html
28-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Blinken vows to advance India, US ties and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, US should stand together as threats to democracy, freedom rise: BlinkenIndia and the US should continue to stand together as leading democracies at a time when global threats to democracy and international freedoms are increasing, US secretary of state Antony Blinken said on Wednesday. Read moreBasavaraj Bommai sworn in as Karnataka chief ministerBasavaraj Bommai was sworn in as Karnataka chief minister on Wednesday, July 28. In the ceremony held at the glasshouse of state Raj Bhavan, Bommai took the oath from governor Thawar Chand Gehlot at 11am. Read moreSix dead, at least 28 missing due to cloudburst in Jammu’s Kishtwar districtAt least six bodies were recovered and many are reported to be missing after a cloud burst over Honjar village in Kishtwar district in Jammu region early Wednesday. Read moreIndia, world’s 3rd-biggest emitter, skips key climate meet; only nation among 51India was the only one of 51 invited countries that didn’t attend a two-day ministerial meeting in the UK capital, hosted by the incoming president of the COP26 United Nations talks, according to people present at the summit who asked not to be named. Read moreWhy Ravi Shastri was re-appointed India head coach in 2019? Former CAC member Anshuman Gaekwad revealsIn August of 2019, the Cricket Advisory Committee was tasked with a huge responsibility of appointing the next head coach of the Indian cricket team. This time around, Ravi Shastri, whose first term as coach starting in 2017 ended with India's exit from the 2019 World Cup, faced stiff competition from candidates with an impressive coaching resume. Read moreMimi director Laxman Utekar says he was 'stunned' and 'hurt' after Kriti Sanon-starrer leaked on piracy sitesMimi director Laxman Utekar has said that he and his team were 'stunned' when they learned that the movie had leaked on piracy platforms four days before its scheduled release. Mimi, starring Kriti Sanon in the lead, was slated to release on July 30. Read moreHyundai teases Custo MPV ahead of official debut, design inspired by Tucson Hyundai is all set to launch a new multi-purpose vehicle after it introduced the Staria MPV with futuristic looks earlier this year. The new MPV, called Custo, will be unveiled in coming days. Ahead of the official debut, Hyundai has shared a few images with the MPV in silhouette to give an idea about its size and design elements. Read moreMasaba Gupta in backless halter-neck gold gown is nothing short of a supermodelFashion designer Masaba Gupta recently shot for the new season of the reality TV show Supermodel of the Year. Today, Neena Gupta's daughter took to Instagram to post several pictures revealing her breathtaking look from the first day of the shoot. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-blinken-vows-to-advance-india-us-ties-and-all-the-latest-news-101627454548883.html
28-07-2021||India||India, US should stand together as threats to democracy, freedom rise: Blinken||India and the US should continue to stand together as leading democracies at a time when global threats to democracy and international freedoms are increasing, US secretary of state Antony Blinken said on Wednesday.Addressing a civil society roundtable on the theme “Advancing equitable, inclusive and sustainable growth and development”, Blinken said both countries also need a vibrant civil society in order to make their democracies more open, inclusive, resilient and equitable.Ahead of Blinken’s visit, the US side had said it intended to raise human rights and democracy during the secretary of state’s engagements in New Delhi. The US has in the recent past spoken out on issues such as the situation in Kashmir and movements such as the farmers’ protest on the outskirts of Delhi.Also Read | US’s Antony Blinken in India: Afghanistan, Covid, economic recovery on agendaThe Indian side has usually been sensitive to such criticism and said before Blinken flew into New Delhi on Tuesday that is open to engaging on human rights and democracy with those who recognise the value of diversity. Defending its achievements in human rights and democracy, the Indian side also said both issues extend beyond a “particular national or cultural perspective”.In his opening remarks at the roundtable, Blinken described India and the US as democracies that are “works in progress”. Both sides talk about such issues as friends “because doing the hard work of strengthening democracy and making our ideals real is often challenging”, he said.“At a time of rising global threats to democracy and international freedoms – we talk about a democratic recession – it’s vital that we two world leading democracies continue to stand together in support of these ideals,” Blinken said.Referring to efforts in the US to become a “more perfect union”, he said: “That’s an acknowledgement from day one of our country that in a sense we will always fall short of the mark, but that the way to make progress is by constantly trying to achieve those ideals.”He added, “As I said before, sometimes that process is painful, sometimes it’s ugly, but the strength of democracy is to embrace it.”Blinken, on his first visit to India since becoming secretary of state, said India’s achievements include a “free media, independent courts, a vibrant and free and fair electoral system – the largest expression of free political will by citizens anywhere in the world”.All successful democracies include thriving civil societies, and this ensures citizens become more fully engaged in the life of their communities, Blinken said.“It’s how we organise and provide the resources to respond to emergencies. And we’ve seen people and organisations come together throughout Covid-19 in creative and incredibly generous ways, and civil society is also where we’re able to build meaningful connections across our social, religious, and cultural differences,” he said.“In short, if we want to make our democracies more open, more inclusive, more resilient, more equitable, we need vibrant civil society,” Blinken said, adding that he wants to support more connections between civil society organisations in India and the US to make the partnership between the two democracies even stronger.Later in the day, Blinken will meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. During these meetings, he said he would talk about many critical issues the two sides are working on together, including Covid-19, climate change, defence, mutual security, trade and investment, education, energy, and science and technology.“When you put it all together, the relationship between our countries is one of the most important in the world. And I think that’s because not only is it a relationship between governments...but critically it’s through relationships between the Indian and the American people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-should-stand-together-as-threats-to-democracy-freedoms-increase-blinken-101627455509774.html
28-07-2021||India||Antony Blinken says India and US share commitment to democratic values||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is on his first official trip to India, said on Wednesday the two nations share a commitment to democratic values. Blinken held talks with representatives of civil society organisations in Delhi, following which he said democratic values are reflective of India's pluralistic society and history of harmony.Taking to Twitter ahead of his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, the senior US official wrote, "I was pleased to meet civil society leaders today. The US and India share a commitment to democratic values; this is part of the bedrock of our relationship and reflective of India's pluralistic society and history of harmony. Civil society helps advance these values."Blinken is scheduled to meet the top leaders later in the day. Reports said the situation in Afghanistan, the Covid-19 response and economic recovery and engagements in the Indo-Pacific are set to dominate his meetings with the top Indian leadership.The third senior member of the Joe Biden administration to visit India this year, Blinken reached the national capital on Tuesday night.Also read | US backs India as global power and vital partner in Indo-Pacific as Blinken begins visitEarlier, the US said it backed India’s emergence as a leading global power and vital partner to make the Indo-Pacific a region of stability and economic inclusion.Close on the wheels of Blinken's visit, US defense secretary Lloyd Austin said China was working against the shared principles and interests of the US and its partners across the Indo-Pacific. While the US and its friends are committed to inclusion and freedom of the seas, China had shown “unwillingness to resolve disputes peacefully and respect the rule of law”, he said.Last week, a state department official had said, "Our bilateral discussions with our Indian partners will focus on expanding our security, defence, cyber, and counterterrorism cooperation."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antony-blinken-says-india-and-us-share-commitment-to-democratic-values-101627453648244.html
28-07-2021||India||India, world’s 3rd-biggest emitter, skips key climate meet; only nation among 51||Global efforts to tackle climate change suffered another setback this week as India -- the world’s third-biggest emitter -- failed to attend a key diplomatic gathering in London.India was the only one of 51 invited countries that didn’t attend a two-day ministerial meeting in the UK capital, hosted by the incoming president of the COP26 United Nations talks, according to people present at the summit who asked not to be named.The conference was designed to lay the groundwork for a successful COP26, which is due to take place in Glasgow in three months time. COP26 President Alok Sharma has said it will be the last chance to ensure global temperature increases don’t exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius -- the lower limit of the Paris Agreement. A Group of 20 meeting last week failed to clinch a more ambitious agreement on climate, and India was a key holdout.The London event was positioned to follow on from the G-20 with a broader group, meeting mainly in person. India had been due to attend the conference, according to a statement released by Sharma’s office beforehand.Gaurav Khare, a spokesman for India’s Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, said the government had decided against attending in person as the country had already made its views known at the G-20 in Naples. Then technical issues prevented it from taking part virtually.Sharma “has constructive ongoing dialogue with his counterparts in India, having visited the country earlier this year where he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” a spokeswoman for COP26 said.India’s failure to show was perceived as a snub by the COP presidency, one of the people present at the London summit said. With all of the Group of Seven nations now having committed to eliminate their greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, the presidency is seeking to put pressure on emerging economies such as China and India.Sticking PointsThe main sticking points to achieving the goals of the Paris accord are agreeing on concrete actions and a firm timeline to phasing out fossil fuels and subsidies, as well as commitments to ditch coal, the people said. The world’s richest countries are also falling well short of financial pledges to support energy transitions in developing countries, they said.India held out at the Naples meeting last week, with the final communique from the gathering included a footnote saying the country rejected the language agreed on net-zero emissions.India is not alone in resisting these efforts, with a handful of other countries reluctant to sign up to the plans in full.The nation -- which has often taken the position that the richest countries should lead in cutting emissions -- criticized those that have promised to achieve net-zero carbon by 2050. It instead urged G-20 nations to make a pledge that focused on per-capita emissions.While India is the third-largest emitter on a country basis, it is also the second-most populous. As a result, emissions per head are extremely low, ranking 134, according to the Global Carbon Atlas project.“Keeping in view the legitimate need of developing countries to growth, we urge G-20 countries to commit to bringing down per-capita emissions to global average by 2030,” India said in a statement attached to the final G20 document.Earlier this year, India had been mulling setting its own net-zero target by 2050, according to people familiar with the matter. A statement about the plan had been expected during a White House climate summit in April, but never came.“With less than 100 days until COP26, India faces a clear decision: follow its friends in favor of an ambitious outcome on climate in Glasgow, or leave itself starkly isolated on the world stage by continuing to oppose the need for accelerated climate action before COP26,” said Tom Evans, a researcher at the think tank E3G.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-world-s-3rd-biggest-emitter-skips-key-climate-meet-only-nation-among-51-101627453456369.html
28-07-2021||India||BJP president Nadda to meet UP lawmakers today and tomorrow||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda will chair a meeting of the party’s lawmakers from election-bound Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday and Thursday, said people aware of the matter.The meeting is being held in two batches to ensure compliance to Covid-19 protocol, said a person privy to the details.“The meeting will be an occasion for the MPs to exchange views, for the party boss to hear our concerns and suggestions and will discuss issues related to the upcoming elections in the state,” said an MP, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi, other Oppn leaders to move joint adjournment motionUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also attend the meeting. This is not the first such meeting. During the Parliament session, MPs of a particular state are hosted for a meeting over dinner with the party chief and on some occasions, the chief minister of that particular state is also present, said the person quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-president-nadda-to-meet-up-lawmakers-today-and-tomorrow-101627453829351.html
28-07-2021||India||Researchers observe never before seen short gamma-ray burst from collapsing star||Astronomers from across the world, including those from four Indian institutions, observed a 0.65 second gamma-ray burst (GRB) in August last year using NASA’s Fermi Gamma-ray space telescope. The high-energy gamma-ray burst that has been travelling towards Earth for half of the present age of the universe was picked up by several instruments. Researchers were able to pinpoint its location.What was unexpected was a supernova found at the origin of the gamma-ray burst for the first time.Astronomers believe that short gamma-ray bursts of less than two seconds originate when two black holes, two neutron stars, or a black hole and a neutron star merge with each other. The long gamma-ray bursts were thought to originate from a massive star collapsing at the end of its life.“A supernova is never formed during a merger; it is formed when a massive star collapses. This observation completely challenges the traditional classification of gamma-ray bursts; there is a need to relook all the bursts observed so far,” said Shashi Bhushan Pandey of the Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Sciences.Also Read | Jeff Bezos offers NASA a $2 billion discount for Blue Origin Moon landerPandey was one of the Indian astronomers to participate in the study.The study challenges two notions – not all short-duration gamma-ray bursts observed so far might have originated from a merger and not all collapsing massive stars end up producing long duration gamma rays. It helps resolve a long-standing puzzle in astronomy – there is a far greater number of supernovae than there are long gamma-ray bursts.“We already knew some GRBs from massive stars could register as short GRBs, but we thought this was due to instrumental limitations. Now we know dying stars can produce short bursts, too,” said Bin-bin Zhang of Nanjing University in China and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.The researchers believe this particular gamma-ray burst, named GBR200826A, almost did not occur. “We think this event was effectively a fizzle, one that was close to not happening at all. Even so, the burst emitted 14 million times the energy released by the entire Milky Way galaxy over the same amount of time, making it one of the most energetic short-duration gammas-ray bursts ever seen,” said Tomás Ahumada, a doctoral student at the University of Maryland and NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Centre.When a massive star reaches the end of its life, a black hole starts forming at its centre that sends out jets of particles at near-light speed. When the particles breach the surface of the earth, gamma-ray bursts are observed. “If this piercing does not happen properly, we would not observe a burst at all or we might observe a short burst. Now, we need to relook the data of the existing GRBs,” said Pandey.“Of the overall known population, two-thirds are long duration and one third are short. Now, the massive stars are supposed to be found in the star-forming region of the galaxies whereas the merger events should be on the outskirts. But there have been instances of short duration GRB from the star-forming regions; those could be an instance such as this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/researchers-observe-never-before-seen-short-gamma-ray-burst-from-collapsing-star-101627453349303.html
28-07-2021||India||Bommai sworn in as Karnataka chief minister||Basavaraj Bommai, 61, was sworn in as Karnataka chief minister on Wednesday a day after he was named as BS Yediyurappa’s successor at a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s legislative party meeting.Yediyurappa’s, 78, announced his resignation at an event to commemorate two years of his government this week.Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot administered Bommai oath as the 23rd chief minister of Karnataka at a ceremony at the glasshouse of the state Raj Bhavan.Bommai told reporters he has met the central observers of the BJP, Dharmendra Pradhan and Arun Singh, who were here from the legislative party meeting, over the Cabinet formation. “They have told me there is no need for any meeting (on Cabinet formation) today (Wednesday). We will make a decision after they leave,” said Bommai. He added they would not take much time. “For all the work that needs to be completed, we need a full team (of ministers). So, we will do it (Cabinet formation) at the earliest.”Bommai was the home minister in Yediyurappa’s council of ministers. The council was dissolved after Yediyurappa’s resignation on Monday. Considered to be a close confidant of Yediyurappa, Bommai is son of former chief minister S R Bommai. Basavaraj Bommai started his political career with the Janata Dal and worked with leaders including H D Devegowda and Ramakrishna Hegde. He left the Janata Dal (United) and joined the BJP in February 2008.A graduate in mechanical engineering, he was elected as a member of the Karnataka legislative council in 1998 and 2004 from Dharwad. He has been thrice elected to Karnataka legislative assembly from the Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district in 2008, 2013 and 2018.The selection of Bommai, who is from the Lingayat community, comes after several pontiffs from Lingayat mutts in the state warned the BJP central command against removing Yediyurappa, a tall leader of the community. The community forms close to 16% of the state’s population and has have been a loyal vote base for the party. Even though there was speculation that the BJP may appoint a leader from a different community, it eventually chose a Lingayat leader.Yediyurappa’s resignation on Monday ended months of speculation following growing dissidence within the Karnataka unit of the BJP. The 78-year-old leader made the announcement in an emotional speech at an event celebrating two years in power before submitting his resignation to the governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basavaraj-bommai-sworn-in-as-karnataka-chief-minister-101627453289299.html
28-07-2021||India||'Nandu Natekar has a special place in India's sporting history': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the dmise of legendary badminton player Nandu Natekar, tweeting that he has a special place in India’s sporting history. Natekar died at the age of 88 in Pune. He was the first Indian to win an international title in 1956."Shri Nandu Natekar has a special place in India’s sporting history. He was an outstanding badminton player and a great mentor. His success continues to motivate budding athletes. Saddened by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti," PM Modi said on Twitter.Shri Nandu Natekar has a special place in India’s sporting history. He was an outstanding badminton player and a great mentor. His success continues to motivate budding athletes. Saddened by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti.Natekar is survived by his son Gaurav, a seven-time Indian national champion in tennis, and two daughters. He won over 100 national and international titles in his career, and was suffering from age-related ailments."On behalf of the Badminton Association of India, we condole the sad demise of legendary player- Shri Nandu Natekar. A man of many firsts, the Father of Indian Badminton, your journey will continue to inspire generations to come. Wishing prayers and strength to the family. #RIP," the Badminton Association of India (BAI) tweeted.On behalf of the Badminton Association of India, we condole the sad demise of legendary player- Shri Nandu Natekar.A man of many firsts, the Father of Indian Badminton, your journey will continue to inspire generations to come.Wishing prayers and strength to the family.#RIP pic.twitter.com/qp1uqDf8JpOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik also expressed condolences on Natekar's demise. "Saddened to hear about the passing away of former Indian badminton player Nandu Natekar, who was the first shuttler to receive Arjuna Award. My condolences to the bereaved family members, fans and followers. Om Shanti," he said on Twitter.In his famed career, Natekar made it to the quarter-finals of the prestigious All England Championships in 1954. He conquered the Sellanger International in Malaysia in 1956. He won the Men's Doubles National Championship a total of six times, the Men's Singles National Championship a total of six times, and the Mixed Doubles National Championship a total of five times. He had also represented India at the 1965 Commonwealth Games in Jamaica.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nandu-natekar-has-a-special-place-in-india-s-sporting-history-pm-modi-101627452258826.html
28-07-2021||India||Bridges near completion in remote C’garh region, yrs after Maoists kill panch for demanding one||When Poreseram, a village head in Chhattisgarh’s remote Left-wing insurgency-hit Abujhmad, wrote a letter to the local administration in 2017 seeking a bridge over the Indravti River to help people in the region access basic health, education, and other facilities, the Maoists threatened him to withdraw the demand. Poreseram ignored the diktat and paid with his life for defying the Maoists. The killing did not deter the area’s residents, who closed ranks and pursued the demand more seriously even if Maoists kill all of them. The efforts of the villagers paid off when the government in October 2018 sanctioned two bridges at Pahurnaar and Karka. Their construction started in February 2019 and they are now nearing completion. Three more bridges were sanctioned in the region in May 2020.The bridges will connect the region of over 20,000 people with the rest of Chhattisgarh. Dantewada police superintendent Abhishek Pallava said the Maoists summoned villagers, threatened Poreseram in February 2018, and asked him to take back their application for the construction of a bridge. He added Poreseram was killed three months later for defying the diktat.“ After the killing of the sarpanch (village head), villagers got united and made it clear to Maoists that they want a bridge and are ready to face any consequences,” said Pallava.The region is strategically important for the Maoists. “(They) hold meetings in these villages and carry out recruitments....,” said an intelligence officer, who did not wish to be named, as he explained why Maoists opposed their construction. The officer added one of the bridges will provide access to Handawara waterfalls, which has the employment generation potential through tourism. The bridges will also help security forces set up camps in Abujmaad.Poreseram’s son, Dhani, said his father sacrificed his life for the people, who were suffering. He added he wants one of the bridges to be named after his father. “He sacrificed his life for it. The villagers also want the same hence I demand the government to consider this appeal.”Abujhmad is located near the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border and encompasses 6,000 square kilometre thick forest, which has not been surveyed since the British era. Officials said at least 100 villagers have lost lives their lives over the last two decades while crossing the river that divides the region from the rest of the state on primitive boats in the absence of bridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bridges-near-completion-in-remote-c-garh-region-yrs-after-maoists-kill-panch-for-demanding-one-101627451489243.html
28-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai takes oath as 23rd chief minister of Karnataka||Basavaraj Bommai, veteran leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), took oath on Wednesday as the 23rd chief minister of Karnataka, succeeding BS Yediyurappa for the post. Bommai's predecessor had quit two days ago, amid speculations that were rife over a crisis in the BJP's state unit. The new chief minister is an ideal candidate for the party, obedient to the central leadership and a close associate of Yediyurappa, HT reported earlier.Basavaraj Bommai sworn-in as the new Chief Minister of Karnataka pic.twitter.com/4RPPysdQBaAlso Read | Basavaraj Bommai says BSY a tall leader, will seek his guidance in coming daysBasavaraj Bommai arrived at Raj Bhavan at around 10:30am on Wednesday for the oath-taking ceremony, accompanied by BS Yediyurappa. Earlier, he met central BJP observer and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan in Bengaluru.Bommai was appointed for the post on Tuesday by the BJP high command, a day after Yediyurappa turned in his papers. In the moments following his election, Bommai vowed to work for the welfare of the poor and lead a "pro-people", specifically a "pro-poor people" governance."I will chair a meeting of the cabinet later today," the newly-elected chief minister was earlier quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "After that, I will hold a meeting with senior officers to review the Covid-19 and flood situation in the state."Notably, Yediyurappa's resignation came amid widespread floods, triggered by heavy rains, in Karnataka. The chief minister-designate, however, on Tuesday praised his predecessor for his handling of the flood havoc and Covid-19 management.Bommai, however, said that his predecessor BS Yediyurappa is a mentor and his vast experience would help him govern the state efficiently.Speaking to reporters, Bommai said Yediyurappa is a true democrat and used to give a free hand to his ministers. Having been a minister under him twice, the newly-elected chief minister said that he did not have any problem working under the guidance of Yediyurappa and would, in fact, seek the latter’s advice on all important issues. “He is like a father figure to me,” Bommai was quoted as saying in a report.Meanwhile, Bommai's supporters hit the roads, burst crackers, and raised slogans in favour of their leader, news agencies said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basavaraj-bommai-takes-oath-as-23rd-chief-minister-of-karnataka-101627449206648.html
28-07-2021||India||Completed clinical trials data for Covid-19 vaccines to be unblinded||Completed clinical trials data for Covid-19 vaccines will be unblinded and those who have received the jab will be given a certificate through the government’s CoWIN platform, an official said.“An order has been issued... ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) has been asked to share a list of those who participated in the vaccine trial. The certificate will be generated only for those who got the actual vaccine and not the placebo,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, at a press briefing on Tuesday. Such certificates will only be issued for trials that have been completed so that the integrity of ongoing trials is maintained, he said.So far, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has completed its phase III large clinical trials that found it to be 78% effective in preventing symptomatic infection. The study of children is going on. Also Read | Covid-19 can infect embryos, result in miscarriages: StudySerum Institute of India’s Covishield has completed its immunogenicity bridging trial to show that it produces a similar immune response as seen elsewhere.Only the interim data for the indigenous vaccine by Zydus Cadila has been analysed so far. The trial participants for ZyCoV-D will have to wait for such certificates.The protein subunit vaccine by BiologicalE is also in phase III clinical trials.In phase III clinical trials, a proportion of a large number of participants is administered a placebo (an agent without therapeutic value) to evaluate how many infections the actual vaccine prevented. The studies are usually double-blinded, meaning neither the participants nor those administering the vaccine and studying its impact know whether a person has received a vaccine or placebo.The data is unblinded only once a certain pre-decided number of infections happen among the participants.So far, the participants in vaccine trials in India have received a certificate from the trial sites. However, these are not accepted as proof of vaccination.“The persons who had participated in clinical trials had received paper-based certificates initially. A QR code-based certificate will be generated on CoWIN for them. They will be able to download it using their mobile numbers. The certificates will be generated only for the vaccines that have already received an Emergency Use Authorisation,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/completed-clinical-trials-data-for-covid-19-vaccines-to-be-unblinded-101627449988825.html
28-07-2021||India||After flash flood in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti, IMD issues red warning||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a 'red' warning for Himachal Pradesh where a cloud burst was reported in Lahaul-Spiti on Tuesday. The flash flood triggered by the cloud burst resulted in death of a person, while nine others are missing, according to state disaster management director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta.Another man is reported missing from the Chamba district, Mokhta further said. The man, a JCB helper, was washed away in the flash floods triggered by heavy rains in Chaned tehsil on the Chamba-Pathankot road.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on Monday issued a heavy rain warning in Himachal Pradesh. Director, IMD, Himachal Pradesh, Surender Paul had said that Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Chamba will receive rain and the low-lying areas were put on alert.In Lahaul-Spiti, the incident took place at Udaipur in Lahaul at around 8pm on Tuesday. A 19-year-old labourer, identified as Mohammad Altaaf, was injured and rushed to a nearby hospital, the local authorities said.A search operation for those missing was launched on Tuesday night, but was hampered by a heavy flow of water. It resumed on Wednesday morning.Several roads have been blocked and around 60 vehicles stuck as multiple landslides and flash floods occurred in various parts of Lahaul-Spiti, Mokhta said.Several people were evacuated from Lahaul-Spiti's Darcha village on Tuesday after the water level rose in the Bhaga river following a heavy spell of rain, he added.Three shops near the river bank were damaged after the water level increased considerably, the police in Darcha said.People living near low-lying areas have been safely evacuated by the police, a police officer said.Heavy rains are continuing in various parts of Himachal Pradesh, including Shimla, since Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-flash-flood-in-himachal-pradesh-s-lahaul-spiti-imd-issue-red-warning-101627448670692.html
28-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai says BSY a tall leader, will seek his guidance in coming days||Karnataka’s chief minister-designate Basavaraj Bommai has said his predecessor BS Yediyurappa is a mentor and his vast experience would help him govern the state efficiently. Stating that he was not expecting the elevation, Bommai said he and many others were expecting Yediyurappa, also known as BSY, would complete his term as the chief minister. He met the former CM and Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan before taking charge on Wednesday.Son of former chief minister SR Bommai, the new chief minister is said to have the blessings of Yediyurappa, both of whom belong to the powerful Lingayat community. The 78-year-old veteran of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was among the firsts to congratulate Bommai on his new role. “Congratulations to Shri @BSBommai on being elected as the new Chief Minister of Karnataka. I am confident you will lead Karnataka in the path of development and fulfill the aspirations of people of the state,” he wrote on Twitter.Also read | Second Bommai to become CM, checks all boxes for BJPSpeaking to reporters, Bommai said Yediyurappa is a true democrat and used to give a free hand to his ministers. Having been a minister under him twice, the CM-designate said he did not see any problem working under the guidance of Yediyurappa and he would seek the latter’s advice on all important issues. “He is like a father figure to me,” Bommai was quoted as saying in a report.A mechanical engineer and former functioanary of the Janata Dal (United), Bommai was named Karnataka's 23rd chief minister by the BJP on Tuesday, a day after caretaker Yediyurappa tendered his resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basavaraj-bommai-karnataka-cm-says-bsy-a-tall-leader-his-guidance-a-boon-101627447037980.html
28-07-2021||India||TMC delegation to leave for Tripura to meet I-PAC team ‘confined’ by police||A three-member team of West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) will leave for Tripura on Wednesday to meet members of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) allegedly confined to a hotel by police in the north-eastern state. The TMC renewed its contract with I-PAC, the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the 2024 Lok Sabha polls after helping it win the March-April Bengal assembly elections. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee wants to see her party play a bigger role in national politics.At least 23 members of I-PAC were on Monday asked to stay inside a hotel in Agartala till their Covid-19 test reports arrive, the Tripura police have said.West Bengal minister Bratya Basu insisted the I-PAC members have been detained. “I think the situation is not right there. Democracy is being violated. To take stock of the situation, I along with Moloy Ghatak, state law minister, and TMC leader Ritabrata Banerjee would go there.”The I-PAC members arrived in Tripura last week to assess the TMC’s potential to expand its base in the north-eastern state where polls are due in 2023. The Bharatiya Janata Party heads the government in Tripura.The Tripura police said some of the I-PAC members were found moving around amid Covid-19 curfew and all of them underwent Covid-19 tests on Monday and were asked to stay inside a hotel until they get clearance from the health department.Banerjee on Tuesday said I-PAC workers went to Tripura and were put under “house arrest”. This should not be done, she added.Samik Bhattacharya, a BJP spokesman in West Bengal, said it is entirely the Tripura government’s decision. “Only the Tripura government can comment...” He added TMC has contested elections in Tripura and was rejected. “Why is the chief minister (Banerjee) giving statements when workers of an agency have gone to Tripura? She could have given reaction had her party workers faced any problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-delegation-to-leave-for-tripura-to-meet-i-pac-team-confined-by-police-101627446628278.html
28-07-2021||India||US’s Antony Blinken in India: Afghanistan, Covid, economic recovery on agenda||The situation in Afghanistan, the Covid-19 response and economic recovery and engagements in the Indo-Pacific are set to dominate US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s meetings with the top Indian leadership on Wednesday. Blinken, the third senior member of the Biden administration to visit India this year, arrived in the Capital on Tuesday night. He formally began the visit with a civil society roundtable on Wednesday morning. The secretary of state will kick off his official engagements with a meeting with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. This will be followed by a meet and greet with the staff of the US embassy. The main engagement for the day will be a meeting between Blinken and his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, who will host a working lunch for the secretary of state. The two ministers will participate in a joint press interaction before Blinken meets Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Also Read | US backs India as global power and vital partner in Indo-Pacific as Blinken begins visitAs Blinken arrived in India on Tuesday, the US said it backs India’s emergence as a leading global power and vital partner to make the Indo-Pacific a region of stability and economic inclusion. Blinken flew into New Delhi hours after US defense secretary Lloyd Austin accused China of working against the shared principles and interests of the US and its partners across the Indo-Pacific. While the US and its friends are committed to inclusion and freedom of the seas, China had shown “unwillingness to resolve disputes peacefully and respect the rule of law”, he said. Opposing China’s claim to the majority of the South China Sea, Austin said: “We have also seen aggression against India…destabilising military activity and other forms of coercion against the people of Taiwan…and genocide and crimes against humanity against Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang.” The US and India are closely coordinating on regional security issues, such as Afghanistan, and are also partnering to strengthen the global Covid-19 response, on issues ranging from addressing infectious disease outbreaks to securing global supply chains.Besides working to expand cooperation in international organisations, the US will host the fourth 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uss-antony-blinken-in-india-afghanistan-covid-economic-recovery-on-agenda-101627446388146.html
28-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, other Oppn leaders to move joint adjournment motion||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will on Wednesday join other opposition leaders to submit a joint adjournment motion in Lok Sabha for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy in the “presence of the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and/or (Union) Home minister (Amit Shah)”.Leaders of 10 opposition parties met on Tuesday and decided to move the joint notice as a part of a united strategy to counter the government over the alleged snooping. “...there will be better coordination among all of us as the government does not want to discuss the matter at all. We will now be giving joint adjournment notices in Lok Sabha,’’ said one of the leaders, requesting anonymity.Click here for LIVE Updates on Parliament proceedingsGandhi, Kanimozhi (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham), Nationalist Congress Party’s Supriya Sule, Arvind Sawant of the Shiv Sena, Hasnain Masoodi (National Conference), and Bahujan Samaj Party’s Ritesh Pandey were among those who attended the meeting.Congress lawmakers Mallikarjun Kharge and Manickam Tagore have submitted similar adjournment motions earlier.The Pegasus row erupted on August 18 before the beginning of Parliament’s ongoing monsoon session after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen, and journalists were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software Pegasus. A forensic analysis of 10 of the targets proved they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-other-oppn-leaders-to-move-joint-adjournment-motion-101627445848013.html
28-07-2021||India||Barabanki road accident: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each families of those killed in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki. The families of those injured would be given ₹50,000 each, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.PM Modi tweeted to say that he spoke to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and all arrangements are being made to treat those injured in Barabanki road accident."Deeply saddened by the news of road accident in Barabanki, UP. My condolences to the bereaved families. I have also spoken to CM Yogi Adityanath. Arrangements are being made for proper treatment of all the injured," the Prime Minister said in his tweet posted in Hindi.यूपी के बाराबंकी में हुए सड़क हादसे की खबर से बहुत दुखी हूं। शोकाकुल परिवारों के साथ मेरी संवेदनाएं हैं। अभी सीएम योगी जी से भी बात हुई है। सभी घायल साथियों के उचित उपचार की व्यवस्था की जा रही है।At least 18 people were killed and 25 injured after a truck hit a double-decker bus in Barabanki late on Tuesday night. The police said that the incident took place in Kotwali Ramsanehighat area.The private bus was on its way to Bihar from Ludhiana in Punjab, the police added.Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the incident and offered condolences to bereaved families. "I pray to Lord Ram give to space to the departed souls in heaven and speedy recovery of those injured," Adityanath said on Twitter.जनपद बाराबंकी के रामसनेहीघाट क्षेत्र में घटित सड़क हादसे में लोगों की मृत्यु अत्यंत दुःखद है।मेरी संवेदनाएं शोकाकुल परिजनों के साथ हैं। प्रभु श्री राम से प्रार्थना है कि दिवंगत आत्माओं को अपने श्री चरणों में स्थान तथा घायलों को शीघ्र स्वास्थ्य लाभ प्रदान करें।According to the police, the axle of the double-decker bus broke down and it was parked on the road when a speeding truck hit it from behind. Some passengers were standing outside the bus while others were sitting inside at the time of the incident, the police added.A rescue operation was launched by the police which reached the spot. The injured were rushed to the hospital with the help of locals, Additional Director General of Police, Lucknow Zone, S N Sabat said.It was raining heavily when the accident took place and this posed some problems in the rescue operation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barabanki-road-accident-pm-modi-announces-rs-2-lakh-exgratia-101627445182546.html
28-07-2021||India||Funds allocated for museums, archaeological sites insufficient: House committee||The funds allocated for the development and conservation of museums and archaeological sites are not enough to “meet the financial needs of India’s cultural heritage”, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism, and Culture has said in its report tabled in Parliament on Monday. The panel urged a higher fund allocation.“The present budget allocation...is insufficient for developing and conserving museums and archaeological sites and falls short to meet the financial needs of India’s cultural heritage. The committee, therefore, recommends that the (culture) ministry should make a strong case for higher fund allocation and would also urge the ministry of finance to be considerate to preserve our rich cultural heritage.”The report said it is imperative for the concerned ministry to seek participation from the private sector for the necessary investment needed to have the country’s museums, monuments, and archaeological sites at par with international standards. It added the revenue monuments and archaeological sites generate be left with the culture ministry for their development and conservation.The panel recommended the digitisation of museums to ensure a permanent record of artefacts and check their “pilferage”. It said cultural events be organised at museums and monuments along with training and short-term camps for artisans to enhance their competency. The panel also recommended the introduction of a course on museology in the curriculum at the senior secondary school level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/funds-allocated-for-museums-archaeological-sites-insufficient-house-committee-101627444822949.html
28-07-2021||India||India logs 43,654 new Covid-19 cases; 640 fatalities in last 24 hours||India recorded 43,654 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,484,605 while the death toll climbed to 4,22,022 with 640 daily fatalities, according to Union health ministry update on Wednesday.The active cases declined to 3,99,436 in the said time period, according to data released by the ministry at 8am. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 1.27 per cent, it stated. The number of active cases fell by 1336.As many as 17,36,857 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 46,09,00,978.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,06,63,147, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.The total number of vaccine doses administered so far has reached 44.19 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive.More than 2.28 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, Union Territories and private hospitals for inoculation, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-43-654-new-covid-19-cases-640-fatalities-in-last-24-hours-101627432922262.html
28-07-2021||India||Centre withholds names of those booked under UAPA citing public interest||Revealing names of those booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) may impact the cases under the anti-terror law and is not in the larger public interest, the Centre has told Parliament. The Delhi Police arrested 34 people in 2020 and registered nine cases under the law that year, it added.Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai gave the information in Lok Sabha in response to Trinamool Congress leader Mala Roy’s question about the number and names of people the Delhi Police have arrested under UAPA.Also Read | PM Modi tells party to ‘expose Oppn’ over House disruptionsActivists and jurists have expressed concerns over the misuse of the anti-terror legislation. The matter was back under the spotlight amid outrage over the death of 84-year-old activist Stan Swamy, who was arrested under UAPA last year. He died in Mumbai while his bail plea on health grounds remained pending before the high court. Swamy was charged under the UAPA for his role in what the National Investigative Agency said was an alleged Maoist conspiracy that led to caste clashes near the Bhima Koregaon village four years ago.The UAPA makes the grant of bail extremely difficult. It lays down that an accused charged under UAPA shall not be released on bail if the court thinks there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such a person is prima facie true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-withholds-names-of-those-booked-under-uapa-citing-public-interest-101627444402645.html
28-07-2021||India||Morning showers bring relief in J&K; widespread rain may continue till July 30||Rains lashed Kashmir from the early hours of Wednesday, bringing relief from the sweltering heat conditions. A cloudburst was reported in Kishtwar area of Jammu.On Tuesday, Srinagar recorded a maximum of 34.6 degrees Celsius, its highest day temperature since 2013. India Meteorological Department (IMD) already predicted rains across J&K beginning today.“J&K is currently overcast to cloudy with intermittent light to moderate rain at most places. This is most likely to remain so the whole day,” IMD director Sonam Lotus said.He said Ladakh is generally cloudy at most places. “There is a possibility of light rain at some places of Kargil, Zanskar, Zojila, Serchu. Overcast skies with rain are predicted for Serchu-Manali stretch as well,” he said.Most places in J&K are likely to remain cloudy with thunderstorm and rain at some places in Poonch, Rajouri, Reasi and their neighbourhood.“ Widespread intermittent rain is most likely to continue till July 30. Heavy to very rain is also possible at some places that may lead to flash flood, mudslide, landslide and water logging in low lying areas,” Lotus said.The weather office said the minimum temperatures were remaining high owing to the heat wave conditions in the region, and cloudy nights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/morning-showers-bring-relief-in-j-k-widespread-rain-may-continue-till-july-30-101627444042637.html
28-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Basavaraj Bommai to take oath as Karnataka chief minister and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Basavaraj Bommai to take oath as Karnataka chief minister at 11am todayKarnataka gets its new chief minister on Wednesday, as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Basavaraj Somappa Bommai is slated to take his oath for the post at 11am on this day. The development comes two days after caretaker chief minister BS Yediyurappa tendered his resignation after months of speculation of a rift in the state's ruling dispensation. Read MoreMajor road accident in UP's Barabanki; at least 18 dead, 19 injured after speeding truck hits busAt least 18 people were killed in a major road accident at Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh after a double-decker bus hit by a speeding truck on the Lucknow-Ayodhya national highway, near the Ram Sanehi Ghat police station area in the district. Read MoreMaharashtra records a steady decline, has 82,082 active Covid cases nowThe number of Covid-19 active cases is on a decline in Maharashtra. On Tuesday, the number of active cases was 82,082, while the state recorded 6,258 Covid-19 new cases. Read MoreWATCH: Basavaraj Bommai replaces BSY as Karnataka CM l All you need to know about himThe BJP Legislature has elected Basavaraj Bommai as the new chief minister of Karnataka. He will replace BS Yediyurappa.'Putin has a real problem': Biden says Russia messing with 2022 polls, warns cyberattacks could spell warJoe Biden, the president of the United States of America, on Tuesday, accused his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, of trying to disrupt the 2022 US midterm elections, slated to be held in November next year. Referring to Putin as "dangerous", the US president alleged that his Russian counterpart is leading an economy that only has nuclear weapons and "nothing else". Read MoreMumbai Police shares images that make them ‘uncomfortable’If you’re a follower of Mumbai Police’s social media handles, there is a possibility you’ll agree to the statement that they should get an A+ for the creativity they showcase in various posts. The department regularly shares different kinds of quirky and interesting posts to convey their message or spread awareness about various issues. Their recent post containing images that make them ‘uncomfortable’ is no different. Chances are, it’ll make you appreciate their creativity even more. Read MoreCelina Jaitly was approached for Shilpa Shetty's 'decent' app, not Raj Kundra's HotShotsCelina Jaitly has denied any connection with businessman Raj Kundra's app HotShots, through her spokesperson. Soon after Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra was arrested last week, rumours suggested that Celina had been approached for a project for his app. Read MoreSonakshi Sinha grabs eyeballs in ₹23k white bodycon dress for Bhuj promotionsBollywood star Sonakshi Sinha is currently enjoying the warm response received by the trailer of her upcoming film Bhuj: The Pride of India starring Ajay Devgn, Sanjay Dutt, and Nora Fatehi. After the trailer release, the stars began the promotions, and Sonakshi's look for the latest event is creating quite the buzz online. The Dabangg actor slipped into a white bodycon dress, and we are in love with this sartorial moment. Read More'You're only looking at one person': Gavaskar names 2 players who can take Hardik Pandya's placeIn the recently concluded ODI series against Sri Lanka, Pandya batted in two innings. While in the second ODI, he was out for a duck, the all-rounder got a start in the third game before getting out LBW to a turning ball by left-arm spinner Praveen Jayawickrama. Something similar unfolded in the first T20I as well, as Pandya was dismissed for 10 and was unable to give India the lusty blows he once easily used to. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-basavaraj-bommai-to-take-oath-as-karnataka-chief-minister-and-all-the-latest-news-101627441051844.html
28-07-2021||India||Maharashtra records a steady decline, has 82,082 active Covid cases now||The number of Covid-19 active cases is on a decline in Maharashtra. On Tuesday, the number of active cases was 82,082, while the state recorded 6,258 Covid-19 new cases.On Monday, the active cases had dropped to 88,729 from 94,985 on Sunday. Similarly last week, the active cases on July 19 dropped to 96,375 from 103,486 on July 18.On Tuesday, Mumbai logged 344 new Covid-19 cases with five deaths. The case tally in Mumbai has reached 734,759, while the toll stands at 15,850. There were 181,593 tests done on Tuesday and 12,645 recoveries were reported.The state’s case tally has reached 6,276,057. The death toll is 131,859, with Pune leading with 18,395 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,850 and Thane with 10,997 deaths.Pune tops with 15,344 active cases followed by Thane with 9,510, and Kolhapur with 8,749.Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said numbers are still a matter of concern. “The majority of active cases are from Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts and there seems to be no respite in sight. The overall tally will continue to be high till this is reined in,” Gilada said.Meanwhile, 568,575 vaccine doses were administered on Tuesday, taking the total number of doses given to 42,325,437.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-a-steady-decline-has-82-082-active-covid-cases-now-101627441162462.html
28-07-2021||NA||Parliament highlights: Both Houses adjourned till tomorrow amid uproar by Oppn||The Central government is trying to push several new bills, including 3 to replace old ordinances, for passage in the ongoing monsoon session of the Parliament, which began on July 19. At least 23 bills have been listed by the Centre to be tabled in the Lok Sabha during the session. Of these, six bills have already been introduced and 17 of them will be new.So far, the monsoon session has witnessed uproars and protests with the opposition trying to disrupt the house proceeding on several key issues including the alleged Pegasus row, farmers’ protest, fuel price hike etc.Both houses of the Parliament were adjourned multiple times on Tuesday due to ruckus by Opposition MPs over discussion on alleged Pegasus scandal.Follow all the updates here:Both Houses adjourned till tomorrowBoth Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha have been adjourned till 11am tomorrow amid protests by the Opposition over Pegasus, and other issues.RS passes Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021Rajya Sabha passes Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021; adjourned till 11 am tomorrowLok Sabha has passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (A) Bill, 2021Rajya Sabha adjourned twice in 3 hoursRajya Sabha adjourned till 2:45 pm for the third time today as Opposition MPs continued sloganeering, demanding discussion on 'Pegasus Project' report.LS conducts Question Hour without adjournments for first time in current sessionThe Lok Sabha on Wednesday conducted Question Hour without any adjournments for the first time since the start of the Monsoon session of Parliament on July 19 despite vociferous protests by Opposition members on various issues.As soon as the House met for the day, Opposition members trooped into the Well as they sought to raise various issues. Some members were shouting slogans and displaying placards.From the Pegasus spyware controversy to the three farm laws, the members wanted to raise various issues during the Question Hour.Extremely humbling: Rahul Gandhi and Opposition leaders meetCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday met the Opposition leaders to chalk out a strategy on the Pegasus snooping allegations on the government. "Sitting with the entire opposition is extremely humbling. Amazing experience, wisdom and insight in everyone present," Gandhi said on Twitter after the meet, adding the hashtag "United".Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noonRajya Sabha proceedings were on Wednesday adjourned for almost an hour as opposition members for the seventh day raised various issues, including Pegasus snooping and farm laws.Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the proceedings till 12.00 hours just as the Congress, TMC and other opposition party MPs stood up to raise the issues they have been pressing for since the start of the Monsoon session of Parliament last week.PM Modi, Amit Shah and Pralhad Joshi hold a meeting at ParliamentPrime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi hold a meeting at the PM's office in ParliamentLeaders of Opposition parties hold a meeting at ParliamentLeaders of Opposition parties hold a meeting at Parliament to chalk out the future course of action on several issues in both the HousesCongress leader Rahul Gandhi is also present at the meeting.CPI (M) MP Elamaram Kareem gives suspension of business notice in Rajya SabhaCPI (Marxist) MP Elamaram Kareem gives suspension of business notice under Rule 267 in Rajya Sabha, demanding a discussion on the 'Pegasus Project' report.MIT, MHA officials summoned over alleged Pegasus snoopingOfficials of Ministry of Information Technology and Ministry of Home Affairs have been summoned by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor-led parliamentary panel on Information Technology to appear before it at Parliament over the alleged Pegasus snooping issue today, reports ANI.Congress MP Ripun Bora gives suspension of business noticeCongress MP Ripun Bora gives suspension of business notice under Rule 267 in Rajya Sabha, demanding a discussion on the Assam-Mizoram border clash which claimed the lives of 6 Assam police personnel.Mallikarjun Kharge to chair meeting of Oppn partiesLeader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge to chair a meeting of all-like minded Opposition parties at Parliament to chalk out the future course of action in both the Houses. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to also attend the meeting.Opposition leaders to submit adjournment motion in LS for discussion on Pegasus Project reportOpposition leaders including Congress MP Rahul Gandhi to submit adjournment motion notices in Lok Sabha today for a discussion on the 'Pegasus Project' report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101627439673321.html
28-07-2021||India||Heavy to extremely heavy rain likely over Uttarakhand and northwest UP today||The current spell of widespread and heavy rain over northwest India is likely to reduce from Thursday. according to India Meteorological Department. Rain activity will pick up over Odisha,Jharkhand, and Gangetic West Bengal.Heavy rain over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh is likely till today and reduce thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy rain is likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and northwest Uttar Pradesh today.A low pressure area over North Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood is likely to become a well marked low pressure area over North Bay of Bengal and adjoining Bangladesh during the next 24 hours and slowly move westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during the subsequent 48 hours.The monsoon trough at mean sea level now passes along normal position. A cyclonic circulation is lying over southern parts of central Uttar Pradesh in the lower tropospheric levels.Under the influence of these synoptic systems, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar till July 30 and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh during July 29 to 31. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Gangetic West Bengal on July 28 and 29, over Jharkhand on July 29, over Chhattisgarh on July 30, and over East Madhya Pradesh on July 31. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over east Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours and increase further from July 30.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Konkan, Goa, Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra during the next three days and increase to isolated heavy to very heavy falls over the region from July 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-to-extremely-heavy-rain-likely-over-uttarakhand-and-northwest-up-today-101627440322475.html
28-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Mumbai doctor tests positive thrice, infected twice post-vaccination||A 26-year-old doctor has tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease thrice in the past 13 months -- twice after receiving both doses of a vaccine against the virus. Swab samples of Dr Shrusthi Halari, who worked at the Mulund Covid Centre in the city, have been collected for genome sequencing as part of a study into occurrence of the infection after being completely inoculated.According to reports, the doctor's family members, including her father, mother and brother, all of whom have comorbidities, have also contracted the virus. All of them got infected for the first time this month, after receiving both doses of the vaccine.“The reinfections are confusing,” Dr Halari, adding that ahead of being infected for the third time she was mostly at home preparing for post-graduation with very little chances of being exposed to the virus.The doctor was on Covid duty at the Veer Savarkar Hospital in Mumbai when she tested positive for the first time on June 17 last year with a mild infection. Her entire family received the first dose of Covishield vaccine on March 8 this year and the second one on April 29.A month later - on May 29 - Dr Halari tested positive for the second time, again with mild symptoms and she got treated at home.On July 11, the doctor contracted the disease again and this time, it was the entire family. All of them have been hospitalised and being treated with Remdesivir."I suffered more the third time. My brother and mother have diabetes and my father has hypertension and cholesterol problems. My brother had difficulty breathing, so he was kept on oxygen for two days," Dr Halari was quoted as saying by NDTV. A test for Covid antibodies in the blood has also returned positive results.While it is yet to be ascertained why and how the doctor got infected thrice, doctors said the reasons could range from variants of the virus, low immunity levels to an incorrect diagnosis, a report in Times of India said.Speaking about the efficacy of the vaccines against the virus, doctors said the doses do not translate to immunity. Their benefit is that breakthrough infections (caused after inoculation) are milder, rarely require hospitalisation and very unlikely to be fatal.Two studies -- one byBrihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and another by a private hospital -- are being conducted to look into the causes of the reinfections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-mumbai-doctor-tests-positive-thrice-infected-twice-postvaccination-101627439030500.html
28-07-2021||India||Several areas in Chennai to face power cuts today: Full details here||Chennai and its suburbs will face a power cut for five hours on Wednesday. According to an official release from the Tamil Nadu electricity board (TNEB), the power supply will be suspended due to maintenance work in the area from 9am to 2pm. The board said it will try to restore electricity before 2pm, depending on how fast the work is completed.Areas that will face power cut on Wednesday include KK Nagar, Guindy, Tambaram, Sothuperumbedu, Perumbakkam, Velachery and Manali, according to TNEB.In the Outhuperumbedu region, the areas that will face the power outage include Kamarpalayam, Kumaran Nagar, Balamurgan Nagar, part of Sholavaram, GNT Road, and Kavarakullam, the board further said.In KK Nagar, 10th Avenue, Alagirisamy salai, Tholkapiyam, Choolaimedu High Road, Kanniyamman Koil, Rangarajapuram, Chitra Avenue, Nelson Manickam Road, Thangal Street, Iyappa, Nagar, and surrounding areas will face load shedding.In Guindy region, Raj Bhavan, Guindy, Moovarasampet, Madipakkam, Nandampakkam, Mugalivakkam, Ramapuram, and St Thomas Mount will face power outage.Other regions in Chennai that will face power outage include Ramaiah Main Road, Nookampalayam Mian Road, Gokul Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Velachery Main Road, Bharathidasan Street, Alagiri Street, Kannabiran Street in the Tambaram area and Sithalapakkam, ADB Avenue, Vengaivasal Main Road, TNHB Colony, MGR Nagar, Jeya Nagar, Valluvar Nagar, Arasankalani Main Road, and Sankarapuram in Perumbakkam.In Velachery, there will be a power cut in TA Koil 1st street, 5th street, Lakshpuram area, part of the Bypass road. In Manali, there will be a power outage in MMDA phase I and II, Elathanur, Nehru Nagar and Thanigai Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-areas-in-chennai-to-face-power-cuts-today-full-details-here-101627435492176.html
28-07-2021||India||Ajay Maken in Jaipur today amid buzz around Rajasthan cabinet rejig||Congress leader Ajay Maken will reach Jaipur on Wednesday on a two-day visit during which he will hold meetings with party MLAs. Maken is Congress in-charge for Rajasthan affairs.Maken will hold discussions with the party MLAs and those supporting its state government during his two-day visit, state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra in a tweet.AICC महासचिव व राजस्थान कांग्रेस प्रभारी श्री @ajaymaken जी कल 2 दिवसीय दौरे पर राजस्थान आ रहे हैं। इस दौरान वे सभी कांग्रेस एवं कांग्रेस समर्थित विधायकों से चर्चा करेंगे।The meeting holds significance in the wake of the Congress shifting its focus to Rajasthan after turmoil in Punjab. There is speculation that chief minister Ashok Gehlot's cabinet will be expanded soon.Maken and AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal held a meeting with Gehlot on Saturday night over cabinet reshuffle. The two leaders again held a meeting with state party leaders in Jaipur on Sunday and said they have reached a consensus on the issue of state cabinet expansion.Central Congress leaders have said there is no conflict about the cabinet reshuffle and after discussions with the chief minister, the decision regarding this has been left to the party high command.The development is taking place in the wake of concerns raised by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his supporters. The issues, as communicated by Maken and Venugopal to Gehlot, are cabinet expansion, political appointments in state boards and corporations, and implementation of promises made before the 2018 assembly elections in Rajasthan.Since June, Pilot and his supporters have publicly demanded that their issues be addressed by the party.In July last year, Pilot and 18 MLAs revolted against the chief minister, leading to a 30-day-long turmoil that ended with a compromise formula after the party high command in Delhi intervened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-maken-in-jaipur-today-amid-buzz-around-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-101627435007904.html
28-07-2021||India||World Hepatitis Day 2021: Know history, significance and theme||World Hepatitis Day (WHD) is celebrated every year on July 28 in order to spread awareness about viral hepatitis, an inflammation of the liver that can cause severe liver disease and hepatocellular cancer. This day is an opportunity to raise awareness of the importance of knowing one's hepatitis status and to spread the word about its treatment.Hepatitis is a group of infectious diseases known by its various variants, like A, B, C, D, and E. Hepatitis is commonly caused by a viral infection, but there are several risk factors, such as excessive consumption of alcohol, toxins, some medications and certain medical conditions.The World Health Organization (WHO) has identified hepatitis as a major health concern for India. As per WHO, in India 2020, about 4 crore people were chronically infected with hepatitis B, and 60 lakh to 1.2 crore people with hepatitis C. According to the Indian Journal of Medical Research, in India, about 2,50,000 people die of viral hepatitis or its sequelae every year.History of World Hepatitis DayThis day is marked on July 28 on the birthday of Nobel Prize-winning scientist Dr Baruch Blumberg to honour him. He discovered the Hepatitis B virus (HBV). He also developed a diagnostic test and vaccine to treat the Hep-B virus.Theme of World Hepatitis Day 2021In 2021, the theme is 'Hepatitis Can't Wait', conveying the urgency of efforts needed to eliminate hepatitis as a public health threat by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-hepatitis-day-2021-know-history-significance-and-theme-101627431087011.html
28-07-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to address SCO conclave, focus on regional security challenges||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who is in Tajikistan capital Dushanbe, will address a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on Wednesday. In his address, Singh is likely to focus on regional security challenges, including terrorism, and ways to deal with it.The defence minister is also expected to meet his Tajik counterpart Col Gen Sherali Mirzo to discuss bilateral as well as other issues of mutual interest.Rajnath Singh reached Dushanbe on Tuesday to attend the meeting of the defence ministers of the member states of the SCO. His Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe is also attending the SCO conclave, but no bilateral meeting has yet been scheduled between the two leaders.Singh and Wei last held bilateral talks in Moscow on September 4, 2020, on the sidelines of the annual meeting of the defence ministers of the SCO states.Rajnath Singh's office said on Twitter that the defence minister will be in Tajikistan capital till July 29. Tajikistan is chairing the SCO this year and hosting a series of ministerial- and official-level meetings.The SCO is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. It was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the Presidents of Russia, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017.India was made an observer at the SCO in 2005 and has generally participated in the ministerial-level meetings of the grouping which focus mainly on security and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-address-sco-meet-today-focus-on-regional-security-challenges-101627431572655.html
28-07-2021||India||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to meet PM Modi, S Jaishankar and NSA||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who arrived in India on Tuesday, is scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi today before leaving for Kuwait as part of his two-nation tour. He will also hold talks with External affairs minister S Jaishankar and meet National security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval.Blinken is in India on a two-day visit to boost bilateral ties and deliberate on the evolving security situation in Afghanistan, expanding cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region under the framework of Quad and coordinated Covid-19 response.Before leaving for India, Blinken had said that he was looking forward to consultations with partners of the US for further cooperation in support of its shared interests in the Indo-Pacific and Middle East. "Wheels up for my trip to New Delhi and Kuwait City. I look forward to consultations with our partners to further cooperation in support of our shared interests in the Indo-Pacific and Middle East," he tweeted.This is Blinken's first visit to India after assuming office as the US Secretary of State. "Secretary Blinken's visit is an opportunity to continue the high-level bilateral dialogue and bolster the India-US global strategic partnership. Both sides will review the robust and multifaceted India-US bilateral relations, and potential for consolidating them further," the Ministry of External Affairs said last week.Acting Assistant Secretary for South and Central Asian Affairs Dean Thompson on Friday said that the discussions will focus on expanding ties in areas of security, defence, cyber, and counterterrorism cooperation. "We collaborate across the government on these issues, including through regular US-India working group meetings, and we look forward to further strengthening our ties with India to ensure a safer and more secure world," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-secretary-of-state-antony-blinken-to-meet-pm-modi-s-jaishankar-and-nsa-101627429219976.html
28-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai to take oath as Karnataka chief minister at 11am today||Karnataka gets its new chief minister on Wednesday, as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Basavaraj Somappa Bommai is slated to take his oath for the post at 11am on this day. The development comes two days after caretaker chief minister BS Yediyurappa tendered his resignation after months of speculation of a rift in the state's ruling dispensation.Also Read | Newly-anointed K’taka CM a Lingayat leader, BSY aideBasavaraj Bommai will take his oath today as the 23rd chief minister of Karnataka. He was appointed for the post on Tuesday by the BJP high command, a day after Yediyurappa turned in his papers. In the moments following his election, Bommai vowed to work for the welfare of the poor and lead a "pro-people", specifically a "pro-poor people" governance."I will chair a meeting of the cabinet later today," the chief minister to-be was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "After that, I will hold a meeting with senior officers to review the Covid-19 and flood situation in the state."I will chair a meeting of the Cabinet later today. After that, I will hold a meeting with senior officers to review COVID-19 and the flood situation in the state: Karnataka CM-designate Basavaraj Bommai Bommai is scheduled to take oath at 11 am today pic.twitter.com/TxAt3zCpKuNotably, Yediyurappa's resignation came amid widespread floods, triggered by heavy rains, in Karnataka. The chief minister-designate, however, on Tuesday praised his predecessor for his handling of the flood havoc and Covid-19 management.Also Read | Second Bommai to become CM, checks all boxes for BJP"Facing the tough situation as chief minister when there were severe floods and Covid-19 situations twice, Yedyurappa has taken the state forward," Bommai said. "He (Yediyurappa) has managed the economy of the state in a manner that there was no shortage of funds in the state despite facing tough situations."Meanwhile, news of Bommai set to become the next chief minister triggered celebrations on Tuesday in the Shiggaon town in the district headquarters of Haveri. This is the same town from where Bommai got elected to the Karnataka assembly.Bommai's supporters hit the roads, burst crackers, and raised slogans in favour of their leader, news agencies said.Basavaraj Bommai, the 61-year-old veteran leader from Karnataka, is a Lingayat, obedient to the central leadership and a close associate of the outgoing chief minister. According to party insiders familiar with the matter, all groups within the BJP are happy with the decision and believe that the change of power, which could have affected the party adversely, has culminated well with Bommai’s appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basavaraj-bommai-to-take-oath-as-karnataka-chief-minister-at-11am-today-101627429212789.html
28-07-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: SEBI imposes penalty of ₹3 lakh on Shilpa Shetty, husband Raj Kundra and his company||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Assam reports 1,276 new cases of Covid-19, 21 deathsCOVID-19 | Assam reports 1,276 new cases, 1,791 recoveries, and 21 deaths. Active cases at 13,152 and total positive cases at 5,62,731 pic.twitter.com/SWDB3AtMKtBJP MLAs in Maharashtra to donate one month salary to the chief minister's FundBJP MLAs in Maharashtra have decided to donate their one month's salary to the chief minister's relief fund, to help those affected by the recent floods and landslide, reported ANI.SEBI imposes penalty of ₹3 lakh on Shilpa Shetty, husband Raj Kundra SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India) imposes a penalty of ₹3 lakhs on actor Shilpa Shetty, her husband and businessman Raj Kundra, and his company Viaan Industries for violation of its Insider Trading rules. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/ZuJqCbMOfjWater level in J&K's Poonch rises due to incessant rainfall#WATCH | Jammu and Kashmir: The water level of Poonch river has risen due to incessant rainfall for the past few days."Heavy rains are lashing J&K for the last 2-3 days. People are fearing a situation of floods. They are trying to reach a safe place," says a local pic.twitter.com/YAX5AbXLXEHome ministry, Assam, Mizoram agree for deployment of central forceAssam and Mizoram governments agreed to the deployment of a neutral force. Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) is to be deployed in the disturbed Assam and Mizoram border area along National Highway 306 under a senior official of the CAPF, a ministry of home affairs official told news agency ANI.US to provide additional $25M to support India's vaccination driveToday, I'm proud to announce an additional $25 million from the U.S. government, through @USAID, to support India’s COVID-19 vaccination program. The United States’ support will help save lives by strengthening vaccine supply chains across India. pic.twitter.com/In45qnrgIDArvind Kejriwal arrives at Abhishek Banerjee's residence to meet Mamata Banerjee.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal arrived at Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Abhishek Banerjee's residence to meet with TMC party supremo and his Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday, reported ANI. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee arrives at 10, Janpath to meet Sonia GandhiDelhi: West Bengal CM and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee arrives at 10 Janpath to meet Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. pic.twitter.com/9sXfzHgsSLDepositors of banks under moratorium to access money within 90 daysDeposit Insurance Credit Guarantee Corporation was created in case people faced difficulties after RBI imposes moratoriums on banks. Today's Cabinet meeting has decided that within 90 days, depositors will receive ₹5 lakhs of their money: Union Minister Anurag Thakur pic.twitter.com/c89YYsHbZf'Not a political astrologer, depends on situation,' Bengal CMMamata Banerjee talked to reporters in Delhi and avoided making statements on the leadership issue in the country "I am not a political astrologer. Depends on situation, structure, system. It is not that everybody can take the lead. When the matter will be discussed, we can work together," she said.Rakesh Asthana takes charge as police commissioner of DelhiIPS officer Rakesh Asthana takes charges as the new Police Commissioner of Delhi pic.twitter.com/mJ1LUVzsrFMumbai's Esplanade court rejects bail plea of Raj Kundra and Ryan ThorpeMumbai's Esplanade Court rejects bail pleas of Raj Kundra and Ryan Thorpe in pornography case pic.twitter.com/5F3hwrNExGWater logging reported on MDI Chowk in Gurugram"Our traffic officials are on the spot to facilitate the traffic flow. Commuters are requested to plan their travel accordingly," says Gurugram Traffic Police.Rakesh Asthana arrives at Delhi Police HQ to take charge as commissionerRakesh Asthana arrives at Delhi Police headquarters to take charge as commissioner.Antony Blinken met National Security Advisor Ajit Doval todayUS Secy of State Antony Blinken met National Security Advisor Ajit Doval today.They discussed strategic issues of importance in security, defence, economic and tech-related sectors. Special attention was on long-term measures to take relationship to next level: Govt officials.Police deployed at Lalilapur police patrol post in Cachar districtPolice deployed at Lalilapur police patrol post in Cachar district bordering Mizoram following the interstate border clash.Blood clots in people with severe Covid linked to abnormal antibody response: StudyInflammation and blood clotting seen in very severe cases of Covid-19 may be caused by the antibodies sent to fight the disease triggering unnecessary platelet activity in the lungs, according to a study published on Wednesday.Water level in Chenab river may rise due to cloudburst: NHPC LimitedWater level in Chenab river may rise due to cloudburst at 50 km upstream of Kiru in Kishtwar district. Due to this, emergent flushing from Salal reservoir may be done at any time. People are advised not to go near riverbanks: NHPC Limited.Deepening Quad as a collaborative platform is in our mutual interest: S JaishankarPeace and prosperity in Indo-Pacific is as important for both of us as democratic stability in Afghanistan. Deepening Quad as a collaborative platform is in our mutual interest and we must work together even more closely on key contemporary challenges like terrorism: EAM S Jaishankar.Antony Blinken hold talks with EAM S JaishankarUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken hold talks with EAM S Jaishankar in Delhi."I deeply appreciate the work that we have been able to do together and the work that we are going to do together in coming months," Blinken says.Water level increases in Chenab river at Doda due to heavy rainfall in the regionWater level increases in Chenab river at Doda due to heavy rainfall in the region."The river is flowing at higher than its normal water level. People are advised not to venture anywhere near riverbanks of all water-bodies," says Deputy Commissioner, Ramban.Taliban delegation in Beijing for talks with China officialsTaliban delegation in Beijing for talks with China officials, spokesman for insurgents says.Mumbai Police forms 7-member SIT to probe corruption charges against ex-commissioner Param Bir SinghMumbai Police says it has formed a 7-member SIT headed by a DCP-level officer to probe the corruption charges against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and 5 others.News of cloudburst in Kishtwar is deeply disturbing: JP NaddaNews of the cloudburst in Kishtwar (J&K) is deeply disturbing. SDRF, NDRF and the Army have swung into action.My condolences to the grieving families.I request all BJP workers to extend their help: JP Nadda.Centre closely monitoring situation in wake of cloudbursts in Kishtwar, Kargil: PM ModiCentral Government is closely monitoring the situation in the wake of the cloudbursts in Kishtwar and Kargil. All possible assistance is being made available in the affected areas. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being: PM Narendra Modi.Nandu Natekar's success continues to motivate budding athletes: PM ModiShri Nandu Natekar has a special place in India’s sporting history. He was an outstanding badminton player and a great mentor. His success continues to motivate budding athletes. Saddened by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti: PM Modi.Saddened over loss of precious lives due to flash floods: LG Manoj SinhaSaddened over loss of precious lives due to flash floods caused by cloud burst in Dacchan, Kishtwar. My thoughts are with bereaved families: LG Manoj Sinha.Antony Blinken participated in a meeting of representatives of civil society organization in DelhiUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken participated in a meeting of representatives of civil society organization in Delhi."US & India share a commitment to democratic values; this is part of the bedrock of our relationship and reflective of India’s pluralistic society," he tweets.Indian Army sent a 22-member party for rescue operation in KishtwarIndian Army has sent a 22-member party led by Captian Vivek Chauhan for rescue operation in Kishtwar.Priyanka Gandhi condoles loss of lives in Barabanki road accidentCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday condoled the loss of lives in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district, and asked party workers to extend all possible help to those affected by the incident.Karnataka CM-designate Basavaraj Bommai arrives at Raj Bhawan for oath-taking ceremonyKarnataka CM-designate Basavaraj Bommai and BS Yediyurappa arrive at Raj Bhawan for the oath-taking ceremony.J-K cloudburst: Indian Army launches rescue operation in KishtwarThe Indian Army has launched a recuse operation after a cloudburst in the Gulabgarh area of Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday morning.Basavaraj Bommai meets Dharmendra Pradhan, BS YediyurappaKarnataka CM-designate Basavaraj Bommai meets Central BJP observer & Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and former CM BS Yediyurappa in Bengaluru before the oath-taking.Ajay Maken reaches Jaipur amid speculation of Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffleAmid speculation of a Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan, Congress leader Ajay Maken reached Jaipur on Tuesday night on a two-day visit.Building collapses in Mumbai, fireman among 6 injuredSix people, including a fireman, were injured after a part of a four-storey building collapsed in suburban Andheri shortly after midnight on Wednesday, a fire brigade official said.Deeply saddened by the news of road accident in Barabanki: PM ModiDeeply saddened by the news of road accident in Barabanki, UP. My condolences to the bereaved families. I have also spoken to CM Yogi Adityanath. Arrangements are being made for proper treatment of all the injured: PM Narendra Modi.Sensex drops 259.75 points to 52,319.01 in opening sessionSensex drops 259.75 points to 52,319.01 in opening session; Nifty declines 77.15 pts to 15,669.30.India reports 43,654 fresh Covid cases, 41,678 recoveries, and 640 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 3,99,436Total recoveries: 3,06,63,147Death toll: 4,22,022Total vaccination: 44,61,56,659Landslide on Vikas Nagar-Panthaghati road in ShimlaA landslide has occurred on Vikas Nagar-Panthaghati road in Shimla. A car parked alongside the road has been damaged. No other loss was reported: District Disaster Management Authority Shimla.4 bodies have been recovered from debris: J&K Deputy Commissioner4 bodies have been recovered from the debris and 8-9 houses are damaged following cloudburst at Honzar village in Kishtwar, J&K: Dy Commissioner"30 to 40 persons are missing. Rescue operations going on with help of SDRF & Army," tweets Union Minister Jitendra Singh.P V Sindhu defeats Hong Kong's Ngyan Yi CheungIndian badminton ace P V Sindhu defeats Hong Kong's Ngyan Yi Cheung 21-9 21-16 in her second group match of Tokyo Olympics.40 people missing after cloudburst in Jammu's Kishtwar districtA cloud burst has occured in village Honjar Dacchan in Kistwar district of Jammu. Reportedly 40 people are missing. Rescue operation has been launched.Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain to occur in Delhi-NCR today: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday said that thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of few places of Delhi, NCR.Sydney lockdown extended four weeks as Delta surge worsensSydney’s month-long lockdown will be extended by at least another four weeks, with Australian authorities failing to flatten an outbreak of daily Covid-19 cases that on Wednesday surged to another record.Rajnath Singh to address SCO conclave, focus on regional security challengesDefence minister Rajnath Singh, who is in Tajikistan capital Dushanbe, will address a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on Wednesday.World Nature Conservation DayWorld Nature Conservation Day is observed annually on July 28 to acknowledge that a healthy environment is the foundation for a stable and healthy society.World Hepatitis Day 2021World Hepatitis Day (WHD) is celebrated every year on July 28 in order to spread awareness about viral hepatitis, an inflammation of the liver that can cause severe liver disease and hepatocellular cancer.Two killed, 31 injured in explosion at industrial park in GermanyTwo people were killed, 31 injured and several were missing after an explosion at an industrial park for chemical companies in Germany, said media reports.Mamata Banerjee to meet Sonia Gandhi in Delhi todayWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to meet PM Modi, S Jaishankar and NSAUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken is scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He will also hold talks with External affairs minister S Jaishankar and meet National security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval.Basavaraj Bommai to take oath as Karnataka's 23rd chief minister todayBasavaraj Bommai will take oath as Karnataka's 23rd chief minister today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-28-2021-101627428979422.html
28-07-2021||India||Rakesh Asthana appointed Delhi Police commissioner||Director general of the Border Security Force (BSF) Rakesh Asthana, a 1984-batch Indian Police Service officer from the Gujarat cadre, was on Tuesday appointed the commissioner of the Delhi Police, three days before he was to retire.The Union government gave additional charge of the Delhi Police to Balaji Srivastava after the retirement of SN Shrivastava on June 30, and there was no indication at the time that the charge was temporary.Asthana, who has previously headed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), was exonerated in a 2018 bribery case registered by the then Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) chief Alok Verma. He held the post of the special director in the investigative agency.Asthana was moved out of CBI along with Verma on January 10, 2019, after a very public falling out of the two top officers of the agency that threatened to derail its functioning. He was the front-runner for the top job in CBI in May but was dropped after the Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, pointed to a Supreme Court ruling that said no officer with less than six months of tenure left should be named to a top police job.Asthana was key in the unravelling of Indian Mujahideen’s strategy in Gujarat. As the chief of NCB, he was at the forefront of drug seizures and directed the probe into the influx of cocaine and synthetic drugs in the Mumbai film industry. And as BSF DG, he led the force at a time tunnels used by Pakistan-based terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab were busted.Senior IPS officer Balaji Srivastava took over as the 23rd commissioner of the Delhi Police earlier this month. Srivastava, a 1988 batch IPS officer, served as the director general of police in Puducherry and Mizoram. As a special commissioner in Delhi Police, he led special cell, intelligence and economic offences wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-asthana-appointed-delhi-police-commissioner-101627426413655.html
28-07-2021||India||Same person appointed in 2 posts: Twitter to HC||Twitter has appointed the same person as the resident grievance officer (RGO) and the chief compliance officer (CCO) in India, the social media company told the Delhi high court in an affidavit filed earlier this month.After being asked for it by the HC in a hearing on July 8, Twitter’s Vinay Prakash filed his personal affidavit on July 13 disclosing that he is the resident grievance officer as well as the chief compliance officer for Twitter – an appointment mandated under the Information Technology (IT) Rules, 2021.Prakash submitted that he is not an employee of Twitter and had been engaged as a “contingent worker” through a third party. In his affidavit, Prakash said that he was appointed as chief compliance officer by Twitter on July 6 while on the next day; he was designated as resident grievance officer.Twitter, in a separate affidavit filed on July 13, told the court that they have appointed an Indian resident as the CCO and RGO whose services have been taken via a third party contractor. The official, the company added, would perform functions and duties as per applicable law. The company added it would require two weeks to appoint a nodal contact officer (NCO) through a third party.Twitter asked for eight weeks to appoint the CCO, RGO and NCO as a direct employee and on a permanent basis.Advocate Akash Vajpai, for the petitioner, said that since the new Rules do not mention or state in as many words that separate officers have to be appointed, Twitter has taken advantage of this grey area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/same-person-appointed-in-2-posts-twitter-to-hc-101627426061731.html
28-07-2021||India||How the pandemic and lockdown have hit labour markets||The 2019-20 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), which was released last week by the National Statistical Office (NSO), shows a fall in the unemployment rate from 5.8% in 2018-19 to 4.8% 2019-20. Since PLFS follows a July-June timeline rather than the fiscal year (April-March) period, the 2019-20 report includes the 68-day-long hard lockdown. Does this mean that there was no distress in labour markets during the lockdown? An HT analysis suggests that the headline employment numbers in the latest report might be misleading, and a careful reading of the report and the unitlevel data does show signs of pandemicdriven distress in labour markets.1) What do the headline numbers show?The three most important numbers in the PLFS report are labour force participation rate (LFPR), work participation rate (WPR) and unemployment rate (UR). LFPR is the share of population in a given age group which is either working or looking for a job. WPR is the share of population which is actually working. UR is the percentage of unemployed persons in the labour force. There have been three PLFS reports so far, the latest one covering the period from July 2019 to June 2020. A comparison of the three reports shows that LFPR was the highest in 2019-20 and unemployment rate the lowest But these numbers hide more than they reveal. Here is why.2) Covid forced a distress-driven rise in rural jobsImages of thousands of migrant workers walking back to villages after the lockdown are among the most graphic memories of economic distress during the pandemic. The 2019-20 PLFS offers the first official proof of this distress. In keeping with established wisdom on economic transformation, the share of agricultural employment in India has been falling gradually. But 2019-20 was an exception to this trend when agricultural employment actually increased from 42.5% in the 2018-19 PLFS to 45.6% in the 2019-20 PLFS. A comparison of absolute number of jobs by sectors shows that agriculture more than compensated for the job losses in all other sectors of the economy in the April-June 2020 period.The picture becomes even clearer once we look at the quarterly numbers for April-June 2020 and April-June 2019. On a year-on-year basis, urban India saw a reduction of 11.05 million jobs in the April-June 2020 period and rural India saw the addition of 14.7 million jobs. However, the unemployment rate – or the share of people looking for jobs who didn’t find one – increased in both rural and urban areas. As is obvious, unemployment rate increased more sharply in urban areas (from 8.9% to 20.8%) than in rural areas (from 8.7% to 12.2%). The reason unemployment numbers did not increase on an annual basis despite a sharp rise during the lockdown months is simple. They decreased sharply in the July-September 2019 and the October-December 2019 quarters, and to a lesser degree even in the January-March 2020 quarter. That there was distress in urban job-markets was obvious from the quarterly PLFS report for April-June 2020, released in March this year which covers only urban areas. Where the annual report really offers an insight is the rise in what seems to be distress-driven rural employment.3) What happened to wages during lockdown?The short answer is they fell sharply. PLFS gives wage data for three kinds of employment categories: regular wage/salaried, casual workers and self-employed. The self-employed were the worst hit during the lockdown, while regular wage workers suffered a contraction in incomes only in rural areas. The plight of self-employed workers was the worst in urban areas, where real wages fell to 75% of what they were a year ago. While regular wage workers do show an increase in wages at the national level, they only account for about a quarter of the total workers in the data from Periodic Labour Force Survey.4) Underemployment increased as wellTo be sure, both employment and wage statistics do not capture the actual stress in labour markets after the pandemic. This is borne out by another statistic in PLFS; the average number of hours for which work was available to different kind of workers. An average worker worked for 46.5 hours in a week in the April-June 2019 period. This came down to 37 hours in the April-June 2020 period. Urban areas reported a bigger reduction because both regular wage and self-employed recorded a big decrease in hours worked (on account of the hard lockdown). The self-employed were biggest losers in urban areas, while regular wage-earning workers were the biggest losers in rural areas.“An unprecedented increase in share of agricultural employment underlines the rise in distress-driven employment during the pandemic,” said Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. “It is a well-known fact that more people join the workforce during periods of economic distress to compensate for the loss of incomes and the situation must have become worse given the fact that the government offered very little in terms of direct support during the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-pandemic-and-lockdown-have-hit-labour-markets-101627421254987.html
28-07-2021||India||Cannot jail people indefinitely: SC raps CBI on Bhanwari murder case||People’s personal liberty has value and they cannot be put behind bars indefinitely just because the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is unable to conclude its trials in time, said the Supreme Court on Tuesday, as it reproached the agency for opposing bail of an accused in a murder case that involved Congress leaders from Rajasthan.“If CBI is not able to prosecute people for years together, what are we expected to do? It is the agency which has not been able to do its job well. There is some value to people’s personal liberty. We cannot keep everyone behind bars,” observed the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy while granting bail to the accused.The remarks came when the court heard the bail plea of Paras Ram Vishnoi in the 2011 Bhanwari Devi murder case, in which Rajasthan’s former cabinet minister Mahipal Singh Maderna and former MLA Malkhan Singh Bishnoi were named as prime accused. CBI charged 17 people, including the Congress leaders, some of their family members and paid assassins, with the abduction and murder of Bhanwari, who was 36 at the time of death.According to the CBI’s chargesheet, Bhanwari, a trained midwife and nurse, disappeared in September 2011 after a CD surfaced that showed Maderna in “a compromising position” with her and amid reports that she was blackmailing him with the CD. Maderna, who was then Rajasthan’s minister for water resources, was arrested in 2012 along with Bishnoi, also a Congress MLA who allegedly had an affair with Bhanwari before he introduced her to Maderna.CBI said the two political rivals plotted together to get rid of Bhanwari after they were fed up with meeting her demands. In January 2012, nearly four months after Bhanwari’s disappearance, her mortal remains were found in a canal in Jodhpur, near a pit where her body had been set on fire.The Rajasthan high court had in July 2020 refused to grant bail to Vishnoi, who is the brother of Bishnoi, following which Vishnoi had approached the Supreme Court. In February this year, the court asked the trial judge to expedite the trial and hear the case on a day-to-day basis.However, on Tuesday, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for Vishnoi, pointed out that the trial was still going to take a lot of time to conclude in view of 16 other accused deciding to examine the defence witnesses as well.Additional solicitor general SV Raju, representing CBI, opposed bail saying it was a sensational case and releasing one accused on bail may affect the outcome of the trial.But the law officer’s submissions failed to cut ice with the bench that said: “You are saying it is a sensational case but you have not been able to conclude it in the last eight and a half years. A person will remain in jail not knowing when the trial will conclude and whether he is going to be convicted at all or not. We don’t agree that bail will have any impact on the outcome of the case. It is indeed a very serious matter but we cannot keep people behind bars forever.”The bench added: “We did not want to say this but there are special courts meant only for your (CBI’s cases) and trials have been pending for the longest time there. We have come across instances where your prosecutors do not even get their own files to argue cases and borrow the files of the court.”The court then granted bail to Vishnoi and recorded in its order: “We have no doubt that the matter in issue is a serious one and the offence is also heinous. However, we are faced with a position where the appellant, amongst other accused, has been in custody for eight and a half years... we are of the view that pending the trial we cannot keep a person in custody for an indefinite period of time.”On July 23, another bench in the top court had pulled up CBI when it sought to get bail of another accused in this case cancelled. A bench led by justice L Nageswara Rao had noted that CBI had failed in getting one of its key witnesses to the witness box in the last eight years. It gave CBI eight weeks to get Amber Carr, a forensic expert from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to India.Carr had examined the burnt bones recovered by CBI from the canal near Jodhpur and the agency claimed her testimony could establish that the body recovered was of Bhanwari. While CBI insisted on recording her deposition through video-conferencing, the Jodhpur trial court rejected the agency’s plea after underscoring that Carr had never specifically said that she was unable to travel to India and hence, the agency was lacking in its efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-jail-people-indefinitely-sc-raps-cbi-on-bhanwari-murder-case-101627414040322.html
28-07-2021||India||Can’t take elitist view of banning beggars from streets: SC||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would never take an “elitist view” and order the removal of beggars and homeless from the streets, because this is “socio-economic problem arising out of lack of education and employment opportunities.” Even as it asked the Union and the Delhi governments to suggest measures to rehabilitate and vaccinate beggars to protect them from Covid-19, the top court was emphatic that it would never give the impression that “the Supreme Court of India wants beggars kept away” from the eyes of the public. The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a lawyer, Kush Kalra, who sought directives to the Union and the state governments for rehabilitating beggars and ensuring they are vaccinated to prevent spread of coronavirus. But the first prayer in the petition, which was filed through advocate Mohit Paul, asked for restraining beggars, vagabonds and homeless people from asking for money at traffic junctions, markets and public places in all states and Union territories across India so as to avoid the spread of Covid-19 . Referring to this, the bench said that there was no way the court was going to entertain the petition if it was premised on a prayer to direct removal of beggars. “It is a function of poverty. As a Supreme Court, we won’t take this elitist view that we don’t want to see beggars on our streets. Why do people beg? Because they have no choice. They are deprived of sufficient means of livelihood. Nobody wants to beg otherwise,” remarked the bench. It added: “If we issue a notice on this petition in the way it has been drafted, people will think the Supreme Court of India wants beggars removed from their eyes. We can’t say ‘keep them away from our eyes’. We will never do this. This is a socio-economic problem which the Centre and states must address as a wider issue of social welfare policy. There should rather be education of the children who we see on the street begging.” Senior advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma, arguing for the PIL, agreed that the petition was not properly worded and emphasised that the prayer could be confined to rehabilitation and vaccination of the beggars. Advocate Mohit Paul too submitted that the petitioner wanted the plea regarding a restraint against the beggars withdrawn since they were in the court primarily to seek rehabilitation. Following this submission, the bench agreed to issue notices to the Centre and the Delhi government , seeking their response on “how to deal with this human situation” for urgent need to vaccinate beggars, vagabonds and homeless people and provide basic amenities during the pandemic. The court further requested solicitor general Tushar Mehta to assist the court on the next date of hearing. In its order, the bench recorded that the petition will be amended in order to do away with the prayer on removing the beggars from the streets. “At the outset, we have indicated that the court is not inclined to countenance a prayer seeking a direction in the above terms. The reason why people are required to take to the streets to beg is to eke out an elementary livelihood in the absence of education and employment. It is a social-economic problem and cannot be remedied in this way,” the court noted in its order as it fixed the matter after two weeks. Kalra’s petition said that the Union government and states were not only duty-bound to secure the right to health of each and every individual in our country but to ensure that the beggars be rehabilitated across the country. “The respondents (Centre and states) should be directed to prepare a road map to rehabilitate the beggars and the vagabonds with the help of social welfare departments and the district magistrates of the concerned states,” stated the plea. It added that till date there was no legislation or policy in India providing for rehabilitation of beggars either at the central level or at state levels despite the fact that the number of beggars in all states and UTs is at least 400,000 according to official data of the Government of India issued in March 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-take-elitist-view-of-banning-beggars-from-streets-sc-101627413980253.html
28-07-2021||India||India sees you with pride: President in Kashmir||Srinagar: President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday said that democracy has the capacity to reconcile all differences and bring out the best of citizens’ potentials, and that the people of Kashmir were “happily” realising this vision.The President also asserted that Kashmir is bound to acquire its rightful place as the crowning glory of India and the younger generation will slowly realise this dream.Speaking at the 19th annual convocation of University of Kashmir at Sheri Kashmir International Convocation Centre (SKICC), Kovind said: “Kashmir, happily, is already realising this vision. Democracy lets you build your own future, a peaceful and prosperous tomorrow. The youth and women especially have high stakes in it, and I am sure they will not let go of this opportunity to rebuild lives and rebuild Kashmir.”Kovind also said that exciting new possibilities are opening up in the region.“The whole of India is watching you with admiration and pride. Kashmiri youth are scaling new heights in a variety of sectors, from civil service exams to sports and entrepreneurial ventures,” he said, adding that he wishes to see the Valley as paradise on earth.“I am squarely banking on the younger generation of Jammu and Kashmir to realise this dream which I am sure will come true sooner than later. Kashmir is bound to acquire its rightful place as the crowning glory of India,” he said.The President, who arrived in Srinagar on Sunday for a four-day visit to the Union territory, also urged the younger generation to learn from Kashmir’s rich legacy, saying that violence, which was never a part of the Valley, became a daily reality. It was most unfortunate that this outstanding tradition of peaceful existence was broken, he added.“Violence, which was never part of ‘Kashmiriyat’, became the daily reality. It is alien to Kashmiri culture, and it can only be termed as an aberration – a temporary one, much like a virus that attacks the body and needs to be purged. Now, there is a new beginning and determined efforts to regain this land’s lost glory,” he said.The President said that Kashmir has always been a beacon of hope for the rest of the country. “Its spiritual and cultural influence has its imprint all across India,” he said.“It is impossible to write a history of Indian philosophy without referring to Kashmir’s contributions to it. One of the oldest manuscripts of the Rigveda were written in Kashmir… Hinduism and Buddhism flourished in Kashmir, as did Islam and Sikhism after it arrived here in later centuries,” he added.Quoting the Valley’s medieval spiritual poetess Lal Ded, Kovind said one can see how Kashmir provides the template for communal harmony and peaceful coexistence.“This is also reflected in all aspects of life here, in folk arts and festivals, in food and dress. The core nature of the place has always been inclusive. Almost all religions that came to this land embraced a unique feature of Kashmiriyat that shunned orthodoxy and encouraged tolerance and mutual acceptance among communities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-you-with-pride-president-in-kashmir-101627413860264.html
28-07-2021||India||‘People must have faith in govt’s promise of statehood’: J&K Guv Manoj Sinha||In the run-up to the second anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370, and against the backdrop of recent outreach efforts by the Union government, Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha spoke to Hindustan’s Shashi Shekhar on his administration’s plans and strategies, during a long conversation at the Raj Bhawan in Srinagar. Edited excerpts:My tongue fumbles as I try to say ‘Lieutenant Governor.’ When would I be able to address you as Mr Governor?I will try to give a direct answer. You want to know when it [Jammu & Kashmir] will get the status of statehood? Home Minister Amit Shah has given a clear assurance in the country’s Parliament that statehood will be announced at the appropriate time. The Prime Minister also said this when he addressed the nation. Recently, when representatives of various political parties met in Delhi on June 24, the question was raised again. Even there the Home Minister repeated that statehood will be given at the appropriate time. You will understand the significance of something said in the national Parliament. I believe the people of the nation and Jammu and Kashmir must trust them.A number of promises were made to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. You have even promised the homecoming of Kashmiri Pandits. When will be the proper time for their return?I will come to the Kashmiri Pandit question later, but I would like to draw your attention to the promises that were made and fulfilled in the last few years. A programme runs under the name of Prime Minister Development Fund (PMDP). After the bifurcation , broadly speaking, development projects worth ₹55000 crores are being run as part of this programme and I am happy to announce that when I had come here, the portion spent was about 23% and , despite two waves of Covid,that has today risen to about 67%. Today Jammu and Kashmir has an Indian Institute of technology, an Indian Institute of Management, two central universities, and two All India Institutes of Medical Science are being set up. Plus, new medical colleges are coming up. A National Institute of Fashion Technology has been set up, along with one Bone Institute and two Cancer Institutes, and seven paramedical and nursing colleges. Here I am talking about just one region. Last year we completed more than 16,000 projects and this year, this number will reach 30,000 . We have modified the land laws and many people have a difference of opinion over these. I would like to mention just a few laws. You needed the excise minister’s approval to set up an orchard and even to cut its produce. I don’t think there could have been a worse law for farmers. There is no need to seek permission to set up an orchard now. We are moving towards a new Jammu and Kashmir.What about Kashmiri Pandits…Let me share two facts about Kashmiri Pandits with you. The Government of India promised to create 6,000 jobs and build 6,000 houses. This was being disrupted for one reason or another. Today, except 164 posts that are vacant, everybody else has got a job. The remaining posts will be filled in three, four months. As far as accommodation is concerned, 1800 flats are being built quickly as one-room sets that will be complete in six, seven months. The remaining land has also been identified. These houses will be built over the next two years, but I believe just jobs and accommodation are not enough to rehabilitate Kashmiri Pandits. We have taken a number of decisions that will create a conducive atmosphere for their return and rehabilitation. Secondly, we are going to take many other administrative decisions that will make it convenient for them to return. You will certainly see the results in the next six months.The unemployment rate in Kashmir is almost double the rest of the country. Some of them are sitting idle at home without jobs. How will you address this imbalance?Our unemployment rate was at 19.3 in March, which went up during the pandemic but the new statistic for this month is 10.3 or 10.4. We are better than Goa, Delhi and Rajasthan.Why didn’t you name Uttar Pradesh?It didn’t occur to me. At this time, I would like to submit that if you want to understand Jammu-Kashmir (J&K), you must know one fundamental fact: The population of J&K is 13 million and the budget passed by Parliament is to the tune of ₹1.08 lakh crore. This hasn’t happened only this year. The figure was ₹1 lakh crore last year and ₹90,000 crore before that. Since Independence, this has been seven or eight times compared to other states. Despite this, 970 villages do not have road connectivity. There are many places that don’t even have grid electricity. We haven’t been able to organise clean drinking water for many. This is the misfortune of J&K. We launched a ‘Back to the Village’ programme and kept a target of identifying two young people from every panchayat and providing them self-employment and offered a loan of up to ₹10 lakh loan at a subsidised rate. I am happy that we were able to provide loans to 19,873 people. Of these, 4500 are women. We have a target of providing loans to 50,000 young people for self-employment.There are complaints that announcements have been made for MSMEs, but the banks don’t disburse loans… There is no such complaint in Jammu and Kashmir. Secondly, we are setting up youth clubs in the Panchayat. Through these, we are initiating skill development at a very rapid pace, in association with Tata Technology. Children are being provided 360-degree training in financial services along with the Bombay Stock Exchange. Young people who have completed school can easily earn between ₹25,000 and ₹30,000 with just three months of training.Are you doing anything special for women?Our focus is on women and young people. A number of schemes have been launched including Hausala and Tejaswini. Apart from government officials, youngsters from IIM came forward to train students. Women have traditionally been part of the workforce here. If you look back at history, you will discover that Kashmir is the only region in which a guerrilla army of women was formed. Women here are already empowered. We are giving encouragement to this by creating a conducive atmosphere for them. Our sisters in Kashmir are very talented and they are coming forward to take their rightful place in society. You took along members of the Gupkar Alliance last month but their tone changed when they returned. On the one hand it is said they don’t have the people’s mandate on the other, they are invited for talks.I think the political process had begun before I took over. When I was coming here, the PM told me two things. One, increase dialogue with common citizens as much as possible. Secondly, Panchayati Raj institutions need to be strengthened. A three-tier Panchayati Raj system has been implemented for the first time.The panchayat polls were quite successful here, but the poll percentage was less in the Valley…Please compare the votes polled to those polled in the assembly and Lok Sabha elections for the past 3-4 times. The constituencies that saw a voting percentage of 8% saw a 28% turnout this time. The nation needs to know that an election was held for the first time in 20 years in which not even a drop of blood was shed in Jammu-Kashmir. You won’t meet any person who can say the election wasn’t impartial. Meanwhile, it would be wrong to say that just the Gupkar alliance was invited. Leaders of all political parties had gone [for the all-party meet].Granted, no blood was shed in the elections, but attacks on the armed forces and their family members have increased. Elected representatives are being targeted. What is your policy regarding this?The armed forces are in a better position today. Cross-border incursions have stopped as a whole. Violent incidents have also reduced and stone-throwing is history. Still, a few incidents that took place could have been avoided. Those who have given patronage to terrorism, those who have financed it, wherever they are, even if they are they are part of the government machinery, are being dealt with firmly.Now drones are being used for attacks. Why haven’t we been able to thwart the conspiracy being hatched by foreign agencies to worsen the situation in Kashmir and trouble its citizens?Drones have been seen in the last few months. A few drones were shot down by BSF personnel, some were captured, particularly those being used for smuggling of arms and narcotics. Now a drone was seen at the Jammu air base. As far as the international scenario is concerned, the country’s ministry of external affairs and the Government of India will worry about it. Whatever needs to be fixed here is our responsibility and we will do it without any delay.Do you see any impact of the developments in Afghanistan here?I have already made it clear that we won’t wait for things to happen… whatever needs to be done, will be done.Coming back to the economy and jobs, until the nation’s industrial houses invest here, it won’t be easy to create jobs and economic development. Are you doing anything special in this direction?A new industrial scheme has been launched in which we are extending an incentive of ₹28,400 crore. Arguably no other state in the country can boast of such an industrial policy. We are giving a 300% incentive in GST. This means you can gain the incentive, provided you begin manufacturing. Investments of around ₹25,000 crore were expected to come to the state and between 4 lakh and 5 lakh people were expected to gain employment, but looking at the enthusiastic response, I feel investment to the tune of between 40,000 crore and 50,000 crore will come here and between 8 lakh and 9 lakh jobs will be created.How much of this Is in Jammu and how much in Kashmir? How many of them are coming to the Valley?Plenty of people are coming to the Valley as well as Jammu. There may be a difference of 5-10%, but there isn’t any imbalance.How did you win the war against Corona? Your vaccination levels are perhaps the best in the country.Deaths have occurred here as well. We have deep empathy for those who have lost their loved ones and we have launched a scheme called Saksham for those who have lost family members to the pandemic. The administration must have a humane face. Looking at this, we have taken up the responsibility of their family members. There wasn’t even a single day when we had to say we don’t have oxygen beds. As many as 98 per cent of those over the age of 45 have been vaccinated.List three achievements you are proud ofOne, restoring the democratic process and Panchayati Raj institutions for the first time since Independence. Two, creating an entirely transparent administration and three, creating an administration that is answerable to people. The three top priorities are peace, progress and prosperity for the people,Three such tasks, which you think must be accorded higher priority?On the basis of priority, rehabilitating them [Kashmiri Pandits]. Second, creating as many job opportunities as possible. Three, ensuring that industrial activity becomes a reality here and transforms people’s lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-must-have-faith-in-govt-s-promise-of-statehood-101627413800880.html
28-07-2021||India||NHRC team on a witch-hunt, says Bengal govt in affidavit on poll violence||Kolkata: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) enquiry committee looking into post-poll violence in West Bengal is merely spearheading a witch hunt against the Mamata Banerjee-administration in Bengal as part of a concerted effort to discredit a democratically elected state government, the West Bengal government said in an affidavit filed on July 26 before the Calcutta high court. “The Committee has been deliberately constituted to spearhead a witch hunt against the entire state machinery in West Bengal….In conclusion it is stated that concerted efforts are being made by those behind the Committee to completely discredit a democratically elected state government,” stated the 95-page affidavit. In June a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court directed NHRC to constitute a committee to examine all cases of alleged human rights violation during violence after the assembly polls, the results of which were declared on May 2. The state’s ruling Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party fought a bitter and intense electoral battle; the latter expected to win at least 200 seats but it was the TMC that swept the elections and returned to power. While the seven member committee headed by NHRC member Rajiv Jain submitted an interim report on July 2, the final report was submitted on July 13. The state government affidavit also said that some of the committee members have a close association with the Bhartiya Janta Party or the BJP-led Union government. They were deliberately chosen to give a negative report against the state, it argued. “Several members of the Committee are either members of the BJP or are known to be closely associated with the ruling dispensation in the central government. Therefore, the credibility of the Committee inasmuch as they are expected to investigate in an unbiased and neutral manner is questionable,” stated the affidavit, while calling the PILs on post-poll violence politically motivated. A senior official of NHRC declined comment on the state government’s affidavit saying that the matter was being heard by the court. “The enquiry committee was formed on the HC’s direction. The NHRC report is based on facts provided by the state’s DGP which shows that the police received at least 29 murder complaints. Still the CM is saying nothing has happened. Whether recommending a CBI probe is beyond the NHRC’s purview it is for the court to decide,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state. The NHRC report recommended that incidents of post-poll violence should be probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and trials held outside the state; it added that the spate of violence in the state shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus. “The committee has no power to recommend any course of action, as has been done in the report…Thus, in purporting to recommend the investigation by CBI and trial of post-poll violence outside the state of West Bengal, the committee has exceeded its mandate and in doing so, the committee has clearly demonstrated its bias,” the state’s affidavit stated. The NHRC report slammed the Mamata Banerjee administration calling the clashes a “death knell” for democracy. It had also said that the situation in the state of West Bengal is a manifestation of law of ruler, instead of rule of law. The state’s affidavit on Monday chose to reply in the same terms saying that such concerted efforts to discredit a democratically elected state government are the real “death knell to democracy in this great nation”. The matter is likely to be heard by the five-judge bench headed by acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta high Court Rajesh Bindal on July 28. At least two TMC legislators, Jyotipriyo Mullick and Partha Bhowmik, who were branded as ‘notorious criminals / goons’ in the NHRC report have separately moved the Calcutta high court challenging the report. The report named more than 123 people, some of the local TMC leaders, and tagged them as notorious criminals and goons. The list includes former TMC MLA Udayan Guha and Mamata Banerjee’s election agent in Nandigram, Sheikh Sufiyan.“I have been named in the list as a goon under Sandeshkhali police station. Not a single FIR or GD is lodged against me in that police station. Then how my name was included? I have faith on the judiciary,” Mullick told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-team-on-a-witch-hunt-says-bengal-govt-in-affidavit-on-poll-violence-101627413800279.html
28-07-2021||India||Mamata calls on PM, seeks all-party meet on Pegasus||“The Lok Sabha election is a long way from now -- but the planning has to be done in advance,” West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee said on the secondday of her five-day visit to the national capital, explicitly stating what many see as one of the main objectives of her visit, the first after her party returned to power in the state, defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).On Tuesday, she met three senior Congress leaders, Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Abhishek Singhvi. Party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and poll strategist Prashant Kishor were also present in some of the meetings. According to one of the leaders who met her, the meetings were primarily focused on ways to strengthen Opposition unity. She is scheduled to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday for what she called “chai pe charcha” (a conversation over tea).Amid furious protests over the targeting of phones of journalists, politicians, activists, businessmen, and others using military grade spyware Pegasus, Banerjee said after her meeting with the PM that the government should call an all-party meeting and supported calls for a Supreme Court monitored probe.“I sought time from the PM after winning for the third time with the blessings of the people,” she said, adding that the two chatted for “more than half an hour” and that Prime Minister Modi was in a “good mood”. A Trinamool leader said that Modi even asked Banerjee if she is still walking 20 km a day, to which the chief minister replied that she now walks only 18 km a day.During her interaction with the Prime Minister, Banerjee sought more vaccine doses for her state. The TMC claims that as against a quota of 7.5 million doses, Bengal, with a population of 110 million people, has received only 2.3 million doses thus far in July. “I also asked him to expedite the change in name of West Bengal (to Bangla) since the proposal has been pending for more than three years.” The two leaders also discussed the Pegasus issue.While the PM-CM meeting was more about the state’s development issues, Banerjee’s Delhi visit is also aimed at consolidating her position in the Opposition camp and to explore the possibilities of more Opposition unity with an eye on the 2024 general election.“I am always hopeful of an Opposition unity. We will definitely have a meeting of all Opposition parties but only after Covid subsides. Soniaji has called me tomorrow over tea. We will have chai pe charcha,” the Bengal CM said, riffing off the series of events Modi held under that branding ahead of the 2014 polls.Banerjee will not go to the Central Hall of Parliament as reported in some quarters, but she is expected to meet Shiv Sena leaders, the Nationalist Congress Party’s Sharad Pawar and other opposition leaders.When reminded about how personal aspirations have often ruined grand alliances, she evaded talk of leadership issues and quipped, “The country will lead.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-calls-on-pm-seeks-all-party-meet-on-pegasus-101627413620231.html
28-07-2021||India||Free colour TV scheme: Over 1,000 TVs bought under DMK tenure, found locked||Chennai: More than thousand colour television sets purchased by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government during the fag end of its previous regime (2006-2011) have been found locked up inside a community hall in Semmandalam in Cuddalore district for 11 years. These colour television sets were not distributed after the AIADMK was elected in 2011 and remained in power until this year.The television sets were part of DMK’s free colour television scheme which it had promised before the 2006 assembly elections.After the DMK came back to power this May, the local residents who wanted to use the community hall and local vernacular media drew the attention of the newly appointed district collector K Balasubramaniam that the television sets have been lying idle stacked up inside cartons.“There are likely to be 1,000 TVs. We will count them shortly,” said Balasubramaniam . The hall where the TVs are stored is now locked and sealed and two police constables are working in shifts to protect the premises round-the-clock. “We don’t want anti-social elements to enter,” the collector said. The district officials are planning to rope in engineers to check the condition of the TVs. The working TVs will be distributed to government-run institutions such as anganwadis and hospitals.HT reached out to Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Department Corporation but they did not respond to calls and messages.In June 2011, J Jayalalithaa scrapped the flagship free colour TV distribution scheme of the M Karunanidhi regime she had decimated in the assembly polls. She had ordered that the 127,000 remaining television sets that were to be distributed be given to hospitals, schools, orphanages and panchayats.A senior bureaucrat who worked in the chief minister’s special cell at that time recalled this order. “Also all districts were instructed to send the TVs that were not distributed to warehouses,” the official said, not wishing to be identified. “All districts followed the instructions. There could have been some law and order issue why Cuddalore district didn’t distribute or send it to warehouses.”Ariyalur district collector P Ramana Saraswathi has asked revenue officials to inspect and report if any such television sets purchased under the scheme are stored away as in the case of Cuddalore. Saraswathi who was the revenue officer of Tirunelveli district during the previous regime said that they had distributed the excess television sets. “There were only about a 100 TVs left in Tirunelveli in 2012,” she says. “We distributed it to hostels run by the Adi Dravidar and Tribal welfare department and to old age homes. Now that I’ve been appointed in Ariyalur, I’ve voluntarily asked for officials to follow up on this.”It was among several programmes of the Karunanidhi government that Jayalalithaa reversed which she termed corrupt after returning to power; riding on the 2G-spectrum scam. She accused the DMK of running this scheme to favour local cable television franchises, which was owned by the Marana brothers, Kalanidhi and Dayanidhi, who are grandnephews of Karunanidhi.At that time, Jayalalithaa had said in the Tamil Nadu assembly that the DMK had planned to distribute 1 million TV sets in the 6th phase of the scheme when the government was in transition. Of these some 0.75 million TVs had to be procured but Jayalaithaa cancelled them.The DMK has defended providing colour televisions as a means to offer exposure to the economically weaker sections via TV programmes and as a mark of self respect so that poor people didn’t have to watch television through the windows of others’ homes. “In 2011, several TVs were stored across Tamil Nadu but we don’t know what happened to them,” says R S Bharathi, DMK’s organising secretary and Rajya Sabha MP. “Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) had issued a statement that they were not being distributed to beneficiaries. Jayalalithaa freezed the scheme which she should have continued,” he said adding that concerned government departments are following up on this case.The DMK government had spent around ₹3,687 crore in the five years in its 2006-2011 regime to purchase 10.64 million television sets. The average cost of a television set was about ₹2,265 purchased by ELCOT (Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited). “People are still using these TVs. The picture clarity is substandard but free TVs meant for public lying idle for a decade is definitely dumping the taxpayers money in the dustbin,” said political commentator Maalan Narayanan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-colour-tv-scheme-over-1-000-tvs-bought-under-dmk-tenure-found-locked-in-cuddalore-101627413560262.html
28-07-2021||India||Rolls Royce case: HC stays remarks against actor Vijay, asks him to pay tax||Chennai: Granting a relief to Tamil actor Vijay, the Madras high court on Tuesday granted an interim stay of the previous order that was heavily critical of him for having challenged paying entry tax for his luxury car, a Rolls-Royce Ghost, that was imported from England in 2012. A two-judge bench of Justices M Duraiswamy and R Hemalatha also directed the actor to pay the balance 80% of the entry tax within one week. They posted the case for hearing on August 8. The senior counsel appearing for the actor submitted that while other petitions were dismissed without any observations,adding “the learned single judge had dismissed the present writ petition making damaging observations against the appellant and also imposing a cost of Rs.100,000.” “Further, the learned senior counsel submitted that in the event of the authority issuing demand challan to the appellant claiming the balance 80% of the entry tax, he would pay the said amount within a period of one week,” the court noted. The case relates to an order passed by a single judge-bench of Justice SM Subramaniam on July 8. The senior counsel for Vijay said that the actor is aggrieved by the observations made by the single judge as well as the imposed fine of Rs1,00,000. The judge had made several critical remarks against the actor including differentiating between a real and reel hero. “This court is of the considered opinion that the non-payment of entry tax by the petitioner, can never be appreciated and the petitioner has not respected nor responded to the lakhs and lakhs of his fans, who has paid by viewing his movies and from and out of such money, the petitioner / actor purchased the world’s prestigious car for his personal usage,” the judge had said in his orders dated July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rolls-royce-case-hc-stays-remarks-against-actor-vijay-asks-him-to-pay-tax-101627413500263.html
28-07-2021||India||Let us hope govts respond, says SC on plea seeking implementation of 2012 law||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked central and state governments to respond to a petition seeking implementation of a law prescribing minimum standards for affordable and quality healthcare that has been in operation since February 2012.The petition filed by NGO Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, Patients’ Rights Campaign and activist KM Gopakumar sought the implementation of the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010, the Clinical Establishment (Central Government) Rules, 2012 and the Patients’ Rights Charter prepared by National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) along with Union Health Ministry in August 2018.Linking the petition to the present Covid-19 pandemic, the petition filed by advocate Srishti Agnihotri said: “The lack of implementation of provisions of the Clinical Establishments Act and rules has exposed a majority of the population to the potential exploitation by private healthcare providers, leading to the denial of the right to health during the Covid-19 pandemic.”A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana and justice Surya Kant said the bench will issue notice. “Let us hope the Governments will respond.”The petition argued by senior advocate Sanjay Parikh said 70% of the healthcare sector falls within the domain of private hospitals. This law provides for common conditions for registration of clinical establishments, minimum standards of facilities and services, the requirement of personnel, fixation of rates for each type of medical and pathological procedure and services within the range of rates determined by the central government issued from time to time, for all times than for specific situations of the pandemic, he submitted.Parikh said the 2010 law applies to 11 states and six union territories. The Act provides for the establishment of the National Council for Clinical Establishments and State Council/ UT council in the respective states/UTs to prescribe standard guidelines for treatment rates to be charged, medical infrastructure and facilities. Even the National Health Policy 2017 recommends implementation of patients’ rights as key process standards, along with setting up a medical tribunal for resolutions of complaints by patients.The bench observed, “The Rules of 2012 expect small laboratories to have academically qualified persons. It is a very burdensome thing for them. Ultimately they will pass the burden to the patients.” The petition pointed out that having a law that is not implemented as also the patients’ rights charter amounts to a violation of citizens’ right to health guaranteed under Article 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-us-hope-govts-respond-says-sc-on-plea-seeking-implementation-of-2012-law-101627413441414.html
28-07-2021||India||Pegasus row: Key TN activists on target list slam move||Chennai: Key figures in Tamil Nadu who have been potentially snooped for clients of the Israeli company NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware, expressed that they are not surprised being on the list but condemned the move. Paris-based journalism non-profit Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International which had access to the list shared it with 17 news organizations in 10 countries including The Wire, an online news portal. Among more than 50,000 phone numbers that included surveillance targets, names of key figures from Tamil Nadu have been found published by the portal. The list of potential targets include S Seeman, founder of Naam Thamizhar Katchi (NTK), Thirumurugan Gandhi, founder of May 17 movement, K Ramakrishnan founder of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam and V Kumaresan, treasurer of Dravidar Kazhagam. All of them have a common factor that binds them-- an ideology following the tenets of EV Ramasamy or Periyar, the father of the Dravidian movement.“In principle, Tamil nationalism based on Periyar or Dravidian ideology is against religious fundamentalism and caste atrocities which is a threat to the BJP’s Hindutva,” says Gandhi who has more than 40 cases filed against him including three sedition cases. He was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in 2018 but the case was eventually dropped. “I’ve had intelligence officers following me in whichever city I lived in,” said Gandhi, adding, “So being monitored isn’t new to me but it’s disturbing that they have used such sophisticated and expensive software to target us. If you see the list, there is no one from a terrorist organisation. It only has those who are working in the public front for peace. So it’s a weird operation. It raises the question if they are targeting us politically.” Gandhi, who has a masters in software engineering, started the May 17 movement following the end of the civil war in Sri Lanka in 2009. He has rallied for the rights of the Sri Lankan Tamils in the EU parliament in 2018, for human rights in Tamil Nadu and spoke out against BJP’s economic policies. Gandhi’s family, like that of other activists, has been affected given his nature of work. Even before the Pegasus revelation, his wife lost her job, he had to shift his daughter to a different school and move several homes. “How do you talk to your wife or father when you know someone is watching you?” But Gandhi doesn’t want to dwell on how this affects him personally stating that activists like Sudha Baradwaj and late Stan Swamy have gone through worse. “The larger issue is that this is an attack on democracy. If we don’t stop this now, it will become the norm,” warns Gandhi. “This sort of surveillance will lead to real dictatorship and worse, we will be victims if we don’t think or act the way government wants us to. If we get there, we can never break the system.”If required, Gandhi has offered to give his android phone to those associated with the Pegasus project for forensic analysis. He has used the same phone number for two decades. Kumaresan who has been with the Dravidar Kazhagam for more than three decades said they were made a target due to their ideology. “We are diagonally opposite to the RSS’ ideology so who else will they spy on?” Kumaresan asked. Around the time when RSS was founded in Nagpur is when Periyar began to advocate the self-respect movement in Tamil Nadu. Periyar later founded Dravida Kazhagam, the ideological parent of Tamil Nadu’s Dravidian parties-DMK and AIADMK. DK has kept out of electoral politics. “Our ideological commitment has remained the same unlike political parties who change according to circumstance. So it doesn’t come as a shock to us that they want to watch us,” said Kumaresan. “But this infringes my fundamental right to privacy,” he said. Kumaresan, who also uses an android phone plans to continue using the same number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-key-tn-activists-on-target-list-slam-move-101627413440251.html
28-07-2021||India||As K’taka grapples with floods, BJP busy playing politics: Congress||A day after the BS Yediyurappa resigned from his post of the Karnataka chief minister, the Congress party attacked the BJP for not paying attention to the flood-affected areas of the state. On Monday, Karnataka Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot accepted Yediyurappa’s resignation and asked him to continue as the caretaker CM till the next CM takes oath while dissolving the council of ministers headed by Yediyurappa with immediate effect. Eshwar Khandre, working president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) said that the state doesn’t have a government when it is going through a severe calamity. “When people have lost their livelihoods, the legislators of the BJP are fighting within for power. The BJP has failed the people,” he said. He added that people have seen misgovernance from the BJP and the party will not last long in power. “As per my assessment, because of the fights within the party, there will be a requirement for fresh elections,” Khandre said. Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, too, took on the BJP, alleging that the Centre has failed to come to the aid of the state during the floods. He said this was witnessed during the 2019 floods and the current situation. Siddaramaiah told reporters here on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi neither visited the state during the 2019 floods when the condition was severe nor during the current situation. “The state government has also not released funds to aid the flood-affected people. It should cut down on other unwanted expenses and mobilise funds to manage the flood situation and provide relief to the affected. Managing the flood situation should be the first priority of the government, he said. The former chief minister said Congress party leaders are visiting the flood-affected areas and would submit a report to the government to provide funds for flood-affected areas. “We shall also demand convening of a legislative session to discuss the flood situation,” he noted. Siddaramaiah later left for Khanapur and Hukkeri taluks to inspect the flood situation. The flood situation in Karnataka continues to remain grim with 10 people losing their lives in rain-related incidents and two people reported missing so far. Even though former chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday said that he would write to the Centre to release funds for carrying out flood relief work, officials in the know of the developments said no such letter has been written so far. Districts of the Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Dharwad and Haveri bore the brunt of the heavy downpour among the 11 affected districts. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-k-taka-grapples-with-floods-bjp-busy-playing-politics-congress-101627411880182.html
28-07-2021||India||Bill to acquire Chhattisgarh medical college triggers row||A controversy has erupted in Chhattisgarh over the Bhupesh Baghel government’s plan to acquire a privately-run medical college with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that the decision, highlighted in a media report on Tuesday morning, was designed to bail out the loss-making college because it was run by a board that has one of the chief minister’s relatives as a member.Chief minister Baghel on Tuesday tweeted his rebuttal , insisting that his only aim was to save the medical college and benefit the state’s students. “By acquiring (it), we will save the time to open a new medical college and we will get 150 doctors every year,” the chief minister said.Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singhdeo is slated to introduce a bill in the state assembly on Wednesday that seeks to acquire the privately-owned Chandulal Chandrakar Memorial Medical College (CCMH) in Durg district.According to its website, the college, named after senior Congress leader and five-time member of Parliament Chandulal Chandrakar, was set up in 2013 and is run by a 59-member board. Among those on the board is a member of the joint family into which Baghel’s daughter is married.The opposition alleged the government was pushing the deal to help the loss-making college.BJP spokesperson Gauri Shankar Srivas said public interest clearly wasn’t driving the government’s hand.“This is a serious issue… We will raise the issue in the state assembly and knock on the doors of the high court if needed. This government is benefitting their relatives which is a matter of concern.”Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (Jogi) president Amit Jogi claimed the college has an outstanding debt of ₹125 crore and was not recognised by the MCI since 2017.”If after all this, the government is acquiring the college, it is because of the chief minister’s relative,” Amit Jogi said.Government spokesperson and senior minister Ravindra Chaubey said this wasn’t true.“The aim is to benefit people of the entire state of Chhattisgarh. Secondly, to open a new medical college, we need around ₹500 crore only for infrastructure. This college has got permission of Medical Council of India (MCI) and they have already got infrastructure hence we are acquiring it at half its actual price.”Dev Chandrakar, who is on the college’s board of directors, said the family of the chief minister’s son-in-law was not linked with the college in any way. The board only asked the government to acquire the college since “we were not able to run it”, he said, declining to elaborate.Baghel, who put out a string of tweets in defence of the decision, did not give details of the bill but underscored that if the government concludes that something is in the public interest, it will acquire a private medical college as well as the plant in Nagarnar, a reference to his government’s offer to buy the National Mineral Development Corporation-run steel plant if the Centre wants to divest its share.“As far as benefiting family members is concerned, I want to tell the people of the state, Bhupesh Baghel is accountable to them and always done politics of transparency...When the deal is done, everything will be clear,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-acquire-chhattisgarh-medical-college-triggers-row-101627411283520.html
28-07-2021||India||HC halts probe in Jarkiholi case as SIT chief on leave||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday ordered a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the alleged sex-for-job scandal involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi to stop its investigation after it transpired that the SIT chief has been on medical leave since 1 May.The bench, which also barred the SIT from submitting its final report, said it must first examine the legality of the investigation conducted in the absence of Soumendu Mukherjee, the senior Indian Police Service officer who was designated to lead the SIT in March this year.Ramesh Jarkiholi resigned from the BS Yediyurappa cabinet on March 3 after a video emerged in which a person resembling the minister was seen with an unnamed woman. A self-proclaimed social activist who released the video clip, screenshots and a telephonic conversation, accused the minister of sexually exploiting the woman. The Gokak legislator, however, insisted that he was innocent and after his resignation, linked the accusation to a political conspiracy against him.The SIT, headed by Somendu Mukherjee, was formed a day after Jarkiholi alleged a political conspiracy.On Tuesday, the bench of chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and justice NS Sanjay Gowda said it couldn’t find any order that empowered another officer to lead the probe.“We have perused the report dated July 19, filed by Joint Commissioner of Police Crime. In the said report it is mentioned that Soumendu Mukherjee IPS, Additional Commissioner of Police is on medical leave since May 1, 2021. We may note here that under the order dated March 11, which is the subject matter of challenge in two of the four petitions, it is mentioned that Soumendu Mukherjee is the leader of SIT. The question is, in the absence of the head of SIT, whether the investigation could have proceeded,” asked the bench.The bench said that it was not known if the report submitted on behalf of the SIT had been approved by the head of SIT. “...Therefore, apart from the issue of legality and validity of the constitution of SIT, the issue of the legality of the investigation carried in the absence of the head of SIT will have to be gone into by this court,” the bench added.The bench directed the Karnataka government and the SIT to respond to the query if the SIT could continue its investigation in the absence of its head when nothing has been placed on record to show that the Bengaluru police commissioner has appointed a new SIT chief.Senior lawyer Indira Jaisingh, representing the victim, contested the order constituting the SIT and submitted that the team’s probe was “mala fide and shows complete prejudice”.She also cited a news report on Tuesday that indicated the SIT hasn’t found any evidence to initiate prosecution in the sexual assault case filed by the woman but has found evidence to prosecute the woman and two others who were allegedly involved in extortion from the BJP MLA. It also added that the SIT has proposed to file a closure report in the sexual assault case and a charge sheet in the extortion caseThe bench indicated its displeasure at the SIT sharing the report with the media. “Let us first see the report first. Your (SIT) report is of July 19 and if it is leaked in the media then you (SIT) owe an explanation,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-halts-probe-in-jarkiholi-case-as-sit-chief-on-leave-101627411282953.html
28-07-2021||India||Don’t believe your figures on Covid orphans: SC to Bengal govt||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it was not prepared to believe that in a big state like West Bengal, only 27 children lost both parents due to Covid-19 since April 1, 2020 and called for a response by the secretary of the state Women and Child Welfare department to give the correct particulars.The figure came to light in an affidavit filed by National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) in a suo moto petition heard by the top court for identification and rehabilitation of children who lost either or both their parents during the Covid-19 pandemic and required care and protection.The NCPCR pointed out that from April 1, 2020 till July 23, 2021, the special portal of NCPCR called ‘Balswaraj’ had obtained details about of 6,855 orphans, 68,218 children who lost one parent, and 247 children who were abandoned during the pandemic.West Bengal reported 27 orphans, 1.020 children who lost a parent, and three who were abandoned. Additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj termed this figure “unrealistic”, citing numbers from Maharashtra (412), Madhya Pradesh (885), Gujarat (947) and Rajasthan (781).A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said, “The information that is filtering to us does not appear to be credible and reliable. We are not prepared to believe this figure that in a big state like West Bengal, only 27 children were orphaned.”Advocate Sayandeep Pahari appearing for WB said it was an ongoing exercise and there was no reason for NCPCR to doubt the state’s figures. The bench said, “If you are steadfast in saying 27 children became orphans in such a big state, we can order an enquiry from an outside agency.” Later during the hearing, advocate Suhaan Mukherjee appeared for the state and sought an opportunity to come back with updated figures.To ensure that schemes available for orphans and children affected due to Covid-19 reaches maximum number of children, the top court directed district magistrates throughout the country to engage in a massive survey to find such children by using the help of police, district child protection units, Child line, civil society organisations, Gram Panchayats, Anganwadi and Asha workers.The Centre through ASG Aishwarya Bhati informed the Court that this exercise of collecting information about children orphaned during Covid-19 by district magistrates is underway as part of implementation of PM Cares for Children scheme. Under this scheme, children who lost both or surviving parent or adoptive parents/legal guardian due to Covid-19 will be entitled to ₹10 lakh financial support, to be available on attaining 18 years till they reach 23 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-believe-your-figures-on-covid-orphans-sc-to-bengal-govt-101627411282357.html
28-07-2021||India||Chhattisgarh minister walks out of Assembly over allegations of attacking MLA||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on Tuesday walked out of the legislative assembly demanding that his government issue a “clear statement” addressing accusations that he was behind an attack on fellow Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh, triggering a crisis for the ruling Congress party in the state. Tuesday was the second day of the monsoon session that witnessed sharp exchanges between the treasury and opposition benches over the alleged attack that occurred on July 24 in Surguja district. Singh, the legislator from Ramanujanj, alleged that a vehicle in his convoy was attacked by three people, including a relative of the health minister. Singh Deo had denied the charge and said that he had instructed the police to take strict action against the perpetrators. Singh Deo was seen among the contenders for the chief minister’s post when the party swept back to power in 2018. Singh has linked the alleged attack to his praise of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and for advocating that the incumbent continue. He alleged this was a reason behind the attack. On Tuesday, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu gave a statement in the House and described it as a case of road rage. But the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) raised doubts about it and claimed the statement didn’t refer to allegations made by Singh on Singh Deo. Leader of opposition and BJP leader Dharamlal Kaushik called it an unfortunate incident for the Congress as well as the state since such allegations have never been levelled by any lawmaker in the state in the past. On Monday, too, the BJP had demanded that the House take suo motu cognisance of it and institute an inquiry. It reiterated its point on Tuesday and said the statements of both the health minister and the MLA should be recorded in the case. Subsequently, assembly speaker Charan Das Mahant said that since he hasn’t received any complaint, either from MLA Singh or the health minister, there was no basis for him to ask them to speak on the issue. Amid the commotion that ensued, Singh Deo stood up and said, “Yesterday (Monday), the chief minister (Bhupesh Baghel) had called us to his chamber and a discussion took place (on the alleged rift). Even after that, a limited statement (from the home minister) came before the House.”“I do not believe that I am in a position to attend the House till the government presents a clear reply on the issue… I do not consider myself eligible to participate in the proceedings of this House till the time the government does not put out a clear reply in my context,” he said, before walking out of the House and refusing to speak to the media. This led to uproar in the House, following which the speaker adjourned the proceedings for 10 minutes. When the House reassembled, the opposition members, including BJP’s Brijmohan Agrawal and Ajay Chandrakar, said till the issue is not resolved, other business should not be taken up in the House. Kaushik and former chief minister Raman Singh said for the sake of the dignity of the House and its members, the matter should be probed by a House panel. The BJP MLAs trooped into the well of the House in support of their demand, following which the Speaker adjourned the House for the day. Later, Singh Deo returned to the assembly and told reporters that he got a call from his cabinet colleagues and had come back. He was then seen going to CM Baghel’s chamber in the assembly, and when he returned, he told the media that he had spoken with Baghel and PL Punia, who is the All India Congress Committee’s Chhattisgarh in-charge. Congress spokesperson and senior leader Shailesh Nitin Trivedi later said that he isn’t aware of what transpired in this meeting, but “everything is fine”. Experts, however, aren’t convinced and suspect the state Congress is experiencing internal turmoil. “The crisis in the ruling party is not only unfortunate but also wholly avoidable and should have been solved in-house. It is sad that instead of focusing on the pre-poll promises made to the people of Chhattisgarh, the ruling party is doing all this. If this persists, the next election will be a cakewalk for the BJP, which so far doesn’t look battle-ready,” said Sudiep Shrivastva , a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.Parivesh Mishra, another political expert, said the development is unfortunate for the Congress in Chhattisgarh. “T S Singh Deo is perceived by the people as polite, suave — basically, a nice guy. Brihaspat Singh, on the other hand, has a history of publicly accusing a district collector, an IAS officer, and a BJP parliamentarian of the same offence. The charges didn’t stick in the past, and they are unlikely to stick this time too,” Mishra said, adding that the party would damage itself if it accords any credibility to Singh’s charge. Congress governments have seen internal turmoil in recent times, requiring the high command to get involved in quelling trouble in Punjab and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-minister-walks-out-of-assembly-over-allegations-of-attacking-mla-101627411281788.html
28-07-2021||India||India skips key meet on climate change||India failed to attend a two-day meeting of 51 countries where key issues regarding the Paris climate deal were discussed over the weekend and through Monday, according to officials who cited technical difficulties.The meeting was closed-door ministerial conference which was meant to take stock of global efforts to fight the climate crisis and the efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C (as part of the Paris climate accord) ahead of the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow this November.The meeting was called by COP26 president-designate, Alok Sharma and India was invited following the G20 joint ministerial on energy and climate last week.“We attended the G20 ministerial and made our stand clear. The UK Climate ministerial was right after that. It was being held in the middle of the Parliament session so it was decided that this time we cannot be present. On an official level we wanted to participate virtually but we couldn’t because of various technical issues” said Gaurav Khare, spokesperson, ministry of environment, forest and climate change.On the outcome of the ministerial meeting, Sharma’s office said: “Climate ministers have taken a step forward towards a successful COP26, as a constructive meeting in London concluded with countries coming closer together on key issues such as actions to keep the 1.5C goal alive, adaptation finance and concluding the Paris rulebook.” The Paris rulebook is basically the implementation guidelines to execute the Paris Agreement.According to a note issued by the UK government on Monday, Sharma was quoted saying: “We made progress over these two days. And there was a clear spirit of cooperation. However, the issues we have discussed are complex. There are still significant differences that persist. We have moved closer together. But still, on these vital issues we are not yet close enough.”The statement also said that over the past two days, countries had reached a common understanding that COP26 needs to keep 1.5°C within reach. Ministers participating at the meeting called for all countries to deliver long-term strategies towards net zero before COP26.The meeting will take place in a year when multiple freak weather events have brought back focus on climate change, especially in the western world. These incidents include unprecedented flooding and deaths in parts of Germany, flooding in parts of US and an unusual heatwave across parts of north America and Canada.One of the key agreements at the meeting was on finance. Sharma has called for a plan from developed countries on how they are going to deliver the $100 billion a year in international climate finance, which has been promised since 2009 but has been delivered. Now, the amount will have to be delivered between 2020 and 2025.India said in its official statement at the G20 energy and climate joint ministerial meeting on Saturday that the target of reducing emissions to net zero by mid-century, proposed by some countries, will not be adequate in view of the fast-depleting global carbon space. It urged the G20 nations with per capita greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions above the world average to reduce the levels by 2030.According to data provided by the Climate Watch by World Resources Institute, India emits 7.1% of global emissions and has per capita emissions of about 2.47 Tco2e (tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent), as compared to the global average of 6.45 tco2/per capita.Union environment minister, Bhupender Yadav said on Friday at the G20 Climate ministerial that the world should not be shifting goalposts, possibly referring to diplomatic pressure on every country to raise ambition to meet a 1.5 degree C goal.“At COP26, India should be the voice of the vulnerable, and the conscience-keeper for the rich countries. By proffering even stronger climate action, India can reap health and economic co-benefits. But we clearly need clean technology partnerships for industrial processes,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of the Climate Program at World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-skips-key-meet-on-climate-change-101627411280069.html
28-07-2021||India||Newly-anointed K’taka CM a Lingayat leader, BSY aide||For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Basavaraj Bommai is the ideal candidate to replace BS Yediyurappa as the Karnataka chief minister. The 61-year-old is a Lingayat, obedient to the central leadership and a close associate of the outgoing CM. According to party insiders, all groups within the BJP are happy with the decision and believe that the change of power, which could have affected the party adversely, has culminated well with Bommai’s appointment.Unlike Yediyurappa, who was part of the BJP from its inception, Bommai started his political career with the Janata Dal. He worked with senior leaders, including former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and Ramakrishna Hegde during this time. In 2008, he left the Janata Dal (United) and joined the BJP.A graduate in mechanical engineering, Bommai was elected as a member of the Karnataka legislative council in 1998 and 2004 from Dharwad. He was thrice elected to Karnataka legislative assembly from the Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district in 2008, 2013 and 2018.This is the second time in the state’s political history that a father-son duo has held the chief minister’s post -- after HD Deve Gowda in 1994 and HD Kumaraswamy in 2006 and 2018. The incoming CM’s father SR Bommai was instrumental in the Janata Party forming a government in the state for the first time in 1983 and became the chief minister in 1988, after then chief minister Ramakrishna Hedge had to resign over snooping charges.However, his socialist father is best remembered for a landmark battle in the Supreme Court — SR Bommai versus Union of India — that he fought for five years after his government fell following defections in 1989. The 1994 judgment in that case laid down certain guidelines against the misuse of Article 356 of the Constitution by the central government to impose President’s Rule on states with unfriendly governments. He had moved court against the governor’s refusal to provide him the opportunity to prove majority on the floor of the House.The selection of junior Bommai comes after several pontiffs from Lingayat mutts in the state had warned the BJP central command against removing Yediyurappa, a tall leader of the Lingayat community. The Lingayat community forms close to 16% of the state’s population and has been a loyal vote base for the BJP. His appointment is expected to appease the community, according to BJP leaders.During this term as the home minister, Bommai made headlines over his October 2019 announcement to create Karnataka’s own National Register of Citizens (NRC) on the lines of the one in Assam even before the Union government issued any orders. However, following a backlash, he claimed that it would only be a survey of foreigners overstaying in India and no NRC.He was also a trusted lieutenant of Yediyurappa and often spoke in the assembly on behalf of the government. “Even though he was the home minister, he knew about developments in all departments. You would find him often in the assembly, answering questions on behalf of several departments with clarity,” pointed out a BJP leader on condition of anonymity.Political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University, A Narayana, said the appointment of Bommai was a win-win situation for all stakeholders in the party. “First of all, he is a Lingayat, which takes care of the party’s biggest vote bank. He is close to Yediyurappa, which makes the veteran leader less disgruntled about the new appointment. For Modi and Amit Shah, he is someone who would be obedient, and since he doesn’t have a strong ideological background, even the RSS can push their agenda through him,” he said.However, another senior BJP said that even though Bommai is close to Yediyurappa, more than his own appointment, the position that would be given to his son would decide his approach towards the party. “As long as Bommai doesn’t become a powerful leader who can push back against the central leadership, he will remain in the post. As of now, he is an ideal candidate for the central leadership,” said the leader who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newlyanointed-k-taka-cm-a-lingayat-leader-bsy-aide-101627411220770.html
28-07-2021||India||Assam raises pitch in Mizoram border row||Assam and Mizoram were locked in a political standoff on Tuesday over a violent showdown at the interstate border that killed seven people and injured 41 others as the Union home ministry rushed troops to the troubled region and called an urgent meeting to defuse tensions.Assam said it will deploy 4,000 commandoes to guard the 164.6km border and approach the Supreme Court to stop Mizoram from building roads on its side. In response, Mizoram said it bolstered its security forces and blamed Assam Police for the 30-minute-long gunbattle on Monday .“People have sacrificed their lives but the boundary has been protected which we will continue to do at any cost. There is very strong deployment of police inside our border and not an inch of land will be allowed to be encroached,” Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Mizoram rejected the allegations. “Yesterday’s incident was unfortunate, but Assam Police should not have entered Mizoram forcibly and remove residents,” said state home minister Lalchamliana.Uneasy peace prevailed at the border between Cachar district’s Lailapur village and Kolasib district’s Vairengte town on Tuesday as central forces patrolled the area. “Five companies (close to 500 personnel) have been deployed and another two are on standby...the current situation is peaceful,” said Central Reserve Police Force director general Kuldiep Singh.The border checkposts are manned by central forces as they fall in the no man’s land between the two states. While there were attempts by some locals on the Assam side to block NH 306 that leads to Mizoram, the border between both states was open during the day.In Delhi, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla summoned top bureaucrats and police officers of both states in his office in Delhi on Wednesday, said ministry officials on condition of anonymity. Other senior officers of the MHA as well as intelligence agencies and paramilitary forces are expected to attend the meeting.“North East MPs Forum has made an appeal to people of Mizoram and Assam, particularly people living in border areas, to maintain peace and harmony. We must ensure complete peace all along with border areas. Home ministry is looking into it,” Union law minister Kiren Rijiju said.The decades-old border dispute sparked violent clashes on Monday morning, prompting a public spat between the two chief ministers and an intervention by Union home minister Amit Shah.Violence broke out around 11.30am on Monday over allegations of encroachment. Thousands of civilians on either side of the border hurled stones and charged at each other and security personnel with sticks and rods. Visuals showed policemen firing tear-gas shell and air pellets as people torched vehicles and huts.The gunbattle came two days after the chief ministers shared a stage with Shah and spoke of resolving the border dispute amicably. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power in Assam and Mizoram is ruled by the Mizo National Front, a part of the North East Democratic Alliance headed by the BJP.Assam’s Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972 when it became a Union Territory. It became a state in 1987. The territorial dispute has festered since then and fuelled sporadic clashes, the latest of which rocked the region in August 2020 and February 2021.The dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception. Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a 1933 demarcation.Assam declared three-day state mourning and announced an assistance of ₹50 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. “I called Mizoram CM six times when firing was taking place. He said ‘sorry’ and invited me for talks in Aizawl. No one can take even an inch of our land. We’re committed to securing our territory. Police are on the border,” Sarma told reporters in Silchar.He alleged Mizoram was encroaching on its forests, constructing roads and clearing vegetation for cultivation. and said Assam will move the apex court to protect forests.“We can’t do what Mizoram has done yesterday. Assam will never use bullets against any Indian citizen, this is not in our DNA. We don’t have political fight with Mizoram but there is a reason behind yesterday’s incident. We have discussed the matter and asked Mizoram to investigate properly,” Sarma said.Lalchamliana rejected Sarma’s claim. “We have been carrying out developmental activities in our territory, whereas people from Assam are regularly entering our area and trying to block the works,” he said.On Tuesday, Lalchamliana visited Vairengte . A Mizoram government statement said state police was deployed at three places along the border where “tension surged up recently due to incursion by Assam Police”.Mizoram didn’t mention the number of injuries due to Monday’s violence but a staffer at the Mizoram CM’s office told HT over phone that three people had sustained injuries.When asked about the reasons for the violence, Sarma alleged that the Assam government stopped illegal activities like drugs, cattle smuggling and infiltration from Mizoram in the past few months. “People who have entered Mizoram from Myanmar are trying to come to Assam and stay in Dima Hasao district. But we did not allow them,” he said.Lalchamliana dismissed the allegations. “One shouldn’t believe all statements made by the Assam chief minister. It was Assam Police personnel and civilians who entered Mizoram’s territory on Monday and created problems. When Assam Police started firing, our forces had to retaliate to save themselves,” he said.On Tuesday morning, Sarma visited Silchar Medical College and Hospital (SMCH) and met the injured police personnel and civilians. He also paid a floral tribute to the police personnel killed and announced compensation of ₹50 lakhs and a government job for a family member.“The moment firing started, senior police officers of Assam and Mizoram were sitting and discussing the dispute. Home minister Amit Shah spoke to Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and me several times since yesterday. We have assured that there will be no violence from our side but we will not let Mizoram to encroach one more inch from Assam’s territory,” Sarma said.Stating that it is a boundary dispute between states and not a political issue between parties, Sarma said that there were conflicts between Mizoram and Assam even when Congress was in power in both states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-raises-pitch-in-mizoram-border-row-101627410921344.html
28-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai to be new Karnataka CM||Basavaraj Bommai, 61, will replace BS Yediyurappa as the chief minister of Karnataka, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) legislative party decided on Tuesday, with Bommai set to be sworn in on Wednesday, two days after the 78-year-old announced his resignation at an event to commemorate two years of his government.Bommai, a Lingayat like Yediyurappa, was minister for home affairs, law, parliamentary affairs and legislature in Yediyurappa’s council of ministers, which was dissolved on Monday, and is considered close to the former chief minister.“The legislative party has elected Bommai ji as its chief,” announced Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who was one of the two central observers for legislative party meeting held at Capital Hill, a hotel in Central Bengaluru. Union minister G Kishan Reddy was the other central observer at the meeting.“The new leader’s proposal was made by senior leader BS Yediyurappa and was supported by Govind Karjol, R Ashok, KS Eshwarappa, B Sriramulu, ST Somashekar and Poornima Srinivas,” he added.After the announcement, Bommai said he will work towards completing the projects initiated by the former chief minister. “It is a big responsibility in the given situation… BS Yediyurappa has worked for more than 40 years to build this party. He has taken the state through two Covid-19 waves and floods. The directions given by him will help me work for the Dalits, farmers, backwards communities, women and young.”“This (fulfilling Yediyurappa’s projects) will be a priority. Secondly, we are facing Covid-19, and floods as well. This will remain a priority as well,” Bommai said.Yediyurappa resigned on Monday, exactly two years after taking charge, “on health grounds”, even as dissent against him was growing within the BJP in Karnataka. He has vowed to work for the party in Karnataka and said he will not take a central government responsibility.Basavaraj Bommai is son of former Karnataka chief minister SR Bommai, who was removed as the Janata Dal chief minister in 1989 following large-scale defections without being given the opportunity to prove majority on the floor of the House. It was on SR Bommai’s petition that a nine-member bench of the Supreme Court, in 1994, imposed restrictions on dismissal of state governments under Article 356 of the Constitution.Basavaraj Bommai began his political career with his father’s party and worked with senior party leaders such as HD Deve Gowda and Ramakrishna Hegde before he left and joined the BJP in February 2008. According to a party leader, Basavaraj joined the BJP at the behest of Yediyurappa. He has over 33 years of legislative experience, having been elected to the legislative council in 1998.At the legislative party meeting, Yediyurappa proposed his name, which was approved unanimously, Pradhan said. “The legislative party meeting ended in just five minutes and everyone agreed to his (Bommai’s) name,” a BJP legislator said on condition of anonymity.According to another leader, Bommai’s elevation should ensure smooth transition of both the government and the party from Yediyurappa, a four-time chief minister and the most powerful BJP leader in the state. “Bommai is likely to retain the same cabinet as Yediyurappa to prevent dissidence and would accommodate rebel Congress legislators who joined the BJP,” the senior party leader said, asking not to be named. He, however, did not rule out a reshuffle of portfolios.Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar congratulated Bommai on his selection as the new chief minister. “Congratulations to Sri @BSBommai for being selected as the next Chief Minister of Karnataka. Congress party and the state hopes that the focus will be back on governance now,” Shivakumar tweeted.The selection of Bommai, who is from the Lingayat community, comes after several pontiffs from Lingayat mutts in the state advised the BJP central leadership against removing Yediyurappa, a tall leader of the community.The Lingayat community forms close to 16% of the state’s population and has been a loyal vote base for the party. Even though there was speculation of the BJP appointing a leader from a different community, eventually, it zeroed down on the Lingayat leader.The new chief minister was announced after Yediyurappa’s resignation ended months of speculation amid growing dissidence within the BJP in the only southern state.The 78-year-old made the announcement in an emotional speech at an event celebrating two years in power before submitting his resignation to governor Thaawarchand Gehlot.“I’m not sad. I’m happy. I can’t thank in words PM Modi, Amit Shah, and JP Nadda to let me be the chief minister even though I was over 75 years,” said Yediyurappa. “There is no question of political retirement for any reason, I’m with the karyakartas and the people.”Arun Singh, incharge of party affairs in Karnataka, along with Pradhan and others held the crucial meeting of the MLAs in Bengaluru. Bommai was informed about the party leadership’s decision to appoint him as the CM about half an hour before the legislative party meeting, the second leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/basavaraj-bommai-to-be-new-karnataka-cm-101627410920670.html
28-07-2021||India||Unesco declares Harappan city in Gujarat a world heritage site||The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) on Tuesday added Dholavira, a Harappan-era city in Gujarat, to its list of world heritage sites, making it the 40th such Indian location on the list.Gujarat now has four world heritage sites — Dholavira, Champaner near Pavagadh, Rani ki Vav in Patan and the Historic City of Ahmedabad.World heritage sites are protected under international convention and selected for their unique cultural significance by Unesco, which also provides “emergency assistance for World Heritage sites in immediate danger”.“Dholavira: A Harappan City, in India, just inscribed on the @UNESCO #WorldHeritage List. Congratulations!” Unesco tweeted on Tuesday.According to Unesco, today what is seen as a fortified quadrangular city set in harsh arid land was once a thriving metropolis for 1200 years (3000 BCE-1800 BCE) and had an access to the sea prior to decrease in sea level.Earlier on Sunday, the 13th century Ramappa temple in Telangana’s Warangal was included in the list during the 44th session of Unesco’s World Heritage Committee.“Kakatiya Rudreshwara (Ramappa) Temple received its inscription as a World Heritage Site on 25 July and Dholavira: A Harrapan City was inscribed on the World Heritage List today, 27 July, bringing India’s number of World Heritage sites to 40,” Unesco said in a statement.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was “absolutely delighted”, adding that Dholavira was an important urban centre and an important linkage with the country’s past.“Absolutely delighted by this news. Dholavira was an important urban centre and is one of our most important linkages with our past. It is a must visit, especially for those interested in history, culture and archaeology,” he said in a tweet.“As CM of Gujarat, I had the opportunity to work on aspects relating to heritage conservation and restoration in Dholavira. Our team also worked to create tourism-friendly infrastructure there,” he said.Newly appointed Union minister for culture G Kishan Reddy said India has now become a member of the “Super-40 club”. “It gives immense pride to share with my fellow Indians that #Dholavira is now the 40th treasure in India to be given @UNESCO’s World Heritage Inscription. Another feather in India’s cap as we now enter the Super-40 club for World Heritage Site inscriptions,” he tweeted.“Since 2014, India has added 10 new World Heritage sites - one fourth of our total sites. This shows PM @narendramodi’s steadfast commitment in promoting Indian culture, heritage and the Indian way of life,” the minister said.The current session of the World Heritage Committee, being held virtually between July 16 and July 31, is being chaired from Fuzhou in China.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unesco-declares-harappan-city-in-gujarat-a-world-heritage-site-101627410920119.html
28-07-2021||India||Discontent brewing since Oct escalated on Monday||Monday’s violent clash along the Assam-Mizoram border that claimed seven lives, including those of six policemen, and left 41 others injured on the Assam side was the culmination of simmering discontent between the two states since October 2020, when skirmishes left several injured on both sides and resulted in a blockade of NH-306, the lifeline to Mizoram, for 12 days.Though it wasn’t the first time violence has erupted along the 164km boundary between both northeastern states, Monday’s incident was the bloodiest till date. The border dispute between both states is nearly five decades long and started after Mizoram, which was earlier a part of Assam, was declared a Union territory in 1972 and gained statehood in 1987. While Assam claims Mizoram has encroached its “constitutional boundary”, the latter maintains the area belongs to it.Three districts of Assam, Cachar, Hailakandi, and Karimganj, share borders with three districts of Mizoram, Kolasib, Mamit, and Aizawl. The main bone of contention is a 509 square mile stretch of the inner line reserve forest on the interstate boundary that Mizoram claims as its own. The origin of the dispute lies in two different notifications issued during the British era.Mizoram wants delineation of the border based on a 1875 notification framed under Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873 that sought to demarcate the Lushai Hills (the earlier name of Mizoram) from the plains of Cachar (in Assam) and also introduced the inner line permit regime (ILP) that regulates entry of outsiders to the area, now Mizoram, even today. Assam follows a 1933 notification through which delimitation of the earlier boundary between Lushai Hills and the former princely state of Manipur was modified.As expected, there have been allegations and counter allegations on what ignited Monday’s clashes.Mizoram’s home minister Lalchamliana issued a statement in the evening accusing Assam police personnel of entering the state and indulging in violence. The statement added that Mizoram police retaliated after tear-gas canisters and grenades were hurled by Assam’s security forces.Late at night, Assam responded by issuing a statement that blamed Mizoram of breaching existing agreements and status quo on the border and accusing police of the neighbouring state of firing on its security forces and civilians using light machine guns (LMGs).Earlier in the day, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma indulged in a blame game on Twitter. It ended with intervention of union home minister Amit Shah, after which the two CMs talked over phone, agreed to maintain status quo and work for peace.Besides Mizoram, Assam has border disputes with Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. Assam shares an 804km-long boundary with Arunachal Pradesh. Though there was no dispute initially, over the years allegations of residents of one state encroaching land on the other have led to disputes and violence. A suit has been pending in Supreme Court since 1989 on the issue. Earlier this month, Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu had expressed hope of solving border dispute with Assam out of court.Nagaland and Assam share a 434 km boundary and a dispute that’s going on for over five decades. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court on the issue since 1988. There have been several violent clashes on the issue. Over 100 people have been killed, most of them on the Assam side, in attacks by armed men from Nagaland in separate incidents in 1979, 1985 and 2014.The Assam-Meghalaya border dispute is at least four decades old and there is contention between both states at 12 points along the 733km boundary they share. Several rounds of talks have failed to solve the issue. Last week, the CMs of Assam and Meghalaya met and agreed to use a pragmatic approach to sort their boundary problems.The long-standing border disputes were expected to change with change in power equations in the region over the past five years. Since 2016, when a BJP-led coalition first formed government in Assam, the Congress has been virtually wiped out from the region.The BJP is heading governments in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura and is part of the ruling coalition in Meghalaya and Nagaland. In Mizoram, Mizo National Front (MNF), which is a constituent of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a BJP-led front of anti-Congress parties in the region formed in 2016, is in power.Monday’s incident came two days after Amit Shah interacted with CMs of all eight northeastern states in Shillong where the pending interstate border disputes were also deliberated upon. The Union home minister urged all states to resolve their issues before the 2024 general election. Significantly, during the 4th NEDA conclave held in Guwahati in September 2019, Shah urged all chief ministers of the region to address all border disputes in a timebound manner before India celebrates 75 years of Independence in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discontent-brewing-since-oct-escalated-on-monday-101627410200031.html
28-07-2021||India||BJP members boycott IT committee meeting||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday staged a walkout from a meeting of the information technology standing committee led by Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor, people familiar with the matter said.“When the House is functioning, how can meetings be scheduled at the same time? It is our job as MPs to help the Parliament function, BJP MP Nishikant Dubey said. “I had raised the issue during the last session as well,” he said.BJP MPs came to the meetings to lodge their protests and left without signing the register, said the person quoted above. “Over nine members were present, which is the base number needed for quorum and for meetings to continue,” the person added.Dubey added that members from the ruling party will not be attending Wednesday’s meeting either, wherein the panel is set to discuss the controversial Pegasus Project with the government. He said that the agenda for the meeting was not discussed with the members beforehand. The person mentioned above, however, said that all procedures and protocols were followed before the meeting was scheduled.The Pegasus project reports claim that the Israeli spyware was used to infiltrate the phones of activists, journalists, opposition leaders and even the government’s own ministers. The Centre has vehemently denied the charges, with Union minister for electronics and information technology, whose name was on the list, saying that reports were completely devoid of facts. The opposition has sought a probe into the allegations.The panel will hear from the minister of home affairs, electronics and information technology and communications on Wednesday regarding the issue which has become a political flashpoint.Meanwhile, industry representatives, such as actor and director Kamal Haasan and members of the Producers Guild and India Broadcasting and Digital Foundation informed the panel that they had not been consulted before the amendments to the Cinematograph Act were made. The person mentioned above said that the industry representatives were “aghast that the government could have such revisionary powers”.The amendments propose that the Central government can ask the chairperson of Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) to review the approval given to a movie on the grounds of sovereignty, integrity of India and threat to public order. The amendment has caused outrage among the industry, with producers, directors and artistes writing to the government that the move will stifle creative expression.A second person familiar with the matter said that overall there was sense that constructive and productive discussion was needed. “It is clear that there is need for further consideration,” the person said. “The ministry discussed the issue comprehensively.”The second person said that four key issues were raised Tharoor at the meeting, the question of the government having retrospective power for review and its financial implications, the new age classifications which put the onus on the exhibitor, the issue of censorship versus classification and who is allowed to ask for a movie to the be taken. “The power for retrospective review was contested across the industry,” the person said. “As for the committee that recommends this, it was suggested that it not only have members from the government but from the film fraternity as well.”The first person added that the ministry argued that since India is vast and diverse country, exceptions need to be made for public good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-members-boycott-it-committee-meeting-101627410080071.html
28-07-2021||India||10 parties meet to form Pegasus issue strategy||Ten opposition parties, at meeting on Tuesday, decided to move “joint adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha” as a part of a united strategy to counter the government on the Pegasus snooping row.“We have now decided that there will be better coordination among all of us as the government doesn’t want to discuss the matter at all. We will now be giving joint adjournment notices in Lok Sabha,’’ said one of the leaders, who attended the meeting, requesting anonymity.The meeting was attended by Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham’s TR Baalu and Kanimozhi, Nationalist Congress Party’s Supriya Sule, Shiv Sena’s Arvind Sawant, Hasnain Masoodi of National Conference, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Ritesh Pandey, Kerala Congress, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Revolutionary Socialist Party and Indian Union Muslim League.The Pegasus row erupted last Sunday before the beginning of the current monsoon session after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were potentially targeted by Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software, Pegasus.Earlier in the day, Mallikarjun Kharge, the leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, speaking to the reporters outside the Parliament, said “The Telegraph Act says permission is needed for the surveillance and added that a Supreme Court monitored probe should be carried out so that the truth about the alleged hacking could finally come out.”Kharge alleged dictatorship prevails in the country. “(Prime Minister Narendra) Modi is not ready to solve issues in a democratic manner. We are ready for discussions.”The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware but has rejected reports of snooping..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-parties-meet-to-form-pegasus-issue-strategy-101627410020528.html
28-07-2021||India||PM Modi tells party to ‘expose Oppn’ over House disruptions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday told his party colleagues to “expose” the Congress-led opposition for disrupting Parliament in, what he said, was their attempt to derail the government’s efforts to discuss important issues such as the Covid pandemic, and to explain to people that the opposition hadn’t contributed to fighting the pandemic, people familiar with the matter said.“The PM told the MPs that the onus is on us to fight the challenge as the opposition is only interested in disruption and how even after the house is adjourned they resort to abusing,” a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker said after Modi addressed the party’s parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday.This is the second time since the monsoon session began on July 19 that Modi has blamed the opposition for disruptions and asked BJP lawmakers to publicise it. The first week was a near-complete wash-out, mostly over protests over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws, but the government managed to get Lok Sabha to pass two bills amid the din.Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh blamed the government for not taking up important issues. He tweeted, “The entire Opposition is united. Parliament isn’t a forum to pass Govt Bills without debate and discussion. This is happening because Govt is just not ready to discuss urgent public issues like Pegasus and repeal of the black farm laws, despite repeated notices.”A second BJP functionary said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya told MPs that India is on track to begin vaccination for children. “He said the vaccination drive for children will roll out by September. He also said that India was among the countries that were at the forefront of the war against the pandemic; India sanctioned ₹900 crore to undertake research for vaccines,” he said.BJP president JP Nadda also said that over the course of the next one month, 750 million people will be administered Covid-19 vaccines, said the second person. India has so far vaccinated over 345 million people.PM’s Independence Day planPM Modi also urged all MPs to think of innovative programmes to mark the 75th year of India’s Independence. He has instructed them to ensure that at least two people from the party spend 75 hours in 75 villages of each assembly constituency to reach out to the people.“He told the MPs to visualise the India that they want to see in 2047,” said a third functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-tells-party-to-expose-oppn-over-house-disruptions-101627410019980.html
28-07-2021||India||Day 6 of monsoon session: Oppn protests continue to disrupt House||Parliamentary proceedings continued to be disrupted for the sixth day on Tuesday after opposition parties continued to block proceedings to demand that the government agree to a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy, provoking presiding officers of the two Houses to repeatedly express their displeasure at the conduct of the members.“All of you should introspect if this is what we make of our exalted parliamentary democracy. I will never accept any such dictation by anybody. Dictation or dramatics are not going to be accepted by the Chair, whoever is in the Chair,” Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said amid sloganeering when ministers were laying down government notifications on the table of the House in the Rajya Sabha.In the Lok Sabha, speaker Om Birla told Opposition MPs: “Don’t compete for sloganeering in the House. You should compete to raise the problems of the people. But you are competing in sloganeering. Remember, the people are watching you”.The reprimand, however, did not have much of an impact on the Opposition which intends to work closely with each other to escalate their protests over the alleged use of Israeli firm NSO’s software on Indian citizens and the three farm laws.“If the opposition members have even the slightest regard for the farmers, they should sit in their places peacefully. You should raise your issue through these questions and listen to the reply of the government,” Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on the opposition strategy of disruption.The din in the House not only hurts the dignity of the house but also reveals the true character of the opposition parties in the context of farmers, he said.The BJP’s deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi later told reporters that the government held talks with the Opposition on Monday night and Tuesday morning to resolve the issue. “Government is ready for discussion. But the opposition is not ready, they are running away from a discussion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-6-of-monsoon-session-oppn-protests-continue-to-disrupt-house-101627409959996.html
28-07-2021||India||Standoff, stone pelting: How the Assam-Mizoram clash unfolded||On Sunday, a day prior to Monday’s violent clashes along Assam-Mizoram border, Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga’s convoy passed through national highway (NH 306), which connects the two states. He was returning to Aizawl a day after attending a meeting of union home minister Amit Shah with chief ministers of all states in the Northeast at Meghalaya’s capital Shillong. On his return journey, Zoramthanga halted briefly along the route on the Assam side and was greeted by deputy commissioner of Cachar district in Assam, Keerthi Jalli, and the district superintendent of police VC Nimbalkar.Less than 24 hours later, violent clashes, which both Assam and Mizoram claim to have been started by the other side, killed killed 7 persons including 6 policemen and injured 41 others on the Assam side. Superintendent of police Nimbalkar was among those injured. The IPS officer, who sustained grievous bullet injuries on his lower body, was airlifted to Mumbai by an Indian Air Force aircraft on Tuesday for treatment.Assam shares 164 km of border with Mizoram and though both states have a long pending dispute regarding their boundary it intensified last year when some miscreants bombed a government school in Khulicherra area in Assam’s territory. Local residents claimed that it was done by Mizoram, which, in turn, claimed that Assam government personnel had forcefully constructed schools and RCC bridges on their land. Mizoram also stopped several top officials of Assam government as well as the central government from visiting those places.On Monday morning Assam police officials captured a camp near Lailapur border which was reportedly built last year by India Reserve (IR) battalion of Mizoram Police. According to locals on the Assam side, the number of Assam police personnel was much larger than the IR battalion. But when the news about presence of Assam troops broke in Vairengte in Mizoram, hundreds of locals started gathering at the spot. As per Assam government officials, around 11:30 in the morning, a group of people started pelting stones from Mizoram’s side. Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli’s car was attacked with stones but she managed to escape unharmed. Other police officers immediately rushed to the spot and more forces were called.According to journalists present at the site on the Assam side of the border, stone pelting continued from both sides for several hours till the firing started. Cachar DC Jalli along with SP Nimbalkar and other Assam officials were at the camp near Lailapur border. Around 4:00 pm, superintendent of police of Kolasib district in Mizoram came to the camp and Jalli gave him her chair. But 20 minutes later, as the officials of the two states were discussing the issue, three tear gas canisters fell on the road on the Assam side; soon the place was full of toxic smoke. Few minutes later there was the sound of guns being fired. Police personnel, local residents and journalists ran for cover. Few people sustained injuries and were rushed to nearby government health centre , according to eye-witnesses. They were immediately referred to Silchar Medical College and Hospital (SMCH) in Assam.Several journalists from Assam who were covering the developments were injured , but not by bullets. Internet and phone connections remained disrupted at the site for several minutes and the place felt like a war-zone. Local residents on Assam side were armed with stones and sticks, but not guns. They claim the attackers from Mizoram were armed with guns.The firing continued for at least half-an-hour. A 25-year-old Assam resident Fajar Ali who sustained an air gun injury on his right hand. “I was near border area when people from Mizoram started firing. We tried to run away but a bullet hit my right arm and I fell on ground.” Later in the evening it became clear that five Assam police personnel and a civilian had been killed in the incident.The Mizoram version of how the events unfolded is different. The state home minister Lalchamliana in a statement issued on Monday blamed Assam police of entering Mizoram territory and indulging in violence. It stated that around 200 Assam police personnel came to Vairengte in Mizoram ariund 11:30 am on Monday and forcibly crossed the duty post manned by CRPF personnel and also damaged several vehicles that were travelling along the National Highway between Vairengte and Lailapur.“Upon learning of the arson committed by Assam Police, residents of Vairengte town, Kolasib District proceeded to the site to inquire. These unarmed civilians were assaulted by Assam Police by lathi charging them and firing tear gas, thereby causing injuries to several civilians,” read the statement. “The confrontation continued and a volley of tear gas canisters and grenades were launched at Mizoram Police followed by firing from Assam side at around 4:50 p.m. Mizoram Police responded spontaneously by firing back at Assam Police.”Talking to HT over phone from Aizawl on Tuesday, Lalchamliana reiterated that Assam police personnel and civilians entered Mizoram and forcibly removed residents. He added that firing started from the Assam side and Mizoram security personnel retaliated in self-defence. “Assam police personnel came heavily armed and were the first to open fire. Our personnel, who were also armed with automatic weapons and light machine guns (LMGs), responded to the attack. Whatever has happened in unfortunate.”Mizoram information and public relations minister Lalruatkima who was stationed at the border told PTI on Tuesday that the central para-military forces posted on both sides of the border between the two states didn’t act to defuse the tension. Following a Centre’s directive last year, a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp is stationed on Mizoram side of the border and a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) post is located on the Assam side as neutral forces and to take measures of situation between both sides went out of hand. “The bloody clash could have been averted had CRPF prevented Assam police from entering Mizoram territory ,” PTI quoted Lalruatkima as saying.On Tuesday, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited Silchar and met with those injured in Monday’s attack. He also paid tribute to the five police personnel killed. Assam has announced a three-day state mourning for them. Sarma reiterated the claim that firing started from Mizoram side and announced compensation for family members of those killed and injured.Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana said that the situation along the border was peaceful and there have been no new developments on Tuesday. He informed that on Wednesday, chief secretaries and police chiefs of both states would meet union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla at New Delhi to discuss Monday’s incident and the border dispute.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/standoff-stone-pelting-how-the-assam-mizoram-clash-unfolded-101627409839969.html
