29-07-2021||India||Kerala reports over 22,000 Covid-19 cases for third consecutive day||On the third consecutive day Kerala reported over 22,000 Covid-19 virus cases on Thursday showing no sign of any downward trend, state health ministry statistics show. The state reported 22,064 cases after testing 1,63,098 samples with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 13.55 per cent.Its active caseload also rose to 1,54,820. The country logged 43,509 new cases on Thursday of which the state’s share was more than half of the total cases. The national weekly TPR average is 2.38 whereas for the state it stood at more than 11 percent.Kerala also reported 128 Covid-19 deaths taking the total number of fatalities to 16,585, according to the health ministry data.A close look at the recent statistics shows an upward trend in Covid-19 cases in the state. Kerala reported 22,056 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday with a TPR of 11.2 percent while on Tuesday it accounted for 22,129 cases. Three districts - Malappuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode - topped the most-affected districts in the country reporting around 3,000 daily cases. The Union government has decided to rush another team of experts in a couple of days to co-ordinate containment and mitigation measures. This will be the second team to visit the state in July.State health minister Veena George said there is no need for panic and the government is doing everything possible to contain the surge. She said since a large chunk of people is uninfected, the number will remain high before stabilizing. The fourth round of the serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research shows antibody prevalence to be 67.7 per cent nationally while it is 42.7 % in the state. This shows a huge chunk of the population in the state is still susceptible to the virus.Experts have asked the government to move from containment to mitigation and redraw its strategies. “Targeted testing resulted in high TPR. It has a better case detection rate. But this alone won’t do,” said public health expert Dr NM Arun, emphasising the need to redraw present strategies.As cases show no sign of abating, the blame game has also started among political parties. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the state’s “unmindful relaxation” during the Bakrid festivities led to the spike but the CPI(M) said the Union government’s “poor vaccine distribution policy” led to the sorry state. “50% of the Covid positive cases come from Kerala, thanks to Eid relaxations. But as expected, the narrative would always be built around Kumbh or Kanwar yatra. Hmmm... Kerala model”, tweeted BJP spokesman Sambit Patra. Another leader Amit Malviya also criticised the Pinarayi Vijayan government. “Eid relaxation is coming to roost. Silence of secularists is deafening,” said the national convenor of the party’s IT cell. He also mentioned the Muslim-majority Malappuram district, which recorded the highest number of cases, to buttress his point. The CPI(M) criticised the BJP for taking the issue on communal lines saying, the virus has no religion or caste. “Kerala has lowest seroprevalence rate. They are more vulnerable to infection. The present policy of vaccine distribution punishes the state that protected a larger portion of people from infection. Provide more vaccine to Kerala than free advices,” tweeted former state finance minister Thomas Isaac. Isaac said the country will have to pay a heavy price for “Modi’s vaccine folly” and the state was proud of its records.Many BJP leaders took a pot shot on awards the state received during the first wave. A BJP delegation from the state is also camping in the national capital to add fuel to the fire. Leaders alleged that at many places local CPI(M) leaders were controlling the vaccination drive and “behave as if the state government procured it for a price”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-over-22-000-covid-19-cases-for-third-consecutive-day-101627582739630.html
29-07-2021||India||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav says Mahua Moitra’s ‘Bihari gunda’ jibe is ‘saddening’||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Thursday deprecated Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra for reportedly using the ‘Bihar Gunda’ jibe on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Nishikant Dubey by terming it as “saddening,” news agency ANI reported.Addressing the media, Bihar’s Leader of Opposition said, “It is saddening if someone has said such a thing. One must refrain from making such comments, I can only condemn if anybody makes such a remark.”Tejashwi added that Bihar is the “mother of democracy and the state has a glorious past” and its contributions to the building of the nation have remained “unparalleled.”However, when asked if RJD will break ties with TMC over Moitra’s comment, Tejashwi said that the statement didn’t arrive from TMC or the party chief Mamata Banerjee. “It is an individual’s comment,” he further told the media persons.The incident unravelled on Wednesday after Dubey and Moitra engaged in a war of words on Twitter, with the former alleging that the TMC MP called him “Bihari gunda” thrice in the meeting of the IT committee. In his tweet where he tagged Moitra, Dubey said that her jibe has exposed TMC’s hatred towards north Indians and the Hindi-speaking people of the country.However, Moitra replied by saying that she is a “bit amused” by the name-calling charges as the IT meeting didn’t happen because “no quorum members did not attend.” “How can I call someone a name who was not even present! Check attendance sheet,” she wrote in her reply on the microblogging site.The heated argument, however, erupted at Parliament itself, when the BJP leaders boycotted the IT committee meeting and denied signing the attendance register. Dubey gave a notice to move a privilege motion against the removal of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor as the head of the committee. The committee, of which both Moitra and Dubey are members, was scheduled to hold talks regarding Pegasus snooping row, but it was cancelled owing to BJP MPs not signing the attendance register.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-leader-tejashwi-yadav-says-mahua-moitra-s-bihari-gunda-jibe-is-saddening-101627581126802.html
29-07-2021||India||After J&K and Himachal, heavy rainfall predicted in these states till August 2||As monsoon wreaks havoc in several parts of India leading to multiple casualties in Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), among others, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued fresh weather warnings for these states and Union territory (UT) along with other regions. According to the latest bulletin by the IMD, “thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain” has been forecast over the entire Delhi and its adjoining areas of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad in the next few hours.The bulletin further stated that a well-marked low-pressure area lies over Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining Bangladesh with the “associated cyclonic circulation extending up to upper tropospheric levels.” “It is likely to move west-northwestwards across Jharkhand, south Bihar and southern parts of Uttar Pradesh during the next 48 hours,” the bulletin added.Moreover, the MeT department highlighted that there is a high wind convergence from the Arabian Sea to the plains of northwest India at lower levels.Under the influence of these conditions, widespread to fairly widespread rainfall activity will be observed in several states and UTs, including Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir, among others.Here are the key IMD alerts for heavy rainfall activity:1. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand between July 29 and 31. Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh on July 30, and east Madhya Pradesh on July 31. The bulletin stated that east Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are expected to receive heavy rainfall starting from July 29 to August 2.2. The current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue in Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab till July 30. The intensity of severe weather conditions, will, however, reduce thereafter.3. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are likely over Uttar Pradesh during the next five days vis-à-vis between July 29 and August 2, the bulletin updates stated.4. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over west Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan between July 29 and August 2. The rainfall intensity is expected to increase in these regions thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over east Rajasthan from July 30 to August 1, and over west Madhya Pradesh on July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-j-k-and-himachal-heavy-rainfall-predicted-in-these-states-till-august-2-101627580398011.html
29-07-2021||India||Assam govt urges residents to not travel to Mizoram||The Assam government on Thursday issued an advisory asking Assam residents to not travel to Mizoram citing safety concerns, arising out of the recent clashes at the Assam-Mizoram border. The Assam government also cited ‘provocative statements’ issued by ‘Mizo Civil Society, students and youth organisations’ against Assamese people as a reason behind the advisory.The Assam government in its advisory said that based on video footage in possession with Assam Police, it has learnt that some unidentified people in Mizoram were in possession of firearms.“There have been several cases of violent skirmishes in the border area of Assam and Mizoram. These skirmishes have occurred recently in the 3 (three) districts of Assam namely- Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi… Certain Mizo Civil Society, students and youth organisations are constantly issuing provocative statements against the state of Assam and its people,” the advisory said.“It has been reliably learnt from video footage available with Assam Police, that many civilians are heavily armed with automatic weapons… Given the critical prevailing situation, the people of Assam are advised not to travel to Mizoram as any threat to personal safety of people of Assam cannot be accepted. People of Assam, staying in Mizoram due to work related compulsion, should exercise utmost caution,” the advisory further added.The Assam government however in a separate circular asked deputy commissioners and police chiefs in Kamrup (Metropolitan) and Cachar districts to ensure the safety of people who hail from Mizoram staying in Mizoram House in Guwahati and SilcharPolice forces of both states clashed at the Assam-Mizoram border due to an interstate border dispute on July 26. Both chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma as well Zoramthanga took to Twitter blaming each other’s state police forces for the violence. Assam chief minister later said that six Assamese policemen lost their lives in the clashes.Both states on Wednesday decided to withdraw their police officers from the disputed site after a meeting with the Union home secretary and have decided to let Central paramilitary troops man the disputed zone.(with inputs from Utpal Parashar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-urges-residents-to-not-travel-to-mizoram-101627578723728.html
29-07-2021||India||Police did their job: Tripura CM Biplab Deb on detention of Prashant Kishor's IPAC members||Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb on Thursdays said that everyone is welcome in Tripura but the administration does not interfere in police work and so Police did their job by detaining 23 members of Prashant Kishor's IPAC (Indian Political Action Committee) on Sunday citing Covid norms. A day after they were all tested for Covid. All of them tested negative and on Tuesday night they were released from 'house arrest'. On Thursday, the members were granted pre-arrest bail. Some members of the team, which has reached Tripura on Trinamool Congress assignment, will have to appear before the police on August 1.The members were reportedly confined to a hotel for questioning by police. Agartala police said that it was a routine interrogation and also a measure amid the ongoing pandemic. “The outsiders-- around 22 persons—were roaming around in various places. Since Covid restrictions are in place, we are enquiring to verify the reasons behind their arrival and stay in the city," Manik Das, Superintendent of Police, West Tripura, said.The team has been camping in Agartala since last week, but the sudden detention stirred a political battle as Trinamool Congress announced to send Derek O'Brien and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar to Tripura. West Bengal ministers Bratya Basu and Moloy Ghatak were already there in Agartala."All are welcome in Tripura. But we don’t interfere in police work. Police have done their job. This is a bordering state and August 15 is coming, so they have to see who all are coming (to the state)," CM Biplab Deb said.Ahead of elections in 2023, the team is now doing some ground work for Trinamool Congress. They have also held discussion with other political parties to assess the political situation of the BJP-ruled state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-did-their-job-tripura-cm-biplab-deb-on-detention-of-prashant-kishore-s-i-pac-members-101627578710055.html
29-07-2021||India||Super-spreader event, returning expatriates, Delta: 5 things to know about Kerala's Covid spike||For the past three days, Kerala has been reporting over 22,000 fresh Covid-19 infections, triggering apprehensions that this spike might be the early signal of a third wave of the pandemic. The Kerala government on Thursday reimposed weekend restrictions and the Centre has sent a special team to look into the Covid-19 situation of the state.Several factors have come to the surface as the state, which had recorded the very first Covid-19 patient of India, is seeing a sharp uptick in the number of Covid-19 cases. The rise in the number of cases has also led to a political battle over the Pinarayi Vijayan government's management of the pandemic.Why are Kerala Covid cases increasing? Study says every 100 people spreading infection to 111'Superspreader'Reports said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has written to the Kerala government specifying that the spike is a result of the superspreader events that took place in the state recently. Kerala health minister Veena George said she has no information about the letter. While several BJP leaders are putting the blame on the government's decision to ease restrictions during Eid-Al Adha.'Many cases from outside'Data reveals that many of the fresh cases being reported daily are from people who have come from outside. For example, 120 cases reported on Tuesday were from outside the state. As Kerala contributes to a large population working in the Gulf countries, the number of people returning to Kerala is also high. According to state data, 14 lakh people have returned to Kerala after the pandemic broke out.DeltaDelta, the variant which drove the second wave of the pandemic, is believed to be more transmissible. Kerala health minister Veena George attributed the spike to the Delta variant.Lowest seroprevalenceAccording to the ICMR's 4th serosurvey report, Kerala has the lowest seroprevalence in the country which means that the least number of people have antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. CPM leaders said that this proves that Kerala managed Covid better and that's why not many people have been exposed to the infection.Increased number of testsKerala government has claimed that it has increased the number of testing so that every single positive case gets identified. "We are conducting maximum tests these days. Yesterday, we conducted over 1.96 lakh tests. Today we did more than 1.63 lakh tests," the state health minister state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/superspreader-event-returning-expatriates-delta-5-things-to-know-about-kerala-s-covid-spike-101627575804059.html
29-07-2021||India||Quadrilateral working group on Chabahar port to meet this year||A meeting of the India-Uzbekistan-Iran-Afghanistan quadrilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port is expected to be held later this year as part of New Delhi’s efforts to ramp up regional connectivity initiatives. India formed a special company in 2018 to operate one of the terminals of Iran’s Chabahar port to improve connectivity to both Afghanistan and the Central Asian states. However, the operations of the port and efforts to acquire heavy equipment for the development of the facility have been impeded by American sanctions on Iran, even though the US has given a waiver for Chabahar. “India has proposed to include the port in the framework of the International North-South Transport Corridor and has welcomed the formation of the India-Uzbekistan-Iran-Afghanistan quadrilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port. The meeting is likely to take place in the later half of this year,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing. Since December 2018, when India began operations at Shahid Beheshti terminal at Chabahar port, the facility has handled 134 vessels, 14,258 TEUs of containers and more than 2.08 million tonnes of bulk and general cargo. The cargo included humanitarian supplies such as wheat sent by India to Afghanistan during the Covid-19 pandemic. External affairs minister S Jaishankar had highlighted the practical steps taken by India since 2016 to operationalise Chabahar port at a meeting on regional connectivity hosted in Tashkent by the Uzbekistan government on July 16. In his speech at the event, Jaishankar said Chabahar port provides secure, viable and unhindered access to the sea for Central Asian countries. “Its efficacy is now clearly proven,” he added. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quadrilateral-working-group-on-chabahar-port-to-meet-this-year-101627573377036.html
29-07-2021||India||No proof needed; ‘khela hobe’ in India, says Javed Akhtar after meeting Mamata||Lyricist-poet Javed Akhtar and his actor-wife Shabana Azmi are the latest names to feature in the list of significant personalities Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met during her ongoing five-day visit to the national capital. Addressing media persons after the meeting, Akhtar said, “In our little conversation, she never said that leadership is her priority. She believes that she wants a Parivartan. Earlier she fought for Bengal and now she wants to fight for a change in India.”Akhtar said that he believes there “should be a change” in the country, adding that it is a “matter of shame” that Delhi witnessed communal riots. “There are so many tensions in the country right now…There is the issue of polarization. Many give aggressive statements…There are incidents of violence,” the lyricist told the media.Referring to the meeting with Banerjee, Akhtar said that it was a “courteous meeting,” and that it is West Bengal’s history that it had “led the revolutionary movements.” He added that he also congratulated the Bengal chief minister for her victory in the recently concluded Assembly elections and that he is “grateful” to her for support in the Royalty bill amendment in order for music, composers, lyricists and songwriters benefitting from the royalty. “The artists and intellectuals of Bengal support Mamata ji,” Akhtar said.When asked if Banerjee’s popular “Khela hobe” slogan will resonate across India, the lyricist said that it is beyond discussion now. “It does not need proof,” he added.Banerjee has been meeting several important Opposition leaders since her visit to Delhi, including Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, party leader Rahul Gandhi and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. On Wednesday, following her meeting with Sonia, Banerjee said that in 2021 Lok Sabha elections “poore desh me khela hobe” (game will be on all over the country).Also Read | 'Poore desh me khela hobe': Mamata on Opposition’s unity ahead of 2024 electionsThe chief minister said that during the 2024 general elections, the competition will be between “Prime Minister Narendra Modi versus [the] country.”She also urged all Opposition parties to come together in the fight against dethroning Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the central ruling dispensation. “It is essential for everyone to come together in order to defeat the BJP. Alone, I am nothing – everyone will have to work together. I am not a leader. I am a cadre. I am a person from the street,” she said.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proof-needed-khela-hobe-in-india-says-javed-akhtar-after-meeting-mamata-101627572380686.html
29-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Act bill passed in Lok Sabha and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lok Sabha passes bill to amend Airports Economic Regulatory Authority ActThe Lok Sabha on Thursday, through a voice vote, passed the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was tabled in Parliament by the newly inducted Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiradtiya Scindia for passing. Read moreWhy are Kerala Covid cases increasing? 100 people spreading infection to 111Kerala, the state with the highest load of active Covid-19 at present in the country, has the highest R-value, or reproductive factor, an analysis by the researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai has revealed. Read moreAppeal against Tarun Tejpal acquittal in rape case adjourned to August 10The Goa bench of the Bombay high court adjourned on Thursday the appeal against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a rape case. The court would next hear the appeal on August 10. Read moreWho is Sandeep War3rier, India's newest T20I cricketer who made his debut against Sri Lanka?India on Thursday handed debut to fast bowler Sandeep Warrier in the third T20I against Sri Lanka at Colombo on Thursday. Warrier, originally a net bowler travelling with the rest of the team, was drafted into the main squad on Wednesday after nine players were forced to be in isolation due to Covid-19, and a day later, his biggest dream came true when he received his India cap from bowling coach Paras Mhambrey ahead of the series decider. Read moreManoj Bajpayee laughs off Sunil Pal's ‘gira hua’ comment: ‘People who don’t have jobs should meditate’Actor Manoj Bajpayee laughed off comedian Sunil Pal’s recent barbs against him and suggested that he take up meditation. Recently, Sunil called Manoj a ‘badtameez (ill-mannered)’ and ‘gira hua aadmi (fallen man)’. Read moreSundar Pichai writes to Google employees, reveals big reason why some offices were opened; read full text of email hereThe world is still dealing with the deadly Covid-19 pandemic, but things are gradually inching towards normalcy. Some offices have reopened and employees have returned to their desks, however, Google is one of the organisations that has pushed back their plans of letting employees return to work. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-airports-economic-regulatory-authority-act-bill-passed-in-lok-sabha-and-all-the-latest-news-101627569952567.html
29-07-2021||India||Vythiri in Wayanad becomes first tourist destination in Kerala to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19||Vythiri in Kerala’s Wayanad district, on Thursday, became the first tourism destination in the state to become fully vaccinated against Covid-19. It was done as part of the state government’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign to make all tourist destinations in Kerala completely risk-free for visitors, the government said. It became the first holiday hub to immunise the entire population including tourism sector stakeholders under the initiative, a press release from the government said.“In the post-pandemic phase visitors will be looking for safe and hospitable places to spend time.The Government considers it as vitally important to administer COVID-19 vaccine to the entire stakeholders in all the destinations across the state,” state tourism minister PA Mohamed Riyas as said, news agency PTI quoted from the press release.As many as 5,395 people in the tourism segment alone were inoculated with the first dose during the campaign in Vythiri with the support of the health department, district administration and the industry bodies.Also read | 'Planned campaign,' says Kerala health minister as concerns rise over Covid-19 situation in stateThe initiative to declare all popular holiday destinations in Kerala as completely vaccinated zones was announced on June 10. “We are mulling to make famous tourist destinations in the state 100 per cent vaccinated zones by July 15 with the support of the health department,” Riyas had told the state assembly, according to a news report by PTI. The minister had also noted that workers of the tourism industry were given Covid-19 vaccines considering them as frontline workers.All service providers connected with the travel and hospitality industry such as employees of hotels, resorts and home-stays, tour guides, taxi and autorickshaw drivers and traders in tourism centres are included in the scope of the vaccination campaign. The drive is aimed at keeping the whole of Kerala ready to receive visitors after the pandemic recedes. Also, it has been rolled out in all destinations including hill stations, backwater hubs, seaside holiday spots and heritage and cultural tourism centres across Kerala.“Blessed with unsurpassed natural beauty, Wayanad has immense tourism potential. We have major plans to develop the area as a hub for a rich mix of holiday and leisure activities including adventure tourism,” Riyas further said.Alappuzha, Munnar, Fort Kochi, Kovalam, Kumarakom, and Varkala are the major centres that would be under the initiative.Similarly, all beneficiaries above 18 years of age in Khajuraho in Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh were also vaccinated against Covid-19, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said earlier on July 25.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vythiri-in-wayanad-becomes-first-tourist-destination-in-kerala-to-be-fully-vaccinated-against-covid19-101627571424775.html
29-07-2021||India||India rejects elections in PoK, opposes reference to Kashmir in China-Pakistan statement||India on Thursday rejected the recent elections held in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) that were swept by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s party, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI), and said the polls were an attempt to camouflage Pakistan’s “illegal occupation” of the region.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi also dismissed a reference to Kashmir in a joint statement issued after a meeting of the Pakistani and Chinese foreign ministers on July 24, saying the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are integral parts of India.Khan’s PTI party won the elections held in PoK on July 25. This was the first time the PTI came to power in the region, which has so far been mostly ruled by the PML-N or Pakistan People’s Party. There were, however, allegations of the Pakistan Army playing an impartial role in the elections.Asked about the elections during a weekly news briefing, Bagchi said, “Let me make very clear that the so-called elections in Indian territory under the illegal occupation of Pakistan are nothing but an attempt by Pakistan to camouflage its illegal occupation and the material changes undertaken by it in these territories.”India, he said, had lodged a strong protest with Pakistani authorities on “this cosmetic exercise, which has been protested and rejected by the local people”. Bagchi said the elections “can neither hide the illegal occupation by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom to people in these occupied territories”. He added, “Pakistan has no locus standi on these Indian territories. We call upon Pakistan to vacate all Indian areas under its illegal occupation.”Responding to another question on the reference to Kashmir in the Pakistan-China joint statement, Bagchi reiterated India’s categorical rejection of any such reference to Jammu and Kashmir. “The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the union territory of Ladakh have been and will remain an integral and inalienable part of India,” he said. Noting that the joint statement also contained a reference to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), he said India has consistently told both China and Pakistan that the “so-called CPEC is in India’s territory that has been illegally occupied by Pakistan”.India has not signed up for China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and has always opposed CPEC, a flagship project under BRI, because a crucial part of it passes through PoK.Bagchi said India opposes “any attempts by other countries to change the status quo in areas illegally occupied by Pakistan, as also to Pakistan bringing up any material change in Indian territories under its illegal occupation”. He added, “We call upon parties concerned to cease such actions.”The joint statement issued on July 24 after a meeting between Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi in Chengdu had said the Chinese side believes the Kashmir issue is a “dispute left over from history between Pakistan and India”, and it should be resolved in line with the UN Charter, Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements. China also opposed “any unilateral actions that complicate the situation” in Kashmir, and the joint statement said the two countries would “continue to firmly advance the development of CPEC”....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-elections-in-pok-opposes-reference-to-kashmir-in-china-pakistan-statement-101627570617723.html
29-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha passes bill to amend Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Act||The Lok Sabha on Thursday, through a voice vote, passed the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was tabled in Parliament by the newly inducted Union Minister for Civil Aviation Jyotiradtiya Scindia for passing. The bill was earlier brought to Parliament in March this year and was referred for a review by the standing committee on transport, tourism, and culture.The bill seeks to amend the 2008 Act by modifying the definition of “major airport” as under the current law, tariffs for the aeronautical services of a group of airports together cannot be determined. The amendment will now insert a provision in the original Act for tariff determination of a “group of airports.”Presenting the bill, Scindia said that under this new clubbing, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) will give priority to airports in smaller cities while newer airports will also be inaugurated. He also listed various areas which have been the beneficiaries of the UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) regional connectivity scheme of the government.Apart from newer airports in Assam, Punjab, Karnataka, Scindia specifically spoke about Darbhanga Airport in Bihar which, he said, was “missing” from the map of civil aviation and had now witnessed 110 flight movements from there to various parts of India since last one and a half year.“We have identified five zones for this clubbing which include north, south, east, west, and northeast zone. Based on this clubbing... the Airport Authority of India will be giving priority to airports in smaller cities and newer airports will also be inaugurated…,” he said, adding that the government has the vision to make new airports and also lend a “cross-subsidy” towards the smaller airports.“While today we have 128 airports and 713 airplanes, we are aimed to lead... the aviation sector globally in coming future,” he said. Following Scindia’s speech, the bill was passed in Lok Sabha through a voice vote. Earlier in the day, Scindia told Parliament that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was resolved that air travel which was exclusively used by well-off people, “should also be accessible to the poorer sections… of Indian society.”“If there has been any democratisation of the travel in India, it has only happened under the government led by PM Modi, and all these things are motivated by only one thought which is the Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he had said.Scindia said that PM Modi was resolved to develop rural India like Gandhi who said, “the true citizen of India lives in a village.”Scindia also praised PM Modi for launching the UDAN scheme and said the government was committed to the promise that the PM had made wherein he had said that every poor citizen of the country who wears a “Hawai” slipper should fly in a “Hawai Jahaz”.Responding to a question by MP Sunil Baburao Mendhe, Scindia had said that there were many cities in India where no one had ever seen an aircraft and today over 100 flights are operating towards such cities.“The dream of connecting each Indian (to every part of India) is getting fulfilled under the leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party led by Narendra Modi,” he said.He added that 780 air routes have been specified by the government under the UDAN scheme and 359 of these routes are already functional with the government inaugurating 59 new airports under the scheme.“As per the UDAN Scheme, only the unserved (with no air connectivity) and underserved (having up to 7 departures per week) airports are considered for providing connectivity,” Scindia said.About India’s cargo transport share, Scindia said that the government’s efforts since the last one and a half years have increased it from two percent to 19 percent. He had said the government has facilitated cargo transport by making storage facilities available at 39 airports and refrigeration and cold storage facilities in 15 airports.“These diverse steps have been taken so that our national carriers can also offer the cargo services…,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-amend-airports-economic-regulatory-authority-act-101627569359613.html
29-07-2021||India||Why are Kerala Covid cases increasing? Study says every 100 people spreading infection to 111||Kerala, the state with the highest load of active Covid-19 at present in the country, has the highest R-value, or reproductive factor, an analysis by the researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai has revealed. The R-value in Kerala is 1.11, which means that one infected person is spreading the infection to more than one person, every 100 infected persons are spreading the virus to 111 people.The overall R factor in the country in the last week of July has remained 0.95. How significant is the R factor? R factor is the number of people that can be infected by one Covid-infected person. This is a mathematical calculation. When the number is less than 1, for example, 0.95, it means that every 100 infected people pass on the infection to 95 other individuals. Scientists have explained that as long as the number is less than 1, new infections will be lesser than existing infections and there will be an overall decline in the number of cases.Explained: Does Kerala have lowest immunity against Covid-19?According to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, while the national R-value is lower than 1, Kerala's R-value is higher than 1 and is the highest in the country. Pune and Delhi's R-values are close to 1, while most of the northeast states have an R-value exceeding 1, the institute said adding that the R factor which climbed down after the peak of the second wave of the pandemic is again rising.Week-wise R-factor in IndiaFrom March 9 to April 21: 1.37From April 24 to May 1: 1.18From April 29 to May 7: 1.1From May 9 to May 11: 0.98From May 14 to May 30: 0.82From May 15 to June 26: 0.78From June 20 to July 7: 0.88From July 3 to July 22: 0.95Overall, there has been an increase in the R factor in teh country, the figures reveal as between May 15 and June 26, the rate at which the virus spread was the lowest."India's overall active cases are fluctuating too much to get a reliable estimate, but data is pointing at a value close to 1. It may tip over either way in the coming few days," Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, who is leading the team, told news agency PTI.Going by Kerala's high R-value, which suggests that the infection is spreading rapidly in the state, experts are predicting that the Covid-19 situation in Kerala will continue like this for another few weeks.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-kerala-covid-cases-are-increasing-study-says-every-100-people-spreading-infection-to-111-101627568206138.html
29-07-2021||India||Appeal against Tarun Tejpal acquittal in rape case adjourned to August 10||The Goa bench of the Bombay high court adjourned on Thursday the appeal against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a rape case. The court would next hear the appeal on August 10.A bench of Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar adjourned the matter after senior advocate Amit Desai appearing for Tarun Tejpal informed the court that the instructing counsel Mr Ankur Chawla had a bereavement late on Wednesday night and sought time to file a short response to the leave to appeal, according to LiveLaw.Tarun Tejpal was acquitted by additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi at a fast track court in Goa on May 21 this year, with the judge saying that there wasn’t "enough evidence to warrant a conviction" and proceeded to give him the benefit of doubt.ALSO READ | The regressive mindset behind the Tarun Tejpal judgmentSoon after, the Goa government approached the Bombay high court challenging the acquittal of the former editor of the Tehelka magazine.This was the second time that Tarun Tejpal's acquittal appeal was adjourned. On June 24, a two-judge bench of Bombay high court had adjourned the hearing to July 29 after the prosecution sought more time to further amend their memorandum of appeal.Tarun Tejpal was accused of raping a junior colleague inside the elevator of a five-star resort in Goa in 2013 during the magazine's event. The Goa police registered an FIR against him in November 2013 following which he was arrested. Tejpal was out on bail in May 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tarun-tejpal-bombay-high-court-rape-case-acquittal-appeal-adjourned-101627565754346.html
29-07-2021||India||Supreme Court Bar Association president demands CBI probe in Dhanbad judge death||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president and senior advocate Vikas Singh demanded an independent probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of additional district judge (ADJ), Dhanbad, Uttam Anand.Speaking on the matter before the Supreme Court, initially before a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and later before Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Singh said, “This is an attack on judicial independence. If a judiciary has to remain independent, judges have to be safe. An ADJ cannot be killed in this manner. This matter should be probed by CBI as local police can be complicit.” ADJ Uttam Anand was returning home from his morning walk when he was fatally hit by a vehicle early Wednesday morning.The Dhanbad police filed a murder case and arrested two persons who were allegedly riding the vehicle, an auto rickshaw, at the time of the incident. in the incident after CCTV camera footage of the incident showed the auto rickshaw deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down the judge. The auto rickshaw used in the incident, which was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridh district on Wednesday night itself. Also Read | Dhanbad judge death: 2 held, vehicle seized; ADG heads SIT probeCJI Ramana who specially took up the case, assured the SCBA president that he spoke to chief justice Ravi Ranjan of Jharkhand high court, who has said that the matter will be taken up by the high court. “The chief justice of the high court has spoken to senior superintendent of police, Dhanbad. Even the secretary general spoke to registrar general of the high court this morning. If there is any need for us to be involved, we will take it up.”The police on Thursday also formed a 14-member special investigation team (SIT) headed by additional director general of police Sanjay Anand Lathkar to investigate the matter after the Jharkhand high court on Thursday took suo motu cognizance of the incident.The CJI appreciated the concern shown by the Bar saying, “We are overwhelmed at the initiative shown by SCBA. We appreciate the steps taken but let us not jump into conclusions.”Singh informed the court that the CCTV camera footage of the incident showed it was not an accident. suspecting it could be a murder, Singh said that the ADJ had recently rejected the bail of a notorious gangster and the matter needed to be probed. “There cannot be a more brazen attack on a judge than this. Any judge in this country can be attacked. This is a serious matter.”Earlier in the day, Singh spoke to chief justice of Jharkhand high court and conveyed his demand for a CBI probe into the ADJ’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-bar-association-president-demands-cbi-probe-in-dhanbad-judge-death-101627564377000.html
29-07-2021||India||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey says TMC MP called him ‘Bihari Gunda’||Bharatiya Janata Party Member of Parliament Nishikant Dubey on Thursday accused Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker Mohua Moitra of calling him a “Bihari Gunda” during a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology. Dubey told news agency ANI that the TMC is “allergic” to all the Hindi-speaking people.”That is why they called me a Bihari Gunda. This is an attack on Bihar’s pride. I have submitted all the facts to the Speaker. She (Moitra) should apologise.”He also tweeted in Hindi accusing TMC of abusing the “entire Hindi-speaking people along with Bihar by using the word Bihari Gunda.”Dubey tagged TMC chief Mamata Banerjee and added the abuse has brought out “your party’s hatred towards north Indians”. He added Moitra called him “Bihari Gunda” thrice in the meeting.Also Read | TMC workers take out procession in Kolkata with horse over Pegasus snooping rowMoitra said she was a bit amused by charges of name-calling. She added that the meeting “did not happen” and members did not attend any meeting. “How can I call someone a name who was not even present!! Check attendance sheet!” she said.Nishikant Dubey also spoke about his accusation in the Lok Sabha“I want to draw the attention of all the members of the House. This is my 13th year as an MP. I come from Jharkhand and yesterday (Wednesday) at the Parliamentary committee (meeting) I was called a (derogatory comment) by a woman legislator of Trinamool Congress. I have never seen this in my entire life,” Dubey said without specifically naming Moitra. The comment was expunged from the House proceedingsHe questioned what was their fault? “Our fault is that we built this nation by working as labourers as Hindi-speaking people whether from Uttar Pradesh or Madhya Pradesh... We have learnt the lessons of Lord Ram,” Dubey said before the House was adjourned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpmp-nishikant-dubey-says-tmc-mp-called-him-bihari-gunda-101627564316397.html
29-07-2021||India||SC verdict on Kerala assembly violence: CM rules out minister’s resignation||There was a furore in Kerala assembly on Thursday after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected the Opposition demand for the resignation of education minister V Sivankutty, an accused in the assembly violence case. The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected the state government’s plea to withdraw the case and asked all six accused, including the minister, to face criminal proceedings for destroying House property during a ruckus in 2015. Many youth outfits hit the street seeking Sivankutty’s exit and a rally of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) outside the assembly turned violent. An adjournment motion was introduced in the House by Congress member P T Thomas who said it was immoral and unjust to allow the minister to continue. The minister was not present in the House. “What message you will be giving to students if you continue to allow him in the education ministry? It is a disgrace for a state like Kerala,” said Opposition leader V D Satheesan, asking the CM to drop Sivankutty. Also Watch | Kerala reports 50% of India’s Covid cases: BJP blames Eid, Centre rushes teamBut Vijayan said the court did not get into the merit of the case and it has not taken any specific name. He said all accused legislators were punished by the Speaker after the incident. “I feel what happened in the assembly should have ended there,” he said, amid protests from Opposition members who said he was casting aspersions on the judgment of the highest court. After the CM’s explanation, Speaker M B Rajesh denied permission to the motion and Opposition members stormed out of the House. In March 2015, Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) legislators tried to prevent then finance minister KM Mani from presenting the budget over his alleged role in the bar bribery case. The chaos that followed saw two legislators injured and damange to property worth ₹2.20 lakh. After coming to power in 2016, the government tried to withdraw the case, only for a local court to reject it. The Pinarayi Vijayan government then moved the high court, which also turned down its plea. The government also invoked the privilege of legislators and public interest to justify its decision to withdraw the case, but the high court rejected it saying privilege was not a licence for violence in the House. Later, the apex court also upheld the lower court’s verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-verdict-on-kerala-assembly-violence-cm-rules-out-minister-s-resignation-101627561196376.html
29-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra didn't escape probe, should not have been whisked away like this, contests lawyer||Appearing for businessman Raj Kundra, who has been arrested last week for allegedly running a porn film racker, lawyer Abad Ponda on Thursday said the arrest was illegal as Kundra was not served notice. Defending his client, Ponda said Kundra should have been given a date and time to appear before the police. The court said that when his client was issued a notice, he refused. "I should have been given an opportunity to appear, even if I don't accept the notice. They can't whisk me away like this. Refusing to accept a summon is not a cognisable offence for which they can arrest me," Raj Kundra's lawyer said during the hearing, Live Law reported.The lawyer also referred to comedian Munawar Faruqui's case where the Supreme Court ordered an ad-interim bail to the comedian, who was arrested by Madhya Pradesh police for allegedly hurting religious sentiment in one of his shows. To this, Justice Gadkari said only the Supreme Court can do that.Also Read: Mumbai Police transfers Raj Kundra pornography case to property cellThe case will again be heard on Saturday, Justice AS Gadkari said.Terming the arrest illegal, Raj Kundra's lawyer said that Mumbai Police got a search warrant from the magistrate court on July 19 searched the office premises of Viaan Industries, which is located in Andheri West, Mumbai. After the search, the police issued summon under Section 41A of CrPC which Kundra refused to accept and sign. Before the search, Kundra was not issued any notice, his lawyer said.The court said that this does not make the arrest illegal as nowhere the law says that the police can't arrest him. To this, Ponda said police should have given notice while Raj Kundra extended full cooperation with the searching team. Kundra was not at the office when the search began. As it went n for 5-6 hours, he was called and he reached the spot, his lawyer said.Mumbai Police on July 19 arrested Raj Kundra on several charges of the Indian Penal Code and the Information and Technology Act. It has been alleged that Kundra's Viaan Industries was involved in a porn racket in Mumbai, though the streaming platform Hotshots, which is at the centre of this alleged crime, was owned by a UK firm. Police investigation revealed that the firm is owned by Raj Kundra's brother-in-law and they were making crores by making porn. Police have also found some international deals that Kundra was finalising, following which several bank accounts are now on police radar.On Wednesday, Mumbai's Esplanade court rejected Raj Kundra's bail plea as the public prosecutor contested that since he is an influential person, he can intimidate witnesses if he gets bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-whisk-someone-away-like-this-lawyer-says-raj-kundra-didn-t-escape-101627559578156.html
29-07-2021||India||‘Their formula has failed’: Union minister targets Kerala govt as state sees Covid surge||The formula followed by the Kerala government for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) response has failed, Union minister V Muraleedharan said on Thursday as the state is witnessing another surge in infections. The minister of state for external affairs criticised Kerala’s handling of the pandemic after the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government declared complete lockdown in view of rising Covid-19 cases, news agency ANI reportedMuraleedharan accused the state government of not following the health guidelines issued by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), saying the state took a stand for following their “own principles” and “formula”. “Now it has come to light that their formula has failed. Government should follow the scientific principles and formula,” ANI quoted the minister as saying.Earlier today, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced that a six-member team will be sent to Kerala to take a stock of the current situation and recommend necessary public health interventions to contain the Covid-19 surge. The ministry said that Kerala is contributing 37.1% of India’s total active cases in the country, with over 17,000 average daily cases being reported in the state.Also Read | Covid-19 surge in Kerala: Weekend lockdown declared, Centre to send 6-member teamThe Union minister targeted the state government for easing Covid restrictions for Eid al-Adha even when several states had to cancel other religious activities in view of the pandemic. He said that the relaxation was not given on the basis of surge or decline in Covid-19 cases but on the basis of “political and vote bank considerations”.Now that the Kerala government has declared complete lockdown on the weekend, Muraleedharan claimed it doesn’t have any “scientific basis.” He said that people rush to markets on Fridays in such a situation, causing a spike in infections. The minister stressed that the state government should follow “scientific principles, observe guidelines of ICMR and also not use Covid for political gains.”(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/their-formula-has-failed-union-minister-targets-kerala-govt-as-state-sees-covid-surge-101627559128127.html
29-07-2021||India||West Bengal BJP to not contest Rajya Sabha bypoll||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal has decided not to contest the Rajya Sabha by-election which is scheduled to be held on August 9, paving the way for Trinamool Congress (TMC) nominee Jawhar Sircar to be elected unopposed. “Today is the last date for nomination for RS by-poll in WB. BJP is not putting up any candidate for this seat. The outcome of the poll is defined and known to all. Our fight against this irrational Govt. will continue,” Suvendu Adhikari, BJP MLA and Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal assembly, tweeted on Thursday. Also Read | Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till August 15The Rajya Sabha seat fell vacant when TMC lawmaker Dinesh Trivedi joined the BJP ahead of the recent West Bengal assembly elections and resigned from the seat in February this year. TMC nominee and former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar filed his nomination on Wednesday. “Had they nominated a candidate, many BJP leaders would have either refrained from voting or voted against him. This would have exposed their internal fights,” said Tapas Roy, senior TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-bjp-to-not-contest-rajya-sabha-bypoll-101627559637061.html
29-07-2021||India||3,570 Indians died of Covid-19 in 70 countries: MoS external affairs||As many as 3,570 Indian citizens have died abroad due to Covid-19 with around a third of the deaths reported from Saudi Arabia, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan told Parliament on Thursday.He said 1,154 deaths were recorded in Saudi Arabia, followed by 894 in the United Arab Emirates, 546 in Kuwait, 384 in Oman, 196 in Bahrain, and 106 in Qatar. The six West Asian countries are home to 70% of India’s citizens living abroad, according to the ministry of external affairs.There are 12.6 million non-resident Indians (NRIs), who hold Indian passports but ordinarily reside outside the country in over 200 nations. As many as 8.9 million of them live in just six countries. The largest number of Indians among them, or 3.4 million, live in the United Arab Emirates, which is approximately 27% of all NRIs. Another 2.6 million are in Saudi Arabia. Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, and Bahrain are home to another 2.9 million NRIs.Also Read | Cognitive bias explains the inconsistent citizen response to Covid-19In his written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha, Muraleedharan said Covid-19 related deaths of Indians abroad were also recorded in Nigeria (31), Sudan (26), Malaysia (21), Uganda (18), Kenya (15), and Iraq (10).He added other countries where deaths of Indian nationals were reported included Egypt, France, Botswana, Indonesia, Malawi, Maldives, Spain, Ukraine, Zambia, and Afghanistan. In all, deaths of Indians due to Covid-19 were reported from 70 countries.“We express the deepest sympathy with the families of those who have died abroad due to Covid-19. Missions/posts abroad maintained contact with the families and extended all possible help for transporting the mortal remains to India or for local burial, as per the wishes of the families,” Muraleedharan said. “Financial assistance for transporting the bodies to India or for local burials was provided from the Indian Community Welfare Fund when requests were received by Indian missions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3570-indians-died-of-covid-19-in-70-countries-mos-external-affairs-muraleedharan-101627558915920.html
29-07-2021||India||Many countries have eased Covid restrictions for Indian students: Minister||Covid-19-related travel restrictions have been eased for Indian students by countries such as the US, the UK, Canada, Germany and the Netherlands and more nations are expected to open up when the situation improves, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan informed Parliament on Thursday. In written replies to several questions in the Rajya Sabha on Indians studying abroad and the impact of the Covid-19-related restrictions on them, Muraleedharan said the external affairs ministry has been making efforts to easing travel restrictions for Indians enrolled in foreign universities. “Our missions abroad have been actively taking up these issues with the respective governments and have been impressing upon those governments to ease the travel restrictions. Also the issue of travel restrictions has been taken up at the ministerial level with several countries,” he said. So far, travel restrictions have been eased for Indian students by countries such as the US, the UK, Canada, Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Georgia, and more countries are expected to open up travel in future, he said. Also Read | India’s 14 tiger reserves set global standard in tiger conservationA total of 1,133,749 Indians study in 99 countries around the world, according to data furnished by Muraleedharan in the Rajya Sabha. Among the countries with large numbers of Indian students are United Arab Emirates (219,000), Canada (215,720), the US (211,930), Australia (92,383), Saudi Arabia (80,800), the UK (55,465), Oman (43,600), New Zealand (30,000), China (23,000), Germany (20,810), Russia (16,500), the Philippines (15,000), and Kyrgyzstan and France (10,000 each). Muraleedharan said the government is developing a “Global Indian Students Portal (GISP)” for Indian students who want to go abroad for studies. The portal, which will have information on courses, foreign universities, nodal officers and accreditation requirements to help students make informed decisions, is expected to be launched in 2022. The India Centre for Migration, a think tank of the external affairs ministry, has prepared a “Student Handbook for Studying Abroad” to provide basic information to students intending to study overseas. Indian missions have voluntary registration for Indian students, and the MADAD portal, launched in February 2015, extends a helping hand to all Indians abroad. The student module of the MADAD portal, launched in 2016, enables Indian students abroad to register voluntarily and provide data about their course and institution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-countries-have-eased-covid-restrictions-for-indian-studentsminister-101627558736003.html
29-07-2021||India||India’s 14 tiger reserves set global standard in tiger conservation||Fourteen out of India’s 51 tiger reserves have received the Conservation Assured Tiger Standards (CATS) accreditation for meeting a set of standards for effective conservation of big cats, the Union environment ministry said on Thursday. An international group of experts and protected area managers have created the criteria.CATS is a globally accepted conservation tool that sets best practices and standards to manage tigers and assessments to benchmark progress. It is being implemented across 125 sites, including 94 in India, in seven tiger range countries.The accreditation has been granted to 14 reserves in India, one each in Nepal, Bhutan, and Russia, the ministry officials said. The 14 reserves are Manas, Kaziranga, and Orang (Assam); Sundarbans (West Bengal); Valmiki (Bihar); Dudhwa (Uttar Pradesh); Panna, Kanha, Satpuda and Pench (Madhya Pradesh); Anamalai and Mudumalai (Tamil Nadu); Parambikulam (Kerala) and Bandipur (Karnataka).Officials said they underwent external evaluation for the accreditation.Also Read | With 51 reserves in 18 states, India now home to 70% of world’s tiger populationThe Global Tiger Forum (GTF), an international NGO working on tiger conservation, and World Wildlife Fund India are the two implementing partners of the National Tiger Conservation Authority for CATS assessment in India. The aspects monitored for accreditation include the importance and status of a reserve, management, community participation, tourism, protection, habitat management, and tiger populations.“CATS accreditation is a global recognition of good tiger governance. This recognition means a lot in the context of adaptation to climate change, sustainability of ecosystem services, and safeguarding disruption of zoonotic cycles, through an umbrella species approach,” said Rajesh Gopal, secretary-general, Global Tiger Forum.Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said all 51 tiger reserves should try to achieve the status. “Tiger conservation involves saving the entire ecosystem, not just the tiger. Tiger is a symbol. Topography or tiger landscape and tiger corridors also need to be protected. Tigers also use international corridors with neighbouring countries. We should renew dialogues with these countries. Finally, public participation is very important and forest departments should recognise local conservation practices,” he said. “We have to be cautious about the impact of ecotourism. Ecotourism will increase but with improved sensitivity for nature.”RP Gupta, secretary (environment), said it is interesting that the three most popular tiger reserves—Bandhavgarh, Corbett, and Ranthambore--are not on the list of reserves that have been granted accreditation. “The three most popular ones also have the highest tourist footfalls which may be a factor,” he said.“As tiger population increases in India we need protection of sink areas. These are surrounding tiger landscape where tigers often sustain themselves when they move out of the source area or the core tiger habitat. Tiger corridors need to be conserved on priority so that they don’t remain isolated. Tiger reserves need be disturbance-free, for example, a national highway is passing through the edge of Kaziranga national park. Kerala has been also asking for widening a highway along Bandipur reserve. Most importantly, we need a specialised team for conflict management to prevent and address conflict situations with local communities,” said Sanjay Gubbi, conservation biologist.On the occasion of International Tiger Day on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also tweeted that India has achieved the target of doubling the tiger population four years ahead of the schedule under the St Petersburg Declaration.In the 2010 declaration, 13 countries, including India, agreed to a Global Tiger Recovery Programme and pledged to strive to double the number of tigers by 2022 by “doing everything possible to effectively manage, preserve, protect, and enhance habitats.”“India is home to 51 tiger reserves spread across 18 states. The last tiger census of 2018 showed a rise in the tiger population. India achieved the target of doubling of tiger population 4 years ahead of schedule of the St. Petersburg Declaration on tiger Conservation,” Modi tweeted.In 2010, India had 1,706 tigers. They more than doubled to 2,967 by 2018, according to the National Tiger Conservation Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-14-tiger-reserves-set-global-standard-in-tiger-conservation-101627558556046.html
29-07-2021||India||Delhi assembly passes resolution against Rakesh Asthana's appointment as top cop||Delhi assembly passed a resolution against the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner and asked the Union ministry of home affairs on Thursday to reverse the decision.The ministry of home affairs controls police in the Union territory of Delhi.Rakesh Asthana was handed over the top post of Delhi Police on Tuesday, three days before the 1984-batch IPS officer from the Gujarat cadre was to retire as the director-general of Border Security Force (BSF).Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Sanjeev Jha told the Delhi assembly that Rakesh Asthana's appointment as Delhi Police commissioner was in contravention of a Supreme Court ruling as should qualify as a "contempt of court."Senior AAP leader and Delhi's health minister Satyender Jain echoed Jha and told the Delhi assembly that there should be at least six months of service left in the tenure of an officer appointed at the rank of the director-general."The Supreme Court gave the ruling that there should be six months' tenure left in the appointment of DG level, but Rakesh Asthana only had 4 days of tenure left," AAP tweeted from its official Twitter handle quoting Jain as speaking in the Delhi assembly.The Supreme Court had in 2019 ruled that only officers who have at least six months of service left before their superannuation should be considered for the post of director-general of police.Rakesh Asthana, who was due to retire on July 31, has been given a year-long extension.What is the "Special Mission" on which Rakesh Asthana has been brought to Delhi as Commissioner?Same Gujarat like missions like murders?Or is it Mission Fake Encounter?Or Mission Communal Riots?Or to Crush Opponents?Or Mission Snooping?- AAP MLA @akhilesht84 pic.twitter.com/Avc7ktE0ufTaking a swipe at the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre, Jain said, "The BJP wants to say that all the commissioners appointed by the Modi government so far were useless, and for the first time in 7 years, they have brought a good officer.""PM Modi's blue-eyed boy was appointed 4 days before his retirement with 1 year extension. PM has brought a henchman on a "special mission" to destabilize Delhi," Jha was quoted as saying by AAP on its Twitter post.AAP MLA Bhupinder Singh Joon said, “If the Union government does not consider the post of director general of police as equivalent to commissioner of Delhi Police, it is a demotion for Asthana who already served as director general of BSF. If the post of police commissioner of Delhi is similar to that of a DGP, the appointment it is a clear violation of the SC order.”Rakesh Asthana, during his tenure as the special director of CBI, was embroiled in a spat with the then director of the central probe agency, Alok Verma, with both of them levelling allegations of corruption against each other. Both were moved out of the CBI in 2019.Ashthana also served as the police commissioner of Vadodara when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-assembly-passes-resolution-against-rakesh-asthana-s-appointment-as-top-cop-101627555953885.html
29-07-2021||India||Uttarakhand sent at least 3,000 kanwariyas back from Haridwar: Police||Uttarakhand police said they have sent back at least 3,000 kanwariyas from Haridwar amid ban on the pilgrimage due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The kanwariyas were asked to return from the border checkposts of Haridwar district with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. At least 300 kanwariyas were made to go back from Haridwar railway station where they had reached to fetch Ganga water as per the rituals.Deputy inspector general Nilesh Anand Bharne said, “Haridwar district police turned back 3,635 kanwariyas from Haridwar borders where they had reached by 1,174 two-wheelers, 3,473 small vehicles and 136 big vehicles till July 27.”“Apart from this, 316 kanwariyas who reached Haridwar by train were also returned to their destinations in shuttle buses from Haridwar railway station,” said Bharne.“We have arranged tankers with Ganga water for the pilgrims of other states at Haridwar border so that they need not enter the holy city for it. Despite that, if anyone is caught inside the city, then he would be put in quarantine for 14 days and those caught at the border would be made to go back in their own vehicle or the shuttle buses arranged by police,” said Bharne.On July 13, Uttarakhand government cancelled kanwar yatra, heeding warning from health experts who that millions of devotees thronging the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar could spark a devastating third wave of Covid infections and seed clusters of cases across north India.Meanwhile, the state police has also decided to start a month-long special drive to nab wanted criminals in the state, including those from other states hiding here. The drive will begin from August 1.Director general of police Ashok Kumar said, “There are total 545 wanted criminals in the state, as per the police records. Of those, 150 have a reward on their head, which includes about 100 from other states hiding in Uttarakhand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-sent-at-least-3-000-kanwariyas-back-fromharidwarpolice-101627558153809.html
29-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bengal augments paediatric Covid facilities ahead of third wave and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gearing up for third Covid wave, Bengal hospitals prepare diet chart for kids“Anticipating a third wave of Covid-19 the government of West Bengal has decided to augment paediatric Covid facilities across the state. As the dietary supplement is an essential part of the Covid pandemic treatment and management, the government has decided to modify the existing diet plan particularly for paediatric population,” said an order issued by the state government on Wednesday. Read moreGovt has a lot to hide, says Congress over Pegasus snoopingThe Congress on Thursday said the government is refusing to discuss the Pegasus snooping issue in Parliament as it has “a lot to hide”. “I am making a proclamation here that today you discuss Pegasus, tomorrow we will discuss everything. Why are you avoiding discussing Pegasus? They are hiding. They have much to hide. Read more27% OBC quota in all-India medical admission, 10% for EWSThe government announced a 27 per cent reservation for OBCs and a 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections in the all India quota scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses. The new reservation provision will be implemented in this year's admission as well, the government said. Read more'I immediately knew he's going to have a good Test career': Dale Steyn praises India pacer for bringing 'good attitude'Dale Steyn is highly impressed with India's current lot of fast bowlers and has advised the Test pace quartet of Jasprit Bumrah, Ishant Sharma, Mohammed Shami and Mohammed Siraj to stay fit ahead of the five-Test series against England. Read moreAishwarya Rai 'mam' clicks selfies with Ponniyin Selvan co-star, fans call him 'lucky boy'Aishwarya Rai's co-star from her upcoming film, Ponniyin Selvan, has shared a bunch of selfies with the actor. Raaghavan Murugan took to Instagram to share the post and talked about his experience working with her. Read moreFifth-gen Honda City gets updated Google Assistant feature in IndiaHonda Cars India on Thursday announced an enhanced version of NextGen Honda Connect by launching Honda Action on Google. The new feature is offered as an extension of the integrated Connected technology present in the new fifth-gen Honda City car which sports the Alexa remote capability. Read moreNora Fatehi in Rs6k bralette and thigh-slit skirt celebrates 30 million Instagram followersBhuj: The Pride of India actor and dancer Nora Fatehi is causing a commotion online with her latest fiery beach look, and we cannot take our eyes off her. The star celebrated 30 million followers on Instagram today by posting pictures of herself posing at the beach. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-hospitals-gears-up-for-paediatric-covid-facilities-for-kids-and-all-the-latest-news-101627555924379.html
29-07-2021||India||‘Landmark decision’: Modi on OBC, EWS reservation in All India Quota medical seats||The Union government has accepted a long-pending demand to provide 27% reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBC) candidates and 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWC) from the all India quota for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses.The decision was announced on Thursday and will be implemented from the current academic year.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about the decision, “Our Government has taken a landmark decision for providing 27% reservation for OBCs and 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Section in the All India Quota Scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical/dental courses from the current academic year.”In a separate tweet, he said, “This will immensely help thousands of our youth every year get better opportunities and create a new paradigm of social justice in our country.”On Monday, the Prime Minister held a review meeting where he instructed the ministry of health to expedite the process of clearing the decks for the decision.As per the statement issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, the decision would benefit 1,500 OBC students in Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) and 2,500 OBC students in postgraduation annually and around 550 EWS students in MBBS and around 1000 EWS students in postgraduation.Given the implications that the decision can have on the electoral prospects of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is gearing for elections in seven states, a group of OBC MPs and ministers had met PM Modi on Wednesday to push for allowing admissions from the all India quota. In election-bound states, such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, where the OBC communities wield considerable influence, the BJP is hoping to gain from the decision.The ministers and lawmakers had informed the PM that as per the provisions of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Examination (NEET), the state government colleges and private medical and dental colleges are required to give 15% of the total number of seats in diploma and undergraduate courses and 50% in postgraduate courses against the all India quota and these can be availed by students from across the country. However, OBCs could not benefit from this reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-decision-modi-on-obc-ews-reservation-in-all-india-quota-medical-seats-101627556456438.html
29-07-2021||India||Govt has a lot to hide, says Congress over Pegasus snooping||The Congress on Thursday said the government is refusing to discuss the Pegasus snooping issue in Parliament as it has “a lot to hide”.“I am making a proclamation here that today you discuss Pegasus, tomorrow we will discuss everything. Why are you avoiding discussing Pegasus? They are hiding. They have much to hide. They have no basis for not having a discussion inside the Parliament,” said Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi. He added the question they are asking is simple. “...did the government acquire the Pegasus software?... can be only answered in yes or no.” Singhvi lashed out on the government for not giving a simple answer and for offering to discuss the matter outside Parliament.Also Read | The politics and ethics of surveillanceThe ongoing Monsoon Session of the Parliament has been marred by disruptions, protests and sloganeering as the Opposition has submitted several motions for adjournment to discuss the snooping issue. Both Houses of Parliament were adjourned again for the day on Thursday.The Opposition has been demanding a discussion on the issue in the presence of the Prime Minister and Home Minister and the repeal of the farm laws passed last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-a-lot-to-hide-says-congress-over-pegasus-snooping-101627555615632.html
29-07-2021||India||Gearing up for third Covid wave, Bengal hospitals prepare diet chart for kids||The West Bengal government has decided to modify the paediatric diet charts in its hospitals in anticipation of a third Covid wave. “Anticipating a third wave of Covid-19 the government of West Bengal has decided to augment paediatric Covid facilities across the state. As the dietary supplement is an essential part of the Covid pandemic treatment and management, the government has decided to modify the existing diet plan particularly for paediatric population,” said an order issued by the state government on Wednesday. A senior health department official said, “Two separate diet charts, one for kids between 1 and 5 years and another for children between 5 and 12 years of age have been drawn. The menu, comprising bread, egg, fruits, milk, rice, dal, vegetables, and fish is almost the same. The quantity is a little more for the latter age group.”Also Read | Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till August 15As the child’s mother or caregiver would need to stay in the hospital, they would also get a full diet as recommended by the health department. All state-run hospitals have been asked to follow the diet with immediate effect. The state is anyway setting aside dedicated paediatric intensive care units and sick neonatal units for Covid cases among children and infants respectively.The West Bengal government has set up a 10-member expert committee comprising doctors from state-run hospitals to tackle the purported third wave of Covid-19. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has called a meeting of the Global Advisory Body, set up the government last year to advise the state on pandemic issues, on August 5. The body is headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee.This comes at a time when the daily count of Covid cases shot up to 815 on Wednesday after remaining below the 700-mark for two consecutive days. While Kolkata and its two adjoining districts of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas account for nearly one-third of the total cases, Darjeeling, with 62 new cases recorded the maximum number of fresh cases on the day.At Kalimpong in north Bengal, which shares its border with Sikkim, at least six areas have been identified as high risk zones. The Himalayan state reported at least 97 cases of the Delta variant. The district administration of Darjeeling has made it mandatory for all people entering West Bengal from Sikkim to produce either a Covid-19 negative RT-PCR test report or a double vaccination certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gearing-up-for-third-covid-wave-bengal-hospitals-prepare-diet-chart-for-kids-101627555075158.html
29-07-2021||India||27% OBC quota in all-India medical admission, 10% for economically weaker section | What it means||The government announced a 27 per cent reservation for OBCs and a 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections in the all India quota scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses. The new reservation provision will be implemented in this year's admission as well, the government said. All undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses, including dental, will have reservations for OBCs and economically weak sections from 2021-22 onwards. Nearly 1,500 OBC students in MBBS and 2,500 OBC students in postgraduation will be benefitted from this reservation every year, apart from 550 students from the economically weaker sections in MBBS and around 1,000 in the post-graduation, every year.This will immensely help thousands of our youth every year get better opportunities and create a new paradigm of social justice in our country."This will immensely help thousands of our youth every year get better opportunities and create a new paradigm of social justice in our country," PM Modi tweeted hailing the decision as a 'landmark' one."The present government is committed to providing due reservation both to the backward category as well as the EWS category. The Union government has now taken a historic decision to provide for 27% reservation for OBCs and 10% reservation for EWS in the AIQ Scheme. The OBC students from across the country shall now be able to take benefit of this reservation in AIQ Scheme to compete for seats in any State. Being a Central Scheme, the Central List of OBCs shall be used for this reservation.," the government said. What is AIQ scheme?All India Quota scheme was introduced in 1986 under a Supreme Court direction. The aim was to enable students of another state to get reservation benefits in other states as well. Until 2008, there was no reservation in the All India Quota scheme. In 2007, the Supreme Court introduced reservations of 15% for SCs and 7.5% for STs in the all-India scheme.What does this OBC quota in AQI means?Students belonging to OBC can now apply to any government medical or dental college to any other state under this quota. This was a long-pending issue as OBCs did not have any all-India quota for medical admission. State government medical colleges have 15% reservation in undergraduate seats and 50% in post-graduate seats for All India Quota. Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled (ST)s has reservation under the All India quota. So OBC students if migrated to another state could not reap avail of any reservation.Reservation for EWSIn 2019, a constitutional amendment was made to provide 10 per cent reservation for the economically weaker sections. Accordingly, the seats in medical and dental colleges were increased so that unreserved categories do not get affected. But this category was not included in the All India quota scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-quota-for-obcs-in-medical-admission-10-for-economically-weak-section-101627552900469.html
29-07-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra says Yogi govt sacked 500 workers by invoking ESMA||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government alleging 500 workers were sacked in Uttar Pradesh by invoking the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA).Taking to Twitter, Vadra wrote that while the government talked about showering flowers on frontline workers during the coronavirus pandemic, it dismissed 500 workers when they raised their voices for their rights. "During the prevailing Covid-19 period in Uttar Pradesh, the government used to talk about showering flowers on ambulance workers. But, as soon as they (workers) raise their voice for their rights, the government is talking about raining sticks on them. The government sacked more than 500 workers by imposing ESMA and the public is upset. God save the state from such a government," Vadra wrote in Hindi.उप्र में कोरोना काल में सरकार एंबुलेंस कर्मियों पर फूल बरसाने की बात करती थी और उन्होंने जैसे ही अपने अधिकारों की आवाज उठाई, सरकार उन पर लट्ठ बरसाने की बात कर रही है।सरकार ने एस्मा लगाकर 500 से ऊपर कर्मी बर्खास्त कर दिए और जनता परेशान है।ऐसी सरकार से प्रदेश को भगवान बचाए। pic.twitter.com/1CvF05GseHOn May 27, 2021, ESMA was invoked in Uttar Pradesh that prohibits agitations in all forms in all state government departments and corporations for six months.Earlier, the BJP-led government invoked the ESMA in the state on May 22, 2020 for six months. It was for another six months on November 25, 2020.The Uttar Pradesh Assembly election is scheduled to be held in 2022.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-says-yogi-govt-sacked-500-workers-by-invoking-esma-101627552009556.html
29-07-2021||India||Goa CM faces flak for asking parents of rape why girls were out so late||Opposition Congress on Thursday hit out at Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant over the “deteriorating law-and-order situation” in the state following his comments a day earlier asking parents of two girls allegedly raped on Sunday to introspect why their children were on a beach late at night.Altone D’Costa, a Congress leader, wondered why should not law-abiding citizens be out and moving around freely. “Criminals should be in jail and law-abiding citizens should be out freely moving around,” he said.Four men have been arrested for posing as policemen and allegedly raping the two girls after beating up two boys who were with them on Sunday.Sawant made the comments three days later on Wednesday during a debate in the state assembly.Also Read | No final decision, says Goa CM on projects in Western Ghats“When 14-year-olds stay on the beach the whole night, the parents need to introspect. Just because children do not listen, we cannot put the responsibility on the government and police,” said Sawant, who is also the home minister and in charge of law-and-order in the state.He added parents have responsibility to ensure the safety of their children.Goa Forward Party lawmaker Vijai Sardesai called it “disgusting” that Sawant is making such statements. “The safety of citizens is the responsibility of police and state government. If they cannot provide it to us, the chief minister has no right to continue.”In a tweet, Independent lawmaker Rohan Khaunte said: “It is shocking that @goacm (Sawant) is blaming parents for allowing their children to venture out in the night claiming that it is not safe. if State govt can’t assure us our security, who can give it? Goa has a history of being safe state for women, that tag is being lost in @BJP4Goa (Bharatiya Janata Party) rule.”Sawant argued against blaming the police alone. “We directly blame police, but I want to point out that of the 10 youth who went to the beach for a party, four stayed on the beach the whole night and the remaining six went home,” he said.“They were on the beach the whole night, two boys and two girls. He said teens, particularly minors, should not be spending nights on beaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-oppn-attacks-cm-for-his-comment-on-rape-101627551849151.html
29-07-2021||India||'A meeting that never happened...': Shashi Tharoor on 'Bihari gunda' row||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who heads the Parliamentary standing committee on information technology, said on Thursday no meeting of the panel took place on Wednesday, adding that if somebody allegedly said something at a meeting that never happened, why should “I be concerned about it?”Also Read | Nishikant Dubey says Mahua Moitra called him 'Bihari Gunda', TMC MP says she's amusedTharoor was responding to questions on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Nishikant Dubey being allegedly called a “Bihari gunda” by Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) Mahua Moitra. Both Dubey and Moitra are members of the IT committee.“There couldn’t be a committee meeting yesterday because 10 people who were physically present chose not to sign register to deny us a quorum. There was no quorum and no meeting. How can I tell you about a meeting that never happened?” the senior Congress leader told news agency ANI. “I’m completely unaware. If someone allegedly said something at a meet that never took place to someone who was not there, how am I to be concerned about it? He did not sign the register, how do we know he was there?” Tharoor further said.I'm completely unaware. If somebody allegedly said something at a meet that never took place to somebody who was not there, how am I to be concerned about it? He did not sign register, how do we know he's there?: Chairman of Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT, Shashi TharoorOn Wednesday, Moitra, too, had said no meeting took place as there was no quorum. “Am a bit amused by charges of name-calling. IT meeting did not happen because NO quorum-members did not attend. How can I call someone a name who was not even present!! Check attendance sheet!!” she had tweeted after Dubey went public with his allegations.Am a bit amused by charges of name-calling. IT mtng did not happen because NO quorum - members did not attend. How can I call someone a name who was not even present!!Check attendance sheet!@ShashiTharoor , @KartiPC @NasirHussainINC @MdNadimulHaque6Earlier, the BJP MP, who hails from Bihar’s Bhagalpur and represents Godda constituency of neighbouring Jharkhand in the Lok Sabha, had tagged West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, complaining about being “abused” by his fellow Lok Sabha MP.तृणमूल @AITCofficial ने बिहारी गुंडा शब्द का प्रयोग कर बिहार के साथ साथ पूरे हिन्दी भाषी लोगों को गाली दी है,@MamataOfficial जी आप के सांसद महुआ मोइत्रा की इस गाली ने उत्तर भारतीय व ख़ासकर हिंदी भाषी लोगों के प्रति आपके पार्टी के नफ़रत को देश के सामने लाया है।Also Read | 'Bihari Gunda' jibe abuse of Hindi-speaking people: BJP MP Nishikant Dubey10 BJP MPs on the 31-member IT panel, including Dubey, had refused to sign the attendance register of the meeting, complaining against its agenda meeting being made public. The committee comprises 21 members from the Lok Sabha and 10 from the Rajya Sabha; nearly half the committee members are from the ruling BJP.The meeting was to take place to discuss the alleged Pegasus snooping scandal. However, the rules, or "quorum," require at least one-third of the members to be present for the meeting, in this case nine. Since the BJP MPs refused to sign the attendance register, the meeting did not take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-meeting-that-never-happened-shashi-tharoor-on-bihari-gunda-row-101627550128497.html
29-07-2021||India||India will never accept outcome in Afghanistan decided by force: Jaishankar||India is working with the world community to push political negotiations to find a lasting solution to the conflict in Afghanistan and will never accept any outcome decided through the use of force, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. There was a very detailed discussion on the situation in Afghanistan with visiting US secretary of state Antony Blinken on Wednesday and there is “a very strong convergence” in the positions of India and the US on this issue, Jaishankar said while answering a question in the Rajya Sabha or upper house of Parliament. “We were very clear that there must be a negotiated political settlement in Afghanistan, that there cannot be a military solution, there cannot be a takeover by use of force in Afghanistan, that we will work with the international community to ensure that political negotiations for a settlement are pursued seriously and we would never accept any outcome which is decided by force,” he said. Also Read | China calls upon Taliban to steer Afghan peace bidHe was responding to a question from BJP lawmaker Swapan Dasgupta on China’s apparent efforts to prop up the Taliban. A Taliban delegation led by chief political negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar met Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi on Wednesday, the first high-level engagement between the two sides since the US began withdrawing its troops from Afghanistan. India has been increasingly concerned by a massive surge in violence in Afghanistan, including the Taliban’s campaign to capture districts in rural areas and crucial border crossings. It has repeatedly called for an immediate ceasefire and resumption of intra-Afghan talks to find a settlement. Responding to another question from Samajwadi Party lawmaker Rewati Raman Singh on whether human rights and democracy had figured in his talks with Blinken, Jaishankar said the two sides had a “good discussion” on global issues such as human rights, democracy, trafficking and big tech Jaishankar said he had highlighted that India’s approach to such issues is guided by a “quest for a perfect union”, though the government also seeks to “right historical wrongs”. This was an apparent reference to the enactment of laws such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and Jaishankar had made a similar comment at his joint media interaction with Blinken on Wednesday. Jaishankar said the issue of freedom should not be treated as “non-governance or as abdication of responsibilities”. He added, “We believe that our conversations on this subject should be balanced, we also feel that we should have the same standards when we look at the issues and that all conversations should be fact-based.” The minister also defended India’s participation in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, a grouping that includes Australia, Japan and the US, in the face of criticism from China while responding to more questions. “Let me make it very clear that when it comes to our relations with the US, Quad [and] Indo-Pacific, these are all our national choices which serve our national interests. We look at Quad as a platform where four countries have come together for the good of the world, who are discussing a range of issues from making and providing vaccines to education and connectivity to maritime security,” he said. Any narrative about the Quad not based on reality will never gain traction, and India’s work with international partners “will help deal with many regional and global challenges”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-never-accept-outcome-in-afghanistan-decided-by-force-jaishankar-101627550754668.html
29-07-2021||India||Over 28 million Covid-19 vaccine doses remaining with states, UTs: Govt||The Union government on Thursday said that more than 28.8 million Covid-19 vaccine doses remain unutilised with states and Union territories (UTs). The government also said that 5.3 million more vaccine doses are in the pipeline to be supplied for the states and UTs.“More than 47.48 crore (47,48,77,490) vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far, through all sources and a further 53,05,260 doses are in the pipeline,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a press release. “More than 2.88 Cr (2,88,55,050) balance and unutilized COVID Vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs and private hospitals to be administered,” the ministry added.Further, the ministry also noted that the total consumption of vaccines by states is 44,74,97,240 doses including wastage.Also read | Covid-19: Complete lockdown in Kerala this weekend, Centre to send 6-member teamMeanwhile, the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine coverage in India crossed the 450-million mark, the ministry also said on Thursday. “Cumulatively, 45,07,06,257 vaccine doses have been administered through 54,11,501 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am today. 43,92,697 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours,” the health ministry said in its Covid-19 vaccination update. This includes 352,545,271 first doses and 98,160,986 second doses, its dashboard at 8.30am showed.Healthcare workers have received 10,296,166 first doses and 7,771,787 second doses while the frontline workers have been given 17,914,176 first doses and 11,081,579 second doses, the data showed.As many as 43,509 people tested positive for Covid-19 in India in the last 24 hours and 640 more people succumbed to their illness. With this the total confirmed cases so far reached 31,528,114 while the death toll climbed to 422,662, the ministry’s data showed. Active caseload again went above the 400,000-mark and was recorded at 403,840, which accounts for 1.28% of the total confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-28-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-remaining-with-states-uts-govt-101627546934821.html
29-07-2021||India||Baal Aadhaar card to become inactive if biometrics of child not updated: UIDAI||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) on Thursday said that Baal Aadhaar card becomes inactive if the biometrics of the child are not updated when they turn 5."Remember to update the biometrics of your child in #Aadhaar at the age of 5 years and again at the age of 15 years. These mandatory biometric updates for children are FREE OF COST. Locate your nearest #AadhaarEnrolment Centre here: https://appointments.uidai.gov.in/easearch.aspx," the UIDAI tweeted.The UIDAI said that after getting biometric update of a 5-year old child done, one needs to remember doing the same when the same child becomes 15 years of age. It asked parents to follow the same link for booking appointment at the Aadhaar centre and for locating nearest Aadhar centre.For biometric update of the child after he/she becomes 5 years of age, the parents can book an appointment and take their child at the nearest Aadhaar centre by logging in at direct UIDAI link - https://appointments.uidai.gov.in/easearch.aspx?AspxAutoDetectCookieSupport=1. After logging in, parents would be required to follow some few steps for biometric updation of their child’s Baal Aadhaar card.Here are the steps:1] Login at UIDAI's given direct link — appointments.uidai.gov.in/easearch.aspx?AspxAutoDetectCookieSupport=1;2] Choose either of options — State, Postal (PIN) Code or Search box option;3] Fill in the information after choosing any one of the given options; and4] Click at 'Locate Centre' button.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baal-aadhaar-card-to-become-inactive-if-biometrics-of-child-not-updated-uidai-101627546410665.html
29-07-2021||India||Mumbai Police transfers Raj Kundra pornography case to property cell||Mumbai Police handed over the case registered against three producers of Viaan Industries — the company of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's businessman husband Raj Kundra — and actor Gehana Vasisth to the property cell of the crime branch, news agency ANI tweeted on Thursday.The case was registered at Malvani police station. The property cell had lodged a case in connection with the adult film racket in February this year, after it raided a bungalow at Madh Island near Mumbai and arrested five people engaged in shooting adult content.Raj Kundra is currently in 14-day judicial custody following his arrest last week for his alleged involvement in the adult film racket.On Wednesday, market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) slapped a penalty of ₹3 lakh on Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra and his firm on charges of flouting its insider trading rules.Mumbai Police called Raj Kundra a "key conspirator" and charged him with cheating and for obscene and indecent advertisements and displays under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.The police have also used sections of the Information Technology Act and Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act against Kundra. He was arrested on July 19 along with 10 others for their alleged role in the production of pornographic content through an app called Hotshots.Mumbai Police stated in their remand application that Raj Kundra earned over ₹1.17 crore from subcribers of Hotshots app on Apple's App Store between August and December 2020. Hotshots mobile app was developed for streaming adult and pornographic content that Kundra's firm produced. The Bombay high court is scheduled to hear Raj Kundra's bail petition later today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-transfers-raj-kundra-pornography-case-to-property-cell-101627542983073.html
29-07-2021||India||‘Saddened’ over ruckus in House, Lok Sabha Speaker warns of strict action||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday said he was saddened over the manner in which the Opposition protested in the House a day earlier while seeking an adjournment motion to discuss the Pegasus snooping issue in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah’s presence. He warned of strict action against “habitual offenders”.“Yesterday’s incident was very painful and against the norms of the House. Whatever happened yesterday was against the basic ethics of the House. If there are any complaints, then they should come to my chamber with the issues,” Birla said.At least nine Congress members tore placards with protest messages and threw them in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday and an unidentified lawmaker blew a whistle in the Rajya Sabha as the Opposition continued its protests against the snooping row and the three farm laws. Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party members on Thursday demanded an apology from Opposition for throwing papers towards the chair.Also Read | Scindia to introduce amendment to airports economic regulatory Bill in Lok Sabha todayCongress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury blamed the government and said that the Opposition was unable to raise issues in the House.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi interrupted Chowdhury and asked the Opposition to apologise. “They (opposition members) threw big bundles of papers towards us, the chair and the media… do they not want to even apologise to the chair?” He added the government is ready for the discussion. “...this is not the way the Opposition (should) behave.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi earlier also said the government was not allowing the Opposition to raise the issues of national importance. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said: “The foundation of our democracy is that the parliamentarians should be the voice of the people and discuss the issues of national importance. Modi government is not allowing the opposition to do this work.” He asked the government not to waste Parliament’s time and let inflation, farmers, and Pegasus spyware issues to be discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-over-ruckus-in-house-lok-sabha-speaker-warns-of-strict-action-101627546374379.html
29-07-2021||India||Goa beach gangrape: CM Sawant asks why minors out so late at night, draws flak||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant asked parents to be more “responsible” and not allow their children to remain out till late in the night while speaking on a gangrape incident of two minor girls on a beach. The remarks of Sawant, who also holds the home portfolio, have drawn severe criticism and the chief minister has been reminded of the government’s duty to ensure the state’s law and order.“When 14-year-olds stay on the beach the whole night, the parents need to introspect. Just because children don’t listen, we cannot put the responsibility on the government and police,” Sawant said on Wednesday, during a debate on a calling attention notice in the House. The chief minister said parents have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their wards and hinted that they should not let children, particularly minors, out at night.Soon after, the Goa Congress hit back saying the law and order in the coastal state has deteriorated over the years. “Why should we fear while moving around at night? Criminals should be in jail and law abiding citizens should be out freely moving around,” Congress leader Altone D'Costa said.Vijai Sardesai of the Goa Forward Party, a former ally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), called the CM’s statements disgusting. “The safety of citizens is the responsibility of the state government and police. If they cannot provide the same to us, the CM has no right to sit in the post,” he said.Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte said Goa has had a history of being a safe state for women, but that status is being lost under the current dispensation. “It is shocking that @goacm is blaming parents for allowing their children to venture out in the night claiming that it is not safe. If the State govt can't assure us our security, who can give it? Goa has a history of being a safe state for women, that tag is being lost in @BJP4Goa rule,” Khaunte wrote on Twitter.“We directly blame police, but I want to point out that of the 10 youth who went to the beach for a party, four stayed on the beach the whole night and the remaining six went home,” Sawant had said in the House. “They were on the beach the whole night, two boys and two girls,” said Sawant. Teens, particularly minors, should not be spending the nights on beaches," he added.Four men, one of them a government employee (a driver with the agriculture department), posed as policemen and raped the two girls after beating up the boys who were with the girls on Benaulim beach, around 30 km south of Goa's capital, on Sunday. All the four accused have been arrested, Sawant told the Assembly. During the discussion in the House on Wednesday, an MLA claimed that an “influential person” was trying to protect the accused, while another opposition member alleged that a minister was calling the police and trying to influence the investigation. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar expunged the remarks from the proceedings.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-beach-gangrape-cm-pramod-sawant-asks-why-minors-out-so-late-at-night-draws-101627545680597.html
29-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ambience Mall owner Raj Singh Gehlot arrested in bank loan fraud case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ED arrests Ambience Mall owner Raj Singh Gehlot in alleged bank loan fraud caseThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday arrested Raj Singh Gehlot, the owner of Gurugram-based Ambience Mall, in an alleged bank loan fraud case, news agency ANI reported. Read moreWest Bengal extends Covid-19 curbs till August 15, night curfew continuesThe Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal on Thursday extended the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions in the state till August 15, according to a government order. Read moreIndia Predicted XI for 3rd T20I against Sri Lanka: Another debut likely as Shikhar Dhawan and Co gear up for deciderWith 8 cricketers - identified as close contacts - in isolation after Krunal Pandya tested positive for Covid-19, Team India had no option other than field the remaining 11 in the 2nd T20I against Sri Lanka on Wednesday. Four youngsters were handed debuts but the overall performance wasn’t electrifying as India lost the game by 4 wickets after setting up a 133-run target for the hosts. Read more'He had Dhoni in all sorts of troubles': Harbhajan names India bowler who is 'T20 World Cup material'Veteran bowler Harbhajan Singh believes if India are to do well at the T20 World Cup, their spinners will have to play a big role at the ICC global event later this year. The likes of Kuldeep Yadav, Yuzvendra Chahal and Rahul Chahar are the three top contenders for a spot in India's T20 World Cup squad, but one name Harbhajan reckons is a must is that of mystery spinner Varun Chakravarthy. Read moreComplaint registered against Anurag Kashyap's short film in Netflix's Ghost Stories: 'This is the end'Netflix India has received a complaint against Anurag Kashyap’s short film in the 2020 anthology, Ghost Stories, one of the first examples of grievances to be registered after the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting formulated the Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 earlier this year. Read moreBenelli 502C cruiser launched in India at Rs4.98 lakhBenelli has announced the launch of the new 502C cruiser in the Indian market. The motorcycle has been priced at Rs4.98 lakh (ex-showroom). It is a direct rival to the likes of the Kawasaki Vulcan S. Read moreVaani Kapoor stuns in sheer black dress for BellBottom promotions, fans call her QueenBellBottom actor Vaani Kapoor along with Akshay Kumar, was snapped promoting the film in Mumbai. The star grabbed eyeballs in her one-shoulder black sheer dress at the promotional event. Vaani is known for sporting alluring and sensuous silhouettes to several red-carpet events, and this new look is a testament to the same. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ambience-mall-owner-raj-singh-gehlot-arrested-in-bank-loan-fraud-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101627541388742.html
29-07-2021||India||Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till August 15||West Bengal on Thursday extended the Covid-19 restrictions until August 15 even as government functions will be allowed indoors with 50% of seating capacity. The government earlier allowed the Kolkata Metro, buses, cabs and auto-rickshaws to operate. Local train services will remain suspended while a night curfew between 9pm and 5am will also continue.The restrictions were earlier extended up to July 30 as the Kolkata Metro was allowed to run on weekdays with 50% capacity. West Bengal introduced the restrictions from May 16 when the daily count of Covid-19 cases crossed the 20,000-mark. The restrictions were extended for 15 days with certain relaxations.Also Watch | How Mamata Banerjee rallied opposition for 2024 fight against PM ModiThe Covid-19 cases shot up to 815 on Wednesday after remaining below the 700 mark for two days. Kolkata and its two adjoining districts of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas account for nearly one-third of the total cases. Darjeeling, with 62 cases, recorded the maximum number of infections on Wednesday.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has called a meeting of the Global Advisory Body set up last year to advise the state on the pandemic issues on August 5. The body is headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee.The state has allowed reopening of shops, markets, salons and beauty parlours. Cinema halls, spas and swimming pools continue to remain closed along with schools and colleges. Banks have been allowed to remain open from 10am to 3pm.The state has prohibited all kinds of political, social, cultural and entertainment related gatherings.The ruling Trinamool Congress held an annual rally on July 21 virtually for the second consecutive year because of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-august-15-101627541993895.html
29-07-2021||India||'Bihari Gunda' jibe abuse of Hindi-speaking people: BJP MP Nishikant Dubey||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Nishikant Dubey on Thursday accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) of being “allergic” to Hindi-speaking people and said that calling him a “Bihari Gunda” is an attack on Bihar's pride."TMC is allergic to all the Hindi-speaking people that's why they called me 'Bihari Gunda'. This is an attack on Bihar's pride. I have submitted all the facts to the Speaker. She (Mahua Moitra) should apologise," news agency ANI posted on Twitter quoting Nishikant Dubey.ममता बनर्जी @MamataOfficial जी का हिंदी भाषी लोगों के प्रति नफ़रत उजागर हुआ । हिंदी भाषी इस अपमान का बदला लेगा । अपने लम्बे संसदीय जीवन में पहली बार@AITCofficial व ख़ासकर महिला सदस्य को गाली गलौज करते देखा,बंगाल की स्थिति समझी जा सकती है जब दिल्ली में सांसद को धमकी दी जा रही है । pic.twitter.com/nW7QsnqbfEThis comes a day after Dubey, an MP from Jharkhand’s Godda parliamentary constituency, claimed that TMC MP Mahua Moitra had called him a "Bihari gunda" during a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on Wednesday."Trinamool Congress has abused the entire Hindi-speaking people along with Bihar by using the word Bihari Gunda. Mamata Banerjee ji, this abuse by TMC MP Mahua Moitra has brought your party's hatred towards north Indians, especially the Hindi-speaking people, in front of the country," Dubey tweeted in Hindi."Lok Sabha Speaker ji, heard abuse for the first time in his 13 years of parliamentary life. TMC member Mahua Moita said 'Bihari Gunda' thrice in the meeting of IT Committee. Om Birla ji, Shashi Tharoor Ji has taken the contract to end this parliamentary tradition," he said in another tweet.Meanwhile, Moitra too took to Twitter to post, "Am a bit amused by charges of name-calling. IT mtng did not happen because NO quorum - members did not attend. How can I call someone a name who was not even present!! Check attendance sheet!" She tagged Congress MPs Shashi Tharoor, Karti Chidambaram and Rajya Sabha MPs Syed Naseer Hussain and Nadimul Haque.Am a bit amused by charges of name-calling. IT mtng did not happen because NO quorum - members did not attend. How can I call someone a name who was not even present!!Check attendance sheet!@ShashiTharoor , @KartiPC @NasirHussainINC @MdNadimulHaque6||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihari-gunda-jibe-abuse-of-hindi-speaking-people-bjp-mp-nishikant-dubey-101627537464997.html
29-07-2021||India||West Bengal extends Covid-19 curbs till August 15, night curfew continues||The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal on Thursday extended the restrictions necessitated to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state till August 15. All government programmes have been allowed to continue indoors with a 50% seating capacity, while the statewide curb on the movement of the people and vehicles between 9pm and 5am continues, according to the revised guidelines issued by the West Bengal government.The operations of intra-state trains remain suspended, as per the order.Outdoor activities, including the movement of people and vehicles, shall be strictly prohibited between 9pm and 5am, except for health services, law and order, essential commodities including agricultural products and other emergency services, the guidelines read.The Covid-19 lockdown in West Bengal was extended till August 15 after a review of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, read the order issued by the state secretariat, Nabanna. The lockdown extension was recommended by the state executive committee of the West Bengal state disaster management authority, it said.The Bengal government asked all the district administrations, police commisionerates and local authorities to ensure strict compliance with the stated directives. Any violation of the restriction's measures will be liable for proceedings as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the government order warned.The extension of restrictions comes at a time when the daily count of infection soared to 815 on Wednesday after remaining below the 700-mark for two consecutive days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-august-15-101627539729065.html
29-07-2021||India||Lens on Jharkhand judge's death as new clip emerges: SC lawyer seeks CBI probe||A district’s judge’s death in Jharkhand took a new turn on Thursday after a close-circuit camera footage emerged that showed a three-wheeler vehicle coming at him and hitting him on a public road. Additional district judge Uttam Anand was hit by “an unidentified vehicle” barely half a kilometre from his home in Dhanbad early on Wednesday, police said. A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to look into the case. According to latest reports, an autorickshaw driver and his two associates have been arrested. The incident was brought to the attention of the Supreme Court by senior lawyer and former Additional Solicitor General Vikas Singh. Urging the court to take suo motu cognisance of the case, Singh, appearing for the Supreme Court Bar Association, said the killing was a "brazen attack on the judiciary" that needs a CBI investigation.He said local police are usually complicit in such matters. “A judge is on a morning walk and is hit by a vehicle. He was dealing with bail applications of gangsters. This is an attack on judicial independence,” Singh was quoted as saying by LiveLaw.Chief Justice NV Ramana said he has had a word with the chief justice of Jharkhand High Court. “The High Court Chief Justice has taken up the issue and the case is now on at the High Court. We are aware of the case and we will take care," Justice Ramana said.झारखंड, धनबाद में आज सुबह 5 बजे मॉर्निंग वॉक पर निकले ADG-8 न्यायधीश उत्तम आनंद को एक ऑटो ने पीछे से टक्कर मार दी, जिससे उनकी मौत हो गयी। CCTV फुटेज देख लग रहा है कि ऑटो ने जानबूझकर टक्कर मारी है। पुलिस हत्या के एंगल से जांच कर रही है।@JagranNews @JharkhandCMO @JharkhandPolice pic.twitter.com/IpXaYNPeRPThe accident took place a little over 5am on Wednesday. The judge was rushed to the city’s medical college by passers-by but doctors said he was dead by the time he was brought. No one knew who he was.It was only much later when the judge’s family, worried that he had not returned home by 7am, notified the police.The judge’s driver who accompanied the police team after it was informed of a road accident, identified his body at the hospital.The judge is reported to have recently rejected the bail plea of an alleged contract killer from Uttar Pradesh, who is in Dhanbad jail in a high-profile murder case. But officials said it was too early to link the order to this case.Police said the SIT would look at footage from other CCTV cameras on the roads used by the three-wheeler to identify the vehicle and see if there was a pattern.s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lens-on-jharkhand-judge-s-death-as-new-clip-emerges-sc-lawyer-seeks-cbi-probe-101627539516919.html
29-07-2021||India||ED arrests Ambience Mall owner Raj Singh Gehlot in alleged bank loan fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday arrested Raj Singh Gehlot, the owner of Gurugram-based Ambience Mall, in an alleged bank loan fraud case.According to ED officials, the loan fraud case is approximately of ₹200 crore.Gehlot will be produced before an ED court in Delhi later today, the officials said.The mall, part of Ambience Group, was built in 2007. According to its website, it has more than 230 stores. The website also says that Gehlot is a chartered accountant by profession.According to ED, the case against Gehlot was registered in 2019 for money laundering in the construction of five-star Leela Ambience Convention Hotel situated near Yamuna Sports Complex in Delhi.The investigation under prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) revealed that Gehlot and his associates siphoned off a huge portion of the money sanctioned by a consortium of banks for the hotel project through a maze of companies controlled by them, the agency said.The ED had conducted raids at seven premises, including Gehlot's residence, in connection with the case in July last year.The Ambience Group is well-diversified and also involved into developing premium offices in Gurugram, Shalimar Bagh and Rohini. The group also owns luxury hotels including The Leela Ambience Hotel & Residences, Gurugram and The Leela Ambience Hotel & Convention Centre, East Delhi.The Ambience Group has its in-house construction and development capabilities, and is headquartered in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambience-mall-owner-raj-singh-gehlot-arrested-by-ed-in-alleged-bank-fraud-case-101627539492460.html
29-07-2021||India||International Tiger Day: 51 reserves in 18 states, India home to 70% of tiger population. PM Modi highlights efforts||On the occasion of International Tiger Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reaffirmed the government's commitment to ensuring conservation efforts, safe habitats for its tigers, and nurturing tiger-friendly ecosystems. Greeting wildlife lovers on this day, Prime Minister Modi posted a series of tweets from his official handle on the microblogging website, where he highlighted how India has led tiger conservation efforts over the past years and achieved significant milestones in this area."On International Tiger Day, greetings to wildlife lovers, especially those who are passionate about tiger conservation," the Prime Minister wrote in a tweet. "Home to over 70% of the tiger population globally, we reiterate our commitment to ensuring safe habitats for our tigers and nurturing tiger-friendly eco-systems."India is home to 51 tiger reserves spread across 18 states. The last tiger census of 2018 showed a rise in the tiger population. India achieved the target of doubling of tiger population 4 years ahead of schedule of the St. Petersburg Declaration on tiger Conservation. pic.twitter.com/s8Myy0os0vPM Modi pointed out that India is home to over 70% of the entire tiger population in the world, spread out across 51 tiger reserves in 18 states. "The last census of 2018 showed a rise in the tiger population," he said. "India achieved the target of doubling of tiger population 4 years ahead of schedule of the St. Petersburg Declaration on Tiger Conservation."India's tiger conservation strategy is unique, in the sense that the country attaches special importance towards involving local communities in these efforts, the Prime Minister said. "We are also inspired by our centuries-old ethos of living in harmony with all flora and fauna with whom we share our great planet," he said.Notably, India made a marked comeback in its tiger conservation efforts, from nearing endangerment to now being home to over 2,967 tigers, 70% of the entire world's tiger population. The 50 tiger reserves in India are administrated by the 'Project Tiger' campaign under the National Tiger Conservation Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-tiger-day-51-reserves-in-18-states-india-home-to-70-of-tiger-population-pm-modi-highlights-efforts-101627533202128.html
29-07-2021||India||11 drones recovered along Nepal border in Bihar||The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has recovered 11 drones from an alleged smuggler along the India-Nepal border in Bihar’s Madhubani district, an officer said on Thursday.Shankar Singh, an SSB commandant, said on a tip-off, they arrested Binay Kumar Mahto and recovered the 11 drones from his car on Tuesday while he was travelling from Nepal to Bihar. “The drones were found hidden in the vehicle,” he said.Police superintendent Satyaprakash cited preliminary investigation and added it suggested the consignment was on its way to be delivered in Madhubani. “We are investigating all aspects...”Also Read | India lodges strong protest with Pakistan over drone activities in Jammu regionThere has been an increased focus on the India-Nepal border for checking the use of drones since June 27 when a drone was used to cause explosions at an Indian Air Force station in Jammu.On June 28, SSB arrested three smugglers and recovered eight drones from Bihar’s West Champaran.The Centre has instructed security agencies to be extra vigilant about any flying objects ahead of the Independence Day celebrations on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-drones-recovered-along-nepal-border-in-bihar-101627538693695.html
29-07-2021||India||Developed countries fail to meet pre-2020 climate commitments: report||Most developed countries, including members of the G7 forum, collectively reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by only 3.7% by 2019 over the 1990 levels, a Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) report released on Wednesday said. This is far short of their commitments made under the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. All developed countries together emitted 25 gigatons of CO2 equivalent (GtCO2eq) more than their estimated emission allowances in the 2008-2020 period, the report said.“CEEW’s analysis of developed nations’ pre-2020 climate actions have significant implications for the fate of post-2020 negotiations. Many developed countries have consumed disproportionate shares of the global carbon budget because they did not meet their commitments in the pre-2020 period. Trust in their long-term commitments will be regained only if their near-term actions free up carbon space for others. Further, the cost of mitigation efforts is set to increase significantly in the coming decade. While all countries must consider raising ambition, the burden of unmet promises and disproportionate use of carbon space cannot fall on developing countries,” said Arunabha Ghosh, CEO, CEEW, in a statement.CEEW conducted a review of mitigation measures by all developed countries vis-a-vis their overall commitment under the Kyoto Protocol and the Doha Amendment. The report also presented a ranking of 43 developed countries based on their climate actions and mitigation efforts made in the pre-2020 period. Sweden, the UK, Belgium, and Denmark topped this ranking. But the US, Canada, Australia, and Russia featured in the bottom half.While nationally determined contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement are essential for achieving the 1.5 degrees C global warming target, it is equally important to study the outcomes of the emission reduction pledges made by developed countries before the Paris Agreement, in the pre-2020 climate regime, the report said. It added that the fate of post-2020 negotiations for climate crisis crucially hinges upon the achievements, gaps, and issues recognised in the pre-2020 period.“The developing countries have concerns of bearing the burden of tackling the mitigation gaps from the pre-2020 period in the future. Furthermore, it has caused a further fissure between the developed and developing country groupings, contributing to mistrust on the next set of ambitions that were tabled in the negotiations,” the report said.Both Kyoto Protocol and the Doha amendment quantified emission reduction targets to developed countries, based on their 1990 emission levels. Under the Kyoto Protocol, an emission reduction target of 5% based on 1990 levels, was set to be achieved by developed countries in the first commitment period (2008–2012). Under the Doha Amendment, an emission reduction target of at least 18% would be met by developed countries in the second commitment period (2013–2020).Major economies like the US, Canada, Russia, and Japan did not participate in either one or both commitment periods. US non-participation in both commitment periods had several adverse effects on global climate action, including the withdrawal of other developed countries from critical agreements, the report said.The greenhouse gas emissions from all Annex I Parties (both industrialised and economies in transition [EIT] countries) declined by about 14.8% in 2019 compared to their base year emissions levels. This reduction when considering non-EIT Annex I Parties (majorly comprising industrialised countries) was only 3.7% by 2019 compared to their base year emissions levels.A fact sheet by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on “Status of the Country Commitments on the road to COP 26” highlighted that the NDC Synthesis Report 1 published in February 2021 by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) found that the world in 2030, as per the current level of country commitments/NDCs, will have 0.7% lower total greenhouse gas emissions than when it started its negotiations for a climate change agreement in 1990. A look at the pledges and emissions of the top emitters reveals a large gap between ambition, and the transformative short-term actions needed to decarbonise their economies and limit global temperature rise. “The two largest emitters, the US and China, are not definitively on track to achieve their 2030 targets and continue the unrestrained production and use of fossil fuels,” CSE said. “India is mostly on track to achieve its 2030 goals and has a minimal contribution when considering the size of its population.”“The implementation phase of the Paris Agreement began in 2021. The world needs the UNFCCC and its Paris Agreement to succeed. For this, there has to be trust and confidence in the multilateral process. Thus, it is important to recall and review what were the promises made in the pre-2020 period and whether those were delivered. A clear and unbiased assessment of the pre-2020 commitments and mitigation as well as finance is the need of the hour,” said Richa Sharma, additional secretary, Union environment ministry, at the launch of the CEEW report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/developed-countries-fail-to-meet-pre-2020-climate-commitments-report-101627538453493.html
29-07-2021||India||Nagaland’s Raja Mircha exported to Europe for first time||Over 250 kilograms of Raja Mircha, which is also known as Naga King Chilli, was exported to London from Nagaland on Wednesday. It is the first such export from Nagaland and comes amid the Covid-19 pandemic and a drought-like situation in the state.Raja Mircha got Geographical Indication certification in 2008. It constantly figures in the top five on the list of the world’s hottest chilies based on Scoville Heat Units and is known for its distinct aroma and flavour.Also Read | Inter-state border firing: Assam Police lodge case, probe Mizoram MP’s role“Today’s flag-off event on the export of the first consignment of Raja Mircha to the European market is a historic day for the farming community of the state. This event will increase awareness, and boost business,” said Nagaland’s agriculture production commissioner Y Kikheto Sema.The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority and Nagaland State Agricultural Marketing Board coordinated the export sourced from Peren district.Sema said the increase in production of Naga King Chilly can be supported under several centrally sponsored schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagalands-raja-mircha-exported-to-europe-for-first-time-101627537013861.html
29-07-2021||India||Covid-19 surge in Kerala: Weekend lockdown declared, Centre to send 6-member team||Kerala witnessed a marked rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases this recent week, with the state registering more than 22,000 cases for two straight days on Tuesday and Wednesday. Now, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government has declared a complete lockdown in Kerala on Saturday and Sunday (i.e. July 31 and August 1), while the central government said that it is sending a six-member team to take stock of the situation and aid the civil administration in managing the infection surge.Kerala is to be under complete lockdown on July 31 and August 1 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, news agency ANI reported on Thursday, citing state officials familiar with the development.Meanwhile, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the central government is sending a 6-member team to Kerala, headed by the director of the National Centre for Disease Control. "As a large number of Covid cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid the state’s ongoing efforts in Covid-19," the minister wrote in a tweet from his personal handle on the microblogging website.Central Government is sending 6 member team to Kerala headed by NCDC Director.As large number of COVID cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid state’s ongoing efforts in #COVID19 management.Kerala recorded 22,056 new Covid-19 cases and 131 fatalities on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 100 are health workers, 120 had come from outside the state and 20,960 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 876 cases, a government release said.Elaborating on the matter, Kerala authorities say that some of the districts worst hit by the recent surge in Covid-19 are -- Malappuram, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Palakkad, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kannur, Thiruvananthapuram, and Kottayam.Meanwhile, India recorded 43,509 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,528,114 while the death toll climbed to 4,22,662 with 640 daily fatalities, according to a Union health ministry update on Thursday. The number of active cases in India have once again crossed the 4-lakh mark, with over 1.5 lakh active cases in Kerala alone, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-surge-in-kerala-weekend-lockdown-declared-centre-to-send-6-member-team-101627534166983.html
29-07-2021||India||Jet Airways staff turn to aviation minister over employment issues||Mumbai: Jet Airways employees, on Wednesday, wrote to the new aviation minister- Jyotiraditya Scindia asking him to intervene and help resolve their issues. Their letter comes after Jet Airways is said to recommence its operations by the year end after Jalan Kalrock consortium emerged as a winning bidder for the defunct airline.There are around 3500 employees attached to the airline even after it shut operations who are seeking assurance of employment from the new management. In a letter to the minister, the All India Jet Airways’ Officers & Staff Association requested Scindia to take up their issues with the representatives of the consortium.The letter read, ‘We are shocked and surprised to notice that complete injustice has been done to the employees of the company in as much that the dues offered is about Rs. 52 crores which is a miniscule amount compared to the original claims accepted by the resolution professional.’The employees also complained that the company has indicated a desire to restart its operation by hiring ‘very few’ employees as per the plan submitted and also of hiring other employees on the rolls of an associate company (Air Jet) which is a ground handling arm of Jet Airways. “This decision to put employees on a ground handling company is completely strange and in violation of the ground handling policy of the government,” the employees said. The employees also complained that despite approaching the monitoring committee to take up the issue of payment of dues, no information has been provided to them.Requesting a meeting with the revived management in Scindia’s presence, the employees asked for assurance of employment to existing employees on the payroll and payment of all security dues. “We realise that the new management seeks to revive the airline shortly but has not provided any information to employees on the real situation on the ground,We therefore request you to kindly take up the matter on our behalf and request for a meeting in your kind presence along with the representative of the revived management team (Jalan & Kalrock) so that the issues of the employees are redressed,” concluded the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jet-airways-staff-turn-to-aviation-minister-over-employment-issues-101627536413267.html
29-07-2021||India||With 70 million Twitter followers, PM Modi is one of most followed world leaders||Prime Minister Narendra Modi now has more than 70 million followers on Twitter that made him one of the most followed active politicians across the globe on the social media platform. After Modi, Pope Francis has the highest number of followers on the microblogging site at 53 million.As part of his social media outreach, Modi joined Twitter in 2009 during his stint as the Gujarat chief minister. Within a year, he had a lakh followers. In July 2020, the PM’s Twitter follower count touched 60 million.Union Home Minister Amit Shah has a following of 26.3 million on the platform, while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has 19.4 million followers.A very active user, Modi regularly posts developments and events on his Twitter page. On Thursday, he wrote about India’s tiger conservation strategy on International Tiger Day. “India’s strategy of tiger conservation attaches topmost importance to involving local communities. We are also inspired by our centuries old ethos of living in harmony with all flora and fauna with whom we share our great planet,” the PM wrote.Meanwhile, the Modi government and Twitter have been engaged in a spat after new rules for social media platforms and digital news outlets were introduced by the Centre. A number of government departments and ministers have been moving on to indigenously developed app Koo as the US company fights it out over non-compliance issues.Other world leadersAmong other world leaders, former United States President Barack Obama has a following of 129.8 millio followers, while his current counterpart Joe Biden is followed by 30.9 million accounts.Donald Trump, who had the highest of followers at 88.7 million, was permanently removed from Twitter following the riots at the US Capitol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-70-million-twitter-followers-pm-modi-is-one-of-most-followed-world-leaders-101627534727783.html
29-07-2021||India||India-US bond over Quad, China, America sheds reticence over Dalai Lama||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s visit to India revealed strong convergence between the oldest and largest democracies on Quad, China, and Indo-Pacific, shifting of American position closer to New Delhi’s viewpoint on Afghanistan over Taliban offensive and Washington’s has shed its reticence over the exiled 14th Dalai Lama.Blinken’s conversations with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Wednesday were largely centered on Taliban offensive in Afghanistan accompanied with brutality on innocent citizens and increasing Chinese belligerence in its pursuit to become the numero uno in the world.While Blinken’s official discussions with Indian leadership were extensive on conflict situations all over the globe, Secretary of State statement that Afghanistan yet again will be treated as pariah state if Taliban seize power by force instead of negotiated political settlement will force the Sunni fundamentalists and their handlers to rethink. Just as Jaishankar’s public dismissal of China’s fears over Quad as unreasonable will push Beijing to recalibrate its aggressive, which has now reached a point of being overbearing to the democratic world. Fact is that China has virtually encircled India by forging ties with Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Nepal through economic leverage, but it accuses India of joining anti-China camp led by the US. It is now 14 months since the PLA transgressed into East Ladakh with the objective of unilaterally changing the status quo on ground forcing India to respond and deploy equal number of troops as the adversary along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).India is not the only one at the receiving end of Chinese aggression, but other Quad powers have also been singled out by Beijing activating land, sea or trade disputes. While China has firewalled its citizens from social media, its propaganda machine and information warfare has gone into an overdrive attacking the Quad partners and exploiting the fault-lines within the security grouping. Beijing’s all-weather client state Pakistanis again playing the double game by sending a Taliban delegation headed by Mullah Baradar to China and sending the DG (ISI) Lt General Faiz Hameed and Pakistan NSA Moeed Yusuf to Washington perhaps to assure the Biden administration that Taliban will deliver on its commitments and extract leverage for beleaguered PM Imran Khan on economy and FATF.While the US Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman highlighted Chinese repression in Tibet, Xinjiang and Hong Kong during her visit to China last Sunday, the other Quad partners have also decided to pushback on Beijing’s unilateral diplomatic demands. Secretary Blinken on his own meeting Dalai Lama’s representative Ngodup Dongchung separately on Tuesday at a New Delhi hotel are indicators that US is not squeamish about the exiled Tibetan community and their Buddhist leadership.Bilaterally both India and US are on a strong wicket as could be seen from the bonhomie between the two foreign ministers with the Biden administration ready to part with high defence and other technologies to New Delhi as a major defence ally. The openness with which both Indian and US interlocutors exchange notes over matters of concern also show the build up of trust in the bilateral relationship.The joining of hands for vaccine production and building resilient global supply chains, which are not dependent only on one country, are part of India-US growing convergence. These initiatives will only be strengthened when Prime Minister Narendra Modi goes to Washington to attend the Quad summit in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaus-bond-over-quad-china-america-sheds-reticence-over-dalai-lama-101627533389790.html
29-07-2021||India||Kashmiri Pandits taking up jobs in Kashmir, feel more secure: Govt to Parliament||Kashmiri Pandits have been taking up jobs in Kashmir and moving back there as they feel more secure, the Centre told Parliament on Wednesday. Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said the government has prepared a “comprehensive policy” to provide them accommodation in the Valley. “… 44,167 Kashmiri migrant families are registered (by relief office) who had to move from the (Kashmir) Valley since 1990 due to security concerns,” said Rai. He added that out of all these, the number of Hindu migrant families is 39,782. “Kashmiri Pandits have felt more secure in the recent past as is evident from the fact that 3,841 Kashmiri migrant youth have moved back to Kashmir and have taken up jobs in various districts of Kashmir under the Prime Minister’s Rehabilitation Package.” He added the government selected 1,997 more people under the package in April and they will be moving to Kashmir for jobs soon. “...26,684 Kashmiri migrant youth showed interest in going back to the valley by applying for...1,997 posts.”Also Read | Talk to Pak to end bloodshed in J&K: Mehbooba to Modi governmentRai said 6,000 residential units are being constructed for Kashmir Pandit employees in the Valley. He added 1,000 residential units have been already allotted to these employees. Rai said the government has allowed the inclusion of Kashmiri Pandits, who stayed back in the Valley in the 1990s, in the package. “...they are getting all benefits of government schemes along with others in Kashmir.” Rai said nearly 900 such families, which also include Kashmiri Pandits and Dogra Hindus, are staying in Kashmir.Rai said all necessary steps to protect the life and property of the minorities in the Valley have been taken.He was responding to Shiv Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut’s question about the safety and economic well-being of the minorities in Kashmir..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmiri-pandits-taking-up-jobs-in-kashmir-feel-more-secure-govt-to-parliament-101627532933409.html
29-07-2021||India||Inter-state border firing: Assam Police lodge case, probe Mizoram MP’s role||The Assam Police are probing the role of a Parliament Member of Mizoram’s ruling party in the alleged conspiracy behind the border clashes along the disputed border between the two northeastern states on Monday. In a statement on Wednesday, the Assam Police said an investigation team is leaving for Delhi “to take lawful action relating to the conspiracy behind the incident in light of media interview of Rajya Sabha MP (Member of Parliament) K Vanlalvena, indicative of his active role in the conspiracy”. It did not provide details of the interview or its contents.But people aware of the matter said Vanlalvena reportedly told a Hindi news channel that Assam Police were lucky that all of them were not killed after entering the Mizoram territory. He allegedly threatened that if Assam Police enter into his state’s territory again, all will be killed. HT could not verify the contents of the interview.Vanlalvena, who belongs to the ruling Mizo National Front, could not be contacted for his comments.The statement said the Assam Police have lodged a case under the Arms Act, the Damage to Public Property Act and Indian Penal Code’s Sections related to murder, criminal conspiracy, criminal trespass, endangering human lives, attempt to murder, causing grievous hurt to a public servant over the deaths of six people in the clashes. Cash rewards of ₹5 lakh each have also been announced for information that leads to arrests of those involved. “Assam police has already prepared a picture gallery, which is being further updated, of Mizoram Police personnel and civilian miscreants who fired at Assam Police. They would be brought to law,” it said.The clashes left 41 people injured on the Assam side while Mizoram has not issued details of any injuries on its side. The two states have been blaming each other for starting the shooting.Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana on Tuesday blamed around 200 Assam Police personnel for forcibly entering into his state and resorting to violence. He maintained the Assam Police fired first and that the Mizoram Police retaliated. In a tweet, Assam Police rejected the claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interstate-border-firing-assam-police-lodge-case-probe-mizoram-mp-s-role-101627531734124.html
29-07-2021||India||Scindia to introduce amendment to airports economic regulatory Bill in Lok Sabha today||Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia will move to introduce the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Thursday, the eighth day of the Monsoon Session.The amendment to the 2008 Act will change existing provisions by modifying the definition of “major airport” as under the current law, tariffs for the aeronautical services of a group of airports together cannot be determined. The amendment will insert an enabling provision in the original Act for tariff determination of a “group of airports”.The Bill was first introduced in March 2021 but was referred to the parliamentary standing committee on transport, tourism and culture.Also Read | Pegasus row: Rahul Gandhi, other Oppn leaders submit adjournment motionPorts, shipping and waterways minister Sarbananda Sonowal will also introduce the Inland Vessels Bill in Lok Sabha. The proposed legislation seeks to replace the Inland Vessels Act, 1917, for the regulation of the safety, security and registration of inland vessels. The union Cabinet approved the Bill on June 16.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will introduce the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Rajya Sabha. The Bill was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The Bill seeks to liberalise the Factory Regulation Act of 2011 by widening the scope of entities involved in the factoring business. Key changes include modifications in the definitions of receivables, assignment, and factoring business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-to-introduce-amendment-to-airports-economic-regulatory-bill-in-lok-sabha-today-101627531732913.html
29-07-2021||India||India records 43,509 new Covid-19 cases, active cases cross 4 lakh-mark||India recorded 43,509 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,528,114 while the death toll climbed to 4,22,662 with 640 daily fatalities, according to Union health ministry update on Thursday.The active cases declined to 4,03,840 in the said time period, according to data released by the ministry at 8am. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 1.27 per cent, it stated. The number of active cases increased by 4404.As many as 17,28,795 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 46,26,29,773.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,07,01,612, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.The total number of vaccine doses administered so far has reached 44.19 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive.More than 2.18 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, Union Territories and private hospitals for inoculation, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. "More than 2.18 Crore (2,18,10,422) balance and unutilized Covid Vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs and private hospitals to be administered," said the Ministry of health and family welfare.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-43-509-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-cross-4-lakhmark-101627517771041.html
29-07-2021||India||Kishtwar cloudburst: Rescue teams search for survivors||Rescue teams started trawling through muddy debris in Honjar village of Kishtwar district on Thursday morning in search of survivors.The village was hit by a flash flood following a cloudburst early Wednesday.Till Wednesday evening, seven bodies were recovered and 17 injured persons were rescued from the debris.“Rescue teams have started searching for survivors but chances look grim. So far, we have recovered seven bodies and rescued 17 persons,” said a police officer at the Kishtwar police control room.Also Read | Kishtwar cloudburst: NDRF joins Indian Army, state agencies in relief operationsRescuers believe that 26 persons are still missing.However, the rains have subsided in Jammu region since Wednesday evening .The government of Jammu and Kashmir has announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the tragic cloudburst in Kishtwar. The government will provide the grievously injured with ₹50,000 each. The State Disaster Response Fund will also disburse ₹12,700 each to the injured.Six of the 17 injured have been hospitalised in the district hospital of KishtwarAdditional director general of police Mukesh Singh, who reached Kishtwar district Wednesday night, visited the district hospital in Kishtwar and met the injured persons.Singh also advised all district SSPs of Jammu zone to provide aassistance in their respective districts to the people affected by incessant rain. “The jawans and officers of the Jammu zone should be at the forefront to provide support to the people affected by the inclement weather,” he said.Control rooms have been established in some districts affected by the heavy rain. All SHOs and in-charge, police posts, are on alert and are briefed to form rescue teams in case of need.They have also been briefed to provide all possible assistance to civil administration.People have been advised to take precautions, listen to administration/ police advisories and to not tobe in the vicinity of any river/stream during the rainy season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-rescue-teams-search-for-survivors-101627529873107.html
29-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: NEP completes one year, PM Modi to address nation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address nation today on completion of 1 year of NEPPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Thursday on the completion of one year of the new National Education Policy (NEP) via video conferencing. He will also launch multiple initiatives in the education sector. Read MoreWidespread rain likely over NW India till July 30: IMDThe spell of widespread and heavy rain over the Western Himalayan region will continue till July 30, according to India Meteorological Department. Read MoreKishtwar cloudburst: NDRF joins Indian Army, state agencies in relief operationsJammu and Kashmir witnessed a bout of natural disasters on Wednesday after a cloudburst in the Gulabgarh area of Kishtwar district killed at least seven people, flooding multiple regions. According to officials familiar with the matter, as many as 19 people are still missing, while five remain critically injured. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been rushed to the site for rescue and relief operations, officials added. Read MoreKerala gold smuggling: HC to hear bail pleas in NIA case against Swapna Suresh, othersThe Kerala high court is slated to hear on Thursday a case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with last year's sensational Kerala gold smuggling case. The court will hear all the bail pleas of the accused, including Swapna Suresh who, along with others, is said to have smuggled 167kg of gold into India from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) between November 2019 to June 2020 allegedly through diplomatic channels. Read MoreWATCH | 'Excellent': PM Modi shares video of 3000 blackbucks crossing a road in GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi shared a video of a herd of blackbucks on his social media account. In the video shared by the prime minister, blackbucks were seen crossing the road. The video was originally shared by the Department of Information, Gujarat. The video was shot at Blackbuck National Park in Bhavnagar. Watch the full video for more details.Priyanka Chopra channels her inner romantic diva in sleeveless maxi worth ₹39kActor Priyanka Chopra Jonas is a global fashion icon. Whether she is travelling countries for work or just lounging at her home with her dogs, her look for each occasion will make it to a best-dressed list. Just like her latest look for an ad where she posed in her backyard wearing a sleeveless bright orange ensemble. We love it. Read MoreWhen Sanjay Dutt joked with policeman arresting him, just so dad Sunil Dutt wouldn't cry: 'I felt so proud'Actor Sanjay Dutt turns 62 on Thursday. During an appearance on Rendezvous With Simi Garewal in 2006, Sanjay had spoken about how he had never felt completely at peace, at any point in his life. Read MoreMG One mid-size SUV revealed in two hues ahead of global debutMG Motor has released images of its upcoming mid-size SUV - called MG One - ahead of its global debut scheduled for Friday. In the images, the MG One SUV is seen in two catchy shades - Bubble Orange and Wilderness Green. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nep-completes-one-year-pm-modi-to-address-nation-and-all-the-latest-news-101627528766126.html
29-07-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid cases on decline; positivity rate drops to 3.8%||Maharashtra’s weekly positivity rate has dropped to 3.8% from last week’s 4.36%, indicating a downward trend of the second Covid-19 wave.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate should remain below 5% for an outbreak to be considered under control. Positivity rate is the percentage of tests of a particular infection returning positive. The state currently has 10 districts with positivity rates above the state average of 3.8%. These are Satara (8.03%), Pune (7.23%), Kolhapur (7.18%), Sangli (6.91%), Sindhudurg (6.49 %), Solapur (5.90%), Ahmednagar (4.95%), Beed (4.88%), Raigad (4.70%), and Ratnagiri (3.83%). This means currently just six out of the 10 districts have a positivity rate of more than 5%. Last week, nine of the 10 districts had a positivity rate of more than 5%.Meanwhile, the state on Wednesday recorded 6,857 new cases with 286 deaths. The state’s Covid tally has reached 6,282,914, while the death toll stands at 132,145.There were 193,042 tests done on Wednesday and the number of recoveries clocked 6,105. There are currently 82,545 active cases across the state, of which Pune tops with 15,768 followed by Thane with 9,587. Mumbai recorded 403 new cases and 10 deaths, thus bringing its toll to 15,860.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-cases-on-decline-positivity-rate-drops-to-38-101627529392565.html
29-07-2021||India||Couple fighting legal battle for 20 years reunited, CJI plays special role||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reunited a couple who has been fighting a legal battle for the last 20 years. Chief Justice of India, N V Ramana, played a special role in resolving the dispute between Andhra Pradesh-based estranged couple.The woman had sought enhancement of jail term for her husband in a dowry harassment case. When the case came up for hearing, Chief Justice Ramanna asked to speak to the couple through video conferencing.As the woman was not comfortable in speaking in English, the official language of the court, the CJI conversed in Telugu and also explained her statements to fellow judge."If your husband goes to jail you will lose the monthly compensation as he will lose his job," the CJI told the woman. The other judge in the bench was Justice Surya Kant.The man against whom the charges were pressed by the wife, is a state government employee in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh. His lawyer said the CJI explained to the woman that if the jail sentence of her husband is enhanced, she will have to forego the monthly compensation, news agency PTI reported.The woman heard CJI’s advice patiently and agreed to live with her spouse provided she and their only son are maintained properly by her husband, the lawyer was quoted as saying by PTI.Both husband and wife agreed to withdraw their respective petitions against each other.The two got married in 1998, but the relationship soon turned sour following which the woman filed a criminal case in 2001. She had also named her mother-in-law and the sister-in-law. Several mediation bids were made by different courts, but they all failed.The husband received a jail term of one year, but the wife wanted an enhancement of the sentence and moved the petitions in sessions court, high court and finally, the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-fighting-legal-battle-for-20-years-reunited-cji-plays-special-role-101627528739118.html
29-07-2021||NA||Parliament Monsoon Session Highlights: Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day||Amid protests by Opposition members over Pegasus, farm laws and other issues, both the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha were adjourned on Wednesday and resumed at 11am on Thursday.The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill 2021. After resuming proceedings at 3pm, the House also passed two appropriation bills. Rajya Sabha passed the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021.Protests were seen in the Parliament on Tuesday too that forced the Lok Sabha Speaker to adjourn the House nine times.The government on Wednesday said it is ready to discuss any issue but the Opposition is behaving in a manner that is not good for democracy.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned for the dayLok Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day following continuous protest my Opposition MPs.RS passes bill, adjourned till 11am on FridayRajya Sabha passes Factoring (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021; House adjourned till 11am tomorrow.Opposition continues protest in LS over PegasusOpposition MPs continue to protest on Pegasus issue in Lok Sabha, disrupt House proceedings.Lok Sabha adjourned till 2pmLok Sabha proceedings adjourned for third time till 2 pm as opposition protests over Pegasus, other issuesLok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 2pm as opposition protests continue.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pm amid protests by oppositionRajya Sabha adjourned till 2pm as opposition members continued their protests over various issues.Lok Sabha adjourned till 12.30pmLok Sabha adjourned till 1230 hours amid sloganeering by Opposition MPs pic.twitter.com/IBiYoBkjtLLok Sabha adjourned till 12.30pm amid sloganeering by opposition members.Opposition MPs protest in Parliament premisesOpposition MPs, including Shiromani Akali Dal's Harsimrat Kaur Badal and BSP's Ritesh Pandey, protest in the Parliament premises over Central Government's three farm laws.TMC is allergic to all Hindi-speaking people: BJP MP Nishikant DubeyTMC is allergic to all the Hindi-speaking people that's why they called me 'Bihari Gunda'. This is an attack on Bihar's pride. I have submitted all the facts to the Speaker. She (Mahua Moitra) should apologise: BJP MP Nishikant Dubey.Lok Sabha adjourned till 11:30amLok Sabha adjourned till 1130 hours amid ruckus over Opposition MPs tearing papers and throwing them in the House yesterday.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noonRajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noon amid protest by Opposition MPs soon after the session began for the day.Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Pralhad Joshi met Opposition leadersUnion ministers Piyush Goyal and Pralhad Joshi met Opposition leaders while a meeting of opposition leaders was underway. The ministers asked opposition leaders to support the House to pass bills. Opposition leaders insisted on discussion on Pegasus issue, and inflation and farmers issue.Congress MPs hold protest at the Parliament in support of farmersCongress MPs hold protest at the Parliament in support of farmers.Congress MP Ripun Bora protests against rise in fuel pricesCongress MP Ripun Bora rides a bicycle to the Parliament to protest against the rise in fuel prices.Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion demanding discussion on Pegasus issueCongress MP Manish Tewari has given adjournment motion notice demanding discussion on the 'Pegasus project' issue.Congress MP B Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion in LSCongress MP B Manickam Tagore has given adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha demanding a discussion in the presence of Prime Minister or Home Minister on the Pegasus issue.Opposition leaders from RS to decide on strategy on Pegasus issueOpposition Floor leaders from Rajya Sabha to meet today to chalk out a strategy on the Pegasus issue.Congress Lok Sabha MPs to meet todayCongress Lok Sabha MPs to meet at Congress Parliamentary Party office at 10:30am today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101627527215422.html
29-07-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over NW India till July 30: IMD||The spell of widespread and heavy rain over the Western Himalayan region will continue till July 30, according to India Meteorological Department.A well marked low pressure area is over coastal Bangladesh and adjoining West Bengal. It is likely to move westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during the next 48 hours.The western end of the monsoon trough at mean sea level is passing through north of its normal position while its western end is passing along normal position. A cyclonic circulation is lying over north Pakistan & adjoining Punjab in the lower levels. A line of convergence is running from the cyclonic circulation over north Pakistan & adjoining Punjab to south Gujarat across West Rajasthan.Under the influence of these systems, the current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh till July 30 and reduction thereafter. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is likely over Uttarakhand on Thursday.Widespread rain with heavy to very heavy falls is likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Bihar till July 30 and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh till July 31. Isolated extremely heavy rain is likely over the Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-nw-india-till-july-30imd-101627526872450.html
29-07-2021||India||Odisha govt allows reopening of medical colleges: Check full details here||The Odisha government on Wednesday allowed medical colleges in the state to restart classes. Other institutions of teaching like veterinary, nursing, pharmacy and physiotherapy colleges have also been allowed with certain conditions.“Government after careful consideration have been pleased to reopen all medical colleges and other institution of teaching e.g. nursing, pharmacy, physiotherapy and occupational therapy, public health and other paramedical/allied medical science course in the State during this declining phase of the Covid-19,” said the State Health Department in a letter to the Directorate of Medical Education & Training (DMET).Here is the latest guidelines by the Odisha government:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-allows-reopening-of-medical-colleges-check-full-details-here-101627520596799.html
29-07-2021||India||Kishtwar cloudburst: NDRF joins Indian Army, state agencies in relief operations||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed a bout of natural disasters on Wednesday after a cloudburst in the Gulabgarh area of Kishtwar district killed at least seven people, flooding multiple regions. According to officials familiar with the matter, as many as 19 people are still missing, while five remain critically injured. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been rushed to the site for rescue and relief operations, officials added.Also Read | Seven dead, 12 rescued after cloudburst in Jammu’s Kishtwar districtThe cloud burst over the Honzar village in J&K's Kishtwar district. The village was caught in a flash flood, triggered due to the cloudburst, which led to the deaths and injuries. Earlier on Wednesday, two columns of the Indian Army were rushed to the disaster site to assist the civil administration in rescue operations, while officials confirmed that three teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are about to be deployed.Manoj Sinha, the lieutenant-governor (LG) of Jammu and Kashmir, told news agencies, "An SDRF team is waiting to be airlifted at Jammu while two SDRF teams are on stand-by. An NDRF team from Punjab has been rushed for rescue and relief operations."The rescue operations had to be halted later by the Jammu and Kashmir police on Wednesday due to heavy rains, news agency ANI reported. However, the Indian Army continued its relief operations and made provisions for meals and rations for the disaster-stricken village."Till now seven dead bodies have been recovered, and 17 people have been rescued. Out of the 17 people who were rescued, five are critically injured. At least 19 people are still missing," said Udayabhaskar Billa, the deputy inspector general of police (DIG) of Doda. He added that rescue teams are putting in all efforts to reach the victims of the natural calamity timely, but delays are happening due to unsuitable weather conditions.Meanwhile, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the tragic cloudburst in Kishtwar.In a separate incident, a cloud burst over Amarnath in south Kashmir on Wednesday; however, no casualties have yet been reported from the site. Meanwhile, two State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) teams are present in the disaster-hit area near the cave. One additional SDRF team has been deployed from Ganderbal.Also Read | Cloudburst in higher reaches of Amarnath shrine: No loss of lives or propertyUnion home minister Amit Shah has taken stock of the cloudburst situation in Jammu and Kashmir and has been personally keeping in touch with the authorities there, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-ndrf-joins-indian-army-state-agencies-in-relief-operations-101627520655163.html
29-07-2021||India||Several states likely to receive heavy rainfall in next few days: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that several states across the nation are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during the next few days due to a low-pressure area over south Bangladesh and adjoining North Bay of Bengal and West Bengal. It is likely to move westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during next 48 hours, the MeT department said.“The western end of the Monsoon trough at mean sea level passes through north of its normal position while its western end passes along normal position. An off-shore trough runs from south Gujarat coast to north Kerala coast. A cyclonic circulation lies over north Pakistan & adjoining Punjab in the lower levels. A line of convergence runs from the above cyclonic circulation over north Pakistan and adjoining Punjab to south Gujarat across West Rajasthan at 3.1 km above mean sea level,” the IMD said in its forecast on Wednesday.It said that the current spell of widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to continue over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh till July 30.The weather department added that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Bihar till July 30 and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh till July 31.Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely to occur over Gangetic West Bengal on Thursday, over Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh on July 30 and over Chhattisgarh and over East Madhya Pradesh on July 31.The IMD said that widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to continue over East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh till August 1, adding that it is likely to increase from July 30.The MeT department has said that isolated extremely heavy rainfall is likely to occur over West Madhya Pradesh on August 1. “Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls very likely over Konkan andGoa, Ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra till August 1,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-states-likely-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-in-next-few-days-imd-101627520005970.html
29-07-2021||India||IAF formally inducts Rafale jets into 101 squadron of Eastern Air Command||The Indian Air Force (IAF) formally inducted the Rafale aircraft into its 101 Squadron of the Eastern Air Command in the presence of Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria at the Hasimara Air Force Station in West Bengal on Wednesday.The 101 Squadron is the second IAF squadron to be equipped with the Rafale fighter jets. In September last year, the Rafale aircraft were inducted into the 17 "Golden Arrows" Squadron.Addressing the personnel at the air force station, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the induction of the Rafale jets at Hasimara was carefully planned, keeping in mind the importance of strengthening the IAF's capability in the eastern sector.India and China have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. In the northeast, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh share borders with China.The induction event included a fly-past heralding the arrival of the Rafale aircraft at Hasimara, followed by a traditional water-cannon salute, according to a statement issued by the IAF.India has so far received 26 of the 36 Rafale aircraft it has ordered from French firm Dassault Aviation, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt informed the Lok Sabha on Wednesday.In his speech at Hasimara, the IAF chief recalled the glorious history of the 101 Squadron, which earned it the title of "Falcons of Chamb and Akhnoor"."CAS urged the personnel to combine their zeal and commitment with the unmatched potential of the newly-inducted platform (Rafale)," the IAF said.Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said he has no doubt that the squadron would dominate whenever and wherever required, and ensure that the adversary would always be intimidated by its sheer presence."The IAF formally inducted Rafale aircraft into No. 101 Squadron at Air Force Station Hasimara in Eastern Air Command on July 28," the statement said.Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria presided over the induction ceremony. On arrival, he was received by Air Marshal Amit Dev, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Air Command.The multi-role Rafale jets, built by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are known for air superiority and precision strikes.The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, 2020, nearly four years after the country signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 aircraft at a cost of ₹59,000 crore.The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 years after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia.The Rafale aircraft are capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor, a beyond visual range air-to-air missile, and the Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-formally-inducts-rafale-jets-into-101-squadron-of-eastern-air-command-101627520213443.html
29-07-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling: HC to hear bail pleas in NIA case against Swapna Suresh, others||The Kerala high court is slated to hear on Thursday a case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with last year's sensational Kerala gold smuggling case. The court will hear all the bail pleas of the accused, including Swapna Suresh who, along with others, is said to have smuggled 167kg of gold into India from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) between November 2019 to June 2020 allegedly through diplomatic channels.The NIA, opposing any potential relief to Swapna Suresh in the matter, told the Kerala high court in the last hearing that she and the others committed a "terrorist act" by attempting to sneak gold into India through official channels, knowing full well that it would threaten the security and economic stability of the country.An NIA court had earlier on March 22 denied bail to seven accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, including Suresh, KT Ramees, Sandeep Nair and P S Sarith.Swapna Suresh later approached the high court, challenging this order.In her bail plea, Suresh questioned the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) charge against her and also said that the trial was being stretched endlessly for no particular reason. She also accused the authorities of falsely implicating her in the case and said that she has been granted bail in the customs and PMLA cases related to the very same alleged criminal activity of gold smuggling.Opposing her plea, the NIA has filed its statement of objections regarding the same. The investigating agency informed the Kerala high court that Suresh and the others were aware that their actions would damage India's relations with the UAW. Thus, these acts qualify for offences under the UAPA for "terrorist activity, conspiracy and being part of a terror organisation.""Investigation conducted by NIA has established that prime accused Sarith, co-accused Swapna Suresh and others, with the knowledge that their act of smuggling of gold into India in large quantity would threaten the security and economic security of the country, destabilise the Indian economy and damage the friendly relations with UAE, conjointly committed the terrorist act," the NIA said its application to the court, opposing Suresh's bail plea.A bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman A A at the Kerala high court had earlier on July 16 adjourned the pleas of Suresh and some others to July 29 to await the decision of the Supreme Court in NIA's appeal against the bail granted earlier by the trial court and the high court to another batch of accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-hc-to-hear-bail-pleas-in-nia-case-against-swapna-suresh-others-101627518214287.html
29-07-2021||India||PM Modi to address nation today on completion of 1 year of NEP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Thursday on the completion of one year of the new National Education Policy (NEP) via video conferencing. He will also launch multiple initiatives in the education sector."The NEP, 2020, is a guiding philosophy for changing the learning landscape, making education holistic and for building strong foundations for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. On 29th July, on the completion of one year of reforms under the NEP, PM Shri @narendramodi will address the nation," Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Twitter on Monday.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), PM Modi will launch the academic bank of credit that will provide multiple entry and exit options for students in higher education; first year engineering programmes in regional languages and guidelines for internationalization of higher education.The initiatives to be launched also include Vidya Pravesh, a three-month play-based school preparation module for Grade 1 students; Indian sign language as a subject at secondary level; NISHTHA 2.0, an integrated programme of teacher training designed by NCERT; SAFAL (structured assessment for analysing learning levels), a competency-based assessment framework for Grades 3, 5 and 8 in CBSE schools; and a website dedicated to artificial intelligence.The National Digital Education Architecture (NDEAR) and the National Education Technology Forum (NETF) will also be launched.The NEP replaced the National Policy on Education, framed in 1986. It is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-today-on-completion-of-1-year-of-nep-101627515727678.html
29-07-2021||India||Juhi Chawla seeks amendment in Delhi HC order on 5G plea, hearing today||The Delhi high court will on Thursday hear actor Juhi Chawla's plea seeking amendment in its earlier order on her plea against implementation of 5G network in the country. The court had dismissed her lawsuit last month and imposed a cost of ₹20 lakh.Chawla wants the word 'dismissed' to be changed to 'rejected'. Her lawyer has said in his argument that the plaint, which “never went up to the level of suit”, could only be rejected or returned in terms of the Civil Procedure Code, and not dismissed.The original order was passed by Justice JR Midha, who retired in June. The matter listed before Justice Sanjeev Narula who directed for placement of the matter before the roster bench and deferred the matter for July 29.The actor moved the high court in May seeking to challenge the setting up of 5G network in the country, expressing concerns over its impact on animals and children. Chawla claimed in her petition that once 5G is implemented, no one will be able to avoid exposure.But the court dismissed the petition saying it was filed for publicity. It said that the actor circulated the link of the hearing on social media which created the disruption thrice.The high court had posed several questions to Chawla's lawyer Deepak Khosla. It asked whether the plaintiff had approached the government through any representation before coming to the court.Juhi Chawla, who was in South Africa, also joined the court proceeding through video conferencing.After the petition was dismissed, Chawla posted a video on her Twitter account in which the actor said she is not against the 5G technology and only wanted the government's certificate that it is safe.The Cellular Operators' Association of India also said that 5G in India is safe, claiming that the radiation permitted in the country is one-tenth of what is globally accepted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/juhi-chawla-seeks-amendment-in-delhi-hc-order-on-5g-plea-hearing-today-101627516217806.html
29-07-2021||NA||Katiyar Mayor shot dead by unknown miscreants, reports ANI||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Katiyar Mayor Shivraj Paswan killed after being shot at by unknown miscreantsKatihar Mayor Shivraj Paswan dies after he was shot at by unknown miscreants, news agency ANI reports.Ambience Mall owner, Raj Singh Gehlot, sent to ED remand till August 5 in bank fraud caseA Delhi court has sent businessman and Gurugram's Ambience Mall owner, Raj Singh Gehlot, to a seven-day Enforcement Directorate (ED) remand till August 5, in a money laundering case.Mamata Banerjee asks Javed Akhtar to compose song on 'khela hobe' sloganTMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her meeting with lyricist-poet Javed Akhtar and his actor-wife Shabana Azmi in Delhi on Thursday, urged him to write a song on the party's 'khela hobe' slogan.Assam govt issues advisory warning state citizens against travel to MizoramPeople of Assam are advised not to travel to Mizoram as any threat to the personal safety of people of Assam can't be accepted: Assam Government issues advisory pic.twitter.com/UTK9jFu5viThe government of Assam has issued an advisory to its people cautioning them against travel to Mizoram due to prevailing border tensions between the two states, reports ANI.Various proposals by election commission for electoral reforms under consideration: GovtVarious proposals of Election Commission for electoral reforms, including seeding of electoral roll data with Aadhaar ecosystem, are under consideration: GovtVarious proposals by the Election Commission of India for electoral reforms including seeding of electoral roll data with Aadhaar are under the government's consideration, reports PTI.Israel to offer booster vaccine shot for Covid-19 for people above 60: ReportPeople above 60 years of age will get a third booster Covid-19 vaccine shot in Israel from Sunday following the approval of the country's health ministry, according to a report from the Israeli news website Haaretz.Formal negotiations on India-EU FTA to resume after summer break in Europe: MEAIndia is waiting for formal nominations from EU's chief negotiator on free trade agreement with Europe, ministry of external affair's spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He also said that the talks are progressing well and formal negotiations are expected to resume after summer break in Europe, reports ANI.Maharashtra to relax Covid-19 lockdown in 25 districts where growth rate below state averageMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government was positive on relaxing Covid-19 lockdown restrictions in 25 districts where the growth is below state average. The order is expected in a couple of days, he added.Shops, restaurants, cinema halls could be allowed to function with 50% capacity. Also, shops could be allowed to remain open till 8pm or 9pm on weekdays.He also said that the decision on allowing fully vaccinated people to travel by suburban trains would be taken after thorough discussion with railway authorities.Meanwhile, 11 districts showing high growth will remain under restrictions, he added.PM Modi launches multiple initiatives in the field of educationPrime Minister Narendra Modi launches multiple key initiatives including Academic Bank of Credits and National Digital Education Architecture, in the field of education pic.twitter.com/KjtGZibjI1Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched multiple key initiatives including Academic Bank of Credits and National Digital Education Architecture in the field of education, reports ANI.Karnataka CM Bommai visits flood- affected Uttara Kannada districtKarnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai visits the flood-affected area of Karwar in Uttara Kannada district. pic.twitter.com/PkCspZAliNKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai visited the flood affected area of Karwar in Uttara Kannada district, reports ANI.Sonia Gandhi calls for joint meeting of Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha ministers at 4pmCongress leader Sonia Gandhi has called for a joint meeting of Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha ministers at 4pm today.Govt announces 27% reservation in medical education for OBC candidates, 10% for EWSThis will immensely help thousands of our youth every year get better opportunities and create a new paradigm of social justice in our country.The government announced 27% reservation for OBCs and 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Section in All India Quota Scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical / dental courses (MBBS / MD / MS / Diploma / BDS / MDS) from current academic year 2021-22 onwards.'Asked for electrical vehicles manufacturing industry in Bengal': Mamata Banerjee after meeting Nitin GadkariI requested that it'll be good if we have a manufacturing industry in our state that will manufacture electric buses, electric autos, electric scooters. Our state shares borders with Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan & northeastern states. So, we need proper roads: WB CM Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/Wo5dNlsB1mWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that she asked Union minister Nitin Gadkari for electric vehicles manufacturing industry in the state during their meeting, reports ANI.No Covid-19 related deaths in Delhi in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 51 new #COVID19 cases, 70 recoveries and zero deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,36,144 Total recoveries 14,10,541 Death toll 25,049 Active cases 554 pic.twitter.com/MzpR6Y33LlDelhi recorded no Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the health department showed. Also, with 51 new cases, the total confirmed cases so far reached 1,436,144.Delta variant drives virus spread to three China provincesChina Thursday reported small coronavirus outbreaks driven by the Delta variant in three provinces as a cluster linked to an eastern airport spreads despite mass testing and a vaccination drive.Initiated prosecution proceedings against Gautam Gambhir Foundation: Drug Controller of Delhi to Delhi HCDrug Controller of Delhi tells Delhi HC that it has initiated prosecution proceedings against Gautam Gambhir Foundation before a city court over alleged hoarding of Covid medicines, which has taken cognisance of the offence and issued summon against the foundationThose who have taken both doses of Covid vaccine should be allowed to travel, open their businesses: Aslam ShaikhThose who have taken both doses of Covid vaccine should be allowed to travel and open their businesses. Covid Task force has also submitted its recommendation to CM. In coming week, people will get good relaxation: Aslam Shaikh, Guardian Minister Mumbai and Cabinet Minister.Rescue operation and restoration work continues in Honzar DachhanRescue operation and restoration work continues in Honzar Dachhan area of Kishtwar district following cloudburst; 7 people have died, 12 were injured & 19 people remain missing.Centre has answered and said that no one died due to a shortage of oxygen: SiddaramaiahCentre has answered and said that no one died due to a shortage of oxygen. Like Sudhakar (State Health Minister) in Karnataka, union minister also lied while answering: Karnataka Congress leader and former CM Siddaramaiah.Two rockets fired near US embassy in BaghdadTwo rockets fired near US embassy in Baghdad: Security source, reports AFP.Magnitude 7.3 earthquake rocks Alaskan peninsulaMagnitude 7.3 earthquake rocks Alaskan peninsula, reports AFP.Covid-19 restrictions extended till August 15 in West BengalCovid19 restrictions extended till August 15 in West Bengal. Govt programs have been allowed in indoor places with 50% seating capacity.Underworld don Chhota Rajan currently under treatment at AIIMSUnderworld don Chhota Rajan was admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi on 27th July after he complained of ill health; He is currently under treatment at the hospital.ED arrests Ambience Mall owner Raj Singh Gehlot in alleged bank loan fraud caseEnforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested Gurugram-based Ambience Mall owner Raj Singh Gehlot in an alleged bank loan fraud case of approximately ₹200 crore.Uddhav Thackeray to chair a meeting today with Covid-19 Task ForceMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to chair a meeting today with Covid-19 Task Force to assess the present situation in the state.Situation is tense: Assam Minister Parimal Suklabaidya on border tension with MizoramSituation is tense but no incident took place in last 2 days. CRPF is also present in the area. Some people still trying to enter the state. Our police and public are alert: Assam Minister Parimal Suklabaidya on border tension with Mizoram.Gangotri Highway closed due to landslideGangotri Highway closed due to landslide near Helugad, Uttarkashi: Border Road Organisation (BRO).Govt is sending 6-member team to KeralaGovernment is sending a 6-member team to Kerala headed by Director, National Centre for Disease Control. As a large number of Covid cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid the state’s ongoing efforts in Covid management: Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Complete lockdown to be imposed in Kerala on July 31, August 1Complete lockdown to be imposed in Kerala on July 31 and August 1 due to rising Covid-19 cases in the state.Basavaraj Bommai will inspect flood-hit areas in Uttara Kannada district todayKarnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai will inspect flood-hit areas in Uttara Kannada district today.Repair and restoration works will be done on a war footing, he says.He met former CM BS Yediyurappa in Bengaluru ahead of his visit to the flood-affected district today.Sensex surges 224.95 points to 52,668.66 in opening sessionSensex surges 224.95 points to 52,668.66 in opening session; Nifty advances 62.05 pts to 15,771.45.India reports 43,509 fresh Covid-19 infections in last 24 hoursIndia reports 43,509 fresh infections, 38,465 recoveries in the last 24 hours; Active caseload currently at 4,03,840, recovery rate at 97.38%: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Rescue operation underway at Tonzing NallaRescue operation underway at Tonzing Nalla in Lahaul-Spiti district as three people remain missing.Kishtwar cloudburst: NDRF joins Indian Army, state agencies in relief operationsJammu and Kashmir witnessed a bout of natural disasters on Wednesday after a cloudburst in the Gulabgarh area of Kishtwar district killed at least seven people, flooding multiple regions. According to officials familiar with the matter, as many as 19 people are still missing, while five remain critically injured. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been rushed to the site for rescue and relief operations, officials added.Archer Atanu Das beats Chinese Taipei's Deng Yu-ChengArcher Atanu Das beats Chinese Taipei's Deng Yu-Cheng in men's individual round of 32 match.India beat Argentina 3-1 in men's hockey Pool A matchTokyo Olympics | India beat Argentina 3-1 in men's hockey Pool A match.P V Sindhu enters quarterfinals of Olympic GamesIndian badminton star P V Sindhu enters quarterfinals of Olympic Games with straight-game win over Denmark's Mia Blichfeldt.US extends expiration dates on J&J Covid vaccine to 6 monthsFederal health regulators on Wednesday again extended the expiration dates on Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine, providing health workers with six more weeks to use millions of doses of the shot.US, Russia hold 'substantive' arms talks, amid tensionsThe US and Russia held "substantive and professional" talks on arms control and other strategic issues, the State Department said in a statement.Maharashtra floods: US NGO to deploy medical teams in stateAn American non-profit organisation will deploy medical teams to treat survivors in Maharashtra after heavy monsoon rains pummelled the region, triggering devastating landslides and flooding that have killed over 200 people and displaced thousands of others.Juhi Chawla seeks amendment in Delhi HC order on 5G plea, hearing todayThe Delhi high court will on Thursday hear actor Juhi Chawla's plea seeking amendment in its earlier order on her plea against implementation of 5G network in the country. The court had dismissed her lawsuit last month and imposed a cost of ₹20 lakh.Bombay HC to hear Raj Kundra's bail plea today in porn caseThe Bombay high court will resume its hearing on Thursday on the petition filed by actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra, challenging his police custody and seeking bail.PM Modi to address nation on completion of one year of National Education PolicyPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on completion of one year of National Education Policy (NEP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-29-2021-101627515219723.html
29-07-2021||India||Taliban coup will lead to pariah state: Blinken||India and the US on Wednesday made a concerted push for immediate intra-Afghan negotiations to end the violence in Afghanistan, and find a political settlement that ensures the country doesn’t become a base for terrorists or pose a threat to regional stability.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and secretary of state Antony Blinken said after their meeting that both sides had agreed negotiations were the only way to create a lasting solution. Blinken referred to atrocities committed by the Taliban in areas the group had taken over and said an Afghanistan that didn’t respect the rights of its people would become a “pariah state”.Addressing a joint media interaction, Blinken and Jaishankar outlined plans for future cooperation in the fight against Covid-19 and post-pandemic recovery – including an additional outlay of $25 million by the US to support India’s vaccination programme – and defended their collaboration under the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, in the face of China’s strong criticism of the grouping.Blinken, the third senior leader of the Biden administration to visit India this year after defence secretary Lloyd Austin and special representative for climate action John Kerry, also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and national security adviser Ajit Doval.Modi expressed appreciation for Biden administration’s initiatives related to the Quad, Covid-19 and climate change. He said the societies of the US and India share a deep commitment to the values of democracy, freedom and liberty, and noted the bilateral strategic partnership will be of even greater global significance in the coming years in the context of economic recovery and climate action.Blinken and Modi also discussed regional challenges and a growing range of cooperation on Covid-19 response efforts, shared values and democratic principles, and regional security, including through the Quad consultations, the US state department said.Jaishankar said there was “much more convergence” between India and the US on finding a lasting settlement in Afghanistan that takes into account the country’s diversity. The world wants an Afghanistan at “peace with itself and with its neighbours”, but the country’s independence and sovereignty will “only be ensured if it is free from malign influences”, he said.An “unilateral imposition of will by any party...can never lead to stability” and such efforts cannot acquire legitimacy, Jaishankar said. Stressing the need to preserve gains made by Afghanistan in the past two decades in terms of human rights and social freedoms, he added: “Afghanistan must neither be home to terrorism nor a source of refugees.”Blinken said: “We’re both committed to the proposition that there is no military solution to the conflict that afflicts Afghanistan. There has to be a peaceful resolution which requires the Taliban and the Afghan government to come to the table, and we both agree...that any future government in Afghanistan has to be inclusive and fully representative of the Afghan people.”The Taliban is seeking international recognition and wants its leaders to be able to travel freely in the world after sanctions are lifted, but taking over Afghanistan by force is not the path to achieve such objectives, Blinken said. “And ultimately, an Afghanistan that does not respect the rights of its people, an Afghanistan that commits atrocities against its own people, would become a pariah state.”The remarks came against the backdrop of a fierce campaign by the Taliban to capture swathes of rural areas and crucial border crossings, and reports of killings and other atrocities in districts taken over by the group. India also has concerns about thousands of terrorists from Pakistan-based groups fighting alongside the Taliban.Jaishankar said it was inevitable that the drawdown of US forces would have consequences and countries in the region will have to deal with the situation. Without naming Pakistan, he said there was an exception among Afghanistan’s neighbours who had reached a broad consensus on the need for a political settlement. “I grant you not everybody who agrees does what they say they would do. I noted the exception that you have pointed out too. But I think that is the reality, this is not new. That is the reality over the last 30 years,” Jaishankar said.Both Blinken and Jaishankar strongly defended the Quad, saying it was a group of four like-minded countries working collectively to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific region that is not directed against any nation. Blinken said the Quad was collaborating on issues that impact people in the region, including Covid-19 vaccines, post-pandemic economic recovery, climate crisis, and maritime security and infrastructure.“What the Quad is not is a military alliance, it is not that. Its purpose is...just to advance cooperation on regional challenges while reinforcing international rules and values that we believe together underpin peace, prosperity and stability in the region,” Blinken said.Jaishankar added that India’s interests went far beyond its borders, including trade partners and routes in the Indian and Pacific Oceans, at a time when rebalancing was underway to tackle new global challenges.On Covid-19 cooperation, Blinken acknowledged the responsiveness of the Biden administration in keeping raw materials supply chain open for vaccine production in India and support during the second wave of infections. “We focused today on expanding vaccine production to make it globally affordable and accessible. We also discussed travel challenges resulting from Covid,” he said.Blinken noted the US has contributed more than $200 million to India for Covid-19 relief and announced an additional outlay of $25 million to support vaccination efforts across the country. This will strengthen vaccine supply chain logistics, addressing misinformation and vaccine hesitancy, and help train health care workers.Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia said Blinken’s visit is “set to contribute significantly to consolidation of India-US relations and deepen multifaceted cooperation within the Quad, a force of stability and hope in the Indo-Pacific”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-coup-will-lead-to-pariah-state-blinken-101627512235077.html
29-07-2021||India||The contrasting tale of inflation in India and US||Retail inflation is making news in both the United States (US) and India. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) grew at 5.4% in the US in the month of June 2021. This is the highest monthly inflation in the US in 13 years. Retail inflation in India was 6.26% in June. June 2021 is the second consecutive month when India’s CPI has stayed above the 6% mark, the upper limit of the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) tolerance band. The wholesale price index (WPI) in India continued to grow in double digits for the third consecutive month in June. While, both the US and India are experiencing a high inflation environment, the situations are very different. Here is how.1) Composition of CPI indices in US and India is differentBase effect is a much bigger factor in inflation in the US than it is in India2) Base effect is a much bigger factor in inflation in the US than it is in IndiaSince the pandemic inflicted a huge disruption to economies across the world, it is important to keep in mind the role of base effect while looking at any statistic which uses year-on-year comparisons. Base effect is a bigger factor in generating tailwinds for inflation in the US than in India. CPI growth in US in June 2020 was 0.65%, compared to 3.18% in June 2019. This is not the case in India. India’s CPI grew at 6.23% in June 2020 as well. A useful way to filter out the base effect in inflation indices is to look at two-year growth rather than the year-on-year growth number. The CPI index in US and India grew by 6.07% and 12.88% respectively between June 2019 and June 2021.3) What is driving inflation in US and India at the moment?The first issue here is the importance of core and non-core inflation. Core inflation measures the change in prices of all items in the CPI basket excluding food and fuel. In India, both core and non-core inflation are high at the moment. The respective values were 6.39% and 6.27% in June. These numbers are 4.5% and 8.3% for the US economy. Food inflation, both in stand-alone and overall terms, is a much smaller factor in the US than in India. Food prices grew at 5.58% in India and 2.4% in the US in June. Their contribution to overall CPI growth was just 6.42% in the US compared to 32.48% in India. Bulk of the food inflation in India is on account of edible oil and pulses. Prices of petroleum products, which are at a record high, is the other big factor behind the inflationary spike in India. While fuel inflation is also up in the US, this is largely a base effect. Unlike India, petroleum prices actually went down in the US when crude prices crashed during the pandemic. Weekly retail gasoline price per gallon fell by 20% in the last week of June 2020 from $2.715/gallon in June 2019. This has since increased. What is really driving inflation in the US is a rise in prices of things such as used cars, which experts believe is symptomatic of persisting supply side constraints as demand bounces back in the economy. “With used cars and trucks accounting for more than one-third of the surge in prices reported by the Labor Department on Tuesday, economists continued to believe that higher inflation was transitory, aligning with Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell’s long-standing views”, said a Reuters story. In contrast, unless the government cuts taxes on petrol and diesel, prices are likely to remain high in India. India is also expected to experience additional inflationary tailwinds as demand for services rises with the economy opening up.4) How do markets and economists see inflation?Inflation numbers influence more than an ordinary household’s budget. Thanks to the entrenched inequalities in what is a globalised economy, inflation can have very different consequences for different economies. Interest rates, capital movements and stock markets are one such example. Real interest rates have been almost zero in advanced countries for quite some time. This has encouraged capital to move to emerging markets in search of better returns. If inflation were to rise in the advanced capitalist world, interest rates will have to rise. Even an expectation of this could trigger some sort of capital flight from emerging economies. This is exactly what happened during what is now referred to as the Taper-Tantrum in 2013. So far markets have not reacted negatively to high inflation in the US markets. In India, RBI has repeatedly asserted that restoring growth will remain a priority for monetary policy, though analysts expect the central bank will have to start withdrawing its monetary easing efforts by the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-contrasting-tale-of-inflation-in-india-and-us-101627510577462.html
29-07-2021||India||Supreme Court bench sets time limit for lawyers, says time to change old habits||NEW DELHI: A two-judge bench of the Supreme Court replicated the practice adopted by the Supreme Court of the United States by directing lawyers appearing in a case to confine their oral arguments to 30 minutes and submissions on law to three pages.Wondering which country in the world would allow lawyers to argue a case for hours and days together, the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy said that time has come for lawyers to change their habits.“We would like to be enlightened which court in the world permits lawyers to argue for days and hours together. Even in England, I have failed to find such a practice. Time has come to change the habits,” the bench said.The observations by the court came on a petition filed by Yatin Narendra Oza, a veteran lawyer from Gujarat who was stripped of the “senior advocate” designation following contempt proceedings initiated against him by the Gujarat High Court. Oza had made distasteful remarks against the judges of the high court and was defended before the top court by senior advocates, Arvind Datar and Abhishek Manu Singhvi. His petition has been pending in the top court since August 2020.The court directed Datar and Singhvi to take 30 minutes each and complete submissions within an hour. The Gujarat high court, the contesting party, was allotted 45 minutes while intervention applications filed in the case were told to finish submissions in 15 minutes. Even on submissions on law and citation of judgments, the bench told lawyers on both sides to file a three-page synopsis on law citing one best judgment on the point.Imposing this discipline on lawyers, the bench said, “Many times we find a 30-page synopsis filed for a 28-page writ petition. Lawyers must understand that in this kind of a hearing, how we can justify to a litigant whose appeal is pending for 10 years that some matters are being given priority and are heard for hours together.”Both Datar and Singhvi agreed to abide by the time restrictions on the next date of hearing on September 1.Datar pointed out that a similar system prevails in the Supreme Court of the United States where lawyers are given 25 minutes to argue a case and five minutes to reply to the other side’s contentions. He was referring to Rule 28 of the US Supreme Court Rules on oral hearing which states, “Unless the Court directs otherwise, each side is allowed one-half hour for the argument.”The change being envisaged by the Supreme Court bench also found reflection in a recent judgment authored by justice Kaul. There, justice Kaul, heading a three-judge bench, referred to Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights which recognised the right of fair trial and public hearing to be completed within a “reasonable time”.The July 8 judgment said, “Delay in judicial proceedings has been the bane of our country and there cannot be a refusal to part ways from old practices especially when they have outlived their purpose…Instead of restricting oral arguments court has become a competing arena of who gets to argue for the longest time.”As of July 2, the Supreme Court has 69,212 pending matters of which 447 matters are Constitution bench matters. This fact was taken note of by Justice Kaul in his judgment that said, “The time spent on routine matters leaves little time to settle legal principles pending before larger Benches that may have an impact down the line on the judicial system.”Justice Kaul’s court is also unique as the daily list of cases comes with a special instruction for lawyers which says, “Parties to get ready with a short synopsis of not more than three pages each in the final hearing/disposal matters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-bench-sets-time-limit-for-lawyers-says-time-to-change-old-habits-101627502991740.html
29-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha clears bill to give more power to DMs||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021 that proposes to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates in child care and adoption.The Bill which seeks to amend the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 was passed by Lok Sabha in March this year. The Act stated that adoption of a child is final on the issuance of an adoption order by the civil court.The Bill provides that instead of the court, the district magistrate, including additional district magistrate, will issue such adoption orders.Amid disruptions in the House, Smriti Irani, women and child development minister, while moving the Bill said children of this country deserve Parliamentarians’ attention for protection and support. “Some of the renowned Parliamentarians, who have always prioritised the needs of the vulnerable...however, politics demands that they stand right here in the Well and attract attention towards the issue which they feel fit,” Irani said. Irani said the adoption of a child is a legal process that creates a permanent legal relationship. Therefore, it may be questioned whether it is appropriate to vest the power to issue adoption orders with the district magistrate instead of a civil court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-clears-bill-to-give-more-power-to-dms-101627499703279.html
29-07-2021||India||Odisha teacher wins pension case 11 yrs after death. Widow says can die in peace||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha high court has ordered the state government to quickly pay the money owed to an 83-year-old widow who continued to fight her husband’s legal battles for the pension he believed he was entitled to. She won the case last week.Minalata Mohanty said her husband, a retired primary school teacher, would have been very happy had he been alive. They had fought long, and hard.“The kind of hardships that we went through all these years looking for justice is unimaginable. But I am happy. I can die in peace,” she said after the high court ruling delivered on July 23. The verdict was uploaded on Wednesday.Justice Biswanath Rath ordered the state to pay the admissible entitlements of the school teacher with penal interest.“She has lost her husband and there should not be any further delay in the release of entitlements through the (earlier) judgment (in OJC No 1345 of 1999) at least to see the 83-year-old lady spend her last part of life with peace,” justice Rath said, describing the state government retaining the teacher’s entitlements three years after losing its appeal in the Supreme Court a crime.Her husband, Prafulla Chandra Mohanty, spent his years after retirement in 1986 struggling to get a higher scale that he was entitled to before his superannuation. Since the pension is calculated on the basis of an employee’s last drawn salary, Mohanty was determined to get his dues. After he retired, he filed the requests and reminders for years. In 1999, Mohanty finally moved the Odisha high court.The teacher from Cuttack’s Salipur area won the high court case in 2004 but the state government went in appeal.Mohanty died in 2010 before the Supreme Court delivered its verdict in 2018. But his wife did not still get the benefits.Justice Rath took a dim view of the conduct of state government officials in this case that resulted in the delay.“There is also a requirement for bringing all persons responsible for such delay to be brought to book to check no repetition of this conduct in future,” the court said. The court also told the state to pay a 5% interest on the remainder of his retirement dues from July 1986 to November 2004, 6% interest from November 2004 to August 2018 and 10% interest from August 2018 when the Supreme Court rejected the state’s special leave petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-teacher-wins-pension-case-11-yrs-after-death-widow-says-can-die-in-peace-101627501130279.html
29-07-2021||India||CJI mediates in Telugu, helps couple reunite after 21 years of separation||An unusual situation conjured up an unusual response from Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Wednesday. The first judge of the country chose to deviate from the customary norms and interacted with a couple in Telugu, counselling them, and finally uniting them after 21 years of separation.The scene in the first court looked out of the ordinary on Wednesday afternoon when CJI Ramana spoke in Telugu with the couple that didn’t understand English — the official language of the Supreme Court.The situation was unique. The couple from Andhra Pradesh had been living separately since 2001 but the man was financially supporting his estranged wife and their son for the last 18 years even after he got convicted in a criminal case lodged by the wife.The man worked in the revenue department of the Andhra government while the woman was a homemaker. A month after their separation in 2001, she filed a criminal complaint, alleging cruelty upon her by the husband. He was charged under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In 2002, the husband was convicted by a Guntur trial court and was sentenced to a year in jail. The high court, however, suspended his jail term. Meanwhile, the wife moved a family court for alimony and the man started paying her maintenance in 2003. He continued doing so even after his conviction.In 2010, the high court reduced the husband’s punishment to the jail term already undergone by him. Disgruntled, the woman approached the Supreme Court for enhancement of her husband’s jail term. She complained that all her husband got was a slap on the wrist and he kept his job too.In 2012, the top court tried for mediation but to no avail. Recently, CJI Ramana initiated yet another attempt for a settlement, but the lawyers came back a day ago to inform that the wife was still insisting on enhancement of the husband’s jail term.The bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and Surya Kant, pointed out that if the man was put behind bars, he would lose his job and then there will be no alimony for the woman and the son. It asked the lawyers to keep their clients present in the court through video-conferencing.On Wednesday, the couple showed up. The wife, however, said she could not understand English. Unhesitatingly, CJI Ramana broke into Telugu. The judge tried to bring her to reason, unambiguously apprising her of the consequences if the man was incarcerated. The judge listened to her side of the story too and counselled her.Next, CJI Ramana asked the couple if they were willing to live together again. “But that, only if you assure us that you will take care of her very well. Do not forget you have been convicted and unless you take the initiative, things will not materialise,” the bench told the man, who readily agreed to reunite. The woman also nodded, expressing her wish to restart their relationship as husband and wife.The bench then recorded in its order that the two have agreed to submit their undertakings in two weeks. The man will pledge to take her back while the woman will agree to settle the criminal case. “Parties have agreed to live together forgetting the past differences...Parties are allowed to move the applications,” stated the order.Advocate D Rama Krishna Reddy, who appeared for the husband in the case, told HT: “But for the efforts of the CJI, it was not possible for the couple to end their bitterness and come together. A human problem was addressed by the CJI in a most humane manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-mediates-in-telugu-helps-couple-reunite-after-21-years-of-separation-101627500110523.html
29-07-2021||India||Blinken meets representative of Dalai Lama||New Delhi: US secretary of state Antony Blinken began his formal engagements in New Delhi on Wednesday by meeting a representative of the Dalai Lama, signalling the Biden administration’s support to the Tibetan cause. Blinken met briefly with Ngodup Dongchung of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) before his meetings with top Indian leaders. Dongchung presented Blinken with a scarf from the Dalai Lama and conveyed the CTA’s gratitude for the US administration’s backing of the Tibetan cause, people familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity. The meeting was one of the most conspicuous contacts between American and Tibetan officials since former president Barack Obama met the Dalai Lama in Washington in 2016 and former CTA head Lobsang Sangay was invited to the White House last November. The meeting also came two days after US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman met Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and raised American concerns about human rights, including abuses in Tibet, the anti-democracy crackdown in Hong Kong, and the genocide in Xinjiang. “Secretary Blinken had an opportunity to meet briefly this morning in New Delhi with a representative of His Holiness the Dalai Lama, Central Tibetan Administration representative Ngodup Dongchung,” a US state department spokesperson said without giving details. Another US official, on condition of anonymity, said: “The Dalai Lama obviously is a globally revered spiritual leader and so the gesture was gratefully received and appreciated.” The people cited above said the meeting was being seen as a strong signal of support for the Dalai Lama and was also significant as it was held in India at a time when New Delhi and Beijing are locked in standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “It was a clear signal that the Biden administration will continue the Trump administration’s high-level engagements and support to the Tibetan side. It also has to be seen in the context of the Tibet Policy and Support Act passed by the US Congress last year, which calls for the Tibetans to have the final say in choosing the successor to the Dalai Lama and the setting up of a US consulate in Lhasa,” one of the people cited above said. Geshe Dorji Damdul, director of Tibet House in New Delhi, was among the select group of people invited for a civil society roundtable with Blinken shortly after the meeting with Dongchung. There was no immediate response from the Chinese side to the meeting between Blinken and Dongchung.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blinken-meets-representative-of-dalai-lama-101627500050785.html
29-07-2021||India||‘Democracy not a patent to any nation’: China targets U.S.||Beijing: A seemingly upset spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry on Wednesday sought to give a lesson on democracy to India and the US, the largest and oldest democracies in the world, after it appeared that the two had ganged up against authoritarian China, which defines itself, in a marginally unwieldy fashion, as a socialist consultative democracy.All because the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, visiting India at present, talked about a rising global threat to democracies and that the two leading ones should stand together to support the threatened ideals.A Bloomberg question on whether the Blinken statement pointed a finger at China during the Chinese foreign ministry briefing on Wednesday triggered a passionate discourse on democracy from high-profile spokesperson, Zhao Lijian.Zhao dived right into it.“I want to stress that democracy is a common value of humanity. It is not a patent to any country. The way to realise democracy is diverse without a certain pattern or only one answer. A multiparty political structure is not the only form of democracy and democracy cannot be used to stoke confrontation,” Zhao said.The reference to the US went like this: “Some countries claim themselves to be democratic, but they face the problems of racial discrimination, political polarisation, among other issues.”“Is this the kind of democracy that they pride them on?”Then came the reference to neighbour, India – with the inevitable conclusion that money wins elections in India – and rhetorical questions, one after the other.“In some countries, without money you cannot get votes. Political parties place their interests above that of the people. Is this democracy or the rise of the wealthy?”“Some democratic countries contain others’ development. Is this democracy or hegemony? Is this the kind of democracy that you want?”The way to judge which country is democratic and which one is autocratic should not be decided by one certain country, Zhao mused.“The way to judge whether a political system is good is to see whether it can deliver progress of society, better livelihood and whether it is endorsed and supported by its people and whether it can make contributions to the progress of mankind.Zhao didn’t name either India or the US but clearly did not leave much to anyone’s imagination. Maybe, like Blinken’s statement.Elsewhere, the nationalistic state-run tabloid, Global Times was direct.“Such an arrangement, (Blinken’s visit) which closely follows (deputy secretary of state Wendy) Sherman’s visit to China on Sunday and Monday, is seen as a sign that the US will spend more efforts to rope in India to contain China and play the ‘India card’,” analysts told the tabloid.But all isn’t good between India and the US, the analysis said.One of the major rifts between New Delhi and Washington is the US decision to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, which has left India’s investment in the region for the past 20 years hanging in the air, Long Xingchun, from the Beijing Foreign Studies University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/democracy-not-a-patent-to-any-nation-china-targets-us-101627500050223.html
29-07-2021||India||Blinken talks farmers’ protests, China, CAA in civil society meet||Interfaith relations, the farmers’ protest, freedom of expression, and the Pegasus spyware issue figured at a civil society roundtable held by US secretary of state Antony Blinken ahead of his meetings with the Indian leadership on Wednesday, according to people aware of the developments.Concerns over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan, and China’s aggressive actions were also raised by the seven civil society representatives who joined the roundtable with the theme “Advancing equitable, inclusive, and sustainable growth and development”, added the people who declined to be named.Ahead of Blinken’s visit, the US side said it intended to raise human rights and democracy during his engagements in New Delhi. The US has, in the recent past, spoken out on issues such as the situation in Kashmir and movements such as the farm protests on the outskirts of Delhi.The seven civil society representatives are: Geshe Dorji Damdul, director of the Tibet House in New Delhi, lawyer Menaka Guruswamy, Inter-Faith Harmony Foundation of India head Khwaja Iftikhar Ahmed, Swami Shantamandada of the Ramakrishna Mission, AK Merchant of Bahai Foundation, Anuvinda Varey of the Christian Coalition of Health, and a representative from a Sikh organisation. The seven invitees spoke for a few minutes each during the roundtable that lasted almost an hour.“The farmers protest, CAA, restrictions on the media, freedom of expression, rights of minorities, interfaith relations, and the Pegasus surveillance issue were all raised by the representatives but there was no substantial discussion on these matters,” said a participant who asked not to be named.Besides issues of concern within India, regional issues such as the security situation in Afghanistan and China’s aggression were part of the discussions, a second participant said, also on condition of anonymity.When contacted, Ahmed said he spoke on the need for interfaith relations to come to the centre stage while pointing out the challenges to the region due to developments in Afghanistan. “Afghanistan is a priority for both sides and it is high time for them to collaborate on this issue in the larger interest of global peace and security,” he said.The role of civil society in India also figured in the discussions, with Blinken saying in his opening remarks that democracies such as the US and India need a vibrant civil society if they are to be “more open, more inclusive, more resilient, more equitable”. He added that “all people deserve to have a voice in their government and be treated with respect”.Blinken said India and the US should continue to stand together as leading democracies at a time when global threats to democracy and international freedoms are increasing. Both sides talk about issues such as democracy as friends, “because doing the hard work of strengthening democracy and making our ideals real is often challenging”, he said.Referring to efforts in the US to become a “more perfect union”, Blinken said, “Sometimes that process is painful, sometimes it’s ugly, but the strength of democracy is to embrace it”. Blinken also tweeted about “India’s pluralistic society and history of harmony” and said civil society “helps advance these values”.It is learnt that Blinken flagged the concerns of the US regarding democracy and human rights during his talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar.Asked about these issues at a joint media interaction with Jaishankar, Blinken said shared values and democratic traditions “were very much a part of our conversation today”.He described Indian democracy as a “force for good in defence of a free and open Indo-Pacific and a free and open world” and said both countries have “self-righting mechanisms” made up of free citizens of different faiths, a free media and independent courts powered by a system of free and fair elections.Jaishankar said he made three points to Blinken, including the fact that the “quest for a more perfect union applies as much to the Indian democracy as it does to the American one”.In an apparent reference to the Indian government’s actions such as enacting CAA, Jaishankar said it is the “moral obligation of all polities to right wrongs when they have been done, including historically, and many of the decisions and policies you have seen in the last few years fall in that category”.He also said freedoms are important but one could “never equate freedom with non-governance or lack of governance or poor governance”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blinken-talks-farmers-protests-china-caa-in-civil-society-meet-101627499929219.html
29-07-2021||India||Nobody can capture party, AIADMK united: OPS||AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam on Wednesday finally broke his silence on former party leader V Sasikala’s move to reclaim the party and said “nobody can capture’’ the party, adding that the dual leadership set-up with co-coordinator Edappadi Palaniswami is working successfully. Panneerselvam was talking to reporters after the AIADMK conducted a state-wide protest on Wednesday against the DMK for not implementing its election promises, such as abolishing NEET and cutting fuel prices. This assertion comes just a day after Panneerselvam and Palaniswami returned from New Delhi, where they held discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and with Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu’s political scenario has been abuzz over what had transpired at the meetings. Multiple leaders from the AIADMK and BJP, who are unrelated to each other, have confirmed to HT that the BJP has delivered a message to the AIADMK’s dual leadership “to not rock the boat” and continue the status quo. Sasikala was not discussed, they said.Even before the duo left for the capital, BJP’s new Tamil Nadu president K Annamalai met with Panneerselvam and Palaniswami separately in their residences in Chennai. “He had conveyed to them that the BJP wants the alliance to continue for the local body polls and wants the AIADMK to be together to defeat the DMK,” a senior BJP leader said. “In Delhi, they have got an assurance on this from the party leadership.” He added that the meeting itself conveys a message to AIADMK’s cadre that it is Panneerselvam and Palaniswami who have the ear of the two most powerful politicians in the country amidst Sasikala attempting to claw her way in. Sasikala has reached out to several cadres of the AIADMK and its rebel faction Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) founded by her nephew TTV Dhinakaran. She recently visited the former party’s presidium chairman E Madhusudhanan in a city hospital, even though he had rebelled against her during the several factions that arose following J Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016. Palaniswami, who was in the hospital during the same time, left in a huff.“AIADMK in the past four-and-a-half years has successfully put in place a system that the party affairs are run without the dominance of an individual or a particular family,” Panneerselvam said on Wednesday. “The system that we have created is democratic, and cadre is happy with the current set-up.” The BJP’s direction and Panneerselvam’s clarification is significant as the tension between him and Palaniswami has become public after their electoral loss in the assembly elections. Panneerselvam was said to be softening his stance towards Sasikala’s return. And as their rift deepened, it offered a space for Sasikala to position herself as the saviour of the party she once manoeuvred from behind the scenes when Jayalalithaa was alive.“We don’t want to pressurise them about Sasikala. That’s their wish,” the BJP leader said. “The damage is already done. They didn’t listen to us before the elections. The results could have been different if we had roped in Dhinakaran, who split our vote bank.” Dhinakaran Tuesday reiterated that AMMK would continue its founding mission along with his aunt to “retrieve the AIADMK from detractors”.A senior AIADMK leader said that they had discussed the recent raids against their former transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar. It has made the principal opposition jittery as it is being seen as DMK’s beginning of a crackdown given their election promise to establish a special court and try cases against top AIADMK ministers. “Sasikala has no traction no matter what she has tried to do. There was nothing to discuss,” he said. Their meeting with Modi-Shah and the protest on Wednesday across 4500 places in the state has given a boost to the cadre, said another AIADMK leader not wishing to be named. “They (BJP) have told us that we could continue to function the way we have been so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-can-capture-party-aiadmk-united-ops-101627499749358.html
29-07-2021||India||Oppn attacks Kerala govt after SC verdict in 2015 assembly ruckus case||Thiruvananthapuram: The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala suffered a major jolt on Wednesday after its plea to withdraw cases against some of its legislators in connection with a ruckus in the state assembly in 2015 was rejected by the Supreme Court, which said allowing prosecution to be withdrawn would amount to interference in normal course of justice for “illegitimate reasons”. Soon after the apex court order, the opposition parties in Kerala stepped up pressure for the resignation of state education minister V Sivankutty, who is one of the six accused in the case. Senior Congress leader and leader of the opposition in assembly VD Satheesan said, “He holds the education portfolio. What message the government will give to students if it allows him to cling on to power.” “He has no right to continue in power. It is a big paradox that the man who destroyed assembly property is still in the House,” said Kerala Congress chief K Sudhakaran. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kerala unit president K Surendran said, “As the main accused in the case he has lost moral authority to continue in Cabinet.” However, the ruling party defended the minister, saying he will face the trial as the apex court did not get into the merit of the case. “It is not the final verdict. All accused will face the trial,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. Sivankutty also said he was ready to face judicial proceedings. “A Communist’s life is full of struggle and revolts. I have waged numerous strikes and struggles since my school days. I will face this case also,” he said in the state capital. The Kerala House witnessed violent incidents in March 2015 after LDF legislators, then in the opposition, tried to prevent then finance minister KM Mani from presenting the budget . Angry lawmakers snapped mikes, threw chairs, destroyed furniture and damaged lights in the melee, which also resulted in two legislators landing up in hospital. The session was being broadcast live when violence took place and property worth ₹2.20 lakh was destroyed in the ruckus. After coming to power in 2016, the LDF government tried to withdraw the case, only for a local court to reject it. The Pinarayi Vijayan government then moved the high court, which also turned down its plea. The government also invoked the privilege of legislators and public interest to justify its decision to withdraw the case, but the high court rejected it saying privilege was not a licence to carry out violence in the House. The Supreme Court on Wednesday also upheld the lower court’s verdict and directed all accused to face criminal proceedings. The apex court said acts of destruction of public property cannot be equated with either the freedom of speech of the legislator or with forms of protest legitimately available to the members of opposition. “Privileges and immunities are not gateway to claim exemption from the general law of the land, particularly as in this case the criminal law which governs the action of every citizen,” a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said. All six accused , V Sivankutty, K T Jaleel, E P Jayarajan, C K Sadasivan, Kunahmed Master and K Ajith , were charged under the prevention of damage to public property act and other provisions. Out of six, Sivankutty and Jaleel are sitting MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-attacks-kerala-govt-after-sc-verdict-in-2015-assembly-ruckus-case-101627499690384.html
29-07-2021||India||Rising Covid cases pose challenge for Kerala amid third wave threat||Thiruvananthapuram: As threat of a possible third wave looms large in the country, the steady rise in Covid-19 cases in Kerala is posing a big challenge to the overstretched health system while also exposing the “situation under control” claims of the state government. The state reported 22,056 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, its second consecutive over 20,000-caseload day, at a test positivity rate (TPR) of 11.2%, according to the health department’s daily bulletin. Kerala also reported 131 deaths in last 24 hours, taking the toll to 16,457. On Tuesday, Kerala accounted for nearly 50% of total caseload on the day in the country (22,129 out of 42,498 cases) and its average test positivity rate (TPR) at 12.35% was almost four times the national average of 3%, according to the health department. In Kerala, which reported the first coronavirus disease case in the country in January last year, the second wave of the pandemic is showing no sign of abating in the last three months. It is also the only state in the country to report over 20,000 cases in nearly two months, prompting the worried Union health ministry to ask it to ramp up its virus control measures. A team of leaders from the state unit of the Bharaitya Janata Party met Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday and urged him to prevail upon the state government to take proactive measures to contain the surge. The intensity of surge can be gauged by comparing Covid-19 numbers with neighbouring states. Tamil Nadu logged 20,421 cases on June 6, the last time any Indian state crossed the 20,000-mark, but on Tuesday, the state reported only 1,767 cases. Another neighbouring state Karnataka, which also witnessed high volume of cases in April-May, reported only 1,501 new cases on Tuesday with a TPR of 1.46%. According to the Kerala health department data, total cases in the state crossed 3.3 million, second highest after Maharashtra with 6.2 million. Out of the around 450,000 active cases in the country, the state’s share is 149,000. Worried experts hinted that steady rise in cases is the sign of a possible third wave in the state. Ground reports also show that things are not rosy for the state with most of vacant Covid beds filling up and demand for ventilators rising. An estimated 14.8 million people above 18 years of age are still waiting for the first dose of vaccine. The fourth round of the sero survey, conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research, shows 67.7% antibody prevalence nationally while it is way low at 42.7 % in the state. This shows a huge chunk of Kerala’s population is still susceptible to virus, a health expert said. With high density of population (859 people per sq km), comprising of around 15% of those above 65 years, and high volume of lifestyle diseases (mostly diabetes), the state will have to go an extra mile to change things around, experts said. Experts have also blamed low testing rate, the state’s continued obsession with cheap antigen tests and over dependence on bureaucracy for the stagnant situation. Kerala was lauded for its pandemic control measures during the first wave, but it turned into a Covid-19 hot spot in the second wave and shows no sign abating in the last three months, with experts calling for a scientific study on low transmission and progression behaviour of the virus. “The government sniffs politics in every aspect of pandemic. Experts and medical bodies have been kept away deliberately. Ill-flated record won’t stand forever and now it stands exposed,” said Dr SS Lal, a public health expert who worked with World Health Organisation for many years. “Mere lockdown won’t do any good. It is time for the state to redraw its strategies,” said Dr NM Arun, another public health expert. Though no shortage of oxygen or Covid beds has been reported in the state, but pressure on overburdened health system is quite visible. Compared to last week, there is a 14% jump in demand for beds and 80% of Covid beds are occupied this week, health ministry statistics show. Out of 30 worst affected districts in the country, 10 are in Kerala, including Malappuram which tops the list with 4,037 cases. Despite grim picture, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan put up a brave face, saying situation was well under control. “Second wave started late in the state and about 50% of the state population are yet to contract virus. So, we expected this increase,” he said in the state assembly on Tuesday. He also blamed vaccine shortage for delaying the state’s universal inoculation programme. However, the opposition Congress and BJP blamed the government for the sorry state of affairs. “Its lies are falling flat. The government fudged data to give a rosy picture but now skeletons are tumbling out of its cupboard. The RTI reply we received shows more than 7,316 fatalities were not accounted for. And its Covid stimulus package turned out to be a big farce,” said senior Congress leader and leader of the opposition in assembly VD Satheesan. He added that the government relegated virus management to bureaucrats and they framed rules and regulations with no thought for human woes. “We have appraised the Union government and party central leadership about ground situation in the state. The government can’t hide truth for long,” said BJP state president K Surendran. He alleged that CPI(M) local leaders were controlling vaccination process at many places, something that the ruling party has denied and blamed opposition parties instead “for playing dirty politics” even during the pandemic. “Both Congress and BJP are in same boat, and they are yet to learn a lesson from recent assembly poll debacle,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-covid-cases-pose-challenge-for-kerala-amid-third-wave-threat-101627499389747.html
29-07-2021||India||Bommai remains tight lipped on new cabinet, says decision after Delhi visit||Bengaluru: After Basavaraj Bommai’s appointment as Karnataka chief minister, speculations have now begun on the cabinet posts. On Wednesday, when asked about the cabinet expansion, Bommai said that decision would be taken after his visit to New Delhi. Talking about the cabinet formation, on Wednesday morning, Bommai said, “I met Dharmendra Pradhan and Arun Singh this morning. They have told me there is no need for any meeting (on cabinet formation) today (Wednesday). We will make a decision after they have left.” He also clarified that during his first visit to Delhi he will be meeting PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP national president J P Nadda to thank them, and thereafter he will discuss with leaders on the cabinet expansion. “We won’t take much time. For all the work that needs to be completed, we need a full team (of ministers). So, we will do it (cabinet formation) at the earliest,” he added. While the party leadership has remained tightlipped about the candidates, party insiders say that the saffron party will stick to three-deputy chief minister formula. “Like the last term, there will be three deputy chief ministers and they will be from the three prominent communities,” said a senior BJP office bearer on the condition of anonymity. In the previous government, Govind Karjol, a Dalit, CN Ashwath Narayan Gowda, a Vokkaliga and Laxman Savadi, a Lingayat were deputy CMs. This was a signal that has been sent to all the three major caste groups in the state that their interests are being taken care of. The office bearer, however, indicated that in this term, instead of having a Lingayat deputy chief minister, two deputy chief ministers could represent the ST and SC community. “The party has made a decision to pay attention to the other communities in the state as well. Also, the chief minister is a Lingayat,” he said. The three popular candidates speculated to the next deputy chief minister are B Sriramalu (ST), Govind Karjol (SC) and R Ashok (Vokkaliga). “The final decision will be taken by the central leadership, but these are the names that are on top of the list,” said a senior BJP leader. Apart from the DCM post, the future of the rebel MLAs is a matter of concern as well. 10 MLAs who had left the Congress and JD(S) during the 2019 political crisis, are staring at an uncertain future ahead of the cabinet formation. Since their resignations had paved the way for Yediyurappa to form a government, all of them were given a cabinet berth and other important posts in the government. With the change in guard, it remains unclear if they will find space in the new cabinet. In the previous government, Yediyurappa had stood his ground to ensure all of them got postings. “It doesn’t look like all of them will get cabinet posts this time. Mostly, only those high performing ministers will be retained. But at the same time, they are not part of the BJP, and they will go by the high command’s decision. There is no doubt about it,” said a senior leader. Senior Congress leader and the leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had said that none of these rebel MLAs will be taken back, which puts the 10 MLAs in a tough position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-remains-tight-lipped-on-new-cabinet-says-decision-after-delhi-visit-101627499329684.html
29-07-2021||India||Floods to Covid: Key challenges for the new CM||Bengaluru: For Basavaraj Bommai, who took over as Karnataka chief minister on Wednesday, his tenure will not be an easy one. From handling the floods to keeping the leaders happy to run the government that is facing a fund crunch, the new chief minister has his hands full on all fronts from day one. Here are some of the main challenges Bommai will face during his tenure. Handling the floods The immediate challenge for Bommai is to address the flood situation in the northern and coastal parts of Karnataka. So far, 10 people have lost their lives and the Opposition has accused the BJP of playing politics, while the people of the state are facing a natural calamity. On Wednesday, Bommai said that the central government has released funds and he will be making a personal visit to flood- affected areas. Over the past few days, residents of flood-affected areas have been raising voices against the government’s inaction. Providing them reassurance will certainly be high on his priority list. The Covid-19 challenge On the Covid-19 front, even though the number of cases have come down, experts are predicting a third wave to hit the state, which is still lagging in providing vaccines. Ensuring that the state doesn’t witness another Covid wave is high on the priority, said the new chief minister on Monday. During the past two waves, it was Yediyurappa who led the state’s Covid response. Being the state with the second-highest death rate so far, he has a big challenge ahead of him. A lot will, however, depend on who is the new health minister. K Sudakar, outgoing health minister, is said to have done a decent job in handling Covid.Striking a balance between the high command, BSY and RSSBommai is a candidate acceptable to the three main stakeholders in Karnataka BJP – Party’s central leadership, BS Yediyurappa, and the RSS faction. But this could pose a problem for Bommai. In the days ahead, there are chances of him getting pulled between three powerhouses over decision making. With all three groups trying to assert their influence on governance, Bommai will have to strike a middle ground and balance all factions. His political mentor Yediyurappa could be his biggest problem as he would like to remain a de-facto chief minister, which, other BJP leaders would not like. Striking a more secular and socialistic outlook may not be easy in the present BJP state unit having several hardliners.Control dissidence within the party Soon after Yediyurappa announced his resignation, MLAs who joined the BJP from the Congress and JD(S) during the 2019 political crisis, were in panic. The BJP government came to power because of these “rebel MLAs”. With Bommai’s appointment, the state will see a new cabinet and there are speculations that some of them may lose important portfolios. When Yediyurappa last reshuffled the portfolios, there was a huge hue and cry among ministers, forcing the CM to conduct the exercise thrice within a fortnight. Bommai will have to play a balancing act to ensure that all leaders in the party – rebels and other leaders – are kept happy. A job not easy. Recovering from financial troubles Bommai on Wednesday said that the government will focus on maintaining fiscal discipline through efficient utilization of resources and reducing expenditure amidst the pandemic. He said that he has directed the officials to focus on time-bound implementation of development programmes with interdepartmental coordination. He expected officials to reduce unnecessary expenditure to a minimum of 5%. A new system to dispose of files without delay would be adopted, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-to-covid-key-challenges-for-the-new-cm-101627499209171.html
29-07-2021||India||'Won’t be a rubber stamp CM': Bommai||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday took oath as the 23rd chief minister of Karnataka at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhavan and told reporters that he will not be a “rubber stamp CM”.Bommai, the son of former chief minister SR Bommai and a former home minister,was named the CM by the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tiuesday, a day after four-time CM BS Yediyurappa resigned following months of dissidence. A Lingayat leader, 61-year-old Bommai is considered close to his predecessor.When asked about the perception that he was a proxy chief minister for Yediyurappa, Bommai said, “I have a simple response to this question. I am no rubber stamp CM, and I will prove that by ensuring that people will give their stamp of approval for my schemes.”Soon after taking oath, Bommai thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his good wishes and said he would continue the good work done by the previous BS Yediyurappa-led state government.“Thank you Prime Minister @narendramodi ji for your kind wishes. I will definitely continue the good work done by the state government under the able leadership of @BSYBJP. We, as a team, will work for the development of the state and the nation under the guidelines of all our senior leaders,” Bommai tweeted.Earlier, while congratulating Bommai, Modi lauded his predecessor Yediyurappa for his ‘monumental contribution’ to the growth of BJP and the state.“Congratulations to Shri @BSBommai Ji on taking oath as Karnataka’s CM. He brings with him rich legislative and administrative experience. I am confident he will build on the exceptional work done by our Government in the state. Best wishes for a fruitful tenure,” he tweeted.Clarifying his statement on Tuesday that he would consult Yediyurappa on decisions, Bommai said, “When I said I will consult Yediyurappa on my decisions, I meant that the former CM had tackled the Covid-19 pandemic effectively, despite having financial constraints due to the pandemic. He gave several good schemes and ensured an able administration. These experiences matter and that is what I meant that his guidance will be sought for the new cabinet to take further steps.”He added that there were no two power centresin Karnataka. “In our constitutional setup, there are certain posts which are mandated. As a chief minister of the state, you are first among equals. Even the cabinet has got its own constitutional power. As a CM, my job is to carry everyone along as a team. I can only say that we will work as a team and the power will rest with the team.”Highlighting his immediate priorities, Bommai said he will be visiting flood-ravaged Karwar in Uttara Kannada district on Thursday and was waiting for PMModi’s appointment for the Delhi visit, where he added, he will also meet home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP national president JP Nadda. He said thereafter he will discuss with leaders on the cabinet expansion.On his first day as the CM, Bommai announced several policy decisions. Speaking to reporters after chairing his first Cabinet meeting, Bommai said ₹1,000 crore will be set aside for the scholarship scheme aimed at encouraging farmers’ children to pursue higher education. The Cabinet also decided to increase pensions under various schemes, he added.Pension under Sandhya Suraksha scheme (old-age pension) will go up from ₹1,000 to ₹1,200, benefiting 3.6 million residents. Monthly widow pension will be increased from ₹600 to ₹800, covering 1.7 million beneficiaries, and disability pension (40-75% disability) from ₹600 to ₹800, aiming to benefit 400,000 residents.Bommai said he will soon hold a meeting with senior officials in the government to take stock of the administration. Talking about cabinet formation, he said that he met the observers from the party’s high command. “I met Dharmendra Pradhan and Arun Singh this morning. They have told me there is no need for any meeting (on cabinet formation) today (Wednesday). We will make a decision after they have left,” said Bommai.“We won’t take much time. For all the work that needs to be completed, we need a full team (of ministers). So we will do it (cabinet formation) at the earliest,” he added.The chief minister, who also held a meeting with additional chief secretaries and principal secretaries of various departments on Wednesday, said officials have been given a broader picture on the orientation of his government. He added that the government will focus on maintaining fiscal discipline through efficient utilisation of resources and reducing expenditure amidst pandemic.Emphasising on inter-departmental cooperation, Bommai said all departments have been given 15 days to clear all pending files, adding that he wanted to do away with the “chalta hai” (relaxed) attitude among the officials. A ranking system will be introduced to encourage departments to perform well, he said, adding, “I have told officials that the new administration will get a new orientation.”Bommai was the home minister in Yediyurappa’s council of ministers, which was dissolved following the 78-year-old leader’s resignation on Monday. Bommai is considered a close confidant of former chief minister Yediyurappa.Son of former chief minister SR Bommai, Basavaraj started his political career with the Janata Dal and worked with senior leaders including HD Devegowda and Ramakrishna Hegde. He left the Janata Dal (United) and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in February 2008.The selection of Bommai, who is from the Lingayat community, comes after several pontiffs from Lingayat mutts in the state had warned the BJP central command against removing Yediyurappa, a tall leader of the community. The Lingayat community forms close to 16% of the state’s population and they have been a loyal vote base for the BJP. Even though there were speculations that the BJP may appoint a leader from a different community, it eventually zeroed down on the Lingayat leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-be-a-rubber-stamp-cm-bommai-101627499149180.html
29-07-2021||India||Jump in share of Indian carriers in international cargo business: Scindia||New Delhi Minister for civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday told the Rajya Sabha that the share of Indian carriers in the international cargo business has increased from 2% to 19%.To a separate question, the Union minister said the next round of bidding for airports will begin soon. He also said that the Centre was still considering the Bihar assembly’s resolution on renaming the Darbhanga Airport as the Vidyapati Airport.Speaking during the Question Hour, which was held amid protests by Opposition members, Scindia said the cargo business in the domestic sector, which was 800,000 metric ton in 2010-11, has increased to 1.4 million metric ton, an increase of 75%.Scindia said efforts such as providing cold chain logistics and new cargo hubs have been made to increase the share of Indian carriers in the international market. He said India’s share in the international cargo business was worth ₹1,686 crore in 2019-20, which rose to ₹2,644 crore in 2020-21 despite the Covid-19 pandemic.To a question on whether his ministry was considering extending the 50% subsidy for agri-perishables for transportation from the North-east and four Himalayan states to other parts of the country, the minister said that the Centre was contemplating how this could be turned into a pan-Indian scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jump-in-share-of-indian-carriers-in-international-cargo-business-scindia-101627497529022.html
29-07-2021||India||IT panel meet on Pegasus put off after BJP MPs refuse to take part||The meeting of the standing committee on information technology led by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday to discuss the controversial Pegasus Project had to be called off due a lack of quorum, after Bharatiya Janata Party MPs refused to participate and staged a walk out.“@BJP4India members come to the IT Committee & refuse to sign the attendance register to deny a quorum. Further all the witnesses called from MiEIT & MHA wrote in excuses & didn’t appear as called to testify. It’s very clear that #Pegasus is a no go area for this government,” Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, who is a member of the panel, said.The committee needs at least nine members to be present in order to function. It has 21 members from the Lok Sabha and 10 from the Rajya Sabha, of which nearly half are from the ruling party. BJP leaders walked out of the meeting on Tuesday too. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey said then that participating in the meeting when the House was in session was not correct.Meanwhile, Dubey on Wednesday, moved a privilege motion seeking removal of Tharoor as the head of the panel. Invoking the rule 222 of “Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha” which says that a “member may, with the consent of the Speaker, raise a question involving a breach of privilege either of a member or of the House or of a Committee,” Dubey said, “It is shocking that opposition here doesn’t want Parliament to function. However, they want the same issues to be discussed in the committee (meetings) which the government is ready to discuss in Parliament.”HT reached out to Tharoor for a response but did not get one immediately.The Pegasus row erupted last Sunday before the beginning of the current monsoon session of Parliament after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were potentially targeted by Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software, Pegasus, with a forensic analysis of 10 of the targets proving they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so.The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.On July 19, reports revealed that aside from 38 journalists, former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi, two of his aides, political strategist Prashant Kishor, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and Union minister Prahlad Patel were also allegedly hacked. The list also included 11 members of the friends and family, along with the number of the woman who accused former Chief Justice of India Rajan Gogoi of sexual harassment.Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who defended the government in Parliament, was also named as a potential hacking target.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government denied any involvement. The opposition, however, has called for a probe into the allegations.Dubey said that there has been a breach of privilege of the house as the issue to be discussed in the meeting “was already out in newspapers” which is a violation against the “directions” laid for the meetings.“The Constitution of India, under article 94…. says that we can bring in a privilege motion against him,” he said , adding that there 17 signatories to this motion.Dubey also appealed the speaker that “until there is no decision on the notice given by him” there should be “no meetings of the said committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-panel-meet-on-pegasus-put-off-after-bjp-mps-refuse-to-take-part-101627497289549.html
29-07-2021||India||Chaos in House: Oppn MPs tear placards, blow whistle||At least nine Congress leaders tore placards -- they’d brought in these with protest messages on them -- and threw them in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday and an unidentified lawmaker blew a whistle in the Rajya Sabha as a determined Opposition continued its protests against the Pegasus snooping row and the three farm laws, seeking an adjournment motion to discuss the former in the lower house. The government, however, managed to clear a bill each in the two houses, pushing ahead with its legislative agenda after it became clear that the Opposition was keen on not allowing the house to function.Congress MPs Gurjeet Singh Aujla, TN Prathapan, Manickam Tagore, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Hibi Eden, Jothimani Sennimalai, Saptagiri Ulaka, V Vaithilingam, and the Communist Party of India’s AM Ariff have been identified by the authorities as involved in throwing papers on the Chair of the House. Last week, Trinamool Congress MP Shantanu Sen was suspended from Rajya Sabha for the remainder of the session after he snatched papers from IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and tore it in the House.According to a senior official, “the authorities are yet to decide if these Lok Sabha MPs should also be suspended or not.”Some of the MPs involved previously faced suspension for throwing papers at the Chair in March 2020.The government maintained that it is ready for any debate . Information and Broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur later said, “Government is ready for a discussion. If the Opposition (member) snatches the statement from hands of Minister and tears it, and if they throw pieces of paper on the Speaker and a minister replying in the house, then this is not right for democracy,”A bill to amend the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 was passed by the Rajya Sabha while the Insolvency and Backruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill was cleared in the Lok Sabha in flat six minutes.An Opposition leader claimed that a senior government floor manager told them that as there was no sign of normalcy, the government needed to push two bills a day to meet its legislative agenda for the session.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders jointly submitted an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy in the “presence of the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and/or (Union) Home minister (Amit Shah)”.The motion was submitted after Opposition parties met twice on Tuesday and Wednesday and decided to move it together as part of a united strategy. Representatives of 14 Opposition parties attended the second meeting under Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge’s chairmanship on Wednesday.“Sitting with the entire Opposition is extremely humbling. Amazing experience, wisdom, and insights from everyone present,” Gandhi said.Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress , which could not attend the meeting said his party is with the other Opposition parties.Leaders of 10 Opposition parties earlier met on Tuesday. “...there will be better coordination among all of us as the government does not want to discuss the matter (alleged snooping) at all,’’ said one of the leaders, requesting anonymity.Kharge and Manickam Tagore submitted adjournment motions earlier in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.The Pegasus row erupted on August 18 before the beginning of Parliament’s ongoing monsoon session after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen, and journalists were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software Pegasus. A forensic analysis of phones of 10 of the targets in India proved they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so.Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the Congress can’t even handle its internal troubles, “but is hell-bent on forcing its views on other Opposition parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaos-in-house-oppn-mps-tear-placards-blow-whistle-101627497168925.html
29-07-2021||India||Kerala with lowest exposure to Covid-19: Sero-survey||Kerala has had the lowest exposure to Sars-Cov-2, according to true infection estimates based on serological studies, new data by the Union government showed on Wednesday, with only 44% of the population projected to have been infected till early July compared to nearly 67% across the country as a whole.The results, based on the study of how many people had antibodies in a survey involving nearly 29,000 people, appear to explain Kerala’s current high numbers and suggest the state was able to detect true infections better than any other region. The study was carried out by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The overall sero survey results were released last week by the Union government and suggested two out of every three Indians may have been exposed to the virus. If extrapolated, this would mean roughly 900 million people have been infected by the virus; India’s official Covid-19 count on July 10 (when the survey ended) was 30 million.Including Kerala, the states with the three lowest estimated population exposure were Assam (50%) and Maharashtra (58%). The states with the highest exposure were Madhya Pradesh (79%), Rajasthan (76.2%) and Bihar (75.9%).“(The findings) reinforces my point that case numbers mean very little, without sero-surveys to inform what fraction is being detected. This data fits better the severity of the second wave ,” said Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).He added that this also means the second wave will “run longer for Kerala and Maharashtra because of less steep rise”.To be sure, the fourth round of the sero study also included those who received vaccines. While the data released on Wednesday did not give a split between those with natural exposure and those with vaccine-mediated antibodies, the information released last week suggests the latter category accounts for a very small proportion: Of the 67.6% who had antibodies overall, 62% were not vaccinated, officials said at the time.According to experts, current infection trends and the new data by the Union health ministry offer two important insights: Kerala may have the least amount of under-reporting, and it has the most number of vulnerable people at present.“India was able to detect only 1 in 33 cases as of May 31st as estimated from the 4th ICMR serosurvey -- Bihar: 1/134; UP; 1/100; MP: 1/86. Detection was much better in Kerala (1/6) and Maharashtra 1/12). Unfortunately, the fingers keep pointing to MH & KL. For detecting cases better?” wrote Rijo M John, a heath economist, in a post on Twitter.Having antibodies reduces the chances of being infected almost completely, and experts said last week that it could explain why cases have been falling, although they urged caution, pointing to the nearly 400 million people who remain vulnerable to the virus.Kerala’s outbreak followed a similar trajectory as the nationwide second wave. But since around mid-June, the test positivity rate – a key metric that is often a proxy to estimate the size of an outbreak – levelled out at around the 10-12% from the third week of June. At the same time, this metric fell drastically across the country.Taken together with the serology estimates of the true spread, this also means that the virus spread more gradually within Kerala, helping flatten the curve of infections, while it spread rapidly in other parts of the country, where testing as well as treatment facilities where overwhelmed.A second expert said the study findings were not surprising: “Kerala implemented good Covid-appropriate behaviour and strict lockdown since the first wave. The cases went down in places such as Bihar, UP, and Delhi not because people started following Covid-appropriate behaviour but because a significant proportion was already exposed to the infection. What this means is that the second wave will continue in Kerala for a while and high number of new cases will be reported,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“Delhi saw over 28,000 cases a day despite a sero-positivity of over 50% during April and May. Just imagine how many cases Kerala may see with such a high proportion of people being susceptible,” he added.In the last two weeks, the number of new cases in the state has risen by 28%, which could partly be due to increased testing – over the same duration, the number of daily tests has gone up by an average of 10%, while the positivity rate has risen by 1.8%. It could also be on account of Covid-inappropriate behaviour, with the state government rashly relaxing restrictions on account of the festival of Bakrid.On Wednesday, the state recorded 22,056 new cases ; on average, the state has added roughly 17,000 new cases over the last seven-day period.The health ministry said on Wednesday that the national survey by ICMR “was designed to capture the extent of the spread of Covid infection at the national level” and urged states to conduct their own sero-prevalence studies in consultation with the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-with-lowest-exposure-to-covid19serosurvey-101627496991048.html
29-07-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt tables bill to acquire college||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on Wednesday introduced a bill for the immediate acquisition of a loss-making privately-run medical college in Durg district, a decision hugely criticised by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that has attributed the move to nepotism, not public interest.As he introduced the Chandulal Chandrakar Memorial Medical College (Acquisition) Bill 2021 in the state assembly on Wednesday, health minister Singh Deo said: “The present owners of the college requested the state government to take over the institute in view of their financial difficulties. It is necessary to take over the medical college immediately in the public interest”.The minister said the acquisition will lead to an annual financial burden of about ₹140 crore.“This is not in the public interest”, said senior BJP legislator and former minister Brijmohan Agrawal in his brief statement.The assembly will discuss the legislation on Thursday.The move turned controversial after it emerged that among those on the board of the medical college set up in memory of veteran Congress leader Chandulal Chandrakar is a member of the joint family into which chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s daughter is married.Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal has called the proposed acquisition “sheer deceit and misuse of public funds”. BJP MP Rajyavardhan Rathore said it was furthering the “family’s interest on the pretext of public interest”.To be sure, Bhupesh Baghel has rebutted the allegations on Tuesday, insisting that his only aim was to save the medical college and benefit the state’s students. “By acquiring (it), we will save the time to open a new medical college and we will get 150 doctors every year,” the chief minister said.According to the bill, the government will appoint a special officer to conduct a valuation of all the movable and immovable assets of the college. “..the payable amount considering the inevitability of the acquisition would be double of the actual valuation amount,” section 8 of the bill said.The bill said the state will not pay any other amount for the college or shall not be liable to pay towards any liability incurred before the acquisition. The liabilities of the college prior to vesting in the government shall continue to be the liabilities of its former owners and may be recovered from them by the lenders through normal procedures of law, it said. This would include any outstanding dues of its employees as well.A social worker, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “Considering the need to save a medical college, the move to acquire seems noble but the question of nepotism will arise if the valuation of the properties is done on the higher side and the bill provides double of that amount as payment to previous owners.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-govt-tables-bill-to-acquire-college-101627496929534.html
29-07-2021||India||Buzz over Prashant Kishor’s Congress entry grows||Is the Congress keen to induct election strategist Prashant Kishor into its ranks?And is Kishor, who has spoken of stepping back from his organisation, Indian Political Action Committee, keen to throw in his lot with India’s grand old party?Whispers to the effect have grown louder in Congress circles although neither the party nor Kishor have said anything on the record.Three people familiar with the details of what is happening in the Congress claimed the issue was discussed at a meeting on July 22, chaired by Rahul Gandhi, and attended by key leaders of the Congress Working Committee including AK Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, KC Venugopal, Kamal Nath and Ambika Soni. All three spoke on condition of anonymity.HT learns that a senior leadership role was being considered for Kishor either within the existing party structure or with a possibility of a new role. HT reported on July 15 that Kishor’s ambitious revival plan for the party, which he has presented to the Gandhis, involves the creation of a parliamentary board, new posts, and an overhaul of how the Congress party operates in every district.One of the people added that the July 22 meeting was to gauge how senior Congress leaders felt about Kishor’s suggestions, which were first made to party president Sonia Gandhi just before the onset of the pandemic last year; the second leader said Sonia Gandhi wanted the consultation before the final decision was taken within the next few days.“There is a willingness to adopt the strategies suggested by Kishor and during consultations, a consensus seems to have evolved,’’ added the second person. “We are optimistic about this because Kishor has said that it is not possible to beat the BJP without the Congress. Secondly, he was the one who approached us.’’His reference is to Kishor’s comments made last month in the context of a third front to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party -- buzz on this has increased since the Trinamool Congress’s victory in West Bengal (Kishor was an advisor to the party) and the strategist’s multiple meetings with the nationalist Congress Party’s Sharad Pawar -- Kishor said he didn’t believe that any third or fourth front could defeat Narendra Modi indicating that the Congress was necessary.There was no official comment emerging from the Congress on the meeting. HT contacted Antony who refused to speak on last Thursday’s meeting while the other leaders were not available. Venugopal said: “It was an informal meeting where we have started discussions about assembly polls that are scheduled for 2022.’’Kishor said he had “no idea about the Congress meeting”.On July 15, HT reported on Kishor’s meeting with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi and his possible role in shaping the national party.. One of the proposals made by Kishor is that Rahul Gandhi should head the new Congress parliamentary board. The creation of such a board, which will consider the party’s stand on key issues, was also one of the key demands of the so-called Group of 23, named after the number of senior leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi last year demanding change in how the party worked. In addition to suggestions on changes in the party, Kishor’s plans are also believed to include details on building a possible united front against the BJP, starting with accepting a common opposition candidate in the 2022 Presidential elections (NCP leader Sharad Pawar’s name was mentioned in this context and it is a fact that Kishor has met him thrice in the past month).It still isn’t clear whether the party and the strategist will take the plunge.There are concerns on both fronts.For the Congress, this stems from wariness over Kishor’s style of functioning -- he is believed to value autonomy. For Kishor, it’s the fear of a repeat of 2017 where he worked as a consultant with the alliance between Samajwadi Party and the Congress which ended in disaster.“Prashant Kishor joining the Congress would lead to an important strategist being in the party. Let’s remember that Kishor earlier joined the JDU and it was a bumpy journey. What is critical is how he can reshape the Congress and how the Congress leaders and workers will accept him,’’ said political scientist Sandeep Shastri.In September 2018, Kishor joined the Janata Dal United , with which he worked in the 2015 Bihar polls, as vice-president before exiting in February, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buzz-over-kishor-s-cong-entry-grows-101627496748946.html
29-07-2021||India||No immunity to MLAs, MPs from criminal law: SC rejects Kerala govt plea||Legislators do not have immunity from criminal law for acts of vandalism or destruction of public property inside state assemblies or in parliament, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday, clearing the decks for the prosecution of some of Kerala’s sitting and former MLAs who threw furniture and destroyed computers and microphones during a House proceeding in 2015.It also said that in this case, there is no need for the sanction of the speaker of the assembly to prosecute the legislators.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah underlined that privileges and immunities to the legislators under the Constitution “are not gateways to claim exemptions from the general law of the land, particularly, as in this case, the criminal law which governs the action of every citizen.”It held that any attempt to claim an exemption from the application of criminal law would be betraying the trust impressed on the character of elected representatives as the makers and enactors of the law. “No member of an elected legislature can claim either a privilege or an immunity to stand above the sanctions of the criminal law, which applies equally to all citizens,” said the bench, rejecting a plea by the Kerala government to let it drop the criminal charges against two sitting and four former MLAs.The Kerala government, through senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, sought to protect the six accused, who were MLAs of the Left Democratic Front (the opposition then) at the time of the incident in March 2015, by citing immunity granted to the members of the House under Article 194(1) of the Constitution and their right to protest. Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta appeared for some of the accused as he defended the state government’s decision to withdraw the prosecution. The lawyers asked for setting aside a Kerala high court judgment of March and let off the six accused , KT Jaleel, V Sivankutty, CK Sadasivan, EP Jayarajan, K Ajith and Kunjammadu Master.But the bench rejected their submissions, emphasising that the privileges and immunity given to legislators inside the House was to create an environment in which they could perform their functions and discharge their duties freely and cannot be construed as a mark of status that made legislators stand on an unequal pedestal.“The persons who have been named as the accused in the FIR in the present case held a responsible elected office as MLAs in the Legislative Assembly. In the same manner as any other citizen, they are subject to the boundaries of lawful behaviour set by criminal law. No member of an elected legislature can claim either a privilege or an immunity to stand above the sanctions of the criminal law, which applies equally to all citizens,” said the court.Soon after the apex court’s order, the opposition parties in Kerala stepped up pressure for the resignation of state education minister V Sivankutty, who is one of the six accused.However, the ruling party defended the minister, saying he will face the trial as the apex court did not get into the merit of the case. “It is not the final verdict. All accused will face the trial,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan.It added: “An alleged act of destruction of public property within the House by the members to lodge their protest against the presentation of the budget cannot be regarded as essential for exercising their legislative functions. The actions of the members have trodden past the line of constitutional means, and is thus not covered by the privileges guaranteed under the Constitution.”The court cited previous judgments of the Supreme Court to underscore that privileges to legislators under Articles 105 (for MPs) and 194 would be confined to only such privileges essential for undertaking their legislative functions such as discussions, debates, resolutions and voting.“Acts of destruction of public property are not privileged under the first limb of Article 194(2). Consequently, acts of vandalism cannot be said to be manifestations of the freedom of speech and be termed as ‘proceedings’ of the assembly,” it noted.Shooting down the Kerala government’s argument on protest inside the House being a manifestation of free speech, the court said: “It was not the intention of the drafters of the Constitution to extend the interpretation of ‘freedom of speech’ to include criminal acts by placing them under a veil of protest. Hence, the Constitution only grants the members the freedom of speech that is necessary for their active participation in meaningful deliberation without any fear of prosecution.”Committing acts of destruction of public property, said the bench, could not be equated with either the freedom of speech in the legislature or with forms of protest legitimately available to the members of the opposition.“To allow the prosecution to be withdrawn in the face of these allegations, in respect of which upon investigation a final report has been submitted under Section 173 of the CrPC and cognizance has been taken, would amount to an interference with the normal course of justice for illegitimate reasons. Such an action is clearly extraneous to the vindication of the law to which all organs of the executive are bound,” it held.The bench also highlighted that permitting withdrawal of prosecution would only result in a singular result; that the elected representatives were exempt from the mandate of criminal law and this could not be countenanced as being in aid of the broad ends of public justice.It said that the recognition that there shall be freedom of speech in parliament and the state legislatures were as much a matter of duty and trust as they were of a right inhering in the representatives, who got chosen by the people.The court affirmed the decisions of the judicial magistrate and the Kerala high court in dismissing the plea for withdrawal of prosecution against the six accused, saying the prosecution’s application was based on a “misconception that elected members of the legislature stand above the general application of criminal law.”It has also held that there was no requirement of a sanction by the Speaker of the House for prosecuting the legislators since Kerala had enacted no provisions warranting the prior sanction of the Speaker. The court further said that no immunity could be claimed against the video-recording of the alleged incident since the recording was not published by private TV channels under the authority of the House.After the apex court’s verdict, the accused shall face charges under Sections 425 (mischief), 427 (mischief causing damage to property) and 447 (criminal trespass) of the IPC and under Section 3(1) of the Prevention of Damage of Public Property Act. The maximum punishment under these charges is five years in jail, besides a fine.Senior advocate V Giri said, “With this judgment there is clarity now that members of legislatures will have to face the law for committing criminal acts inside the House. The Court has held that Legislature is a public place and assaulting the Speaker, destroying public property are plain offences, against which no state can withdraw prosecution. MPs and MLAs have other ways to show protest by raising slogans and staging walkout and the judgment makes it clear that any act of vandalism will not go unpunished.”(Ramesh Babu in Thiruvananthapuram contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-immunity-to-mlas-mps-from-criminal-law-sc-rejects-kerala-govt-plea-101627496568922.html
29-07-2021||India||HC raps Twitter over non-compliance with new IT rules||The Delhi high court on Wednesday pulled up micro-blogging site Twitter for appointing a “contingent worker” as its Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and gave it “a last opportunity” to “wholeheartedly” comply with the new Information Technology (IT) Rules.Justice Rekha Palli said that it was “unacceptable” that the social media intermediary has not specified the third-party contractor via whom the services of the CCO and the RGO have been taken. The court also expressed displeasure on the delay of appointment of nodal contact officer (NCO).Under Rule 3 of the IT Rules introduced on February 25, a social media intermediary was required to put in place a three-tier grievance redressal system and appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal contact person and a resident grievance officer by May 25.Twitter, in an affidavit filed on July 13, told the court that it has appointed an Indian resident as the CCO and RGO whose services were taken via a third party contractor. They would perform their functions and duties as per applicable law, it said adding that it would require two weeks to appoint a nodal contact officer (NCO) through a third party.Twitter asked for eight weeks to appoint the CCO, RGO and NCO as a direct employee and on a permanent basis.“I have a problem with the word ‘contingent worker’ because it gives the impression that it is based on some contingency. You are not using interim, but you are using a contingent. It is even worse. We do not know who this third party contractor is. I am not happy with this affidavit anyway,” Justice Palli said.“I don’t know what your company wants to do. If you have to comply, it has to be done whole-heartedly. You have not specified the timeline by which the nodal contact officer will be appointed,” the court said.The judge, while rejecting Twitter’s affidavit, said that it showed “total non compliance with the rules” and gave one week to file their fresh stance on the compliance of the IT Rules.“Last opportunity is given to file a better affidavit clearly setting out the details of the person who is stated to have been appointed as the CCO and RGO. Twitter will also give reasons why NCO was not appointed till now and by when could he be appointed,” the court noted in its order.“Twitter continues to make every effort to comply with the new IT Rules 2021. We are committed to keeping the honourable court and the Government of India apprised of the progress at every step of the process,”Twitter said in a statement.The case deals with a plea by a lawyer Amit Acharya, who through his counsel Akash Vajpai, contended that Information Technology Rules came into effect from February 25 and Union government gave three months to every social media intermediary, including Twitter, to comply with them.However, even after the lapse of three-month period on May 25, no resident grievance officer was appointed by Twitter to deal with complaints regarding tweets on its platform, due which, he could not take action against two alleged offensive tweets by TMC MP Mohua Moitra and journalist Swati Chaturvedi, Acharya contended through a petition filed on May 28.Twitter responded saying that the tweets in question were not offensive according to its policies.In an affidavit on May 31, Twitter claimed it had already appointed a RGO on May 28. Subsequently, on July 6, the court pulled up Twitter for not informing it that this appointment was on an interim basis, and not sharing information that the person resigned shortly after the appointment. Twitter was given time till July 8 to inform the court on the status of the appointments. And then, on July 8, it was given time till July 13 to file a copy of an affidavit on the appointments. The court also asked the person appointed as the resident grievance officer as well as the chief compliance officer, Vinay Prakash to file his own affidavit, also by July 13.Both of those came up for discussion on Wednesday.“The word ‘interim’ had been employed earlier to denote that the three roles, as of now, are or were not being filled by employees, but by contingent or other workers, and that Respondent No. 2 (Twitter) is endeavoring to make offers of employment for all the three roles. This having been clarified, the word ‘interim’ will not be used anymore,” Twitter said in its July 13 affidavit.On Wednesday, senior advocate Sajjan Poovaya, appearing for the social media intermediary, told the court that on July 27, they have verbally appointed a nodal contact officer but formal paperwork and announcement are yet to be done.However, the court said that mere appointment of the officers as “contingent workers” is “not acceptable”.“This is not in compliance that you have appointed a contingent worker. When you file something, it should be completely clear....This is not acceptable. I will have the matter after one week or 10 days. I am giving you a long rope but please don’t expect the court to go on and on,” the court said.It also said that there should be “seriousness” with the post of the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) who under Rule 4 (1) (a) of the IT Rules, 2021 holds a key managerial personnel or a senior employee.“You have appointed Mr Vinay Prakash who is 31 years old. He (in his affidavit) in fact is very categoric that ‘I am not an employee and have been engaged as a contingent worker’. So, this in itself is in the teeth of the rule,” the court said.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, said that there has been an “absolute abject non-compliance” of the IT Rules on part of Twitter. He said that the nodal contact person has yet not been appointed and “we are hunting for that man”.“It has been months since they were to comply. The Union and everybody is before a constitutional court but they cannot have it so easy. Either they comply wholeheartedly or they say ‘we are not complying’,” Sharma said, adding that the company earned $7 million dollars in 2019 from India.The counsel for the petitioner raised objections on the appointments and said that one person cannot hold more than one position as different officers would have different functions.Twitter, through its lawyer, sought time to address the issues raised by the court following which the matter was posted for hearing on August 6.Centre and Twitter have been locking horns over the compliance of the IT Rules. Twitter had said it was committed to India as a vital market, but criticised the new IT rules and regulations that it said, “inhibit free, open public conversation”.Responding to Twitter’s comments, the Centre had said the messaging platform was levelling baseless and false allegations to defame India and dictating terms to the world’s largest democracy. The Centre has said that only WhatsApp and Facebook have complied with the guidelines of appointing three separate officers for the grievance redressal.The ministry has asserted that the social media firm has failed to comply with the guidelines, which can result in it losing the safe harbor protection granted to intermediaries under the IT Act.Twitter, in turn, has raised concerns about the safety of its employees in India and flagged intimidation by the police. There have been several instances of confrontation between the social media firm and the government over orders to block access to content and marking of posts by BJP leaders as manipulated media.On July 22, the union government had informed the Rajya Sabha that even though Twitter was non-compliant of the IT Rules till May 26, it had subsequently appointed an RGO and CCO and submitted its first compliance report in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-raps-twitter-over-non-compliance-with-new-it-rules-101627496509551.html
29-07-2021||India||CM Mamata stresses on Oppn unity for ’24 polls||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday repeatedly emphasised on forging a broader pact among Opposition parties for the 2024 national elections, throwing her weight and political capital behind an ambitious project of bringing together different forces opposed to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“When (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi will fight his next election, it will be an India vs Modi battle,” she declared.Banerjee met Congress president Sonia Gandhi at the latter’s residence and the two leaders, accompanied by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, discussed the possibilities of different parties coming together to take on the mighty BJP. Later, she met Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Describing the 45-minute-long meeting with Sonia Gandhi as “positive”, Banerjee said, “Soniaji had invited me for a cup of tea. We discussed the political situation in the country. We also discussed the issue of opposition unity.”Banerjee, who came to Delhi on July 26, has been meeting a series of Opposition leaders. She made it clear that the aim was to secure more space for regional parties and sounded hopeful that parties averse to the Congress can join this ambitious pact.“I maintain good relationship with Jagan Mohan Reddy, Navin Patnaik and Arvind Kejriwal. If not today, they can always come (with us) tomorrow. If there is a political storm, it is difficult to contain,” she said.She also set aside speculations of any leadership position for her in this possible dispensation. Describing her as a LIP (less important person), Banerjee announced her popular poll slogan “Khela Hobe” (game on) will continue and even coined “Hope 24”, as if the countdown for the next polls has already started.She maintained that the leadership issue will depend on situation, structure and system. “It is not that everybody can take the lead. We can work together,” Banerjee quipped.She even kept the door open for her erstwhile arch-rival, Communist Party of India (Marxist). “CPI(M) has its own problems. They have to decide who is their first enemy, is it BJP or Trinamool,” she said“Look how popular Modi was when he came to power in 2014. But now people are angry with him. People saw dead bodies floating in the river, will they still support him?” she said, referring to reports during the second Covid-19 wave of dead bodies floating in the Ganga in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.“Wealth wise, BJP is very strong. But opposition will also be very strong politically. If all regional parties come together, it will be stronger than one party rule,” the West Bengal CM added.Banerjee has already met senior Congress leaders such as Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma, Abhishek Singhvi, and had a telephonic conversation with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad Yadav. She is expected to meet Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday,The Bengal CM, who defeated the BJP in assembly elections in May, lashed out at the Modi government for not responding to questions raised by Opposition over allegations that politicians, activists and journalists were potentially targeted by Pegasus spyware.“The government can order an enquiry by a sitting judge. If you raise an issue, they don’t care. In democracy, you have to respond to what others say. Why is government not taking suo motu action in Pegasus controversy? In every other matter, they immediately send CBI [Central Bureau of Investigation] or ED [Enforcement Directorate]. All institutions are full of BJP’s own people. They give reports based on what the BJP party offices say,” she said.On July 26, the West Bengal government announced a probe into the Pegasus row, becoming the first state to do so. Former Supreme court judge, justice (retd) Madan Lokur and former Calcutta high court chief justice, justice (retd) Jyotirmay Bhattacharya comprise the probe panel.Indian polity has seen several non-BJP, non-Congress formations gain power at the Centre, especially in the heyday of coalition politics in the 90s, but in recent years, such third front formations have been short-lived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-mamata-stresses-on-oppn-unity-for-24-polls-101627496510216.html
29-07-2021||India||16 dead after rain fury lashes hills||Gushing torrents of water triggered by torrential showers in the hills of northern India flattened villages, washed away roads and cut off remote villages on Wednesday, killing at least 16 people with 30 others either injured or missing.Authorities reported two separate cloudburst incidents – when one station receives 10cm or more of rainfall in an hour -- in J&K’s Kishtwar district on Wednesday morning and Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti on Tuesday night.Flash floods were reported from three states-- Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and J&K -- with experts linking the devastating downpours to climate change. Heavy rainfall across north India threw life off gear, inundating cities, marooning crop fields and even damaging a power plant in Kargil.“Central government is closely monitoring the situation in the wake of the cloudbursts in Kishtwar and Kargil. All possible assistance is being made available in the affected areas. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to senior officials and said teams from the National Disaster Response Force were on the spot. “Our priority is saving lives,” he said.JAMMU AND KASHMIR Around 4am on Wednesday, a torrent of water gushed downstream and caught around 100 residents of Honzar village in Kishtwar district unaware. Many of them were still sleeping when the water marooned their village and swept their homes into the stream.Additional director general of police Mukesh Singh said seven people died and 17 were rescued. “Six were critically injured and shifted to Kishtwar district hospital,” he said. At least 26 people were still missing.Singh said the deluge damaged 19 houses and 21 cowsheds. “Army is assisting local police is the rescue operations,” he said.A separate cloudburst later in the day triggered flash floods near the Amarnath shrine. No loss of life was reported.HIMACHAL PRADESH Nine people died and seven reported missing in two separate flash floods in Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti districts, officials of the state disaster management authority said.A cloudburst flooded Tozing Nullah and washed away two tents of labourers and a JCB machine in Lahaul and Spiti district on Tuesday evening, said deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar. Eight people were killed.State disaster management director Sudesh Mokhta said a landslide near Kirting village of Lahaul sub-division blocked state highway number 26, leaving 50 vehicles stranded. Another landslide occurred on the highway at Hawai Mod near Kukumseri village. Landslides also block the Leh-Manali highway.In Chamba, a JCB helper was killed in flash floods. Five others were missing. In Kullu, a 25-year-old woman and her four-year-old son were swept away by gushing river waters.In two simultaneous cloudbursts on Tuesday evening, a mini power plant was badly damaged in Kargil area of the union territory of Ladakh.UTTARAKHAND Heavy rainfall led to several landslides and traffic snags across the state. In Almora district, a home guard jawan was swept away by an overflowing water stream on Wednesday morning. Low-lying parts of state capital Dehradun were inundated.Tourists were also stopped from going to the popular tourist spot of Kempty Falls near Mussoorie.The Dehradun centre of the India Meteorological Department said the state on Wednesday witnessed “moderate rainfall with heavy to very heavy rainfall” and the monsoon is expected to remain active over the state for next few days. “The rainfall in state is above normal in July with excess rain in June,” said Bikram Singh, director of IMD Dehradun centre said.Heavy showers were recorded in the national capital region, Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and bihar. The IMD predicted heavy rainfall across northern India and several areas of Madhya Maharashtra, Kokan and Goa for the next two days.July had witnessed several incidents of cloudburst and mini-cloudburst, where 50mm to 60mm rainfall takes places in a short duration. Both lead to sudden spurt of water in catchment areas of monsoon streams leading to massive landslides and movement of boulders in fast flowing water. Last Sunday, heavy rainfall and landslides killed nine tourists in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district.The data collected by governments in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand show a gradual increase in cloudburst incidents, which officials in the two states attribute to devastation of hilly forests for development and horticulture, apart from the impact of climate change on rainfall patterns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-dead-after-rain-fury-lashes-hills-101627496448952.html
29-07-2021||India||Sharp rise in cloudbursts due to climate crisis, say experts||At least seven people died and many more were reported missing on Wednesday after a cloudburst caused flash floods in Jammu’s Kishtwar district. Nine people died and seven reported missing in two separate flash floods in Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti districts of Himachal Pradesh, officials of the state disaster management authority said on Wednesday. Last week, several parts of Konkan reported what scientists termed mini-cloudbursts leading to flooding of rivers, damage to infrastructure and the death of at least 100 people. And at least 10 cars were washed away when a flash flood triggered by a suspected cloudburst swept through Bhagsunag locality near McLeodganj in Himachal Pradesh on July 12.This monsoon has seen a spate of cloudbursts and mini cloudbursts over the Western Himalayas and the west coast revealing the deadly, unpredictable face of monsoon rains. There has been a sharp increase in cloudburst incidents in the past few years according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), although the agency has not conducted an analysis of cloudburst incidents specifically but observed trends from media reports and data on heavy and extremely heavy rainfall events that it documents.A cloudburst is when 10 cm or more rainfall is recorded at one station in one hour according to IMD. “When moisture availability is very high large deep clouds develop and the droplets, they form can be both big and very high in number. Cloud efficiency can go up in many cases leading to cloudburst incidents,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.He added that it was likely their numbers were increasing. “We know that incidence of heavy rainfall events is going up, and along with that cloudburst numbers are also likely to be increasing as an impact of climate change.”It is very difficult to predict a cloudburst because of its very small scale in space and time. To even nowcast such events, experts said, IMD may require a very dense radar network in cloudburst prone areas such as the Western Himalayas. Nowcasts are predictions of the present or the very near future.“IMD has about 150 weather stations from where hourly rain data can be accessed. But all regions are not covered. IMD has no specific analysis on cloudbursts. Overall higher water vapour availability due to climate change may have led to a rise in cloudbursts,” Rajeevan explained.There has been a rise in short span high intensity rain occurrences (mini cloud bursts) along the west coast of India and along the foothills of Western Himalayas between 1969 and 2015 according to “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region,” a report by the union ministry of earth sciences published last year.Scientists have also said even if heavy rainfall events don’t meet the exact criteria defined, but cause extensive damage such as flash floods and landslides in high altitude areas, they should also be considered cloudburst events. A paper authored by including those from scientists at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology titled ‘Statistical characteristics of cloud burst and mini-cloud burst events during monsoon season in India’ published in International Journal of Climatology categorised cloudbursts in to three categories.The first, CBa events are associated with heavy rainfall in the mountainous regions of Himalayas identified based on flash floods and damage to properties and human losses, irrespective of the rainfall amount.The second, CBb events are associated with rainfall in excess of 10 cm per hour as per the definition of IMD.The third, are mini-cloudbursts (MCBs), where the rainfall in two consecutive rain-hours is 5 cm or more. MCBs typically occur in June over the Western Ghats;and in July and August over central India and the foothills of Himalayas. Trend analyses indicate significant increase in these events at many places, except over northeast India, the paper said.“We know that these incidents both in plains and hills are being reported frequently. This year they have been reported in Mumbai and Konkan region. In 2019 also there were several cloudburst incidents. Since they cannot be predicted people need to be better prepared during monsoon months. In 2005 Santacruz in Mumbai reported 38 cm rain in 3 hours. It was clearly a CB led flooding. Something similar had happened in 2013 in Uttarakhand also. They have a potential for extensive damage of life and property,” said a co-author of the IITM paper who asked not to be named.“Cloudburst events were not common in Kerala though Kerala records monsoon days with moderate continuous kind of rain spanning through the day. But in recent years we are seeing some changes in cloud structure. We did an assessment of 2018 and 2019 floods in Kerala. While the 2018 floods saw more continuous kind of rain, during 2019 we saw very deep clouds up to 12 to 14 km which is not common here. When such clouds form after a long dry spell over a region, they bring an extremely intense downpour in a few hours. They probably develop because the thermal potential is very high but they can cause very severe damage in Kerala and the Konkan region,” explained S Abhilash, director, Advanced Centre for Academic Radar Research (ACARR) at Cochin University of Science and Technology.Mumbai’s Santacruz and Colaba recorded extremely heavy rainfall, 23.4 cm and 19.68 cm rain on July 17 and 18 in the span of five to six hours triggering urban flooding and devastation.“We need a dense rain gauge network and hourly rain data to document all cloud burst and mini cloudburst events. We know from media reports that this year the number of such events may be higher than usual, but the exact figure is not there. Several such events have occurred this year in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre of IMD.While cloudburst incidents are less likely to be captured in IMD’s grided dataset, this data does show an increase in heavy and extreme rainfall events. Rainfall of 35.5 mm to 244.5 mm in a 24-hour period in a grid (box bound by two latitudes and longitudes 0.25 degrees apart) is classified as heavy, while that above 244.5 mm is classified as extreme. Average heavy and extreme rainfall during the June-September monsoon season was 376.5 mm in the 2011-2020 decade, compared to 363.4 mm in the long period average or the average of such rainfall in the 1961-2010 period. This amounts to a 3.63% increase. In comparison rainfall of lesser intensity than heavy or extreme rain has increased only 0.35% compared to the LPA. A district-wise analysis shows that heavy and extreme rainfall has increased more in the peninsular and north-western regions of the country.(Abhishek Jha contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-rise-in-cloudbursts-due-to-climate-crisis-say-experts-101627496388896.html
29-07-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram to pull back forces; CRPF to guard stretch||Assam and Mizoram, which clashed over a border dispute on July 26, will withdraw their police forces and central paramilitary troops will be deployed in the four-km disputed stretch, which will function as a sort of no man’s land, till a permanent solution is found, according to an interim agreement reached by both states during talks held in Delhi.The decision was taken at a meeting called by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Wednesday to mediate between the sparring states, people familiar with the development said.The police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle in southern Assam on July 26, in which six Assam policemen and a civilian died. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on Assam’s forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claims the land belongs to it.Wednesday’s meeting was attended by Assam chief secretary Jishnu Baruah and director-general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta and their Mizoram counterparts Lalnunmawia Chuaungo and SBK Singh, apart from the director-general of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Kuldiep Singh.The four-km stretch on which central forces will be deployed runs between Vairengte on the Mizoram side and Lailapur in south Assam, along National Highway 306.Both states decided to withdraw their police personnel from the stretch and “agreed to continue discussions mutually to resolve the border issue in an amicable manner”, an MHA officer said.Barua told reporters after the meeting that “paramilitary forces will take overVairengte border. The process of withdrawal of state police is being worked out”.Mizoram officials, in the meeting, admitted to opening fire on Assam policemen and “offered their condolences”, but insisted Assam police breached the borders, according to a second official aware of the development.Chuanungo said the situation was currently peaceful at the border. “We will try to maintain peace. There is no point indulging in violence. (Our) forces are being withdrawn from the area”.MHA officials said they would continue to facilitate talks and monitor the ground situation.The CRPF already has five companies (around 500 personnel) deployed there while two more companies are on standby. This will be a rare instance where it functions as a border force; it will also be a rare instance where a patch of no man’s land has been created, albeit temporarily, within the country.Assam and Mizoram were talking through their chief secretaries in a Centre-chaperoned dialogue process to douse interstate border tensions before police forces of the two northeastern states fatally clashed on July 26, shocking the country.One round of talks in the national capital was held on July 8, a third official aware of the development said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, too, told the media on Tuesday, while putting out his version of the dispute, that the talks failed at the final stage of a proposed memorandum of understanding.The official cited above said the talks between the two sides were focussed on some kind of “status quo ante”, which refers to a return to earlier positions. The process failed because differences persisted over what should be the point of the status quo ante, the person said.Assam proposed a satellite-based mapping of the disputed interstate border, a proposal that found its way into a draft memorandum of understanding, while Mizoram proposed chief secretary-level talks monitored by the Centre.“My proposal to him (Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga) was that we will carry out satellite photography of the borders. In the talks, Assam said that whatever is the status quo situation, be that on May 10 or six months ago or as on date, we should maintain status quo on the border as determined through satellite mapping,” Sarma said in one of his several media briefings on Tuesday.The border dispute has its roots in how Assam was carved up to form other states in the region. Mizoram, which became a state 1987, was once part of Assam. Specifically, the contested area is claimed by Mizoram on the basis of a 1875 demarcation by the British, while Assam claims it on the basis of a 1933 one, also by the British.In his version of the events, Assam chief minister Sarma said the draft memorandum of understanding would have gone through had Mizoram agreed to sign off on it.The Mizoram government has claimed that Assam has blocked National Highway 306 and other roads connecting the state with other parts of the country to cut off supplies.In a letter to union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Wednesday, Mizoram also accused “unknown miscreants” from Assam of destroying railway tracks and lines at Mohammedpur and Ramnathpur railway stations in Hailakandi district of Assam, due to which only railway line connecting Bairabi railway station in Mizoram has been blocked.“Assam has been indulging in the practice of imposing economic blockade merely because of the fact that main supply routes i.e. national highway and railways are passing through the state,” the letter, written by Mizoram’s home department Secretary Lalbiaksangi, stated.It sought Centre’s intervention in immediate removal of blockade by Assam as it was “affecting the livelihood of the people of Mizoram adversely”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-to-pull-back-forces-crpf-to-guard-stretch-101627495968856.html
29-07-2021||India||Shilpa Shetty and Raj Kundra charged with ₹3 lakh penalty by SEBI: Report||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has imposed a penalty of ₹3 lakh on Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, her husband and businessman Raj Kundra, and his company Viaan Industries for flouting its Insider Trading rules, news agency ANI reported.Kundra, Shetty and Viaan Industries have been slapped with the fine for a three-year delay in the revelation of an allocation of preferential shares, Moneycontrol reported.Viaan Industries had made a preferential allocation of 500,000 equity shares in 2015, of which, 128,800 were allocated to Kundra and Shetty – the company’s promoters. As per SEBI’s Prohibition of Insider Trading Rules, 2015, the husband-wife duo had to reveal this transaction to the company within two days in case it surpassed ₹10 lakh value. The SEBI stated that the disclosures associated with the 2015 transaction were made only in 2019 despite the value exceeding ₹2.5 crore each, according to the Moneycontrol report.This comes amid Mumbai Esplanade court refusing to grant bail to Kundra, who was remanded to police custody for 14 days till July 27 on Tuesday, in connection to alleged creation of pornographic films. He was apprehended on July 19 along with 10 others on charges related to the matter that is being probed by Mumbai Police Crime Branch.Also Read | Raj Kundra's bail plea rejected by Esplanade Court; 'Is he a terrorist,' asks lawyerThe 45-year-old businessman has been charged with cheating and for indecent and obscene advertisements under the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He has also been charged with robbery in the FIR lodged against him.Meanwhile, in their remand application, Mumbai Police has claimed that Kundra earned nearly ₹1.17 crore from subscribers of his HotShots app on Apple’s App store from August to December of last year. Although the app has been taken down by both Apple and Google Play Store, police are yet to procure details regarding Kundra’s earnings from HotShot’s subscribers on Play Store.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shilpa-shetty-and-raj-kundra-charged-with-rs-3-lakh-penalty-by-sebi-report-101627490813126.html
29-07-2021||India||Chandrayaan-3 launch likely in third quarter of 2022: Govt||India is likely to launch its third lunar mission Chandrayaan-3 in the third quarter of next year because the Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the fabrication of the spacecraft, Union minister of state for the department of space Jitendra Singh told Parliament in a written response (CHECK). The tentative schedule is based on the assumption that work will proceed apace and normally henceforth, Singh added.Chandrayaan-3 was planned to demonstrate India’s capability of soft landing on a celestial body, with the rover then communicating with Earth via the existing orbiter from Chandrayaan-2. The orbiter has an estimated lifespan of seven years. The third mission was announced months after the Vikram lander aboard Chandrayaan-2 crash-landed on the lunar surface just 2.1 km from its destination in September 2019. Chandrayaan- 3 was initially scheduled for late 2020 or early 2021, but the disruption caused by the pandemic affected the schedule.“The realisation of Chandrayaan-3 involves various processes, including finalisation of configuration, subsystem realisation (manufacturing), integration, spacecraft-level detailed testing and a number of special tests to evaluate the systems performance on Earth. The realisation process was hampered due to Covid-19 pandemic,” Singh said in his response. On Monday, Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) chief K Sivan told news agency PTI that the first uncrewed mission planned for December as part of the human space flight programme Gaganyaan would be delayed because of Covid-19, which had caused a disruption in the delivery of key components. Before the second wave of the pandemic in April-May, Isro finished manufacturing the propulsion system for Chandrayaan -3 and started tests on it. The lander and propulsion systems were being integrated and several tests were planned for the middle of the year. A successful moon landing would have made India the fourth country in the world to land a rocket on the moon after the US, the erstwhile USSR, and China, and the first to have landed close to the lunar South Pole.“There were several big-ticket missions planned for 2020 and 2021; many commercial missions too. Now all the missions are getting pushed and it will have an impact on the image of India’s space mission internationally. We haven’t been able to successfully create a bio-bubble like China and US that have been carrying out missions through the pandemic,” said Ajay Lele, senior fellow working on space security and strategic technologies at Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses. “As for the commercial launches like the maiden flight of the small satellite launch vehicle, many customers have already booked slots for their satellites but if the missions keep on getting delayed, they might move towards other launch providers. As for the scientific missions, the delay there can cost us valuable observations. There was a gap of eleven years between the first and the second lunar mission; meaning we have to wait that long to reconfirm findings from previous mission. We have already missed three launch windows for a follow-up Mars mission and we will miss the next one in 2022 as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrayaan3-to-be-launched-in-third-quarter-of-2022govt-101627458750281.html
