30-07-2021||India||Borgohain seals medal,‘now gunning for gold’||Lovlina Borgohain let out a scream so loud it cut through the empty Kokugikan Arena, and hung there for a while, ricocheting off the high-domed ceiling of the revered home of Sumo wrestling.She had just assured India of a second medal at the Olympics -- after weightlifter Mirabai Chanu’s silver on the first day -- beating an opponent she had lost to three times in three matches before this one, to move into the semi-finals of the 69kg (welterweight) in women’s boxing. Both losing semi-finalists get bronze medals in Olympic boxing, but Borgohain has the chance to do something no other Indian boxer has done in an Olympic ring — fight in the final. And she said after the bout that she was gunning for history.“I would talk about my journey, but not today. I have the gold to win,” Borgohain said. “There is only one medal and that is gold, that is what we compete for.”There was more to cheer on Friday as PV Sindhu pulled off a clinical straight-games quarter-final win over her long-time rival Akane Yamaguchi of Japan to take a step closer to a medal.The success of these women fits with an important gender shift in the country’s sporting culture. Sakshi Malik (bronze) and Sindhu (silver) were India’s only medallists at Rio 2016, and Dipa Karmakar’s brave finish just off the podium in gymnastics was the other major highlight.Borgohain, 23, did just enough in her Olympic debut bout on Tuesday for a split decision, but in the quarter-final against Chen Nien-chin from Chinese Taipei, the 2018 world champion was in control for the full three rounds. The lanky boxer from Assam controlled the range with her stiff jab and some nimble footwork. When Chen did find a way in, she was met with a solid left hook to the head. But Borgohain’s best was yet to come. In Round 2, Chen, having lost the first, grew more and more desperate with Borgohain’s control of the ring. Her attacks became more reckless and Borgohain, unfazed and perfectly poised, took full advantage. The round went unanimously in Borgohain’s favour. Between the rounds, coach Raffaele Bergamasco, furiously fanning her with a towel, said: “The whole of India and Assam are watching. You have the opportunity to create history.” In Round 3, still dictating the movement in the ring, still using her quick jab and hook combination, Borgohain did just that. After Vijender Singh’s in 2008 and Mary Kom’s in 2012, India will have another Olympic boxing medal. “I have been working hard for eight years, so I thought I will have to show that hard work. I just wanted to be aggressive from the start,” said Borgohain, sporting a traditional gamosa around her neck after the fight. Borgohain’s path to Tokyo has been hard. Last year, after almost seven months without training or competition because of the pandemic, she tested positive for Covid-19 on the day the Indian boxing squad flew out to Italy for a prolonged training and competition trip in October. Left behind in New Delhi, Borgohain had to be hospitalised for a few days. “She has been very strong mentally. We had to work on her strength and conditioning after Covid and it took a couple of months. She was very dedicated,” said Bergamasco. In December and January, while the rest of the elite women boxers trained as a team, Borgohain worked on her fitness at the Inspire Institute of Sports in Ballari, Karnataka. By the end of January she felt ready to get back into the ring, but there was bad news from home—both her mother’s kidneys were failing. In February, Borgohain made a two-day trip to Kolkata to be with her mother, who was undergoing a kidney transplant there. In her first tournament after this period of chaos, the Boxam International invitational in Spain, she lost in the very first round. By May, the two-time world championship bronze medallist was back in the flow, winning a bronze in the Asian Championships in Doha.Borgohain comes from Baromukhia, a village near Assam’s border with Nagaland. Her father owns a small tea plantation and she has two older sisters, Lima and Licha, (one is in the CISF the other with the BSF). Growing up, Borgohain was fascinated by Lima and Licha training in Muay Thai. When she was old enough, Borgohain started training in the martial art too. In 2012, Sports Authority of India boxing coach Padum Boro was scouting for new recruits because he did not have enough boxers to represent Assam in the upcoming sub-junior nationals. He saw Borgohain in action in her school. Impressed by her height and her skills, Boro convinced her to join the SAI boxing programme in Guwahati. “I was told by the coach, just don’t use the kick, and throw as many punches as possible,” Borgohain had told HT in an earlier interview. She went on to win gold in the nationals with just a few months of training.In her Olympic semi-final on August 4, Borgohain will run into world champion Busenaz Surmeneli, who she has never fought before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/borgohain-seals-medal-now-gunning-for-gold-101627669751361.html
30-07-2021||India||HC refuses to gag media on Shilpa Shetty’s plea but also upholds right to privacy||Mumbai The line between freedom of press and the right to privacy will have to be balanced, the Bombay high court said on Friday, refusing to pass a blanket media gag order on a defamation petition by actor Shilpa Shetty, whose husband Raj Kundra is in judicial custody in a case related to alleged production and streaming of pornographic content on online apps. Justice Gautam Patel was hearing a ₹25-crore defamation suit filed by Shetty against media personnel and media houses. Shetty sought to restrain the media from publishing any ”incorrect, false, malicious and defamatory” content against her and her family in connection with the July 19 arrest of her husband for allegedly producing and streaming pornographic content on apps. Kundra, 45 is currently in judicial custody.“I believe some of the issues this suit raises will amount to scrutiny because it is not possible to say at this stage that all statements of all defendants are defamatory in nature,” justice Gautam S Patel said. “There is a judicial limit on what is good or bad journalism as this comes very close to freedom of press...the line between freedom of press & right to privacy will have to be balanced”.,” he added.Senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf and Dr Abhinav Chandrachud appeared for Shetty and argued that videos uploaded by some publishers were, per se, defamatory.The bench asked them to point out specific instances of individuals uploading defamatory content for ‘salacious’ purpose or mischief. Saraf drew the attention of the bench to the fact that Google, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram had not taken down the content uploaded by individuals and publications, though they were defamatory.But the judge didn’t agree.  “Your (Shetty’s) case that Google, YouTube, Twitter etc. shall exercise control over editorial content is dangerous. The plaint is like if you (media) are not going to say nice things about me, do not say anything at all. You choose a life in the public eye, your life will come under the microscope. What you are asking me to do can have a chilling effect on freedom of press,” he said. Justice Patel ordered the removal of three videos uploaded on YouTube, which referred to Shetty’s moral standing and the quality of her parenting. The court found that they were “malicious and with not even a slightest attempt to investigate into the truth of the matter”.“That part is protected by her right of privacy under the wide protection recognised by the freedom of press to be balanced with right of privacy. It is possible that freedom of speech may have to be narrowly tailored. But it is not possible to ignore the constitutional pinning of privacy nor to say that if a person is a public figure, that person is deemed to have sacrificed his right to privacy,” the bench said.But justice Patel noted that some other articles mentioned in the suit did not seem to be defamatory. “It cannot be like if you (media) are not going to write or say anything nice about me (Shetty) then do not say anything at all. How can this be?” the judge asked.“The material here seems to be prima facie drawn from an understanding of what investigating teams have said or indicated. The report is not of Shetty’s guilt or innocence, but of what an investigative agency suspects. I am not inclined to pass an order on this,” he said.He added that no part of the order should be construed as a gag on the media. “I am making no order, but this is not refusal of interim or ad interim relief.”The HC directed all defendants in the suit to file their affidavits and posted the matter for further hearing on September 20. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-to-gag-media-on-shilpa-shetty-s-plea-but-also-upholds-right-to-privacy-101627668492142.html
30-07-2021||India||'Don't prescribe home quarantine': Tamil Nadu's new measure to check Covid spike||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday asked officials and doctors to get Covid-19 patients admitted to hospitals instead of home quarantining them in a bid to identify the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state.State health minister Ma Subramanian said the health department took steps to identify the exact reasons behind the surge in new cases. “On July 28, the state reported 1,756 new cases, but yesterday it increased to 1,859. That is 103 new cases have been added. The state has been witnessing a declining trend in new infections for more than a month and this is the first time it has gone up,” he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Subramanian highlighted that Chennai, Kanyakumari, Coimbatore, Erode and Cuddalore have recorded a surge in new cases. He said that the chief minister MK Stalin enquired about the reasons that could have led to the rise in new infections. He also said that officials have been advised to admit a Covid-19 positive patient to the hospital instead of prescribing home quarantine and monitor those who have come in contact with the patient.Subramanian opined that one of the possible reasons behind the sharp rise in Kerala could be due to patients preferring to be in home quarantine. Kerala recorded more than 20,000 cases for the fourth consecutive day on Friday with the test positivity rate rising to 13.61%. The state also reported 116 deaths. The Tamil Nadu government is also monitoring those who arrive from Kerala by screening people on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. “We continuously screen people who arrive from Kerala via Coimbatore or Kanyakumari. Recently, in Coimbatore, health department officials screened people in at least 13 locations bordering Kerala,” Subramanian said.He also said that citizens not adhering to Covid-19 preventative measures were also behind the sudden rise in new infections. “Our continuous appeal to the public is to wear masks, wash hands regularly and maintain social distancing norms. Still, people do not follow it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-prescribe-home-quarantine-tamil-nadu-s-new-measure-to-check-covid-spike-101627666221884.html
30-07-2021||India||Hospital orders probe after video shows ants on paralysed Covid patient’s face||A probe has been launched on Friday by the administration of a Vadodara hospital in Gujarat after a recent video showing ants crawling on the face of a paralysed Covid-19 patient in the medical facility’s ICU ward surfaced on social media platforms.The five-minute video clip that was shot by the patient’s relative shows a woman in her 50s lying on an ICU bed of Sir Sayajirao General (SSG) Hospital in Vadodara. When the relative asks the patient if she wants something, she only shakes her head to answer. At this point, he notices ants coming out from the corner of the patient’s swollen mouth. The video then shows the relative complaining to the nurse, who informs him that due care of the patient was taken by on-duty staff, and that her mouth was also cleaned the preceding night.The video of the incident that took place in the state government-run SSG Hospital was shot by the relative a few days before.The hospital’s medical superintendent, Dr Ranjan Aiyer, has ordered the inquiry into the matter and assured of action if any lapse in part of the medical facility’s staff comes to light.“All the staff have been given strict instructions to maintain high standards of hygiene and also remain alert in attending patients,” he said, adding that spillage of food from the feeding tube “might have attracted the ants".This development comes after the hospital authorities initially reportedly denied the allegations.Before the inquiry order was issued by Dr Aiyer, the administrative nodal officer of the hospital, Dr Osman Belin, dismissed the video, citing that only one ant was found on the patient’s face. Dr Belin further stated that edema (a medical condition that causes swelling of body parts) that was visible in the Covid-19 patient’s face is not a result of ant bites but heavy medications, The Indian Express reported.Meanwhile, Gujarat on Thursday recorded 27 fresh Covid-19 cases and no fatality – for the 11th successive day, while 33 patients recovered from the virus, the state health department data showed. Following this, the cumulative tally of the state reached 824,829 and the overall recoveries stood at 814,485, the data revealed.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospital-orders-probe-after-video-shows-ants-on-paralysed-covid-patient-s-face-101627666062435.html
30-07-2021||India||Centre introduces guidelines to provide framework for sharing biological data||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Friday released a set of guidelines in a bid to bring about a well-defined framework and guiding principle to help in sharing of biological information and data generated by research groups across the nation.“The Biotech-PRIDE (Promotion of Research and Innovation through Data Exchange) Guidelines will facilitate this and enable exchange of information to promote research and innovation in different research groups across the country,” a statement said. The Union minister also launched the website of the Indian Biological Data Centre (IBDC).The aim behind the guidelines is to provide a framework for sharing and exchanging biological knowledge, information and data. “It will be applicable to high-throughput, high-volume data generated by research groups across the country. These guidelines do not deal with generation of biological data but are a mechanism to share and exchange information and knowledge generated according to existing laws, rules, regulations and norms of the country,” the statement said.The new framework will also ensure in avoiding duplication and ensuring better decision-making and equity of access. It further said that the guidelines will act as a mechanism for sharing data publicly and within a reasonable period of time after data-generation ensuring maximum utilization of the data.Singh said that the guidelines will be implemented with the help of the IBDC at the Regional Centre for Biotechnology supported by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). Later, the existing datasets and data centres will be bridged to this IBDC which will be called bio-grid.The bio-grid will be the national repository of biological knowledge, information and data. It will also be responsible for enabling exchange of data, developing measures for safety, standards and quality for datasets and establishing detailed modalities for accessing data, Jitendra Singh said.Singh said that being a nation with a population of over 135 crore and due to India’s heterogenous nature it was necessary to have its own exclusive database for Indian research and solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-introduces-guidelines-to-provide-framework-for-sharing-biological-data-101627665231292.html
30-07-2021||India||TN opposes Vedanta in SC to produce oxygen, claims stock full||The Supreme Court will take up an application filed by Vedanta Limited to be allowed the production of medical oxygen at its Tuticorin plant in Tamil Nadu next week even as the state government opposed this request claiming to have enough stock of medical oxygen, HT has learnt.Vedanta’s Sterlite copper plant in Tuticorin was shut in May 2018 following serious environmental breaches observed by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. Even as the company is fighting a legal battle in the Supreme Court against the state’s decision to keep its copper plant closed, in April this year, the company came with a proposal to open its plant solely for the production of medical oxygen that was in high demand during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Supreme Court on April 27 allowed the opening of the oxygen plant on a “stand-alone basis” till July 31 and decided to assess later whether the operation needs to be continued.The company claimed that its oxygen plants have a total capacity to produce 1,050 tons per day (TPD) and the same would be supplied for free to the nearby hospitals and various state governments.A bench headed by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, while passing the April 2021 order said, “We are inclined to allow the prayer for permitting the operation of the oxygen plant on a stand-alone basis for meeting the national requirements during the pandemic. This shall not create any equities in favour of the applicant (Vedanta) to demand or expect the running of the plant as a whole in the future.”On Friday, senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Vedanta, mentioned the matter before a bench of Justice Chandrachud and sought permission of the Court to continue with the production of medical oxygen. The bench agreed to list the matter next week. But the Tamil Nadu government represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal opposed Vedanta’s proposal.Sibal said, “We have enough stock of medical oxygen. We do not need any oxygen further. We oppose the application moved by Vedanta.”The bench agreed to consider all arguments at the next hearing. The April order had made it clear that staff or officers of Vedanta shall not be entitled to enter upon the copper smelting plant or any of its appurtenant facilities, including for maintenance. The state was directed to expedite the grant of necessary permissions for obtaining electricity and other utilities for the closed oxygen generating units of Vedanta....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-opposes-vedanta-in-sc-to-produce-oxygen-claims-stock-full-101627665911737.html
30-07-2021||India||Many concerns over Kerala's Covid-19 situation, says central team||The central team sent from New Delhi to Kerala to look into the Covid-19 situation of the state on Friday said there are many concerns regarding Kerala's Covid-19 situation. The sustained rise in the positivity rate is one. "Let us discuss this with the state. It's a comprehensive situation. Let us see how things unfold," Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control said.For the fourth consecutive day, Kerala on Friday reported more than 20,000 fresh infections, which is 50 per cent of India's total single-day Covid-19 tally as the country at present is reporting around 40,000 daily cases. With 20,772 fresh cases, the test positivity rate in Kerala has risen to 13.61 per cent. In the last 24 hours, Kerala tested 1.52 lakh samples and vaccinated nearly 5 lakh people.Of the new cases, 81 are health workers, 137 had come from outside the state and 19,622 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 932 cases, the release said.Why are Kerala Covid cases increasing? Study says every 100 people spreading infection to 111The situation in Kerala has become the centre of a political blame game as the BJP leaders have put the onus of the spike on the Pinarayi Vijayan government as he had relaxed some restrictions during Eid-Al-Adha. Reports claimed the union health secretary has written a letter to the state government specifying some superspreader events before the increase in the number of cases. Kerala health minister Veena George dismissed any such letter and said that was a campaign going on against Kerala, while many other states commended Kerala for its handling of the pandemic.Kerala health minister said the spike is owing to the increase in the number of tests and also because of the Delta variant which is more transmissible than any other variant.The 4th serosurvey by the Indian Council of Medical Research has found out that Kerala has the least exposure to the infection with only 44 per cent people having antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. CPM leaders credited this low exposure to Kerala's successful restrictive measures for which, they said, many people did not develop antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-concerns-over-kerala-s-covid-19-situation-says-central-team-101627664994735.html
30-07-2021||India||SC to revisit arrest shield in 45 cases, could take up more cases||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to revisit its orders in over 45 cases where an interim order staying arrest was granted after the Centre complained that it was hindering the probe being carried out by federal agencies such as the Directorate of Enforcement and the Serious Fraud Investigation Office. The top court’s decision to review the bar imposed on investigators from taking coercive arrest followed a request from solicitor general Tushar Mehta who submitted a list of 45 cases where such orders have been passed over a period of time. Mehta, who was appearing for the Enforcement Directorate, asked the court to set aside the stay orders granted in these cases.These were mostly writ petitions filed by the accused challenging the constitutional validity of provisions under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Companies Act, and Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act. At the first hearing, the court would issue notice and grant ex-parte stay of arrest by ordering “no coercive steps”, Mehta, the Centre’s second senior-most law officer, told the three-judge bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar.The bench, also comprising justices Krishna Murari and V Ramasubramanian, said: “Our predicament is that this kind of an order directing no coercive steps has been passed in more than one case. We have to consider this for all cases. It should be a consistent order that is to be passed after hearing the other side. But we are going to revisit it.”A five-page note submitted on behalf of the ministry of finance along with the ED’s list said: “The list annexed contains such matters in which the interim orders require to be vacated since in many of the cases, the proceedings before the competent courts are stayed and investigations have come to a standstill for the reason that this court has directed ‘no coercive steps to be taken’.”When the three-judge bench starts the exercise on August 3, it could go beyond the 45 cases listed by the government.Lawyers appearing for some of the accused have already supplemented the ministry of finance’s list of 45 cases and produced an exhaustive compilation of interim orders in matters relating not just to PMLA but under Customs Act, Companies Act, CGST Act and related laws.The total cases, compiled so far, come to 198 cases. These petitions involve cases against former Home Minister P Chidambaram’s son Karti Chidambaram, former Religare Enterprises promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh among others.Earlier, arguing against the practice of accused seeking relief while challenging the constitutional validity of legal provisions, Mehta pointed out a three-judge bench decision in Devendra Dwivedi v Union of India case in January 2021 where the Supreme Court, while dealing with a petition challenging the constitutional validity of provisions of CGST Act, refused to entertain the same.In this case, the apex court held: “The constitutional challenge can be addressed before the high court, and the grievance with regard to the conduct of investigation can appropriately by addressed before the competent authority (high court) in the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226, or as the case may be Section 482 or analogous provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).”The CrPC provides for the accused to apply for anticipatory or regular bail but this relief cannot be sought under a writ petition, Mehta argued.On Friday, former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh also sought similar interim orders of stay of further proceedings and stay of arrest in the PMLA proceedings against him. The bench directed him to supply a copy of his application to the ED and Centre while posting his application on August 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-revisit-arrest-shield-in-45-cases-could-take-up-more-cases-101627664771702.html
30-07-2021||India||BRICS states to adopt counter-terror action plan next month||The Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) counter-terrorism action plan will be adopted at a meeting of the national security advisers of the grouping scheduled for next month. The finalisation of the action plan was the main outcome of a virtual meeting of the BRICS counter-terrorism working group (CTWG) held during July 28-29 under the chairship of India, the external affairs ministry said on Friday. The ministry described the action plan as one of the key deliverables during India’s chairship of BRICS in 2021. The action plan contains specific measures to implement the BRICS counter-terrorism strategy adopted by leaders of the grouping in 2020. It is aimed at strengthening result-oriented cooperation between the BRICS members in areas such as preventing and combating terrorism, radicalisation, terror financing, misuse of the internet by terrorists, curbing the travel of terrorists, border controls, protecting soft targets, information-sharing, capacity-building, and international and regional cooperation. “The BRICS counter-terrorism action plan is one of the key deliverables during India’s chairship of BRICS and will be adopted at the meeting of BRICS national security advisors scheduled next month,” the ministry said in a statement. Mahaveer Singhvi, joint secretary for counter-terrorism in the external affairs ministry, chaired the meeting. Senior counter-terrorism officials from all BRICS states joined the meeting. The BRICS states condemned all forms of terrorism “whenever, wherever and by whomsoever committed” during the meeting, and exchanged views on terror threat assessments at the national, regional and global level. The BRICS members also pledged to enhance counter-terror cooperation in line with the action plan. The BRICS counter-terrorism working group meeting was preceded by virtual meetings of the five thematic sub-working groups on misuse of the internet for terrorist purposes, de-radicalisation, countering terror financing, capacity-building, and countering foreign terrorist fighters during July 26-27. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-states-to-adopt-counter-terror-action-plan-next-month-101627663153102.html
30-07-2021||India||ED issues fresh summons to Maharashtra ex-home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday issued fresh summons to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son asking it to appear before the agency on Monday in connection with a money laundering case probe, people familiar with developments told news agency PTI.The NCP lawmaker along with his son Hrishikesh were asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case on August 2, according to provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the people mentioned above said. The former Maharashtra home minister skipped at least three summonses of the federal probe agency in the past related to questioning in the case. His wife and son were also summoned but they too did not appear.The summonses were issued in connection with a criminal case registered under the PMLA related to alleged ₹100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police. It also led to Deshmukh’s resignation in April. ED in June raided Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from the ones of his aides and a few others. The raids led to the arrest of two of his aides in the case - personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45).The ED’s case against the former home minister of Maharashtra was made after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked him in a corruption case for allegations of at least ₹100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-issues-fresh-summons-to-maharashtra-ex-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101627660613813.html
30-07-2021||India||Air India to increase US flights amid fall season admission||Air India will increase the number of its US flights in August keeping in mind the fall season admission in US schools and universities, reports said. The carrier too informed on its social media handle that it will operate additional flights between New Delhi and Newark on August 6, 13, 20 and 27. "These are in addition to the existing flights operating on this sector," Air Indian tweeted on Friday. India and United States have a travel bubble agreement after the international flights resumed in 2020. But the number came down following the US Presidential proclamation during the second wave of the pandemic in India. Now, the carrier will increase the number of flights per week from 10 to 21. The number reached 40 in 2020.#FlyAI: Air India will operate additional flights between New Delhi & Newark on 6th,13th, 20th & 27th August '21. These are in addition to the existing flights operating on this sector.Bookings open through AI Website,Booking Offices,Call Centre & Authorised Travel Agents. pic.twitter.com/9LuleCI72qOn May 4, the US government put restrictions on Indians travelling to the US because of the second wave in the pandemic. "Effective May 4, the entry into the United States of certain nonimmigrant travellers who have been physically present in India is suspended by Presidential Proclamation. US citizens, lawful permanent residents (LPR), and immigrants are not subject to the proclamation," the order said. However, students with valid F-1 or M-1 visas intending t begin or continue academic studies beginning August 1, 2021, or later were exempt from this restriction. Students have to enter the United States up to 30 days prior to the beginning of their studies in which case many students have already reached there but as the US visa process in India got delayed, universities will allow late entry in this session.When will the US lift travel restrictions in general?In July, the United States lowered travel advisory for India from level 4 to level 3, which means US citizens should reconsider travelling to India. Level 4 meant no travel. Though this is meant for US citizens and not for Indian travellers wanting to visit the US, the lowering of the warning implied that the US recognised the improving Covid-19 situation in India.However, the lifting of travel restrictions for India in the US will take time as the US has not yet lifted travel curbs for European countries, because of the spread of the Delta variant. A Reuters report quoting White House officials said US authorities do not intend to lift any entry restriction " at this point".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-to-increase-us-flights-amid-fall-season-admission-101627661405811.html
30-07-2021||India||India, US renew agreement for development cooperation in African, Asian countries||India and the US on Friday renewed for five years a global development partnership agreement to work together in African and Asian countries on key issues such as regional connectivity, clean energy and disaster risk reduction. The two countries signed the second amendment to the Statement of Guiding Principles (SGP) on Triangular Cooperation for Global Development. The SGP agreement, originally inked in November 2014, provides a framework for development cooperation in third countries, especially in Asia and Africa. The second amendment to the SGP agreement extends the validity of the pact till September 2026 and expands the scope of capacity-building activities jointly undertaken by India and the US. It also provides a consultative mechanism for joint biannual monitoring and review of activities undertaken under the SGP, which leverages the combined capacities of India and the US to address development challenges facing countries in the wider region and the world. The external affairs ministry said India and the US will continue to offer capacity-building aid to partner countries in multiple sectors, focusing primarily on agriculture, regional connectivity, trade and investment, nutrition, health, clean and renewable energy, women’s empowerment, disaster preparedness, water, sanitation, education and institution building. “This triangular cooperation with the US will complement India’s other ongoing and future development partnerships, capacity-building and technical assistance with countries globally,” the ministry said. The second amendment to the SGP was signed by Abhilasha Joshi, joint secretary of the development partnership administration-II division of the external affairs ministry, and Karen Klimowski, acting mission director in India for the US Agency for International Development (USAID). “The signing of the amendment signifies strengthening India-US cooperation and our joint commitment to work together and leverage our combined capacities to provide demand-driven solutions for global development,” Joshi said. Klimowski said USAID is enhancing its collaboration on joint development programmes with the development partnership administration in recognition of India’s “dynamic economy and growth trajectory, its status as a leader in innovation, and its diverse set of private and public sector stakeholders”. The two sides will now test and scale innovative development solutions worldwide. “Key areas of focus include disaster risk response, clean and renewable energy, and climate-smart agriculture,” Klimowski added. The US-India development partnership spans more than 70 years, and the two countries share priorities, including tackling the climate crisis, increasing the use of clean energy, forging open and inclusive digital ecosystems, promoting inclusive economic growth, and ending the Covid-19 pandemic, the US embassy said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-renew-agreement-for-development-cooperation-in-african-asian-countries-101627660512948.html
30-07-2021||India||‘Adapted to the new normal, gave their best’: PM Modi lauds Class 12 students||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday congratulated Class 12 students saying that they overcame many challenges owing to Covid-19 but managed to adapt to the new normal. The Prime Minister in a tweet said that he was proud of the achievements of the students.“The Batch which appeared for the Class XII Boards this year did so under unprecedented circumstances. The education world witnessed many changes through the year gone by. Yet, they adapted to the new normal and gave their best. Proud of them!,” PM Modi said in a tweet.PM Modi also extended his wishes to students who successfully passed their Class 12 CBSE examinations and wished for a bright, happy and healthy future. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared results for Class 12 board examinations on Friday.The Prime Minister said that a bright and opportunity-filled future awaits the students. “To those who feel they could have worked harder or performed better, I want to say - learn from your experience and hold your head high. A bright and opportunity-filled future awaits you. Each of you is a powerhouse of talent. My best wishes always," the Prime Minister said."Congratulations to my young friends who have successfully passed their Class XII CBSE examinations. Best wishes for a bright, happy and healthy future," he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adapted-to-the-new-normal-gave-their-best-pm-modi-lauds-class-12-students-101627658869314.html
30-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Taliban not normal civilians by any standard, says Afghan envoy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taliban not ‘normal civilians’ by any standard: Afghan envoy on Imran Khan’s remarkAfghan ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay on Friday said the Taliban are not “normal civilians” by any standard as common people are not cruel to humankind. Read moreAll railway zones have over 170 illegal religious structures: Ashwini VaishnawAs many as 179 illegal religious structures stand erected on platforms and yards across all zones of the Indian Railways, Parliament was apprised of by Union minister of railways Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday. Read moreCan’t afford to invite 3rd wave: VP Naidu urges people to follow Covid protocolVice President Venkaiah Naidu said on Friday the temporary decline in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country should not make citizens complacent, adding the decline should be considered as a “breathing space” to get their act together in order to ensure that any subsequent health challenges can be faced with greater confidence and commitment. Read moreWhy Shah Rukh Khan decided against scolding Abhishek Bachchan, Vivaan Shah: 'Agar inke baap...'Actor Shah Rukh Khan had once recalled an incident when filmmaker Farah Khan had asked him to talk to actors Abhishek Bachchan and Vivaan Shah for troubling her. Read moreBad news! Here is why Battlegrounds Mobile India Lite may never be launchedBattlegrounds Mobile India Lite is being widely expected in the gaming community. After all PUBG Mobile India has led to the birth of Battlegrounds Mobile India and PUBG Mobile India Lite should get a BGMI "Lite" avatar too. Read more'The only positive was that they prevented their lowest total': Sehwag unimpressed with India batsmen after abysmal showVirender Sehwag was not impressed with India's batting performance in the series decider against Sri Lanka on Thursday. A depleted Indian team which went into the third T20I with only five batsmen had a chance to rise to the occasion, especially the youngsters, who were keen to make a mark in the series, but none of them could leave any sort of impact as India were restricted to a lowly total of 81/8 batting first – their third-lowest T20I total of all time. Read moreTweeple got extremely invested in this man’s search for a ‘Rahul’ in LondonA man on a mission, a lost wallet in London, and a quest to find its owner named ‘Rahul’ - this story managed to capture the attention of thousands of people on Twitter. Read moreOla Electric scooter may be delivered straight to home via online sales routeOla Electric scooter launch is expected to take place soon in India and could potentially trigger a massive shift towards battery-powered two-wheelers in the country. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-taliban-not-normal-civilians-by-any-standard-afghan-envoy-101627657428854.html
30-07-2021||India||Act against YouTube channel ‘auctioning women’: Priyanka Chaturvedi writes to Ashwini Vaishnaw||Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi on Friday demanded that the government must take strict action against online platforms which demean and target women. Chaturvedi in a letter to Union minister for information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw said that such acts cannot be tolerated.Chaturvedi was referring to the incident where a YouTube channel conducted a ‘live auction’ of women who belonged to a particular community. She said that the women ‘were rated’ based on their physical appearance and derogatory comments were also uploaded.She also referred to recent attacks on some women journalists on social media where their pictures were uploaded online without their consent in an attempt to humiliate them. Chaturvedi said that these women were mentally scarred and deleted their social media accounts. A woman who worked in the aviation industry told news agency AFP that she is in a constant state of anger after her pictures were seen in the app. “The fourth picture was mine. They were literally auctioning me as their slave for the day. It sends chills down my spine. From that day till today, I am just in a constant state of anger,” the woman was quoted as saying by the news agency.Chaturvedi said that cops in Delhi and Noida registered cases in both instances but due to lack of stringent laws served as a motivation for the perpetrators.Delhi Police earlier in July registered a first information report (FIR) against unidentified persons after pictures of several Muslim women were uploaded without their consent on an app called “Sulli Deals”. The app tried to imply that these women were ‘up for sale’. ‘Sulli’ or ‘Sulla’ is a derogatory term used to refer to people belonging to the Muslim community. Delhi Police also sent a notice to source code depository platform GitHub asking it to share relevant information.Earlier on Wednesday, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) summoned the DCP of Delhi Police cyber cell and the officer who was investigating the case seeking information if any of the perpetrators were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/act-against-youtube-channel-auctioning-women-chaturvedi-tells-govt-101627658406295.html
30-07-2021||India||Kerala announces ₹560 million Covid-19 bailout package||Amid the high volume of Covid-19 cases and frequent shutdowns, the Kerala government on Friday announced a financial package of ₹565 million to revive the economy that is reeling under the impact of the pandemic.On Friday also the state reported over 20,000 cases, according to the state health ministry. When 1,52,639 samples were tested, 20,772 turned positive for the virus with a test positivity rate of 13.61%. For the last four days, the state has been reporting over 20,000 virus cases, accounting for more than half of the total cases in the country.Announcing the bailout package in the assembly, state finance minister KN Balagopal said the government is committed to helping people whose lives were crippled by the onslaught of virus. He said the government will subsidise loans and two new schemes were announced under the state-run Kerala Financial Corporation and Kerala State Financial Enterprises. “We will give loans to small-scale traders, entrepreneurs and framers. The government will bear an interest of four per cent for six months for loans up to ₹2 lakh. This will be a big boost to farmers, small-scale traders and others,” he said, adding the government will also give concession in rent and power charges to tide over the crisis. The state has witnessed a series of suicides last week.“We have requested banks also to provide loans at a cheaper rate and not to insist for dues in the prevailing situation,” he said, adding that the government will give loans up to ₹10 million at five per cent interest to 500 small enterprises this year. This is the third package announced by the LDF government, he said.But the opposition said it was only a gimmick and asked the government to give details of the earlier packages. “We know the fate of earlier packages. This will remain only in announcements,” said opposition leader VD Satheesan. As Covid-19 cases gallop, experts and medical bodies have asked the state government to conduct more genetic studies and seroprevalence surveys to confirm the presence and depth of various strains in the state. “We are depending heavily on the Indian Council of Medical Research for serosurvey and other tests. We all know the ICMR is taking a small number of samples and doing it randomly. The state can do such things elaborately to get a clear picture,” said Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter secretary Dr P Gopikumar. Meanwhile, the 6-member central experts’ team headed by the chief of the National Centre for Disease Control Dr SK Singh will be arriving in the state later in the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-announces-rs-560-million-covid-19-bailout-package-101627658291213.html
30-07-2021||India||All railway zones have over 170 illegal religious structures: Ashwini Vaishnaw||As many as 179 illegal religious structures stand erected on platforms and yards across all zones of the Indian Railways, Parliament was apprised of by Union minister of railways Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday. These structures are present in the form of temples, dargahs (shrines) and mosques, and have existed since long, he said in a written reply.“Efforts to remove these illegal religious structures from all station platforms or yards have been taken by the railway administration along with the Railway Protection Force (RPF) with the assistance of local administration and Government Railway Police (GRP),” Vaishnaw said in his reply.He added that these structures have been recorded and monitoring is underway on a daily basis to make sure that “no further expansion or extension takes place.”Speaking about the challenges the railway administration faces in order to remove such illegal religious structures, Vaishnaw said that they often experience public agitation. He added that owing to the matter being related to law and order, the encroachments are difficult to remove without the respective state government’s cooperation, which is found “lacking in most cases".“The railways also makes efforts to amicably settle the issue by persuading the members of the religious structure committee to shift the location of their religious structures to other places outside of railway areas,” the minister said.He added that with strict vigilance and monitoring, “further proliferation or mushrooming of these illegal structures has been prevented.”The discussions occurred in Rajya Sabha earlier in the day before the House was adjourned till 11am on Monday amid continuous uproar by the Opposition MPs over Pegasus snooping project.The Opposition MPs have been relentlessly protesting since the commencement of the monsoon session of Parliament, resulting in both Houses being adjourned multiple times.On Friday, Union parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi urged the Opposition to “allow the House to function,” citing that the Pegasus project is a “totally non-serious issue.” “More than 315 members want the Question Hour. Despite that, behaving like this, it’s more unfortunate. IT Minister (Ashwini Vaishnaw) has given a detailed statement in both the Houses,” Joshi said.He added that there are several “people-related issues” that require discourse and that the central government “doesn’t want to pass the bills without discussions.” “We’re ready for discussion but they’re not allowing it,” Joshi added.Meanwhile, on Thursday Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said that they “only want discussion on the Pegasus issue.” “For that, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister’s (Amit Shah) presence is necessary. This (snooping) is treason. If they let us discuss the issue, the House will function properly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-railway-zones-have-over-170-illegal-religious-structures-ashwini-vaishnaw-101627657574283.html
30-07-2021||India||These countries have extended travel ban on India | Explained||Despite India's Covid-19 situation being better, several countries are extending travel ban on India in the wake of the rapid spread of the Delta variant. Delta variant was first reported in India in October 2020. It has now spread to over 100 countries and is being seen as the possible reason for the fresh rise in Covid-19 cases in many countries including the United Kingdom.Indian students, however, are being allowed as Indian missions abroad are pushing for the lifting of restrictions.Saudi Arabia said it will impose a three-year travel ban on citizens travelling to 'red list' countries. The list includes India apart from Afghanistan, Argentina, Brazil, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Lebanon, Pakistan, South Africa, Turkey, Vietnam and the United Arab Emirates.The United Arab Emirates has also extended the ban on Indian flights. Etihad Airways said that it is not sure when the ban will be lifted.Canada has banned direct flights from India while Indians can reach Canada from any third destination.The Philippines on Friday extended travel restrictions on India and nine other countries as the country is reimposing lockdown restrictions as well.Apart from these countries, Indians can't travel to Australia, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Italy, Kuwait, New Zealand, Oman, Singapore etc.France has recently removed India from the red list and fully vaccinated Indians can now travel to France. Germany has also eased travel restrictions for India.Why some countries are still not allowing Indian flightsReports said broadly there are two reasons behind countries extending the ban on Indian travellers. One, the Covid-19 situation of that country for which it might be bringing back additional restrictions. For example, the Philippines has imposed a lockdown in the Manila capital region on Friday. The extension of the travel ban is part of the country's restrictive measures.Two, the spread of the Delta variant of Covid-19. Delta variant is the latest cause of concern and the US health authority has said Delta variant is spreading as easily as chickenpox. Since the variant was first detected in India, some countries might be apprehensive about Indian travellers. Minister for the state, external affairs, V Muraleedharan recently informed Parliament that the US, the UK, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands have eased restrictions for Indian students. So far, travel restrictions have been eased for Indian students by countries such as the US, the UK, Canada, Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Georgia, and more countries are expected to open up travel in future, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-countries-have-extended-travel-ban-on-india-explained-101627656666241.html
30-07-2021||India||Canadian commission comes to aid of student visa applicants facing issues due to Covid||In a bid to clear the backlog of student visas, the Canadian High Commission in India on Friday came up with a special arrangement and opened a dedicated biometric appointments queue so that the process of biometrics is completed sooner. “Taking into consideration the increased demand from Canada student visa customers in India for earlier biometric appointments, VFS Global and high commission of Canada now provide a dedicated queue on the appointment system with increased capacity. Customers applying for all other visa categories are requested to avoid booking appointments under the student visa category,” Visa Facilitation Services (VFS) Global said in a statement.This comes as the situation of the student visa applicants continues to be grim due to the pandemic. Students who have already booked their biometrics appointment will need to cancel their existing appointment in order to book an earlier date using the dedicated queue on the Appointment Management System (AMS).“This priority service is available only for study permits, short-term study and returning students. VFS will cancel appointments from all other applicants booked under the student-dedicated queue on the AMS. “AMS link” https://t.co/ZxBEaDE98S,” read a tweet from the high commission on Friday.As the student visa applicants remain to be in a dicey situation, reports of fraud agents also have come to light. In a statement issued to the applicants, VFS Global said, “Customers are advised to beware of fraudulent entities who charge fees from customers for scheduling appointments, using VFS Global’s name or independently”.British Deputy High Commission too issued an advisory regarding visa fraudsters.In a series of tweets on Wednesday, the British Deputy High Commission (BDHC) listed tips to avoid visa scams and stressed that UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) and visa outsourcing and technology services specialist, VFS Global, would never ask customers to share personal information via social media, and said scammers could use this for online trickery.Pointing out that UKVI or VFS would never ask for visa payments by email or phone, it said that one should pay for the visa application online and if there were any suspicions or incidents, it had to be reported on the link https://actionfraud.police.uk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/student-visa-applicants-face-issues-due-to-pandemic-canadian-commission-comes-to-help-101627654751381.html
30-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown with existing norms until Aug 9, no new relaxations announced||The existing Covid-19 lockdown in Tamil Nadu has been extended with no additional relaxations till 6am on August 9, the state government announced on Friday. The decision to extend the curfew came following a review meeting chaired by chief minister MK Stalin earlier in the day, as the existing norms are scheduled to end at 6am on Saturday (July 31).However, in its latest order, the government has directed the district collectors and the police personnel to strictly enforce the prescribed guidelines. Further, in places where crowding of people could be observed continuously, the government has also empowered the collectors, corporation commissioners and the police to lockdown the area completely considering public welfare.In its previous order on July 16, Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) and industrial schools were allowed to operate with 50% attendance at a time. Moreover, teachers were also allowed to visit their schools for administrative work such as admissions, distribution of textbooks and planning of syllabus.Since the norms would continue with no new relaxations, the cap on the number of people allowed in gatherings would also remain (50 for marriages and 20 for deaths/funerals).Also read | Tamil Nadu to train healthcare workers to brace for 3rd wave of Covid-19Meanwhile, operation of private and government buses between districts (Puducherry exempted), international air travel other than on routes allowed by the Union home ministry, theatres, bars, swimming pools, social and political gatherings, recreational, sports and cultural activities, schools, colleges and zoological parks would continue to remain barred in the state. The government had revoked the e-registration system for inter-district travel earlier in the month.Hotels, restaurants, lodges, tea shops and bakeries are currently operating between 6am and 8pm with half their seating capacities. Malls, jewellery and textile shops, shopping complexes and other such business establishments have been allowed to remain open between 9am and 8pm.While places of worship have been opened for the public, festivals and consecration ceremonies have not been allowed.The new order came as the state has been witnessing over at least 1,700 new cases every day in the week. On Thursday, 1,859 people tested positive for the disease while 28 patients succumbed to the illness. With this, the total confirmed cases reached 2,555,664 while the death toll climbed to 34,023. According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 22,328,039 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state as of 7am on the day.Earlier in the day, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that CM Stalin would launch a week-long awareness drive in the state on Saturday, according to a report by news agency ANI. He also said that several districts, including Chennai, Kanyakumari and Coimbatore, have been alerted where the cases are marginally higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-with-existing-norms-until-aug-9-no-new-relaxations-announced-101627653680888.html
30-07-2021||India||‘Will come here every 2 months’: Mamata as her 5-day Delhi visit concludes||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said that her five-day visit to the national capital was “successful". “The Opposition needs to get united. I met several leaders. The outcome is good,” she told news agency ANI.Briefing media persons about her trip, she further said that her meeting with various Opposition leaders was for a “political purpose” and that democracy “must go on". “We need to work together to save democracy. Our slogan is save democracy, save the country,” Banerjee said.The chief minister added she will meet Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar next time. “We want development for all…Farmers are on [the] road. My support for farmers will always be there. My concern is [the] rising petrol-diesel price, unemployment, Covid-19…We will come here (Delhi) every two months,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by ANI.Banerjee’s high-profile visit to Delhi included meetings with multiple important Opposition leaders, including Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi, DMK MP Kanimozhi and even Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. She told the media of speaking to RJD leader Lalu Prasad Yadav over the phone on Tuesday.Banerjee also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday – the first official meeting between the two leaders following her landslide triumph in the recently concluded Assembly elections in West Bengal. Later, she told the media that it was a “courteous” meeting and she had raised the issue of Covid-19 and the need for more vaccines and medicines in her state.The TMC supremo has emphasised on Opposition’s unity at the central level in order to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Referring to the popular “khela hobe” slogan that her party used in the 2021 Assembly elections in West Bengal, she said on Wednesday that in 2024 “poore desh me khela hobe” (game will be played across the country). “When general elections come, it will be Modi versus [the] country,” she added.Also Read | 'Poore desh me khela hobe': Mamata on Opposition’s unity ahead of 2024 electionsBanerjee further stated that in the next general elections, the Opposition will be stronger than the BJP and will “create history.” “It is essential for everyone to come together in order to defeat the BJP. Alone, I am nothing – everyone will have to work together. I am not a leader. I am a cadre. I am a person from the street,” she added.The chief minister also met lyricist-poet Javed Akhtar and his actor-wife Shabana Azmi on Thursday. Following the meeting, Akhtar said that he believes a change should come in India. “There are so many tensions in the country right now…There is the issue of polarisation. Many give aggressive statements…There are incidents of violence,” Akhtar told the media.Also Read | No proof needed; ‘khela hobe’ in India, says Javed Akhtar after meeting MamataHe also said that it is beyond discussion now when asked if Banerjee’s “khela hobe” slogan will resonate all over India. “It does not need proof,” Akhtar said.However, Banerjee averted discussion on the face of the Opposition ahead of the 2024 elections saying that she isn’t a “political astrologer.” “We will sit together and decide, I am not a political astrologer. The decisions depend on the system, and on political parties. I cannot impose my decision on others,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-come-here-every-2-months-mamata-as-her-5-day-delhi-visit-concludes-101627652356211.html
30-07-2021||India||DefExpo 2022 goes to Gandhinagar, focus on projecting India as manufacturing hub||India’s flagship military exhibition, DefExpo, will be held at Gandhinagar in Gujarat in March 2022, with a focus on projecting the country as an emerging defence manufacturing hub, one of the top priorities for the government in the defence sector, officials familiar with the developments said.The biennial show will be held in Gandhinagar from March 11-13, the department of defence production announced on Friday. It comes at a time when the government has sharpened its focus on promoting self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector and positioning India as an exporter of military hardware.In May, the government notified a list of 108 defence items that cannot be imported by the armed forces with the ban kicking off from December 2021. The list, called the ‘positive indigenisation list’, will be implemented progressively from December 2021 to December 2025.This was the second such list to be notified by the government in less than a year. In August 2020, the government prepared a list of 101 items on which there would be an embargo on import to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement). The embargo for items in the first list, then called ‘negative import list’, kicked in for different items last year and will run through till 2025.DefExpo was traditionally held in Delhi until 2014 after which it has seen a string of new venues - Goa (2016), Chennai (2018) and Lucknow (2020). The venue was shifted to Goa when late Manohar Parrikar was the defence minister, it moved to Chennai when Nirmala Sitharaman held the portfolio and it was staged in Lucknow with Rajnath Singh as the defence minister.Defence manufacturing firms from across the world participated in the five-day mega event held in Lucknow last year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated DefExpo-2020, attended by ministers from almost 40 foreign countries.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years.The first list included artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini-UAVs and different types of ammunition.The second list consists of several military systems including specified types of helicopters, next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning and Control (AEW&C) systems, tank engines, medium power radar for mountains, medium-range surface to air missile systems and anti-material rifles.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.India’s arms imports fell 33% between 2011-15 and 2016-20, said a report released by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) in March.The report on international arms transfers attributed the drop in India’s arms imports mainly to an attempt to reduce its dependence on Russian arms and complex procurement processes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defexpo-2022-goes-to-gandhinagar-focus-on-projecting-india-as-manufacturing-hub-101627650310816.html
30-07-2021||India||Kerala opposition boycotts session seeking minister’s ouster||Kerala’s Congress-led opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) members on Friday boycotted the House proceedings for the second consecutive day demanding the resignation of state education minister V Sivankutty who is accused in the assembly violence case.The Supreme Court had rejected the Kerala government’s plea to withdraw the case on Wednesday and asked all six accused, including the minister, to face criminal proceedings for destroying the House property during a ruckus in 2015. As soon as the House was convened, UDF members started raising slogans demanding the minister’s ouster but chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan remained firm and made it clear that there was no need for Sivankutty to quit. Opposition members wanted to know why was the CM protecting the minister who is facing criminal charges for destroying the property of the House. Opposition leader VD Satheesan said the CM’s clean chit to his minister amounts to disrespect to the apex court. He also questioned the CM’s statement that the case was unnecessarily dragged to the court. But the CM maintained his posture. “Police case on assembly ruckus was unprecedented. Usually, such cases are settled under the purview of the assembly rules and proceedings,” the CM said, adding such actions will set bad precedents and undermine the power of the legislature.But the opposition leader said he was casting aspersion on the SC verdict. The CM said he was questioning the way it was dragged to the court, not the verdict. Later, opposition members stormed out of the House after Speaker MB Rajesh denied an opportunity to raise the issue again. “How can the minister remain in the ministry when he was facing criminal charges? Earlier, many ministers have quit citing adverse remarks from courts. Here, the minister is facing criminal charges. The CM will have to drop him to uphold democratic tradition,” said VD Satheesan.In March 2015, the Kerala assembly witnessed violent incidents after opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) legislators tried to prevent then finance minister KM Mani from presenting the budget alleging his role in the bar bribery case.Angry members destroyed mikes, threw chairs and furniture and damaged lights and electronic equipment in the melee, which also resulted in two legislators landing up in hospital. The session was live when violence broke out and property worth ₹2.20 lakh was destroyed. Five watch and ward personnel were also injured.In 2016, the government tried to withdraw the case, only for a local court to reject it. The Pinarayi Vijayan government then moved the high court, which also turned down its plea. The government also invoked the privilege of legislators and public interest to justify its decision to withdraw the case, but the high court rejected it saying privilege was not a licence to unleash violence in the House. The Supreme Court on Wednesday also upheld the lower court’s verdict and directed all accused to face criminal proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-opposition-boycotts-session-seeking-minister-s-ouster-101627648090656.html
30-07-2021||India||Delhi, Darbhanga, Jorhat, Mandi: Minister presents list of earthquake-prone cities in Lok Sabha||Around 59 per cent of India, covering all states, is prone to earthquakes of different intensities, minister of state for science and technology and earth sciences, Jitendra Singh informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. Listing out the measures taken by his department to monitor earthquakes, the minister said that around 11 per cent area of the country falls in zone 5 of the seismic map, which is the most active region, 18 per cent are in zone 4. In his written reply, the minister submitted a list of cities according to the seismic zones.Zone 5 (high seismic activity): Bhuj (Gujarat), Darbhanga (Bihar), Guwahati (Assam), Imphal (Manipur), Jorhat (Assam), Kohima (Nagaland), Mandi (Himachal Pradesh), Port Blair (Andaman and Nicobar), Srinagar (Jammu and Kashmir), Tezpur (Assam), Sadiya (Assam)Zone 4: Almora (Uttarakhand), Ambala (Haryana), Amritsar (Punjab), Baharich (Uttar Pradesh), Barauni (Bihar), Bulandshahr (Uttar Pradesh), Chandigarh, Darjeeling (West Bengal), Dehradun (Uttarakhand), Deoria (Uttar Pradesh), Delhi, Dinajpur (West Bengal), Ghaziabad (Uttar Pradesh), Gangtok (Sikkim), Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), Jal Paiguri (West Bengal), Kooch Behar (West Bengal), Kolkata (West Bengal), Ludhiana (Punjab), Monghyr (Bihar), Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh), Nainital (Uttarakhand), Patna (Bihar), Pilibhit (Uttar Pradesh), Roorkee (Uttarakhand), Shimla (Himachal Pradesh)According to the Seismic Zonation map by the Bureau of Indian Standards, there are several zones, ranging from 2 to 5 with the variability of peak ground acceleration. West Bengal, in this map, falls under Zone 2,3, and 4. A larger portion of West Bengal state lies in Zone 3. Uttar Pradesh too falls in all 2,3 and 4 categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-darbhanga-jorhat-mandi-minister-presents-list-of-earthquake-prone-cities-in-lok-sabha-101627646771312.html
30-07-2021||India||Second hearing held on BJP’s plea for Mukul Roy’s disqualification||West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee on Friday held the second hearing on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s petition for disqualification of Mukul Roy as legislator under the anti-defection law.BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the assembly, attended the hearing. “The anti-defection law has not been enforced in Bengal in the last 10 years. We have faith in the Speaker,” said Adhikari.The first hearing was held on July 16 when Adhikari submitted a 68-page document to back his demand. He said the BJP might move court.Adhikari said anti-defection law is applicable against Roy. “Despite this, he was made chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC),” said Adhikari.Also Read | Bengal govt to set up mangrove resource centre in SunderbanRoy, who could not be contacted for comments, joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president. He returned to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on June 11 along with his son Subhranshu.Roy is still officially a BJP legislator. He was made chairman of the PAC on July 9 before the budget session of the assembly ended. An Opposition leader normally gets the post. BJP MLAs, who were made chairpersons of other standing committees, resigned over Roy’s nomination. The speaker later selected TMC MLAs for these posts.The first meeting of the PAC was also held on Friday, but Roy did not attend it. BJP legislators raised the issue. TMC MLA Tapas Roy said, “Roy informed through e-mail that he would not be present. The Speaker used his discretion and allowed the meeting to be held. The BJP has no right to question the Speaker’s decision.”On June 18, Adhikari submitted the petition before the Speaker saying Roy should be disqualified under Rule 6 of the Members of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on Ground of Defection) Rules, read with Article 191 (2) and paragraph 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution.The decision to disqualify a member is taken exclusively by the Speaker. The Constitution does not specify any time frame for the process which involves inquiry, hearings and setting up of a committee. The next hearing on Adhikari’s petition will be held on August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-hearing-held-on-bjp-s-plea-for-mukul-roy-s-disqualification-101627647910991.html
30-07-2021||India||Don’t exhaust patience of House: Venkaiah Naidu warns MPs||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday warned lawmakers of action if they do not follow decorum. Naidu said it has been brought to his notice that some members were blowing whistles in the House while proceedings were on and using placards and standing in front of ministers.His comments came after at least nine Congress leaders tore placards with protest messages on them and threw them in Lok Sabha on Wednesday. An unidentified lawmaker blew a whistle in the Rajya Sabha as the Opposition protested over the alleged Pegasus snooping and the three farm laws.Naidu made the remarks as soon as the House assembled for the day.Also Watch | ‘MPs whistling...Not a bazaar’: RS Chairman lashes out amid Parliament ruckusSuch actions were taking the House to a new low, he said. “There are two ways to deal with this. Allow the House to become a bazaar or take action (against those not following decorum),” Naidu said.“I feel sorry to say this from the podium…I never expected my members to go that level.” Naidu said protesting, walking out and opposing the government were part of the proceedings, but the dignity and traditions of the House have to be followed.He warned the members that patience has its limit, and no one should “exhaust the patience of the House.”The Opposition continued to protest over the snooping and the three farm laws, leading to two adjournments in the pre-lunch session. Several members trooped into the Well of the House with placards and raised slogans against the government. The ongoing monsoon session of Parliament began on July 19. Some bills have been passed without any discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-exhaust-patience-of-house-naidu-warns-mps-101627646530739.html
30-07-2021||India||India, China to hold 12th round of military talks on Ladakh row tomorrow||Top Indian and Chinese commanders will hold the 12th round of military talks in the Ladakh sector on Saturday to cool tensions between the two countries that have been locked in a border row for almost 14 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday. The talks between corps commander-ranked officers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will begin at 10.30am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said one of the officials cited above, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The previous round of military talks between the two sides took place on April 9 when the Indian Army told the PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict. “We are expecting forward movement in hammering out a disengagement agreement at Hot Springs and Gogra,” said a second official, asking not to be named. The Indian and Chinese armies began negotiations to resolve the border row in eastern Ladakh on June 6, but the two sides have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers deployed at friction points on the contested LAC. Also Read | China seizes locally made maps showing Aksai Chin, Arunachal in IndiaThe Indian Army and the PLA have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-ranked officers since June 6, 2020, to reduce tensions along the border. The only significant outcome of the military dialogue has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry in the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks. The focus of the next round of talks will be on resolving problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. Both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre and the deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector. On May 28, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said his soldiers were on high alert as the PLA continued to base its troops and mechanised elements including tanks in its “immediate depth” across the LAC from where they could be deployed to forward areas at short notice. (Immediate depth in the context of the Ladakh sector refers to a distance of 150km to 200km from the LAC.) Naravane then said results should not be expected after every round of talks, citing the case of Pangong Tso where disengagement took place after nine rounds. PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops and restore the status quo ante of April 2020 has hampered the disengagement process, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated. The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff. The two armies held the first round of military talks on June 6, 2020. However, the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15, 2020, created severe complications and dashed hopes of any significant breakthrough. The brutal clash that left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead created a huge trust deficit between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-12th-round-of-military-talks-on-ladakh-row-tomorrow-101627645870600.html
30-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tharoor says officials' absence from parliamentary panel meet dangerous and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Absence of officials from parliamentary panel meet sets dangerous precedent: TharoorCongress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor on Friday said the absence of three officials from a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology (IT) on the Pegasus spyware issue sets a dangerous precedent for Parliamentary accountability and democracy. “This is unprecedented and extremely dangerous,” Tharoor, who heads the panel, told HT. Read more.70 Delta Plus variant cases found across 16 states, UT: Govt tells Lok SabhaAs many as 70 cases of Delta sub-lineage AY.1, also known as Delta Plus variant, of coronavirus were found in genome sequencing, Union science and technology minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday. Read more.Bombay HC on Shilpa Shetty case: 'Reporting what police said never defamatory'The Bombay high court on Friday made some significant observations regarding the right to privacy and press freedom as it was hearing the ₹25 crore defamation suit filed by Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in connection with husband, businessman Raj Kundra's arrest in the pornography case. Read more.Delhi high court issues notice to Ramdev on allopathy comment rowThe Delhi high court which on Friday heard the case against Ramdev's disparaging remarks on allopathy gave the Yoga guru a week's time to let the court know what his stand regarding the case is. Ramdev has been asked to reply within next Friday and the case is likely to be heard against on August 10. Read more. Tokyo 2020: PV Sindhu triumphs over Akane Yamaguchi to enter semi-finalPV Sindhu looks like a player on a mission as she stormed into the semi-final of the women's singles badminton competition at the Tokyo Olympics with a stunning 21-13, 22-20 win over Japan’s Akane Yamaguchi. Sindhu is now just one more win away from ensuring a second consecutive Olympic medal, to add to the silver she had won at the 2016 Rio Games. Read more.MS Dhoni’s new haircut sparks mixed reactions. Pictures go viralMS Dhoni has sparked a chatter online after pictures of his new hairstyle were posted online. Aalim Hakim, a celebrated stylist, shared the pictures on his official Twitter handle that show the former India cricket team captain sporting a new look which includes a funky hairstyle and a beard. Read more.When Lata Mangeshkar 'flew into a rage' because Raj Kapoor implied she was 'ugly'Lata Mangeshkar was the inspiration behind Raj Kapoor's 1978 film Satyam Shivam Sundaram, but for reasons that she didn't appreciate. His daughter Ritu Nanda revealed the story in her 2002 book, Raj Kapoor Speaks. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-officials-absence-from-it-panel-meet-dangerous-tharoor-101627643573861.html
30-07-2021||India||DGCA extends ban on international flights till August 31||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday further extended the ban on international flights till August 31 due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Earlier, the DGCA banned international flights till July 31 but extended it on Friday.The DGCA however pointed out that international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a "case to case basis" in its circular. International passenger flights were suspended in India from March 23 last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.International cargo flights were allowed to operate though the ban was extended on commercial international flights. Special international flights were operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral ‘air bubble’ arrangements with selected nations from July 2020.India has air bubble pacts with 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France.Aviation companies continue to face losses as Covid-19 continues to derail the revival of the aviation industry as well as the travel and tourism industry as cases continue to rise in several parts of the world despite the US, the UK and several nations in the European Union (EU) vaccinating its citizens at a faster pace.Breakthrough infections among people who have been totally vaccinated continue to affect plans of full-scale reopening as governments across the planet try to curb the spread of Covid-19. In India, domestic flights are allowed to operate at limited occupancy. Indian domestic air carriers can operate but with 65% of passengers that they used to carry during pre-Covid times. Domestic passenger traffic also saw a decline of around 53% during the April-June period when India was fighting the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-extends-ban-on-international-flights-till-august-31-101627644376722.html
30-07-2021||India||Kanwar pilgrims to get Ganga water on Haridwar borders||Authorities will provide Ganga waters to the Kanwar pilgrims at 10 points on the borders of Haridwar to prevent them from entering the district. This is being done as the pilgrims continue travelling to Haridwar to fetch the water despite a ban on Kanwar Yatra because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Police have turned back over 3,000 pilgrims trying to enter the district and have increased vigil to prevent more from coming from Haryana and Delhi.“... 500-millilitre water each will be provided. Nodal officers have been appointed to ensure proper distribution, management, adherence of Covid-19 guidelines, social distancing, wearing of face masks and for keeping details of distribution among the exact number of Kanwariyas,” said Haridwar district magistrate C Ravi Shankar.Akhil Bharatiya Yuva Teerth Purohit Mahasabha state president Pandit Ujjwal Pundit welcomed the decision said that through this initiative Lord Shiva devotees can follow their religious tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanwar-pilgrims-to-get-ganga-water-on-haridwar-borders-101627644491950.html
30-07-2021||India||Serum Institute joins hands with CII to accelerate vaccination in rural areas||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Friday that it has entered into a partnership with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) to accelerate the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in rural areas and small towns of the country.SII, which is the largest vaccine manufacturer across the globe, has been producing the United Kingdom (UK)-based AstraZeneca vaccine under the brand name of ‘Covishield’ in India. Since the beginning of the vaccination drive in India in mid-January this year, most of the eligible beneficiaries have been inoculated with either Covishield or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Speaking on Friday’s development, SII’s chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla said the partnership with the Confederation of Indian Industry “will be a good way to close the gaps” as there is plenty of supply of Covishield doses available for distribution, adding it is essential that all stakeholders work together towards carrying out vaccinations.Also Read| Can Covishield and Covaxin be mixed? What we know about thisOn the other hand, T V Narendran, president of the CII, said the industrial body aims to connect the community, hospitals and corporates to fast-track vaccination and the partnership with the Serum Institute will help in catalysing industry participation to reach out to communities at large.“Overall, the industry has been playing a responsible part in ensuring vaccination of workers and their families, but clearly given the scale and urgency of the vaccination program, we can complement and supplement the efforts of the government in this pivotal mission for the nation,” Narendran said in a statement.Also Read| Covishield vaccine reduced new Covid-19 cases by 93%, deaths by 98%: CentreThe CII, as a part of the pan-India vaccine demand aggregation exercise, had undertaken a survey with responses from more than 3,000 companies across 196 cities, PTI reported. The survey revealed that there is a requirement of more than seven million single Covid-19 vaccine doses. “As of July 23, 2021, a total of 3,475,301 single doses have been administered through 430 camps held across the country by the CII and the CII Foundation,” the CII statement added.The industrial body also said it is mapping the vaccination requirement state-wise and is setting up inoculation camps focusing on reaching rural areas and tier 2 and tier 3 cities.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-joins-hands-with-cii-to-accelerate-vaccination-in-rural-areas-101627643670956.html
30-07-2021||India||Monsoon to enter active phase with heavy rains over central, NW India||Monsoon is entering an active phase with most of the impact expected over parts of central India and adjoining northwest India according to India Meteorological Department.IMD on Friday warned that widespread and extremely heavy (over 20 cm) rain is expected over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till August 4 with peak activity during July 31 and August 3. Widespread rain will also continue over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana till August 4.Widespread rain with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Uttar Pradesh during the next five days while scattered, moderate rainfall is likely over Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab during the next five days, IMD warned. There are likely to be intense rainfall spells intermittently over Delhi also during the period.The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift north of its normal position during the next 48 hours. Its western end is very likely to remain to the south of its normal position and active during the next 5-6 days.Also Read | Flood alert issued in Delhi after Yamuna breaches ‘danger mark’ amid heavy rainsA fresh low-pressure area is lying over southern parts of central Uttar Pradesh and the associated cyclonic circulation extends upto 7.6 km above mean sea level. Another well marked low pressure area is lying over Gangetic West Bengal & adjoining Jharkhand. It is likely to move west-northwestwards across south Bihar and southern parts of Uttar Pradesh during the next 2-3 days.“There are two low pressure systems, one over Uttar Pradesh, and another over Jharkhand. They have intensified rain. Also, both winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal are strong making monsoon very active. The monsoon trough is roughly passing along Ganganagar and Delhi which is why Delhi is also seeing some intense spells. But rains will be very intense over central India in the next 4-5 days particularly east Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and west Madhya Pradesh,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.Widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar on Saturday and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh till August 2. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is likely over Jharkhand and over East Madhya Pradesh on Saturday.Very heavy rain is likely to continue over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till August 4 with peak activity during July 31 to August 3. Isolated extremely heavy falls (over 20cm) are likely over East Rajasthan during July 31 to August 3 and over West Madhya Pradesh from July 31– August 2 .The current spell of widespread rains over Western Himalayas is likely to continue Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana till August 4. Widespread rain with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Scattered to fairly widespread moderate rainfall is likely over Jammu & Kashmir and Punjab during the next five days.There is a 1% rain deficiency over the country since June 1 with 3% deficiency over northwest India; 1% excess over central India; 18% excess over peninsular India and 15% deficiency over north and northwest India. Despite extreme rains over the west coast and in parts of northwest India, rain deficiency is yet to be covered. “The deficiency remained in July despite monsoon resuming after a break spell of 10 days earlier this month. This is because the distribution of rains was slightly skewed this month with most rain activity happening over the west coast. But now Punjab to West Bengal entire area will see an active spell. There will be intense spells of rain over Delhi and other parts of northwest India. Central India may see some flooding because very heavy rain is expected over east Rajasthan and parts of Madhya Pradesh,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-enter-active-phase-with-heavy-rains-over-central-nw-india-101627642630629.html
30-07-2021||India||70 Delta Plus variant cases found across 16 states, UT: Govt tells Lok Sabha||As many as 70 cases of Delta sub-lineage AY.1, also known as Delta Plus variant, of coronavirus were found in genome sequencing, Union science and technology minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday. In a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, the minister said that 58,240 samples of Sars-CoV-2 have been sequenced in India so far, out of which 46,124 were analysed by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG)."A total of 70 Delta Plus strains have been found as on 23.07.2021," Singh said.The detection of the Delta Plus variant had initially caused concerns for authorities as the country was already reeling under the disastrous second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, largely driven by the highly contagious Delta variant. The Delta Plus strain is characterised by the B.1.617.2 variant acquiring another mutation, K417N, also found in the B.1.351 or Beta variant.Earlier this month, however, INSACOG said in a bulletin that the sub-lineages of Delta variant were unlikely to be more transmissible than Delta. The consortium of government panels involved in sequencing noted that the cases of Delta sub-lineages AY.1 and AY.2 are declining globally, adding that there was no indication of a rising trend in four of the identified clusters in India.The highest number of Delta Plus variant cases in India was detected in the state of Maharashtra (23), followed by Madhya Pradesh (11), Tamil Nadu (10), and Chandigarh (4). Kerala and Karnataka reported three cases of Delta Plus variant each, while two each in Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, and Telangana. The states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu, Rajasthan, Odisha and Himachal Pradesh reported one Delta Plus variant case each.The sequencing found 4,172 cases of the Alpha variant and 217 cases of Beta variant across the country.Singh said that INSACOG collects samples through the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) network for public health purposes to assess the impact on transmissibility and disease severity. The 28 laboratories involved in the task of genome sequencing are located in 13 states and Union Territories.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/70-delta-plus-variant-cases-found-across-16-states-ut-govt-tells-lok-sabha-101627641823857.html
30-07-2021||India||India has administered at least 455 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 455 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, July 29. Delhi high court cautioned the city’s drug control department against prosecuting only certain people who distributed oxygen cylinders during the second wave. The court slammed the department for initiating action against AAP MLA Praveen Kumar.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 455,502,438 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as (4,652,914 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 2,283,018 were given the first dose while 434,990 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 146,622,393 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 7,651,261 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Study on Sputnik-AstraZeneca vaccine cocktail shows no serious adverse effectMadhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.India reported 44,230 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the daily positivity rate to 2.44%, said the ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.With these new cases, the active tally has climbed to 405,155 and constitutes 1.28% of total cases. The country’s cumulative Covid tally has reached 31,572,344.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-455-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101627641910603.html
30-07-2021||India||Bombay HC on Shilpa Shetty case: 'Reporting what police said never defamatory'||The Bombay high court on Friday made some significant observations regarding the right to privacy and press freedom as it was hearing the ₹25 crore defamation suit filed by Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in connection with husband, businessman Raj Kundra's arrest in the pornography case."The line between freedom of press & right to privacy will have to be balanced. It is possible that freedom of speech may have to be narrowly tailored. But it is not possible to ignore the constitutional pinning of privacy nor to say that if a person is a public figure, that person is deemed to have sacrificed his right to privacy," Justice Gautam S Patel observed, as reported by LiveLaw.The court observes that reporting of something that the crime branch or police sources said is never defamatory and hence expressed doubt on whether a blanket restraint can be issued.At the same time, the court also observed that Shilpa Shetty is the mother of two minor children and just because she is a public figure, it does not mean that she has sacrificed her privacy.The actor who has been interrogated by the Mumbai Police in connection with Raj Kundra's alleged porn racket and web streaming platform Hotshots moved the high court on Thursday alleging that many media organisations have published incorrect, false, malicious and defamatory content against her. Sensationalising the arrest caused "irreparable harm and damage to ger reputation," the actor's plea said.Apart from several media organisations, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube were named in the petition.During the hearing, some of the content labelled as malicious by Shilpa Shetty's lawyer was brought to the notice of the court. Mentioning a commentary of one particular channel, Shilpa Shetty's lawyer said teh commentator passed on remarks about the quality of Shilpa Shetty's parenting as well. Her lawyer also noted that the said video has been taken down by the channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-on-shilpa-shetty-case-reporting-what-police-said-never-defamatory-101627641328430.html
30-07-2021||India||Delhi high court issues notice to Ramdev on allopathy comment row, asks him to reply within 7 days||The Delhi high court which on Friday heard the case against Ramdev's disparaging remarks on allopathy gave the Yoga guru a week's time to let the court know what his stand regarding the case is. “Public nuisance has some consequences on the defendant. It is open to the defendant (Ramdev) to say that there is no case. Can't say that I won't give him an opportunity,” Justice Hari Shankar said adding that if there is no reply, he would not grant leave for the institution of the proceedings. Ramdev has been asked to reply within next Friday and the case is likely to be heard against on August 10.The plea against Ramdev's comment against allopathy has been moved by three Resident Doctors' Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rishikesh, Patna and Bhubaneshwar, Association of Resident Doctors, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab (URDP); Resident Doctors' Association, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association, Hyderabad. Though Ramdev withdrew a controversial video where all controversies started, the plea said that Ramdev is an influential person and if he expresses doubt over modern medicine, allopathic treatment, then it will influence the general public.The associations want a permanent and mandatory injunction agianst Ramdev for his allopathy statement.In its earlier hearing, the high court observed that allopathy is not so fragile to be dented by the opinion of Ramdev. Saying this, the court earlier declined to restrain him. "If I feel some science is fake...tomorrow I will feel homeopathy is fake. Do you mean they will file a suit against me? I put in on Twitter. You will say take down the Twitter account," Justice Hari Shankar commented earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-issues-notice-to-ramdev-on-allopathy-comment-row-asks-him-to-reply-within-7-days-101627639419693.html
30-07-2021||India||Govt to set up centres for women in crisis globally: Union minister Smriti Irani||The Union government has decided to set up centres to provide protection to women and children in crisis internationally, women and child development minister Smriti Irani said on Friday. Speaking at the inaugural session of the national consultation on the elimination of human trafficking, the Union minister said that the passage of the Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, will enhance the government’s cooperation internationally to address the menace of cross-border trafficking."On international nexus with regard to trafficking, in partnership with the External Affairs ministry, we have decided to set up centres for women who are in challenge or in crisis internationally so the women and children get protection,” Irani said at the event organised by the Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation and its sister group Bachpan Bachao Andolan.Earlier this month, the ministry of women and child development invited suggestions for the draft bill aimed “to prevent and counter trafficking in persons, especially women and children, to provide for care, protection, and rehabilitation to the victims, while respecting their rights, and creating a supportive legal, economic and social environment for them.”According to the draft bill, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) will act as the central investigating authority responsible for preventing and combating human trafficking. It will also be responsible for the prosecution of coordination in trafficking cases, including inter-state or international cases.For the first time, Irani said, the government is looking at “trafficking in its entirety as an organised crime”, with the bill proposing enhanced punishment for a “comprehensive list of different forms of trafficking” which are severe in nature. Citing her conversations with different stakeholders, the minister said that the Indian Penal Code (IPC) does not live up to the expectation of the populace with regard to the stringent punishment for human trafficking."The important one aspect I would like to flag is the issue of mandatory reporting and punishment for those who neglect to report a case of trafficking when it comes before them,” she added.Nobel Laureate Kailash Satyarthi said that human trafficking is one of the most lucrative illicit trades across the globe where there is a price tag on human beings. He stressed the importance of building awareness about the draft bill because “we feel this is going to be one of the best pieces of legislation in the world.”“There will always be room for improvisation that we will keep on working on but today is the time we have to put an end to this menace and build awareness about issues and law," he added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-set-up-centres-for-women-in-crisis-globally-union-minister-smriti-irani-101627638481655.html
30-07-2021||India||Another MLA resigns from Assam Cong; to join ruling BJP on Aug 1||Opposition Congress in Assam suffered another setback on Friday with one of its legislators resigning from primary membership of the party. Sushanta Borgohain, two-time Congress MLA from Thowra in Jorhat district, submitted his resignation by mail to newly appointed Assam Congress president Bhupen Borah. The 47-year-old is likely to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on August 1. “In his letter Borgohain appreciated the opportunities given to him by the Congress, but stated that due to some recent developments, he won’t be able to continue any longer,” Borah said. Borgohain, who is yet to resign from the assembly, will be the the second Congress MLA after Mariani legislator Rupjyoti Kurmi to quit the Congress and move to the BJP. The developments come within three months of formation of the second BJP-led government in the state. Also Read | Assam Class 10 state board results announcedDespite repeated attempts, Borgohain didn’t respond to calls. “Borgohain has been in touch with us for some time now. He will officially join our party at an event on August 1,” recently appointed BJP state unit chief Bhabesh Kalita told HT from Delhi. He added that another legislator, Phanidhar Talukdar of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) from Bhabanipur seat, will also join the BJP towards the end of next month. “Assam CM isn’t focused on the task at hand. The state is fast losing friends in the northeast, thanks to his actions like issuing travel advisory urging residents of Assam not to visit Mizoram,” said Congress president Bhupen Borah. “[CM Himanta Biswa] Sarma is indulging in cheap politics like saying there is no need of Opposition. Despite enjoying a majority in the assembly, he and the BJP are busy poaching Opposition MLAs and trying to establish a monopolistic regime,” he added. In the assembly elections held in March-April this year, BJP won 60 of the total 126 seats and returned to power with the support of Asom Gana Parishad which got 9 and United Peoples Party Liberal that got 6 seats. On the other hand, Congress bagged 26 and AIUDF got 16. Less than a month after elections results were announced on May 2, two newly elected MLAs --Leho Ram Boro of UPPL and Majendra Narzary of Bodoland Peoples Party died due to Covid-19 complications. Then Congress’s Kurmi resigned, so three seats are vacant in the state assembly. With the elevation of former chief minister and Majuli MLA Sarbananda Sonowal to the rank of Union Cabinet minister, his seat will also be vacant soon. And now, with Borgohain and Talkudar to join the BJP, two more seats are likely to become empty in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-mla-resigns-from-assam-cong-to-join-ruling-bjp-on-aug-1-101627638249983.html
30-07-2021||India||Can Covishield and Covaxin be mixed? As expert panel gives nod for trial, here is what we know about this||Covishield and Covaxin are two different types of vaccines both of which have been manufactured in India. There have been cases of individuals being mistakenly administered with one Covishield dose with another Covaxin dose. And such cases did not report any major reaction so far. Experts have time and again warned against mixing up vaccine doses, but at the same time emphasised that there is no need to panic if that happens by the mistake of healthcare officials. Several countries have already taken up studies on the issue of mixing two vaccine doses and the results have not been negative. The subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has recently recommended a trial of mixing Covishield and Covaxin. Reports said Christian Medical College in Vellore wants to pursue this study and it will soon take place on 300 healthy volunteers.What we need to knowCovishield and Covaxin have been developed differently. Covishield, which is known as the Oxford Astrazeneca vaccine worldwide, has been made from a weakened version of the common cold virus. The vaccine, once administered, teaches the body's immune system to fight the real SARS-CoV-2 virus. On the other hand, Covaxin is developed from real coronaviruses which are inactivated.Can they be mixed?Earlier, Indian experts said that mixing Covaxin and Covishield, though they are two different types of vaccines, is theoretically possible. In May, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul said more studies are required to recommend the mixing of vaccines.As vaccination across the world has gained pace, several studies are being conducted on the mixing of vaccines. For example, AstraZeneca and Pfizer have been mixed for a trial. In the latest development, Sputnik V has been mixed with the Oxford Astrazeneca vaccine and no serious adverse events were reported.Mixing of vaccine doses and mixing up of vaccine dosesMixing of vaccine doses requires more study the first of which will be taken up in India as the expert panel has given the nod. This will also be the first study on whether Covishield and Covaxin can be mixed. While mixing of vaccines doses is gaining warm response from the medical fraternity across the world, experts have warned that this decision should not be taken by individuals. World Health Organization recently said individuals should not take any decision on mixing vaccine doses. The recommendation will only come from the highest drug authority of any country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-covishield-and-covaxin-be-mixed-as-expert-panel-gives-nod-for-trial-here-is-what-we-know-about-this-101627637407992.html
30-07-2021||India||Two killed, 4 missing as heavy rains lash West Bengal||Two labourers were killed, at least two others injured, and another four were missing after being swept by the Mamkhola, a rivulet in the Kalimpong hills of north Bengal, as the water level rose due to heavy overnight rains. Sikkim was cut off from the rest of the country as landslides hit multiple parts of National Highway 10, the arterial road connecting the Himalayan state with rest of India. The Eastern and South-Eastern Railway had to cancel multiple trains, including Poorva Express, Lal Kuan Express and Howrah Bhagalpur Express, while many trains connecting Howrah with Chennai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Bhubaneshwar, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Mysuru had to be either rescheduled or terminated. “The well-marked low pressure, which triggered the rains, was located over interior Gangetic Bengal and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move in the northwest direction across Jharkhand and southern parts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh during the next 48 hours,” said a senior official of India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC) in Kolkata. Several areas in south Bengal and in the coastal districts received extremely heavy rain. Panskura in East Midnapore received around 250mm rain in the last 24 hours followed by Uluberia in Howrah and Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas which received around 220 mm rain each. Kolkata received 150 mm rain, according to RWFC data. Also Read | Bengal govt to set up mangrove resource centre in SunderbanThe hills of Darjeeling and Kalimpong received around 110 to 180 mm of rain resulting in rise in river levels and landslides at multiple places. “There was a camp of labourers, who were working on the Sevoke-Rungpo rail project at Mamkhola near Rungpo. Early Friday morning, due to intense rainfall and fall of boulders, the rivulet near the camp got swelled and eight persons in the camp got washed away,” said Hari Krishna Pai, superintendent of police, Kalimpong. At Howrah and New Town where large areas were inundated due to heavy to very heavy rain, boats had to be deployed to rescue people. Large areas in East Burdwan, Howrah and Hooghly were likely to get inundated as the Damodar Valley Corporation was released more water from the barrages in Maithon and Panchet. The sky over Kolkata, however, started clearing up later in the day as the low pressure moved towards the western parts of the state and adjoining Jharkhand. Even though several roads in Kolkata had knee-deep water, the water level started receding as the rains ceased. “We are monitoring the situation. The situation is under control,” said Soumen Mahapatra, state irrigation minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-killed-4-missing-as-heavy-rains-lash-west-bengal-101627636331189.html
30-07-2021||India||Pegasus row: Opposition making issue out of non-issue, says govt||Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday said the Opposition was making “an issue out of a non-issue” and has not allowed Parliament to function amid protests for a discussion in the House on the Pegasus spyware issue. “...IT (information technology) minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has given a detailed statement (on the issue) in both Houses,” he said in Lok Saba. He added the government is ready for discussion on other important issues related to the people. “Bills are also an important issue. The government also does not want them to be passed without a discussion…” He added many of these issues are directly related to the poor. “Let them raise the issues and suggest… but unfortunately, they are not allowing Parliament to run.”Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien slammed the government and blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for disrupting the Parliament. In a tweet, he said the government was running away from the discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-opposition-making-issue-out-of-non-issue-says-govt-101627636029890.html
30-07-2021||India||Govt moves key Bills on insurance divestment, NCR pollution in Lok Sabha||The government introduced two key Bills in Lok Sabha Friday, one aimed at divestment of the insurance sector and the other to fight pollution in the national capital region, amid protests by Opposition members on various issues. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021. The government also tabled The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021, following which the Speaker adjourned Lok Sabha for the day due to the pandemonium. The insurance-sector Bill is widely seen as a move to privatise state-run insurance companies, following the finance minister’s budget 2021-22 announcement. While presenting the budget 2021-22, the finance minister had said: “We propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments and I propose to introduce the amendments in this session (budget) itself.” The Bill however was not introduced in the budget session held in February. Also Watch | ‘MPs whistling...Not a bazaar’: RS Chairman lashes out amid Parliament RuckusThe amendments to the parent Act, The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 had been approved by the Modi Cabinet on Wednesday. The insurance amendment Bill is part of a larger divestment target of the government as the Modi government plans to sell stakes in five state-run corporations and speed up its privatisation agenda to draw in foreign investment in a Covid-hit economy. The government hopes to achieve its planned divestment target of ₹1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22 despite hurdles posed by the pandemic. A panel headed by the finance minister had cleared disinvestment and stake reduction of the country’s largest insurer LIC, the first step towards the finalisation of the Bill. The government has also cleared listing of the insurer on equity markets and initial public offerings (IPO), which refers to offering of shares of a company on the stock market to investors. As the Bill was moved, N K Premachandran, a lawmaker from the Opposition Revolutionary Socialst Party, opposed its tabling. “The House is not in order. I strongly oppose the Bill since it is a Bill to privatise insurance.” The finance minister said: “It is not to privatise, we are certainly bringing some enabling provision so that citizens can have some participation. Our market can give the money from retail funds, through Indian citizens. It can enable faster growth for such insurance companies. The public participation is only going to help us by bringing more resources.” The second Bill, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021, if passed, will see the creation of a statutory panel to monitor and mitigate pollution in greater Delhi for the first time. Farm unions have opposed an earlier ordinance to install a commission to penalise polluters. Stubble-burning, or the practice by farmers to burn paddy remnants, is a cause of deadly winter pollution in northern Indian states, including Delhi. Farmers in food-bowl states of Punjab and Haryana find it cheaper to clear paddy fields after harvest by setting them on fires, claiming they can’t afford costly farm equipment that can do the job without causing pollution. “Opposing such a Bill is one of the reasons why we are protesting. The government should offer a subsidy for us to stop stubble-burning. Farmers don’t have an option,” said Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a farm union leader currently leading protests against three recent agricultural laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-moves-key-bills-on-insurance-divestment-ncr-pollution-in-lok-sabha-101627635789741.html
30-07-2021||India||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray visits flood-hit areas in Kolhapur||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday visited the flood-affected area of Nrusinhawadi, Shirol in Kolhapur.According to the information of the State Emergency Operation Centre, 213 people died due to floods and heavy rainfall in various places across the state.The State management unit has said that 308 relief camps are based at Sanghli and Kolhapur for rescue operations in the flood-affected areas. Air Force and Indian Army have been deployed at Kolhapur and Ratnagiri.Over 16 National Disaster Relief Force(NDRF) teams have been deployed at Thane, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri, Sangli, Satara, and Sindhugarh, reported the data of the State Disaster Management Unit on Wednesday.Six NDRF teams have been deployed in Kolhapur. We're working with civil & district administration. The water level has reduced by 2 feet, but is still at danger level, said NDRF Assistant Commandant Vikram in Kolhapur on Tuesday.The IAF has positio0ned two Mi-17V5s and two Mi-17s for flood relief operations said the Army.The chief minister held an emergency meeting on July 22, to take stock of the flood situation that occurred in various parts of the state due to torrential rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-visits-flood-hit-areas-in-kolhapur-101627633209176.html
30-07-2021||India||Dhanbad judge death: SC seeks report from Jharkhand within a week||The Supreme Court on Friday took suo motu cognizance of the death of a judicial officer in Jharkhand on Thursday and sought a status report on the investigation conducted so far from the chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) of the state within a week.Additional district and sessions judge of Dhanbad Uttam Anand was on his morning walk when he was fatally knocked down by a vehicle on Wednesday.A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana and justice Surya Kant took suo motu cognizance of the incident and registered the case as “Re: Safeguarding Courts and Protecting Judges (Death of ASJ Dhanbad)”. The Jharkhand high court has already taken suo motu cognizance of the incident on Thursday. The top court clarified that it does not intend to interfere with the proceedings pending before the high court.Also Read | Supreme Court Bar Association president demands CBI probe in Dhanbad judge deathThe high court took serious note of the incident and asked the police to submit details of the case probe.The decision of the top court to take cognizance of the incident is seen as an attempt to monitor the progress of the investigation. Hours after the incident took place, the CJI spoke to chief justice of Jharkhand high court, following which the secretary general of the Supreme Court took up the matter with the registrar general of the Jharkhand high court.The Jharkhand Police have registered a first information report based on CCTV camera footage of the incident. A 14-member special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted, and two persons have since been arrested. The police have alleged that the two were in the auto-rickshaw that caused the accident. The auto-rickshaw was found to be stolen from Dhanbad. Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president and senior advocate Vikas Singh mentioned the incident before the CJI and demanded a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “This is an attack on judicial independence. If judiciary has to remain independent, judges have to be safe. An ADJ cannot be killed in this manner. This matter should be probed by CBI as local police can be complicit,” he said.Suspecting it could be a murder, Singh said that the ADJ had recently rejected the bail of a notorious gangster and the matter needed to be probed. The CJI had appreciated the concern shown by the Bar and said that the situation is being monitored by the high court and if there is any need for the top court to intervene, it will. The disturbing CCTV camera visual of the incident showed how the vehicle in question swerved to the direction of ADJ Anand knocking him down on the road. Looking at the visuals, Singh had said, “There cannot be a more brazen attack on a judge than this. Any judge in this country can be attacked. This is a serious matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhanbad-judge-death-sc-seeks-report-from-jharkhand-within-a-week-101627630149244.html
30-07-2021||India||Vedanta moves SC, seeks permission to continue oxygen production in Thoothukudi plant||Vedanta Limited moved the Supreme Court seeking its directions on continuing the operation of its plant in Tamil Nadu's Thoothukudi for producing medical oxygen. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing Vedanta in the case, mentioned the plea before the SC regarding the operation of the plant.However, the Tamil Nadu government, represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, opposed the plea and said that the state currently has enough medical oxygen. “We oppose this. We already have enough oxygen,” legal news website Live Law cited Sibal as saying. Following this, the top court decided to take up the matter next week for a hearing.The issue came up in the court as the plant was previously allowed by the court to operate until July 31 only for the production of medical oxygen with no access to its copper and power plants within the premises. The Sterlite copper plant, which was shuttered in May 2018 following protests by local residents, was granted this permission to mitigate the ballooning need for medical oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the country.Also read | Vedanta’s Sterlite plant dispatches first oxygen tankerDuring the previous hearing on April 27, 2021, Vedanta informed the court that the facility at Thoothukudi could produce 200 metric tonne (MT) of medical oxygen per day and would start production in the second week of May. The Supreme Court bench of justice L Nageswara Rao and justice S Ravindra Bhat allowed the company to operate the plant under the supervision of a committee that will also decide the number of people on the premises to run the oxygen production unit.Thoothukudi district collector, sub-collector, district environmental engineer, two government officials with technical knowledge of the subject, two experts nominated by people affected due to the pollution from Vedanta’s copper smelter, the superintendent of police and two experts from a list of three people suggested by the Union environment ministry would form the committee, the court had ordered.Also, the then AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu allowed the operations following an all-party meeting in which it was decided that it would be allowed only for the production of medical oxygen. It was also decided that the state would get priority in the oxygen produced from the plant.The first batch, 4.8 tonnes of liquid oxygen, was dispatched from the facility on May 13, the company then said in a statement.The copper smelter plant at Thoothukudi was shuttered in May 2018 following massive local protests against the pollution caused by the plant in which 13 people were killed in police firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vedanta-moves-sc-seeks-permission-to-continue-oxygen-production-in-thoothukudi-plant-101627629694053.html
30-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union minister says maiden launch of Isro's SSLV by end of 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maiden flight of Isro’s new SSLV likely by end of 2021: MinisterThe first developmental flight of Isro’s Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) is scheduled in the fourth quarter of 2021 from Sriharikota’s Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Union minister Jitendra Singh said. Read moreUS evacuates 200 allies who helped during Afghan war, funds their visasThe United States on Friday flew 200 Afghans, allies who aided the Americans during the Afghanistan war, to their new home away from the Taliban's direct threat. Read moreEnjoyed this experience but haven't thought anything far ahead: Rahul Dravid comments on permanent Team India coach jobRahul Dravid's appointment as Team India head coach for the tour to Sri Lanka has been talked about a lot in cricketing circles. Read morePratyusha Banerjee's parents are penniless fighting her case, living in single-room house: 'Lost everything'Late actor Pratyusha Banerjee's parents have said that they're in financial ruin because of the economic impact that their ongoing legal matters has had on them. Read moreArjun Kapoor flaunts beefed up body as he runs shirtless on a treadmillActive after a long time on social media, Bollywood hunk Arjun Kapoor is keeping fans hooked with his regular updates and his latest mirror selfie from the gym is no different. Read moreDriver uses truck to dunk teabag into glass of hot water kept atop traffic cone. WatchIn today’s edition of impressive feats that may make your jaw drop, here’s a video that shows how a driver used his truck to dunk a teabag into a glass of hot water. Read moreTokyo Olympics: Lovlina Borgohain secures 2nd medal for India, nation celebratesIndian boxer Lovlina Borgohain secured the second medal for India at the Tokyo Olympics as she advanced to the semi-finals of the women’s welterweight category. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-minister-says-maiden-launch-of-isro-s-sslv-by-end-of-2021-and-all-the-latest-news-101627628654174.html
30-07-2021||India||Maiden flight of Isro’s new SSLV likely by end of 2021: Minister||The first developmental flight of Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro)’s Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) is scheduled in the fourth quarter of 2021 from Sriharikota’s Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Union minister for state for the department of space Jitendra Singh said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha on Thursday. The flight was initially scheduled for last year. But it has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Isro usually inducts a launch vehicle into its operational fleet after two successful development flights.Singh said SSLV is ideal for the on-demand, and quick-turnaround launch of small satellites. “The major technologies developed as part of realization of SSLV are flexible nozzle control with electro-mechanical actuators for all stages, miniaturized avionics and a velocity trimming module in the upper stage for precise satellite injection,” he said.Also Read | 391 complaints received via SHe-Box: Smriti IraniAjay Lele, a senior fellow at Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said: “We have not been able to successfully create a bio-bubble like China and US that have been carrying out missions through the pandemic. As for the commercial launches like the maiden flight of the Small Satellite Launch Vehicle, many customers have already booked slots for their satellites but if the missions keep on getting delayed, they might move towards other launch providers.”Singh also said the earth observation satellite EOS-3 is likely to be launched in the current quarter. HT has reported that EOS-3, also known as GISAT-1 as per the previous nomenclature, is likely to be launched in mid-August, thereby restarting the country’s space activities after a break of four months.The satellite will provide near real-time imaging of the Indian subcontinent that can be used to monitor natural disasters, agriculture, forestry, mineralogy among others. It is one of the two paired satellites, the other being GISAT-2 or EOS-5, which will be able to provide an image of the Indian landmass every 30 minutes with a spatial resolution of 50 metres.Singh said the Space Activities Bill was also under consideration by the government. The bill seeks to ensure licensed entities carry out operations in a manner that prevents the contamination of outer space or damage to the earth’s environment. It provides for imprisonment of up to three years and a fine of over ₹1 crore if any activity is undertaken without prior licensing. The bill says any intellectual property right developed onboard a space object in outer space will be the property of the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maiden-flight-of-isro-s-new-sslv-likely-by-end-of-2021minister-101627626668411.html
30-07-2021||India||PM Modi invites suggestions for his Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday invited suggestions and ideas from people for his Independence Day speech.“Your thoughts will reverberate from the ramparts of the Red Fort. What are your inputs for PM @narendramodi’s speech on 15th August? Share them on @mygovindia,” PM’s Office tweeted on Friday.Seconds after the tweet, people started to post their ideas.“… Declare a mission program to vaccinate all teaching & non-teaching staff in schools …Children are the future & they need peer interactions, they need to meet in person, they need to be back in schools. That’ll be your biggest gift to the future!” wrote Twitter user Sumeet Mehta.Also Read | PM unveils education schemes on NEP’s anniversaryAnother Twitter user Akash Singh wrote, “Dear Prime Minister Sir. Population explosion is becoming a major problem in India. In the coming few years, the population of India will be 150 crores… Hon’ble Prime Minister is requested to say something on population explosion from Red Fort on this Independence Day.”Meanwhile, many netizens asked him to speak on the Pegasus issue, the Rafale inquiry, the fuel price hike, the controversial farm laws and more.A Twitter user Deepak Kumar wrote, “Please talk on inflation, unemployment, (about) more than 4 lakh deaths in India due to COVID-19, slow vaccination, corruption, the life of laborers after Covid...”Another user Anupam Ravi wrote, “Can you promise that you and your cabinet will have regular press conferences? How the government is planning to handle inflation and commodity prices? What infrastructure has been put in place in post covid world to handle remote education.”The PM has regularly asked citizens to suggest ideas for his public addresses. Last year as well he sought suggestions from people for his Independence Day speech. Two weeks ago, he asked people “which are the topics that interest” them and therefore want them to be talked of during the PM’s monthly radio address Mann ki Baat. His call for suggestions had received over 3,000 responses on Twitter alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-invites-suggestions-for-his-independence-day-speech-101627624628314.html
30-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi expresses concern over rising Covid cases in Kerala||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday morning expressed concern over the rising cases of Covid-19 in Kerala.“Rising cases of Coronavirus infections in Kerala are worrying,” Gandhi said on Twitter. He appealed to people in the state to follow all safety measures and guidelines.The Wayanad MP’s tweet comes a day after the southern state reported 22,000 cases, accounting for 50% of India’s new cases. In the last four weeks, seven of Kerala’s 14 districts reported an increase in daily new infections, government data released earlier this week showed. The increasing trend in cases is triggering apprehensions that this spike might signal the early arrival of a third wave of the pandemic.Kerala declared complete lockdown on July 31 and August 1in an attempt to curb the surge, news agency ANI reported on Thursday, citing state officials familiar with the development.Also Read | Covid-19 R-value rising steadily in India; Kerala, N-E states tops listElaborating on the matter, Kerala authorities said that some of the districts worst hit by the recent surge in Covid-19 are -- Malappuram, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Palakkad, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kannur, Thiruvananthapuram, and Kottayam.Meanwhile, union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the Central government is sending a six-member team to Kerala, headed by the director of the National Centre for Disease Control. “As a large number of Covid cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid the state’s ongoing efforts in Covid-19,” the minister wrote on Twitter.After the health minister’s announcement, MoS of Parliamentary Affairs V Murleedharan criticised the Communist Party of India (Marxist) government in the state and said the formula followed by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has failed. The union minister criticised the state government in Parliament for easing Covid-19 restrictions for Eid al-Adha, while several states cancelled other religious activities because of the pandemic.Kerala government has claimed that it has increased the number of tests so that every single positive case is identified. “We are conducting maximum tests these days. Yesterday [Thursday], we conducted over 196,000 tests. Today we did more than 163,000 tests,” the state health minister stated.Other southern states are also recording an increased number of cases. On Thursday, Karnataka’s Covid-19 case count crossed the 2,000 mark, after 19 days. Daily cases and positivity rates have also gone up in the districts neighbouring Kerala and in Bengaluru, Karnataka’s capital. Tamil Nadu recorded a spike in cases after 69 days. On Thursday, the state recorded 1,859 Covid-19 cases as compared to 1,756 cases on Wednesday.India reported 557 deaths from the virus on Thursday, with Maharashtra recording 190 fatalities, Kerala 128 and Odisha 65.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-expresses-concern-over-rising-covid-cases-in-kerala-101627623968130.html
30-07-2021||NA||Parliament monsoon session: Gen insurance amendment bill introduced in LS||A discussion on Covid-19 will be held in the Lok Sabha on Friday, according to the House's business schedule during the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. The pandemic was discussed in the Rajya Sabha during the start of the monsoon session when the government defended its handling of the crisis.The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021, and the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 are also scheduled to be introduced in the Lok Sabha today. Meanwhile, the Rajya Sabha will discuss the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill), 2021.Despite uproar by the opposition, two bills -- The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 and The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 -- were passed in the Lok Sabha while the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was passed in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. The opposition parties continued their protests on various issues like the Pegasus snooping row and the farm laws, as both houses were adjourned many times in the day.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu both expressed their concerns about the ruckus in Parliament and the disruptions caused to the proceedings.Follow all the updates here:Bill to amend general insurance law introduced in LSEarlier in the day, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 that would allow the government to slash its stake in state-owned insurers.Both Houses adjourned till August 2, reports ANIBoth Houses of the Parliament have been adjourned till August 2 amid uproar by Opposition MPs.Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 11am on August 2Parliament Monsoon Session: Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 11am on Monday, August 2 amid protest by Opposition MPs pic.twitter.com/d3fdkL1VHSLok Sabha proceedings have been adjourned till 11am on Monday (August 2) following the protest by opposition MPs.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2.30pmThe Rajya Sabha to remain adjourned till 2.30pm as some opposition ministers continued their sloganeering and protests against the government in the house.'Totally non-serious issue': Union minister Prahlad Joshi asks opposition to allow the house to functionMore than 315 members want the Question Hour. Despite that, behaving like this, it's more unfortunate. IT Minister has given detailed statement in both the Houses. This is totally non-serious issue. Kindly allow the house to function: Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad JoshiUnion parliamentary affairs minister asked the opposition ministers to allow the house to function amid their protests. He said that more than 315 members wanted the Question Hour, reports ANI."IT Minister has given detailed statement in both the Houses. This is totally non-serious issue. Kindly allow the house to function," Joshi said.Lok Sabha adjourned till 12pmParliament Monsoon Session: Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned till 12:00 noon following protest by Opposition MPs. pic.twitter.com/CNLU4SFNIrThe Lok Sabha was adjourned till 12pm following protest by opposition ministers.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12pmThe Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till 12pm today following uproar over the Pegasus snooping issue and the farm laws.Key bills to be introduced in both houses of parliamentThe Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will witness the introduction of key Bills and also discussions on issues ranging from fisheries to the welfare of anganwadi workers.Click here to read moreCovid-19 pandemic to be discussed in Lok Sabha todayA discussion on the “situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic in the country and various aspects related to it” will be raised by ministers N K Premachandran and Vinayak Bhaurao Raut in the Lok Sabha today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101627621520936.html
30-07-2021||India||Both Houses of Parliament to see introduction of key Bills today||Both Houses of Parliament will see introduction of key Bills along with discussions on issues ranging from fisheries to the welfare of anganwadi workers.In Lok Sabha, minister of environment, forest, and climate change Bhupender Yadav will introduce a Bill for better coordination, research, identification resolution of problems surrounding the air quality index in Delhi and its adjoining areas.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will also introduce a Bill to amend the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972. This amendment would facilitate privatisation of public sector general insurance firms.Also Read | 391 complaints received via SHe-Box: Smriti IraniWith regard to discussions, MPs N K Premachandran and Vinayak Bhaurao Raut will raise a discussion on the “situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic in the country and various aspects related to it”.MP Ravi Kishan will urge the House to bring a legislation that allows for the inclusion of Bhojpuri language in the eighth schedule of the Constitution.Congress MP Shashi Tharoor will move a resolution for the “welfare of the fishing community in the country”. He will also urge the House to consider creating a separate ministry of fisheries.In Rajya Sabha, the finance minister will be introducing two Bills: The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021.While the former is aimed at decriminalising several provisions under the Act and also enhance the ease of doing business, the latter is intended to provide depositors with a ₹5 lakh insurance cover in case a moratorium is imposed over the bank they deposited their money in.The House will also witness few resolutions moved by private members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-bills-to-be-introduced-in-parliament-today-101627621988002.html
30-07-2021||India||Bengal govt to set up mangrove resource centre in Sunderban||The West Bengal forest department is planning to set up a mangrove resource centre in the Sunderban. The Sunderban, which spreads over India and Bangladesh, is the world’s largest delta and is home to the only mangrove tiger in the world. There are around 96 tigers in the Indian Sunderban. “We have prepared a detailed project report on a new mangrove centre. This would focus on research on tigers and other wildlife found in the delta, such as estuarine crocodiles and spotted deer,” said a senior forest official. Forest officials said the tiger population in the Sunderban has remained stable in the past year. “In a recent camera trapping exercise, as mandated by the National Tiger Conservation Authority and Wildlife Institute of India, at least 96 tigers could be identified from the various islands of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve and in the forest of South 24 Parganas,” said the official. A similar exercise last year also pegged the number of big cats at 96. While 74 tigers were spotted in the tiger reserve, 22 individuals were spotted in the South 24 Parganas which comprises three forest ranges. Also Read | Maharashtra’s mangrove cover: Reports by state and Centre differThe forest department has also set up a control room at Sajnekhali, one of the 54 islands inhabited by tigers out of the 102 islands of the Sunderbans. “The control room has been established for monitoring movement of tigers and communication with remote forest camps for protection. We have also prepared a mangrove action plan for five years which would focus on conservation of the mangrove with participation of local communities,” said the official. After the devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas in May this year, the West Bengal government planned to plant 150 million saplings of mangroves in the state’s three coastal districts as a future protection against cyclones. “We would have to take the help of nature to minimise the effect of natural disasters like cyclones. The forest and environment department would plant 150 million mangrove saplings. We would plant 50 million mangrove saplings each in three districts – North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. The state planted 50 million mangrove saplings in the Sunderbans after Cyclone Amphan ravaged at least six districts in May 2020, uprooting and damaging thousands of trees in its path. In Kolkata alone, 5,000 trees were uprooted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-to-set-up-mangrove-resource-centre-in-sunderban-101627619949342.html
30-07-2021||India||391 complaints received via SHe-Box: Smriti Irani||Union minister Smriti Irani on Thursday told Parliament that the ministry of women and child development has received 391 complaints registered via SHe-Box, the Centre’s portal for the registration of complaints about sexual harassment at workplaces, from the central ministries. She said an analysis of the cases showed only two actually pertained to sexual harassment. She added multiple complaints were from the same person against one individual and 32 were grievances related to violence against women, dowry harassment, and suggestions. Irani said neither of the two cases of sexual harassment pertains to a workplace of the ministry.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee’s move for probe into Pegasus row a bold step: Shiv SenaIrani said 150 of the complaints have been received since January 2020.SHe-Box allows the registration of sexual harassment complaints at workplaces. Once a complaint is registered, it directly reaches the concerned authority having jurisdiction to take action in the matter.Irani said the Centre has issued advisories to state and Union Territory governments and central ministries and departments for strict implementation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, to create a women-friendly work environment.The law was enacted in 2013 to protect women against sexual harassment at workplaces and for prevention and redressal of complaints irrespective of age, employment status, and nature of work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/391-complaints-received-via-she-box-smriti-irani-101627619407680.html
30-07-2021||India||Covid-19 R-value rising steadily in India; Kerala, N-E states tops list||Kerala and northeastern states are among the regions in India where R-value is climbing rapidly, an analysis by researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai shows. Kerala has the highest number of Covid-19 active cases and continues to have an R-value around 1.11. The R-factor indicates the speed at which Covid-19 infection is spreading in the nation."Looks like it will remain in the top spot for the next couple of weeks. The Northeast continues to have a very bad situation with most states having R-value more than one," Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences said, reported news agency PTI.The Union health ministry on Thursday said it will depute a six-member team to Kerala for effective Covid-19 management as the state reports a surge in daily cases.In the northeast, only Tripura has an R-value substantially lower than one while Manipur has gone only marginally below one. Among other states in the country, Uttarakhand has an R-value very close to one at the moment, the analysis stated.The R-value of Delhi between June 21 and June 26 was 0.8. It declined to 0.66 between June 28 and July 6, but rose to 0.84 between July 4 and 20. Delhi on Thursday recorded 51 fresh Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent. Active cases in Delhi stand at 554. Both the daily rise in cases and active infections have remained more or less the same.Sinha said if the number of Covid-19 active cases is constant then the R-value is one as he explained the situation in the national capital. "Even if R momentarily goes over one, there is a possibility that you can contain it. For example, if the active cases are in hundred, you still have the possibility that you contain it before it goes completely out of hand. Once it goes to a few thousand and R is greater than one then the situation is dangerous," he added.The R-value of Pune was 0.85 between July 11-13 and 0.89 between July 15-20. For Bengaluru, the R-value from July 7 to July 13 was 0.92. It increased marginally to 0.95 between July 13 and July 17. It dropped to 0.72 from July 17 to July 23.The R-value of Mumbai was 0.96 between July 2 and July 4. It dropped to 0.89 between July 6 and July 9. It further dropped to 0.74 between July 22 and July 24. For Chennai, the R-value between June 29 to July 7 was 0.63. It shot up to 1.05 between July 16 and July 19. It was 0.94 between July 21 and July 24, showing signs of decline. In the case of Kolkata, the R-value was 0.80 between July 1 and July 13, followed by 0.91 between July 12 and July 17. It dropped to 0.86 between July 17 and July 24.According to the analysis, when the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak, the overall R-value in the nation was estimated to be 1.37 between March 9 to April 21. It declined to 1.18 between April 24 and May 1 and then to 1.1 between April 29 and May 7. Between May 9 and 11, the R-value was estimated to be around 0.98. It dropped to 0.82 between May 14 and May 30 and further to 0.78 from May 15 to June 26. The R-value however rose to 0.88 from June 20 to July 7 and then to 0.95 from July 3-22, it added.Sinha said that when the number of Covid-19 active cases remains in the range of a few hundred and the R-value is near one, an outbreak can be controlled much easier. "India's overall active cases are fluctuating too much to get a reliable estimate, but data is pointing at a value close to one. It may tip over either way in the coming few days," he said.The analysis added that an R-value of 0.95 means that every 100 infected people on an average pass on the infection to 95 other individuals. If the R-value is lesser than one, it means the number of newly infected people is lower than the number of infected people in the preceding period which means the disease incidence is going down.The smaller the value of R, the faster the disease is on the decline. Conversely, if R is greater than one, then the number of infected people is increasing in each round. The bigger the number is than one, the faster the rate of spreading of Covid-19 in the nation, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-r-value-rising-steadily-in-india-kerala-n-e-states-tops-list-101627611374420.html
30-07-2021||India||44,230 new Covid-19 cases in India, active cases stay over 4-lakh mark||India recorded 44,230 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,572,344, and its death toll climbed to 4,23,217 with 555 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.Active cases of Covid-19 rose to 4,05,155 in the said time period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 1.28 per cent, it stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,07,43,972, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.As many as 18,16,277 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total number of tests so far to 46,46,50,723.More than 28.8 million balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. It added that over 474.8 million vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 53,05,260 doses are in the pipeline.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination began on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/44230-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-active-cases-stay-over-4-lakh-mark-101627605782344.html
30-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Top court to hear ex-Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh's plea and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am on Friday (July 30, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court to hear ex-Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh's plea seeking protection in money laundering case todayThe Supreme Court is on Friday set to hear a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, seeking protection from any "coercive action", in the money laundering case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Read MoreFourth wave of Covid-19 hits Middle East, WHO sounds alarm over delta variantThe delta variant of the coronavirus has now triggered a fourth wave of the pandemic in the Middle East, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Thursday, adding that the surge in Covid-19 infections and deaths is primarily being reported among people who are yet to be vaccinated. Read MoreUnder fire for rape comments, Goa CM says statement taken out of contextGoa chief minister Pramod Sawant has said his comments asking parents to introspect what two girls were doing the whole night on a beach after they were raped on Sunday last were taken out of context while insisting the safety of citizens was his top priority. “Safety of children, especially the minor ones, has to be a shared responsibility. Our right to security has to be strengthened further with more cautiousness. Children, especially minors, need guidance from their elders,” Sawant said in a statement late on Thursday. Read MoreWATCH | ‘Aimed at strengthening Afghanistan…’: What India said on peace-building at UNGAPost on stolen peaches prompts neighbour to do this. Heartening tale wows people“Wherever there is a human being, there is an opportunity for a kindness,” these words, written several years ago by Roman philosopher Seneca, perfectly capture the essence of this post which is now winning people’s hearts on Instagram. There is a possibility that the story of a thoughtful act will win you over too. This is a story of how a neighbour reacted when an individual’s peaches were stolen from their tree. Read More'He might be the biggest key for India': Steyn names 'out of the box' pick to be Virat Kohli's 'trump card' in EnglandThe five-Test series between India and England starting August 4 in Nottingham promises to be an enthralling contest. With India going ahead with one of the best teams in England, many believe this could be their best chance of registering a Test series win in England. India last won a series in England back in 2007, after which they lost the 2011 series 0-4, 2014 series 1-3, and 2018 series 1-4. Read MoreCelina Jaitly shares old breastfeeding photo, recalls being trolled for 'child neglect and impossible body'Actor Celina Jaitly, in a lengthy Instagram post, remembered how she was trolled for sharing a picture of herself as she breastfed her newborn baby. Celina Jaitly, who gave birth to two sets of twins, shared a throwback picture from nine years ago on Instagram late Thursday. Read MoreHere’s how to wish your friends a ‘Happy Friendship Day’ in 10 Indian languagesFrom being strangers in an academic institute or workplace to now being inseparable, we all nurture bonds of intimate friendship with some people who we can talk to for endless hours, without hesitancy and with the assurance that they got our back and vice versa. With Friendship Day 2021 just around the corner, here’s how you can wish your friends a “Happy Friendship Day” in different Indian languages. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-top-court-to-hear-ex-maharashtra-hm-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-101627614941642.html
30-07-2021||India||Bike-borne assailants shoot mayor dead in Bihar’s Katihar||Mayor of Katihar, Bihar, was shot dead on Thursday evening. Forty-year-old Shivraj Paswan was returning home after holding a meeting when the incident took place. Paswan had a real estate business. The incident took place within hours of the killing of criminal Guddu Miya who was also engaged in real estate business in neighbouring Purnia. Reports said Paswan was on his way home on his bike when three armed men stopped him near Santoshi Chowk and shot at him before fleeing the scene. Also Read | RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav says Mahua Moitra’s ‘Bihari gunda’ jibe is ‘saddening’He was rushed to Katihar Medical College and Hospital (KMCH) where a team of doctors declared him dead. Locals said that the criminals fled after the incident by firing several rounds.Police did not rule out Paswan’s nature of business for his killing. They are looking at the CCTV footage of the area. “We hope to case soon,” a senior police officer said.Hundreds of people gathered at KMCH and heavy police reinforcements were deployed to control the crowd. Roads were sealed and extensive checking of vehicles started.In Purnia, Guddu Miya was shot dead at a crowded chowk in Madhubani locality under Madhubani police outpost earlier in the evening. Miya had several criminal cases pending against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bikeborne-assailants-shoot-mayor-dead-in-bihar-s-katihar-101627614848264.html
30-07-2021||India||Under fire for rape comments, Goa CM says statement taken out of context||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has said his comments asking parents to introspect what two girls were doing the whole night on a beach after they were raped on Sunday last were taken out of context while insisting the safety of citizens was his top priority. “Safety of children, especially the minor ones, has to be a shared responsibility. Our right to security has to be strengthened further with more cautiousness. Children, especially minors, need guidance from their elders,” Sawant said in a statement late on Thursday.Sawant said as the head of a government and as a father of a 14-year-old daughter, he was deeply pained and disturbed over the incident. “The pain...is inexplicable. So, when I spoke about shared responsibility for minor children, it was out of concern, care, and love for my fellow citizens and our children.”Also Read | Goa CM faces flak for asking parents of rape why girls were out so lateHe said at no point did he try to deny the right to security. “Goa Police has been a truly professional force especially when it comes to the security of women and children. They have already acted swiftly and arrested the accused and let me assure you that I shall ensure that the culprits get the most stringent punishment under the law. The safety of our citizens is always my...top priority.”The statement came after Sawant drew flak over his earlier comments. “The chief minister owes an apology to the parents of the minor girls. Such an irresponsible statement...very insensitive statement... when actually he should be comforting the parents, giving them solace and courage by his timely action and by actions to prevent further such instances,” said Goa Forward Party leader Vijai Sardesai.“It is victim-blaming which is shifting the responsibility of law and order and security of the state from the government and the home department that he heads to the parents of the children.”Aam Aadmi Party leader Rahul Mhambre said if Sawant is helpless, he is unfit for the officeIn a tweet, independent legislator Rohan Khaunte said: “It is shocking that @goacm (Sawant) is blaming parents for allowing their children to venture out at night claiming that it is not safe. If the state government can’t assure us our security, who can give it? Goa has a history of being a safe state for women, that tag is being lost in @BJP4Goa (Bharatiya Janata Party) rule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-fire-for-rape-comments-goa-cm-says-statement-taken-out-of-context-101627614847071.html
30-07-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over northwest India today||The wet spell over northwest India will continue today with gradual reduction from tomorrow. Widespread rain will however continue over many parts of Uttar Pradesh for the 4-5 days, according to India Meteorological Department A well marked low pressure area is lying over Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining Bangladesh. It is likely to move west-northwestwards across Jharkhand, south Bihar and southern parts of Uttar Pradesh during the next 48 hours. Under its influence, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during July 29 to 31 and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh till August 3. Isolated extremely heavy falls (more than 20cm) are likely over Gangetic West Bengal on July 29; over Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh on July 30 and over East Madhya Pradesh on July 31.Also Read | Delhi weather: Moderate rain likely today, says IMDThe western end of the monsoon trough at mean sea level is passing through north of its normal position, while its eastern end is near its normal position. There is high wind convergence from Arabian Sea to plains of northwest India at lower levels. The current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Punjab and Haryana till today and reduce thereafter. Fairly widespread rrainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Widespread rain with heavy to very heavy falls is likely to continue over East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh during July 29-August 2. It is likely to increase from today. Isolated extremely heavy falls are likely over East Rajasthan during July30-August 1 and over West Madhya Pradesh on July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-northwest-india-today-101627613406997.html
30-07-2021||India||India and US to jointly host Indo-Pacific Business Forum in October||India and the US will virtually co-host the fourth annual Indo-Pacific Business Forum (IPBF) in October, the State Department has announced.The IPBF, now in its fourth year, is the leading event to promote trade, investment, and economic cooperation between the United States and its partners throughout the Indo-Pacific region.The two-day online event from October 28 will be co-hosted by the US and India in partnership with the US Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Indian Industry, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, and the US-ASEAN Business Council (USABC).Observing that the IPBF advances a vision for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, and inclusive, the State Department said that government and business leaders from the US, India, and across the Indo-Pacific region will exchange ideas through interactive discussions organised around three broad themes: Economic Recovery and Resilience; Climate Action and Digital Innovation.“Attendees will also be able to explore regional government and business partnerships and commercial opportunities. The IPBF will showcase high-impact private sector investment and government efforts to support market competition, job growth, and high-standard development for greater prosperity and economic inclusion in the Indo-Pacific,” said the State Department.The event will be conducted via a secure online conferencing platform, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-us-to-jointly-host-indo-pacific-business-forum-in-october-101627611458709.html
30-07-2021||India||Dhanbad judge death: Jharkhand HC says case sensitive, needs to be probed||The Jharkhand High Court has taken suo motu cognizance of the killing of a district judge in Dhanbad while he was on his morning jog and the states' advocate general said the decision upholds the sensitivity of the case, according to news agency ANI. "A judge has been killed. Whether it is an accident or murder we need to find it. It is a very sensitive case and hence the court has taken suo moto cognizance," advocate general Rajiv Ranjan told ANI.Additional district and sessions judge Uttam Anand was killed on Wednesday morning after he was hit by an auto-rickshaw when he was out for his morning walk.The high court has sought details from the police and the state government. "The courts want the investigation to be done properly, it is the main purpose," Rajiv Ranjan also said. "The investigation will follow all the important points and we will examine them from different angles" he added.Also read | Supreme Court Bar Association president demands CBI probe in Dhanbad judge deathThe Dhanbad Police have filed a murder case after CCTV camera footage of the incident showed the auto-rickshaw deliberately swerving on an empty road to hit down judge Uttam Anand.They have arrested two people, who were allegedly on the auto-rickshaw at the time of the accident. The auto-rickshaw was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridh district on Wednesday night itself. It was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad."Two persons, identified as Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma have been arrested and the auto was seized from their possession,” Amol V Homkar, inspector general of police (operations), said. "They have confessed to the crime. Further investigation will be done carefully," Homkar added.Also watch | 'Murder' mystery of Dhanbad judge hit by an auto deepens; SIT to probeThe Dhanbad Police have also formed a 14-member special investigation team (SIT) to be headed by the additional director general of police Sanjay Anand Lathkar to investigate the matter. Dhanbad Police are yet to reveal the motive of the alleged killers of judge Uttam Anand.Also read | 'Inappropriate to speak without evidence': Jharkhand health min on judge's deathThe family of the judge has demanded a probe into his death by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “The CCTV camera footage makes it very clear that it has been done as part of the conspiracy. We demand an impartial probe headed by a judge or the CBI,” Subham Sambhu, the younger brother of Uttam Anand, told reporters.The president of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president and senior advocate Vikas Singh also demanded an independent probe by CBI into judge Anand's death.He was reportedly hearing some high profile criminal cases. He recently rejected the bail plea of a gangster from Uttar Pradesh, who is in jail in connection with a high profile murder case in Dhanbad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhanbad-judge-death-jharkhand-hc-says-case-sensitive-needs-to-be-probed-101627610667194.html
30-07-2021||India||Attention, IT professionals! US to conduct rare 2nd lottery for H-1B visa, details here||The United States has announced that it will conduct another lottery for the H-1B visa, providing a rare second chance to the hundreds of IndiaIT professionals who were not successful in the first random selection. The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) decided to conduct the rare second lottery for H-1B visas after it was seen that the last computerised draw of lots, held earlier this year, did not raise enough Congressional mandated H-1B visas.“We recently determined that we needed to select additional registrations to reach the Fiscal Year (FY) 2022 numerical allocations," the USCIS said in a statement. "On July 28, we selected previously submitted electronic registrations using a random selection process.”H-1B visa second lottery: Petitions begin next weekThe USCIS said that it has already started selecting the registrations submitted earlier; however, the petition filing period will begin on August 2 and close on November 3. Initially, the filing period for those with selected registrations for FY 2022 was from April 1, 2021, through June 30, 2021."Individuals with selected registrations will have their myUSCIS accounts updated to include a selection notice, which includes details of when and where to file," the USCIS explained, providing details of the random selection process.H-1B visa second lottery: Who will be eligible?H-1B cap-subject petitions can only be filed by those petitions whose registrations have been selected for FY 2022, the USCIS said.“Registration selection only indicates that petitioners are eligible to file H-1B cap-subject petitions; it does not indicate that the petition will be approved. Petitioners filing H-1B cap-subject petitions, including those petitions eligible for the advanced degree exemption, must still submit evidence and establish eligibility for petition approval based on existing statutory and regulatory requirements,” the USCIS added.H-1B visa second lottery: How to file petitions?H-1B cap-subject petitions must be properly filed at the correct service center and within the filing period indicated on the relevant registration selection notice, the USCIS said.There is no provision for online filing. Petitioners must file their respective H-1B petitions on paper and include a printed copy of the applicable registration selection notice with the FY 2022 H-1B cap-subject petition.The H-1B visa is the most sought-after among Indian information technology (IT) professionals since it is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations requiring theoretical or technical expertise. Several tech companies in the US depend on the H-1B visa to hire thousands of workers from nations like India and China each year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attention-it-professionals-us-to-conduct-rare-2nd-lottery-for-h-1b-visa-details-here-101627608970080.html
30-07-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear plea today against Ramdev's remarks on allopathy||The Delhi high court will on Friday hear a plea by seven doctors' associations against Yoga guru Ramdev for allegedly spreading misinformation through his statements against allopathy, news agency ANI reports. On Monday, the high court adjourned the hearing on a petition filed by the Resident Doctors Association of All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) against Ramdev. The matter was adjourned as the single-judge bench of Justice C Harishankar, who was hearing the matter did not sit.Ramdev, the association alleged, was misleading and misrepresenting that allopathy was responsible for the deaths of several people infected by Covid-19, and insinuating that allopathic doctors were causing the deaths of the patients. It submitted that Ramdev was sowing doubts in people's minds with respect to the safety and efficacy of not only allopathic treatments but also Covid-19 vaccines.The plea stated that it is apprehended that Ramdev's statements can influence lakhs of people and divert them from allopathic treatment which is prescribed as the standard form of care even by the government.The association also alleged in the plea that the misinformation campaign was nothing but an advertisement and marketing strategy to further the sales of the product sold by Ramdev, including Coronil which claims to be an alternative treatment for Covid-19. It pleaded that with the third wave of Covid-19 likely to set in August, it is imperative that Ramdev's sustained misinformation campaign be brought to a halt.The high court issued summons to Ramdev on June 3 on a plea by the Delhi Medical Association (DMA) in connection with his alleged statements against allopathic medicines and claims regarding Patanjali's Coronil kit. It asked Ramdev's counsel orally to tell him not to make any provocative statement till the next date of hearing on July 13 and respond to the suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-hear-plea-today-against-ramdev-s-remarks-on-allopathy-101627605010504.html
30-07-2021||India||Kishtwar cloudburst: Search on for survivors, IAF makes 8 sorties||At least 19 people are still missing in Honzar village of Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district, more than 48 hours since a flash flood ravaged the area following a cloudburst on Wednesday morning. The Kishtwar relief operation is being led by teams deployed by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). The Indian Army has also joined the civil administration and the state police in conducting the rescue and relief efforts. However, as of Thursday night, no survivors or bodies could be found, officials said.Although a rescue operation to look for the missing is on, police officials familiar with the matter told HT that chances of finding any survivors "look bleak".Also Read | Kishtwar cloudburst: Rescue teams search for survivorsThe Indian Air Force (IAF), which also joined the operation, conducted eight helicopter sorties on Thursday evening despite bad weather and distributed relief material to the cloudburst-hit Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir."Three IAF helicopters -- one each from Jammu, Udhampur, and Srinagar -- were utilised for airlifting joint teams of the NDRF and the SDRF to Kishtwar," Jammu-based army spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand told news agency PTI.The helicopters flew a total of eight sorties and transported from Sondar to Kishtwar a relief load of 2,250kg, 44 NDRF and SDRF personnel, four medical assistants, and two patients in critical conditions for specialised treatment.Disaster response personnel were rushed to Kishtwar as soon as news of the cloudburst broke out. On Wednesday evening, seven bodies were retrieved and 17 injured were rescued. Six of the injured were shifted to the Kishtwar district hospital in view of their critical condition.Officials say the relief operation is taking a hit as Honzar village neither has any road connectivity nor a mobile phone network. In fact, it takes five hours of trekking just to reach the village from the nearest road.The administration of Jammu and Kashmir has announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the tragic cloudburst in Kishtwar. Those grievously injured will be provided with ₹50,000 each, while the SDRF will also disburse ₹12,700 separately to each of the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-search-on-for-survivors-iaf-makes-8-sorties-101627604972670.html
30-07-2021||India||Hearing in Sri Krishna Janmabhumi suit to resume today||A court in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura will on Friday resume the hearing of Sri Krishna Janmabhumi suit seeking the shifting of a 17th-century mosque from a temple, which many believe is the birthplace of Lord Krishna. The court on July 24 adjourned the hearing on the Thakur Keshav Dev Ji Mahraj vs Intazamia Committee case. "Both the parties so far have presented written statements in support of their submission," district government counsel (civil) Sanjai Gaur said that day, news agency PTI reported.Defence counsel Niraj Sharma said that since the maintenance of the status quo before 1947 is mandatory as per the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991, the suit deserved rejection. However, advocate Mahendra Pratap Singh claimed that the suit does not come under the purview of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991.Singh said that the act also says that it would not apply if the dispute predates 1947. He added that since the construction made on the part of the land of Keshav Deo temple are covered by Ancient Monument and Archeological Sites and Remains Act 1958, the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, would not apply, and hence the suit is maintainable.On June 23, petitioners in the case offered the opposing parties representing Muslims one-and-a-half times more land some distance away from the Braj area where the temple and mosque that are subject of the legal dispute are currently located and urged them to give up their claim on the land.The offer was made by the petitioners quoting the 2019 judgment by the Supreme Court in the Ram Janmabhoomi case, where the top court ruled in favour of the Hindu parties but asked the government to provide land to Muslims for a mosque. According to the petitioners, the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board and the management committee of Shahi Masjid, Eidgah should accept the offer to resolve the matter amicably.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hearing-in-sri-krishna-janmabhumi-suit-to-resume-today-101627601984914.html
30-07-2021||India||Heavy rain likely over east, west, central India; red alert for these states||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said intense rainfall is likely over eastern, western, and central parts of India till August 1 and issued a red alert for heavy rain in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand on Friday.IMD said on Thursday the current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over Jammu and Kashmir till Friday and come down after that. At least seven people were killed and several injured after a flash flood hit Honzar village in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district following a cloudburst early on Wednesday.The Met department said the active southwest monsoon will gain more intensity in the coming days due to which heavy to very heavy rain (115 to 204mm) is likely in Nagaur, Sikar and Ajmer districts. It has issued a red alert for these areas. IMD has issued an orange alert for Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Tonk, Kota, Bhilwara, Baran, Churu and Jhalawar districts.Also read | From heatwaves to rainfall records: An extreme July for Delhi’s weatherIMD has also issued an orange alert of heavy rainfall for 15 districts of Madhya Pradesh. Heavy rain along with thundershowers and lightning are likely to lash isolated places in the districts and the rainfall is likely to range from 64.5mm to 115.5mm, it said.An upper air circulation over east Uttar Pradesh was bringing forth moisture to north-east Madhya Pradesh, causing rain in areas situated close to the border of that state.For Delhi, the weatherman has predicted a "generally cloudy sky with moderate rain" on Friday. Heavy to very heavy rain has been forecast for Kolkata till Friday morning.Also read | Climate change behind frequent cloudbursts: ExpertsMeanwhile, 175 tourists were stranded in Himachal Pradesh’s Lahaul-Spiti following a cloudburst and landslides triggered by heavy showers, while two people died in separate rain-related incidents in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.Rescue operations were underway on Thursday to trace 20 people missing after a cloudburst hit the Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir with authorities pressing more teams into action. Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar has sought helicopter support from the state government for their evacuation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-over-east-west-central-india-red-alert-for-these-states-101627603497143.html
30-07-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear ex-Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh's plea seeking protection in money laundering case today||The Supreme Court is on Friday set to hear a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, seeking protection from any "coercive action", in the money laundering case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Anil Deshmukh, accused of money laundering, is being probed by the ED for alleged extortion from a bunch of orchestra bars in the city. According to the allegations, an amount of ₹4.7 crore, collected as "extortion" from the orchestra bars by dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze allegedly on Deshmukh's instructions, was later transferred to the former Maharashtra home minister's Nagpur-based educational trust by his son, Hrishikesh. The transaction was routed via two hawala operators and was showed as a 'donation', as per the allegations.Also Read | Allegations of corruption against Anil Deshmukh: CBI raids 12 places in MaharashtraDeshmukh is the president of the trust and his two sons, Salil and Hrishikesh, are trustees.The 71-year-old leader of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) earlier skipped summons issued by the ED seeking appearance for inquiries. In his plea to the Supreme Court, Deshmukh has now challenged the summons issued by the central agency and sought protection for both himself and his son, Hrishikesh.A Supreme Court bench, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar, adjourned the matter earlier this week for a hearing on Friday and instructed Deshmukh's legal counsel to provide a copy of the plea to the ED and the state government of Maharashtra.The top court is scheduled to hear the case at 2pm on Friday.Also Read | Anil Deshmukh writes letter to ED, claims probe against him not transparentThe case against the former home minister was registered on May 11. On June 25, the ED raided Deshmukh's residences in Nagpur, Mumbai, and three other places. Before that, in April, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducted raids at four premises of Deshmukh after registering an FIR against him in connection with the case.After the raids, Deshmukh said that former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh made false allegations against him after he was removed from the post over his suspicious role.Param Bir Singh, in his letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, had alleged that Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore every month.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-hear-friday-anil-deshmukh-plea-maharashtra-ed-money-laundering-case-101627602117360.html
30-07-2021||India||‘Against SC order’: Delhi assembly wants new top cop removed||The Delhi assembly on Thursday passed a resolution directing the Delhi government to write to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) seeking immediate withdrawal of the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner, and initiate a fresh selection process. The resolution also refers to a legal precedent on the appointment of police chiefs, and claims Asthana’s appointment flouted that.“This MHA order is in complete violation of the Supreme Court of India judgment dated March 13, 2019 in the case titled: Prakash Singh Vs Union of India. The judgment clearly lays down that no individual who has less than six months of service left, can be considered for appointment as head of a police force anywhere in the country. It is a widely known fact that Asthana was to retire from service on July 31 - meaning barely two days later,” read the resolution, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.In May, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana alluded to the judgment when candidates, including Asthana, were being considered for the post of director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The Union home ministry announced the appointment of Asthana, an Indian Police Service officer from the 1984 batch as the new Delhi Police commissioner on Tuesday evening, three days before his retirement as the director general of the Border Security Force (BSF). He replaced Balaji Srivastava, who was given additional charge as commissioner on July 1.Spokespersons from the Union home ministry and Delhi Police did not respond to requests for comment.At least six Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators, including Delhi home minister Satyendar Jain, participated in the discussion and said the aim of Asthana’s appointment was to “create a reign of terror” in the city and slap false cases against AAP legislators. The MLAs added that the move will also demoralise IPS officers from the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre, claiming that Asthana was “parachuted” for the Delhi top cop role despite being a Gujarat cadre officer.The resolution marks the latest chapter in an ongoing (and long-running) war of attrition between the Union government and the AAP government. Delhi Police reports to the Union home ministry, through the city-state’s Lieutenant Governor.Opposing the Centre’s decision, AAP MLA from Burari, Sanjeev Jha, tabled a resolution, on the first day of the monsoon session of the Delhi assembly on Thursday. Calling Asthana “the blue-eyed boy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”, Jha said the senior IPS officer has been sent on a “special mission to Delhi”. Jain and other AAP MLAs called Asthana’s appointment “illegal”, “arbitrary” and “unconstitutional”. The resolution was adopted after a brief discussion. It stated that the House “expresses its strong disapproval” over Asthana’s appointment for a period of one year or till further orders.The Prakash Singh case refers to the appointment of Director Generals of Police or DGPs.AAP MLA Bhupinder Singh Joon said, “If the Centre does not consider the post of DGP as equivalent to Commissioner of Delhi Police, then it is a demotion for Asthana as he has already served as DG, BSF and if the post of CP is equal to that of a DGP, then it is a clear violation of the SC order.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators opposed the resolution saying that the AAP should rather focus on issues affecting the people of Delhi such as waterlogging and bus shortage. “The AAP government is trying to divert attention from its failure by raising such issues. Asthana’s appointment is within all the parameters of the government rules,” said leader of opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri.The resolution passed by the House stated that the post of commissioner of police, Delhi, belongs to the AGMUT IPS cadre. “This appointment of a controversial Gujarat cadre officer, who has faced multiple inquiries on serious charges in the past, will only bring Delhi Police into controversies. Further, it is beyond any reasonable understanding as to why a controversial officer who was removed by this central government from the post of special director CBI in October 2018 and was not considered fit for the post of CBI director only very recently, is being imposed on the Delhi Police,” it said.“Given the past track record of this officer, there is a reasonable apprehension that the Central Government will use him for foisting false cases on political rivals to create a reign of terror in the national capital,” the resolution stated.BJP’s Bidhuri said Asthana is a decorated officer who has worked during his different tenures with full vigour and determination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/against-sc-order-assembly-wants-new-top-cop-removed-101627601935824.html
30-07-2021||India||PM unveils education schemes on NEP’s anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Thursday unveiled several education schemes including an academic bank of credits for deposit, withdrawal and storage of academic credentials and flagged off engineering education in five regional languages, to mark the first anniversary of new National Education Policy (NEP).“Options like multiple entry and exit will free students from the restrictions of staying in one class and one course. Similarly, modern technology based Academic Bank of Credit system will bring revolutionary change. This will give confidence to the student in choosing stream and subjects,” Modi said at an event marking one year of the NEP .Prime Minister Modi also said 14 engineering colleges in eight states to start offering degrees in regional languages including Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi and Bengali. “A tool has been developed for translating engineering course in 11 languages. This emphasis on mother tongue as the medium of instruction will instil confidence in the students from poor, rural and tribal background,” said Modi.Engineering education in Indian regional languages has been a key agenda of the education ministry and initially the ministry was pushing to do so through National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) but the move could not go through in 2020 or in 2021.Education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the rolling out of several schemes will help achieve the goals set by the NEP and improve quality of education both in school and higher education.Other initiatives launched by the PM included Vidya Pravesh - a three month play based school preparation module for Grade 1 students, Indian Sign Language as a Subject at secondary level, and NISHTHA 2.0 - an integrated teacher training programme designed by NCERT. SAFAL (Structured Assessment For Analyzing Learning Levels) - a competency based assessment framework for Grades 3, 5 and 8 in CBSE schools, and a website dedicated to Artificial Intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-unveils-education-schemes-on-nep-s-anniversary-101627586761070.html
30-07-2021||India||CM Bommai visits flood-hit Uttara Kannada||Bengaluru: Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday visited the flood-affected areas in Uttara Kannada district in coastal Karnataka and took stock of the situation. He also visited Yellapur and Karwar-Ankola assembly constituencies during the visit. “I have visited Yellapura, Sirsi, Ankola and other parts of the Uttara Kannada. Here, landslides have been reported in several places, homes have been destroyed and six people have died. The roads have been damaged and a major bridge, connecting Yellapura and Sirsi, has been destroyed completely,” said Bommai after his visit. He said that the government is looking for permanent solutions to the problem with the help of experts. “The Western Ghats is a sensitive zone. The soil here is prone to landslides. We had noticed this while developing the Konkan railway. So, we are getting opinions from geologists and other experts to find a solution to the problem,” he said. According to the chief minister, providing compensation to those who lost their homes is the priority for the government. “As of now, we will take all the major repairs such as building roads and bridges,” he added. The government has also asked concerned departments to conduct a survey on crop loss. “I have informed the DCs (Deputy Commissioners) to release the compensation at the earliest. The required funds are already available with the DCs,” said Bommai. So far, 10 people have lost their lives in rain-related incidents and two were reported missing in Karnataka. Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Dharwad and Haveri bore the brunt of the heavy downpour among the 11 affected districts, officials said. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Authority Commissioner said 46,425 people have been evacuated to safety while over 31,000 people have been put up in 246 relief camps. “We are coordinating with SDRF, NDRF, fire department and dam authorities along with district administration,” Rajan (Full name/ designation) said. Over the week, the Opposition had lashed out on the BJP for ignoring the people affected by the floods amidst the change of the guard. Eshwar Khandre, working president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Tuesday had said that the state doesn’t have a government when it is going through a severe calamity. “When people have lost their livelihoods, the legislators of the BJP are fighting within for power. The BJP has failed the people,” he had said. Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, also lashed out at the BJP, alleging that the Centre has failed to come to the aid of the state during the floods. “The state government has also not released funds to aid the flood-affected people. It should cut down on other unwanted expenses and mobilise funds to manage the flood situation and provide relief to the affected. Managing the flood situation should be the first priority of the government,” he added. Bommai, however, defended the government saying the union government has released ₹629 crore for flood relief. In the press conference after taking, oath he said, “We have made arrangement to provide relief to those affected by the floods.” he said, adding that he will visit the flood-affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-bommai-visits-flood-hit-uttara-kannada-101627585859898.html
30-07-2021||India||After CM change, buzz grows over Karnataka cabinet rejig||Bengaluru: Speculations of a cabinet expansion in the newly formed government continued to dominate on Thursday even as newly elected Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday made it clear that a decision on forming the new cabinet will only be taken after he meets PM Narendra Modi and other senior leaders in New Delhi. Bommai on Thursday, however, said that he is planning to leave for Delhi on Friday if Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior leaders give him an appointment where the CM is likely to discuss issues relating to the state including flood relief. Later in the day, his office confirmed that he will be leaving to Delhi and meeting Modi on Friday morning. “The cabinet may not be finalised in this meeting but in the next one,” Bommai said in Bengaluru on Thursday. Earlier in the day, speaking to reporters in Bengaluru, in response to a question about pressure on him from ministerial aspirants, he said, “It is common. Once someone becomes the CM and has to expand the cabinet, it is common.” Leaders aware of the development said that at least 10-13 incumbent ministers serving under former CM BS Yediyurappa are likely to be replaced to make room for new faces, mostly younger, as a way to mitigate the simmering tensions that continues to boil over the naming of Bommai as the chief minister.“At least 10-13 sitting ministers will be replaced and new faces, who are mostly younger, will be given a cabinet berth,” said one senior legislator of the BJP, requesting anonymity.The person cited above is one of the probables for a place in the Bommai’s cabinet.A sizable number of the new faces are likely to be youngsters and some from the core-BJP faction within the party who have long nursed the feeling of neglect under the erstwhile BS Yediyurappa-led government.Interestingly, a number of legislators have continued to throng Yediyurappa’s residence to sway some influence in their favour, indicating that the 78-year-old continues to wield his influence over the newly named chief minister who is known to be a close associate of the former.Another senior party functionary, requesting not to be named, on Wednesday said, “The new cabinet is likely to be on the lines of the one at the union government where seniors made way for new faces.” The forming of the cabinet is also likely to change the caste-equations in the state’s three deputy chief minister-model and there is also a possibility of including a maximum of two more deputy chief minister’s as a way to assuage rising disenchantment, the person cited above said .Meanwhile, a number of seers from the politically active Kuruba community on Thursday demanded KS Eshwarappa not only be retained in the cabinet but also be given a “befitting” position for all the sacrifices he has made to build the party and organisation in the state.One prominent seer said that Eshwarappa, a senior legislator from Yediyurappa’s home district of Shivamogga, said that the former has given just as much as Yediyurappa has given to the party and organization. He also threatened that the Kuruba community will come together to confront the “injustice” if he is denied a position.“We wish to tell the national and state leadership, the party and Sangha Parivara to give him (Eshwarappa) a befitting position for all his efforts,” said the seer. Another seer from the community added that though Eshwarappa should have been considered for the post of chief minister, the party should at least think of making him the deputy chief minister.Other seniors like Jagadish Shettar have already indicated that they would not like to be part of the new cabinet, which some people say, was a way to avoid the humiliation of being left out of the list, expected by next week.“When to expand the cabinet and who to induct as ministers is the prerogative of the chief minister. We will have to abide by his decision,” Murugesh Nirani, the former minister for mines and geology said on Thursday in a statement.Interestingly, Nirani had lobbied hard to get a seat at the cabinet which was possible only this January.The stepping down of Yediyurappa also threatens the earlier arrangement that placated most of the turncoats into the cabinet who were rewarded for helping dislodge the HD Kumaraswamy-led government and instate the BJP in Karnataka in 2019.This, people aware of the developments said, could give rise to more dissent within a group whose connections have been firmly with the positions they hold and not with the party, its ideology or the need to fall in line for the larger interests of setting the system right within the government.“I will talk to the chief minister. Those who have helped form this government and how we should give them their due respect and place, Bommai will think about this and I too will give my suggestions on this,” Yediyurappa said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cm-change-buzz-grows-over-karnataka-cabinet-rejig-101627585500349.html
30-07-2021||India||No deaths of manual scavengers reported in last 5 yrs: Govt in Rajya Sabha||The government told Parliament that no deaths of manual scavengers were reported across the country in the last five years, adding that authorities had extended support under central schemes for rehabilitation of manual scavengers after the practice was banned in 2013.The statement by Union social justice minister of state Ramdas Athawale came in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday to a question by Congress MPs Mallikarjun Kharge and L Hanumanthaiah.“No such deaths have been reported due to manual scavenging,” said Athawale in a written statement, responding to a question about the number of manual scavengers who died in the last five years.The government distinguishes between manual scavenging – a caste-based practice of people cleaning human excreta by hand – and the practice of cleaning sewers and septic tanks though experts point out that the latter is a mere extension of the now-banned practice.While responding to a similar question in the Lok Sabha last year, Athawale had drawn a distinction between the two practices. He had said that no deaths were reported due to manual scavenging but added that 282 deaths of safai karmacharis were reported between 2016 and 2019.In February this year, Athawale told the Lok Sabha that 340 people had died while cleaning sewers or septic tanks in the last five years.In recent years, news reports have pointed to several such deaths of people while cleaning septic tanks and sewers. Most of them were Dalits.In his response on Wednesday, Athawale also mentioned that two government surveys had established that 66692 people were engaged in manual scavenging before 2013. He also mentioned that 14,692 manual scavengers or people dependent on them were assisted financially in 2020-21. “All identified and eligible manual scavengers have been provided one-time cash assistance @ ₹40,000,” Athawale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deaths-of-manual-scavengers-reported-in-last-5-yrs-govt-in-rs-101627585437443.html
30-07-2021||India||2015 Kerala assembly violence: Vijayan defends minister amid row||Thiruvananthapuram: The Opposition Congress -led UDF stormed out of the Kerala assembly on Thursday after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected their demand seeking resignation of education minister V Sivankutty, an accused in the 2015 assembly violence case. An adjournment motion was introduced in the House by Congress member P T Thomas who said it was highly immoral and unjust to allow the minister to continue in the assembly. Though the minister was absent in the house raising speculations the CM later ruled out his resignation “What message you will be giving to students if you continue to allow him in the education ministry. It is a disgrace for a state like Kerala,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan asking the CM to drop him immediately. The chief minister, however, said the court did not get into the merit of the case and it has not taken any specific name. He said all accused legislators were punished by the Speaker after the incident and they were undergoing second punishment. “I feel what happened in the assembly should have been ended there,” he said amid protest from Opposition members who said he was casting aspersions on the judgment of the highest court. He also read out the list of earlier incidents in different Houses to buttress his point. He said in 1997 many ambulances were needed to rush the injured legislators to hospital after violence unfolded in the Uttar Pradesh assembly. But senior legislator Thomas, who introduced an adjournment motion, reminded the CM that a legislator enjoys certain privileges if he speaks and behaves as part of the House proceedings and destroying public property was not part of his privilege. After the CM’s explanation, Speaker M B Rajesh denied permission to the motion and Opposition members stormed out of the house. They later said they will continue to boycott the minister. Many youth outfits also took to the street seeking his exit while a rally of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) outside the assembly turned violent. The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected the state government’s plea to withdraw the case and asked all six accused including the minister to face criminal proceedings for destroying the house property during a ruckus in 2015. “Privileges and immunities are not gateway to claim exemption from the general law of the land, particularly as in this case the criminal law which governs the action of every citizen,” a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said while rejecting the government’s plea. The assembly witnessed violent incidents in March 2015 after the Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) legislators tried to prevent then finance minister KM Mani from presenting the budget alleging his role in the bar bribery case. Angry members snapped mikes, threw chairs, destroyed furniture and damaged lights in the melee, which also resulted in two legislators landing up in hospital. The session was live when the violence took place and property worth ₹2.20 lakh was destroyed in the melee. After coming to power in 2016, the government tried to withdraw the case, only for a local court to reject it. The Pinarayi Vijayan government then moved the high court, which also turned down its plea. The government also invoked the privilege of legislators and public interest to justify its decision to withdraw the case, but the high court rejected it saying privilege was not a licence to unleash violence in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2015-kerala-assembly-violence-vijayan-defends-minister-amid-row-101627585257447.html
30-07-2021||India||TN IPS officer harassment case: Chargesheet filed against former special DGP, SP||Chennai: The Crime Branch Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) on Thursday filed a charge sheet against two accused in a sexual harassment case filed by a woman IPS officer in Tamil Nadu. “We have filed a charge sheet against the suspended special director general of police (DGP) and the Chengalpattu superintendent of police,” said a senior official in the CB-CID not wishing to be named. “We have also recommended departmental action to be initiated against four others.”The CB-CID has filed a 400-page charge sheet before the chief judicial magistrate court in Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district by the agency’s investigating officer of the case, Gomathi (only single name available). The case created a furore in the state and the police academy as the IPS officer accused her superior of sexually harassing her while they were on duty together for former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s tour during the previous AIADMK regime. The alleged sexual harassment took place on February 21, when the complainant had travelled in the car of the special DGP. Chengalpattu SP, who was also subsequently suspended, is accused of colluding with the main accused and for using the police force to prevent the victim from entering Chennai to file the complaint.On February 27, the CBCID registered an FIR against the special DGP on several charges under the Indian Penal Code and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2020. Later, an FIR was also registered against the Chengalpattu SP. Departmental action recommended against the four police officers are- the then DIG of Trichy zone, the then Inspector General of Police of the Central Zone, the then SP of Automation and the then Deputy Commissioner of police of the headquarters. The Madras high court took up the case suo moto to monitor the investigations led by the CB-CID, and on June 18, the court gave the agency an extension of six weeks to file its final report. The court had refrained the media from naming the complainant as well as the accused. The Internal Complaints Committee, which conducted an independent enquiry, has already submitted its preliminary report to the Secretary of the state’s Home Department. Another officer said that the CBCID completed e-filing on Tuesday and they would get a charge sheet number on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-ips-officer-harassment-case-chargesheet-filed-against-former-special-dgp-sp-101627585077264.html
30-07-2021||India||TN IPS officer sexual harassment case: Chargesheet filed against accused||The Crime Branch Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) on Thursday filed a chargesheet against two accused to be prosecuted in the sexual harassment case filed by a woman IPS officer in Tamil Nadu, HT has learnt.“We have filed a chargesheet against the suspended special director general of police (DGP) and the Chengalpattu superintendent of police,” said a senior official in the CB-CID not wishing to be named. “We have also recommended departmental action to be initiated against four others,” the official added.The CB-CID has filed a 400-page chargesheet before the chief judicial magistrate court in Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district by the agency’s investigating officer of the case, Gomathi (only single name available). The case created a furore in the state as well the police academy as the IPS officer accused her superior of sexually harassing her while they were on duty together for former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s tour during the previous AIADMK regime. The alleged sexual harassment took place on February 21 when the complainant travelled in the car of the special DGP. Chengalapttu SP, who was also subsequently suspended, is accused of colluding with the main accused and for using the police force to prevent the victim from entering Chennai to file the complaint.On February 27, the CB-CID registered an FIR against the special DGP on several charges under the Indian Penal Code and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2020. Later, an FIR was also registered against the Chengalpattu SP. Departmental action was recommended against four police officers who include the then DIG of Trichy zone, the then Inspector General of Police of the Central Zone, the then SP of Automation and the then Deputy Commissioner of police of the headquarters. The Madras high court took up the case suo motu to monitor the investigations led by the CB-CID. On June 18, the court gave the agency an extension of six weeks to file its final report. The court had refrained the media from naming the complainant as well as the accused. The Internal Complaints Committee which conducted an independent enquiry has already submitted its preliminary report to the secretary of the state’s home department. Another officer said that the CB-CID has completed e-filing on Tuesday and they would get a chargesheet number on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-ips-officer-sexual-harassment-case-chargesheet-filed-against-accused-101627585018934.html
30-07-2021||India||CBI suspects Pak hand in ISRO spy case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing the conspiracy in the infamous ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) spy case on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that it suspects the hand of Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence (ISI) in the case, HT has learnt.The premier investigation agency made this submission while opposing the anticipatory bail plea of the former joint director of Intelligence Bureau (IB) RB Sreekumar. This is the first time the CBI is taking the name of a foreign agency in the sensational case. Opposing his bail plea additional solicitor general SV Raju told the court it was a serious case and some foreign agencies, including the ISI, were involved in the conspiracy to sabotage the country’s cryogenic project. Later, the court granted him interim bail and directed the CBI not to arrest him till the next hearing.Sreekumar was accused of hatching a conspiracy to frame cryogenic division head, Nambi Narayanan, in the case by the CBI. Earlier, the court had granted interim bail to first accused S Vijayan and another accused S Dugadutt, both Kerala police officers. The court is expected to take the case again on Monday. The spy case surfaced in 1994 when two women from the Maldives were arrested in the state capital on charges of overstaying in the country. Later, police arrested ISRO scientists Nambi Narayanan and Sasikumaran Nair after their numbers figured in their dairies.Heading the cryogenic division of the ISRO, Narayanan and Nair were charged with espionage and other sections. But in 1995, both were acquitted after the CBI inquiry and the case was dismissed. Though the state government filed an appeal in the apex court it was also rejected in 1998.It was a long fight for justice for Narayanan since then. Later, the apex court ordered enough compensation to him and constituted a judicial commission which later recommended a central agency to probe the conspiracy angle. Former circle inspector of Pettah police station S Vijayan, former Kerala police chief Sibi Mathew and RB Sreekumar are among the accused in the case. They were charged with conspiracy, framing of false evidence and illegal custody.Sreekumar was a Gujarat cadre IPS officer and had an uneasy relationship with PM Modi when he was the chief minister. He was on deputation with the IB when the case surfaced and claimed that he had no role in the case and that he never met or interrogated Narayanan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-suspects-pak-hand-in-isro-spy-case-101627584539715.html
30-07-2021||India||Not a single instance of govt intervention since new IT rules: I&B secy||Information and broadcasting secretary Amit Khare on Thursday said that the government has not received a single serious complaint where it had to intervene regarding content on over the top (OTT) platforms, such as Netflix and Hotstar, and digital news media outlets since the new intermediary and digital media rules came into effect on February 25.“In the last five months, there has not been a single occasion when the oversight mechanism of the government was used to resolve any complaints,” Khare said. “This was the purpose of creating a self regulating mechanism; it was always an enabling provision.”The last major complaint received by the ministry was respect to Amazon Prime original show Tandav. Complainants said the show disrespected religious sentiments, said an official familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. The government also sought a response from the makers of the show. The cast and crew have since apologised.Khare added that the lack of complaints, however, did not obviate the need for the emergency powers possessed by the government to order a takedown of content. “The provision may be required at a later stage but only to enable the government to act in case of emergency. As you can see, the government has not had to intervene even once until now.”The new intermediary and digital media guidelines also institute a three-tier mechanism for grievance redressal with an inter-ministerial committee at its apex, require platforms to appoint grievance redressal officers in case of OTT and digital news media platforms, and give the I&B ministry takedown powers over the content circulated online.The takedown powers, which for the first time covered news media outlets, are provided for under section 69(A) of the information technology act. A designated officer of the IT minister, at present joint secretary Vikram Sahay, can order takedown of content under the section in the interest of the integrity and sovereignty of India or if it is seen as a threat to public order.The provision was a major cause of concern, with news media platforms raising their voice against the section stating that it will lead to censorship of content. The rules, which were notified in February, have been challenged in the court by some media companies.“There was a misapprehension that the government will use the oversight mechanism for day-to-day business,” Khare said. “But that is not the case.”While there is no requirement for the digital news media publishers to be registered with the ministry, information pertaining to their grievance redressal officer in India, self-regulating body of which the publisher is a member and the details of the editor were sought by the ministry on May 26. Nearly 1800 digital media outfits and 41 over the top platforms have already shared these.The self regulating bodies of the platforms have also created their own oversight mechanism, which form the second tier of the self regulation system. For the Indian Broadcasting and Digital Foundation, the committee will be headed by Justice (retd) Vikramjit Sen, for IAMAI it will be Justice Arjan Kumar Sikri (retd) and for the News Broadcasters Federation it will be former CJI Jagdish Singh Khehar, the official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-single-instance-of-govt-intervention-since-new-it-rules-came-into-effect-i-b-secy-101627584297295.html
30-07-2021||India||Atanu lights spark, hope rises for India||Atanu Das’s heart was racing, but you could not tell that from his demeanour. He had one shot to beat a two-time Olympic gold medallist (the 2012 individual gold and the team gold here just a few days back), Oh Jin Hyek.Hyek had the luxury of going first in the single arrow tie-breaker. He shot a 9. Das had just one possibility for a win, a bullseye 10. Beads of sweat formed on his face as he pulled on the bowstring on a hot and humid day at the Yumenoshima Park Archery Field. To make matters trickier, there was a light breeze that swirled around the range. Das held on to the drawn bowstring for longer than he usually does. He wobbled, or so it seemed. Then the arrow flew and landed. It was a 10. The moment aptly summed up a turnaround in India’s performance at the Tokyo Olympics, with more athletes stepping into contention as the first week of competition started to wind down. There were no medals on offer for the Indians in competition on the sixth day of competition in Tokyo 2020, but it was a day to remember for the thrills it provided, for the fighting wins from many of the Indians in action, and for the hope it raised for the days to follow.PV Sindhu wrapped up her Round of 16 match against world No. 12 Mia Blichfeldt in straight games, dominating the match and pulling out an array of cross-court backhands, smashes and drop shots. India’s first superheavyweight boxer, Satish Kumar, put himself one win away from a medal with a powerful victory in his first match to move into the quarterfinal. And the Indian hockey team managed to script a remarkable turnaround by defeating the 2016 Olympic champions Argentina 3-1, and qualifying for the quarter-finals just four days after they had been hammered 7-1 by Australia. There was also loss, but it came with its own slice of history as the legendary Mary Kom, six-time world champion and London Olympic bronze medallist, bowed out in the Round of 16 in a closely contested match. This was her last Olympics and possibly the last fight of her career. The biggest spark came from Atanu, whose dramatic face-off with Oh Jin Hyek took him to the last-16.“There is pressure in every match in the Olympics,” Das said. “Obviously I was tense. I was banking on my mind, not my heart. I simply focused and tried to go through the situation,” he said. Das’s morning started brightly with a relatively comfortable 6-4 win against Chinese Taipei’s Deng Yu-Cheng. It was a change from the way the Games have gone so far for him. In the ranking round on July 23, he finished a lowly 35, which meant the higher ranked Pravin Jadhav was fielded instead of him with Deepika Kumari in the mixed team event. Against Jin Hyek, Das lost the first set, shooting two 8s and a 9 to the South Korean’s two 9s and a 8. World No. 1 Kumari, who is also his wife, shouted out encouragement and instructions from the stands. “I could hear her voice from behind me all the time,” Das said, flashing two rings, his wedding band and a gold ring in the shape of the Olympic symbol. “Pushing me all the while, telling me to be myself, that I could do it, to stay calm,” he said. In the next two sets, every arrow from Das fetched a 9. Jin Hyek kept pace. Then came the fourth set, where Das’s opponent slipped to a six. Das pounced on the rare error, producing a 10 in reply to take the set. In the fifth, a nerve-wracking set, the two archers scored in lock-step: 10, 9, 9. Das felt that his sight needed slight recalibration. After a quick chat with coach Mim Gurung, the sight was adjusted. It worked. “We saw that all three of his last shots were closer to 10s, one just touched the 10, but we wanted to be more accurate, so that the shoot-off arrow can hit the inner 10,” said Gurung.During the shoot-off, Das drew strength from the fact that he had been in this situation before, against the same opponent, at the 2019 Asian Archery Championship. There, in the bronze medal match, Das had managed an X (the inner circle of 10) to Jin Hyek’s 10 in the tie breaker. “The situation in a match changes rapidly and those who can handle that well, can move forward,” Das said. “I kept my nerves,” he said. Das will have another challenge on his hands against London Games silver medallist Takaharu Furukawa of Japan on July 31.Kumari goes up against Ksenia Perova of Russian Olympic Committeein the Round of 16 on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atanu-lights-spark-hope-rises-for-india-101627584119783.html
30-07-2021||India||Pegasus row: IT panel chief seeks action against officials||The head of the parliamentary committee on Information and Technology, Shashi Tharoor, has written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking action against three government officials for contempt of parliament after they expressed their inability to attend a meeting to discuss the Pegasus spyware controversy, people aware of the matter said.The officials are the secretaries of the ministry of home affairs, the ministry of electronics and information technology, and the department of telecommunications; they were summoned by the panel for a meeting planned on July 28, to discuss the use of the malware to purportedly snoop on Indian citizens . The meeting was eventually called off after panel members from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) boycotted it, leaving it short of the quorum required to hold it.The fact that there was no quorum may come to the rescue of the officials though, an expert in parliamentary matters said.A person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named, said the secretary of MHA sent a letter seeking exemption as he had to attend an unavoidable meeting at the same time. The IT secretary said he was in a meeting with the joint parliamentary committee chairperson on the personal data protection bill. The DoT secretary too expressed an inability to attend the meeting, citing urgent parliamentary work, this person added.“This is a breach of privilege and contempt of Parliament to not attend a departmentally related standing committee meeting,” the person mentioned above quoted the IT panel chief as saying in his letter to the Speaker.A second person familiar with the proceedings said it was extremely rare for officials to skip a meeting like this at such short notice. “I think the last time something like this happened was in 1960s and even then the officials were held accountable,” the person said.Separately, two of the ministries — telecommunications and electronics and IT— sent in background notes to the panel elaborating the current rules through which the government protects citizen data and protocols that can exist for legal interception of communications, the first person quoted above said. The Union home ministry did not submit a background note and neither of the two ministries that did mentioned Pegasus or its use, this person added.A consortium of media organisations began reporting a series of stories since July 18 on a leaked list of 50,000 phone numbers -- some belonging to politicians, journalists and activists -- around the world. The numbers are believed to have been selected for targeting for surveillance by clients of the NSO Group, which makes the military-grade mobile device spyware Pegasus. Of the 50,000 Amnesty International analysed 67 devices, and 37 of these confirmed a Pegasus infection.Dozens of numbers on the list were linked to Indian citizens, including opposition leader Rahul Gandhi, journalists, activists, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and the current electronics and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. The panel summoned officials to hear from the three above mentioned ministries regarding this issue, which has snowballed into one of the main controversies over which protests have broken out in parliament.The government has called allegations regarding the use of Pegasus baseless and devoid of fact.Wednesday’s meeting was called off after the panel failed to achieve quorum, which requires the attendance of at least one-third of the members . The BJP panel members staged a walk out, alleging the panel head was using the committee for a political purpose.According to the first person quoted above, words were exchanged between BJP’s Nishikant Dubey and Congress’s Karti Chidambaram and Trinamool Congress’s Mahua Moitra. Dubey earlier in the day moved a breach of privilege motion against Tharoor, seeking his removal as the panel head.On Thursday, he tagged Trinamool leader and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in a tweet and said he was abused “ by TMC MP Mahua Moitra” and that it exposed the “party’s hatred towards north Indians, especially the Hindi-speaking people, in front of the country”. He had added that Moitra had called him a ‘Bihari Gunda’ thrice in the meeting.Moitra hit back saying that she was a “bit amused by charges of name-calling”. She added that the IT meeting “did not happen” and members did not attend any meeting. “How can I call someone a name who was not even present! Check attendancesheet!” she said in a tweet.The ministries’ responses filed with the panel remain consistent with the government’s stance on lawful interception of information as outlined by Union minister Vaishnaw on July 19.MeitY, in the note mentioned above, said that “privacy of personal data is a fundamental right with reasonable restrictions as enshrined in the Constitution”. It highlighted section 43(A) of the information technology act, which entitles the victim to compensation in case of unauthorised access to their data. It also highlighted the challenges to data privacy.“Anonymity of data stealers provides yet another challenge in finding the perpetrator. Awareness about the need to protect personal data is one of major challenge. Also security w.r.t. hacking and leakage of data is a challenge. New forms of cybercrime like ransomware, where user data and system is hacked and encrypted and ransom is demanded to decrypt the data has emerged as a big challenge,” the ministry said.It added that there is need a for a robust data protection law and that once the Personal Data Protection Bill becomes an Act, it will lay the “foundation of data privacy and cause a paradigm shift in how personal data is perceived, processed and protected in India”.DoT outlined provisions for lawful interception and safeguards for citizens’ data under the Indian telegraph Act. It outlined the grounds under which “the government can intercept and monitor the communication from any telephone number after obtaining authorization from the Union home secretary, who can authorise the interception in any part of the country and home secretary of the State, for that State”.According to former Lok Sabha secretary general PDT Achary, in keeping with convention, the officials who are called have to appear and if they can’t, they have to take the permission of the chairperson. “The rule is that the committee meeting has to be given the highest priority. However, in they are called away for another urgent meeting, they will have to apologise to the chair,” he said. “Not attending is a breach of privilege. If the speaker approves the notice, then the privilege committee will examine the issue.”He said a wilful absence by an official is what becomes a matter of privilege. “But if the committee does not meet, if there is no quorum, then none of this counts. These are all well settled practices,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-it-panel-chief-seeks-action-against-officials-101627584119201.html
30-07-2021||India||2 held in Jharkhand judge’s death case, matter reaches SC||The Dhanbad police have recovered the auto rickshaw that hit the additional district and sessions judge Uttam Anand that led to his death on Wednesday morning and arrested two persons who were allegedly riding the vehicle at the time of the incident.The police on Thursday also formed a 14-member special investigation team (SIT) headed by additional director general of police Sanjay Anand Lathkar to investigate the matter after the Jharkhand High Court (HC) on Thursday took suo-motu cognizance of the incident. Chief Justice of India NV Ramana too spoke to the chief justice of the Jharkand HC Ravi Ranjan on the issue.Director General of Police Neeraj Sinha and Dhanbad senior superintendent of police Sanjeev Kumar attended the hearing in the HC in person and provided details of the investigation to the bench of the chief justice.“Prima facie it appears that the additional district judge has been killed deliberately. The police took immediate action and arrested the two persons who were riding the vehicle and recovered the auto rickshaw. Their interrogation is on. A 14-member SIT has also been constituted to investigate the incident. It is a very sensitive matter and we will ensure that the probe is completed and conduct a speedy trial and punish the guilty,” said Jharkhand Advocate General Rajiv Ranjan, who appeared on behalf of the government before the HC.Responding to the bench’s remark that it would transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation if the investigation was not done professionally, the AG said while it was the prerogative of the court to do this, the progress in investigation after the incident has been satisfactory.The police have filed a murder case in the incident after CCTV footage of the incident showed a vehicle deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down the judge. Uttam Anand was killed on Wednesday morning after he was hit by an unidentified vehicle near the magistrate colony when he was out for his daily morning walk. The auto rickshaw used in the incident, which was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district on Wednesday night itself.“Based on facts that came up during the investigation and the CCTV footage, two people and the auto involved in the crime were identified. Two persons, identified as Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma have been arrested and the auto was seized from their possession. They have confessed to the crime. Further investigation will be done carefully,” said Amol V Homkar, inspector general (operations).While the police are yet to reveal the motive of the alleged killers, the family of the judge, who was cremated in his hometown Hazaribag, demanded a CBI probe. “The CCTV footage makes it very clear that it has been done as part of a conspiracy. We demand an impartial probe headed by a judge or the CBI,” Subham Sambhu, younger brother of Anand, told reporters.Judge Anand was reportedly hearing some high profile criminal cases. He recently rejected the bail plea of a gangster from Uttar Pradesh who is in jail in connection with a high profile murder case of Dhanbad.In Delhi, Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) President and senior advocate Vikas Singh made a demand for an independent probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the death of Anand.Mentioning the matter before the Supreme Court, initially before a bench headed by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and later before Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Singh said: “This is an attack on judicial independence. If the judiciary has to remain independent, judges have to be safe. An ADJ cannot be killed in this manner. This matter should be probed by CBI as local police can be complicit.”CJI Ramana who specially took up the case told the SCBA President that he has spoken to Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan of Jharkhand High Court, who assured him that the matter will be taken up by the High Court on the judicial side. “The chief justice of the high court has spoken to the Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhanbad. Even the Secretary General (of the Supreme Court) spoke to the Registrar General of the high court this morning. If there is any need for us to be involved, we will take it up.”The CJI appreciated the concern shown by the Bar saying, “We are overwhelmed at the initiative shown by SCBA. We appreciate the steps taken but let us not jump into conclusions.”Suspecting it to be a murder, Singh said that the ADJ recently rejected the bail of a notorious gangster and the matter needed probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-held-in-jharkhand-judge-s-death-case-matter-reaches-sc-101627584118712.html
30-07-2021||India||Govt-Oppn meet to end logjam in the works||In a last-ditch attempt to salvage the remaining part of the monsoon session, the government’s floor managers have started reaching out to Opposition leaders to end the logjam arising out of the protests over the Pegasus snooping row and the three farm laws.A senior parliament functionary who asked not to be named said that the government may consider holding a meeting with Opposition leaders from both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha in the next few days to address the issue. A senior Opposition leader maintained that while they will participate in any such meeting , they will continue to insist on their demand for a debate on the Pegasus snooping row in which the phones of Opposition leaders, ministers, journalists and government functionaries were potentially targeted with military-grade spyware.On Thursday, leader of the Rajya Sabha and Union minister Piyush Goyal, and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi met leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to propose a meeting between the parties. According to a Congress leader, Kharge said that the dialogue should be initiated by someone senior -- such as defence minister Rajnath Singh.The monsoon session, the first full sitting of Parliament in 18 months, has faced disruption from its first day over Pegasus, farm laws and spiraling fuel prices. Opposition leaders have raised placards, snatched a statement from the new IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, blown a whistle and stormed the well of both Houses. A Trinamool Congress member, who snatched the minister’s paper, has been suspended for the remainder of the session. The raging Covid-19 pandemic forced Parliament to cut short three sessions and scrap an entire session before this one -- but now there are a mere 11 days left in it.The Opposition claimed that while the government is eager to end the logjam, it has virtually ruled out any debate on Pegasus snooping charges.“There has been no proposal from the government so far on ending this stalemate. Remember, BJP leader Sushma Swaraj had said in January 2011, it is the government’s job to run Parliament, not that of the opposition,” said Jairam Ramesh, the Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha. His reference is to a period when the BJP, in opposition, made it difficult for the Congress-led UPA government to conduct business.A top leader of the ruling dispensation, according to Parliament functionaries, has asked the BJP’s floor managers to try to reach out to Opposition parties to seek a resolution.According to an analysis by PRS Legislative Research, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have functioned only 23% and 13% of their alloted time this session. Only eight bills have been passed in their respective House -- and without any debate and amidst the din.The government has been able to clear just a fraction of its legislative agenda while the Opposition has been able to debate only the Covid-19 situation, one of the several issues it wanted to raise.The strategy groups of the Congress for the two Houses met together on Thursday and the party’s leaders decided to work with Opposition parties and continue the protests.At least three government functionaries added that there is no plan as of now to curtail the session in the wake of the protests. “The government wants to run the House and will seek cooperation from all Opposition parties,” said a senior government leader.A functionary even claimed that the government didn’t immediately seek suspension of the eight Congress MPs who tore placards and threw papers in the House on Thursday “possibly hoping that a situation can be created for amicable negotiations to run the monsoon session”.The session started on July 19 and is scheduled to end on August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govtoppn-meet-to-end-logjam-in-the-works-101627584117315.html
30-07-2021||India||Plea filed in SC against validity of Sachar Panel formed by ex-pm||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court questioning the authority by which former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh constituted the Justice Rajender Sachar Committee in March 2005 to report on the social, educational and economic status of Muslim community in the country.The petition filed by five individuals led by Neeraj Shanker Saxena claiming to be followers of Sanatan Vedic Dharm said, “The notification dated March 9, 2005 issued from the office of Prime Minister nowhere mentions that same was being issued after any Cabinet decision. Thus, it is clear that the then Prime Minister on his own whims issued the direction appointing the Committee to enquire into the social, economic and educational status of Muslim community whereas by virtue of Articles 14 and 15 no religious community can be treated separately.”The committee headed by former Delhi High Court Chief Justice Rajender Sachar submitted its report to the Government of India on November 17, 2006 suggesting a host of recommendations to improve the education, employment and economic standards of Muslims keeping in mind their low representation in government jobs.“The appointment of Sachar Committee was made in violation of Article 77 of the Constitution of India and is unconstitutional and illegal,” said the petition filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain. It also sought an order to restrain the Government from acting upon the report. “The power to appoint a commission to investigate into the conditions of socially and educationally backward classes vests with the President of India under Article 340 of the Constitution of India,” it added.A separate petition filed by the same petitioners challenging the constitutional validity of National Commission for Minorities Act,1992 and special schemes launched by Centre is pending consideration before the top court. In that matter, the Centre filed an affidavit stating that special schemes were decided in pursuance of Sachar Committee report. The petitioners then decided to challenge the validity of the Sachar Committee report after a gap of almost 15 years.The plea argued that Muslims as a religious community cannot be treated as a special class for benefits available to backward classes as this violates fundamental rights of similarly placed Hindus whose conditions were not gone into by the Sachar Committee. The petitioners claiming to be small businessmen repeated some misconceptions about Muslims. “The Committee has shown undue favour to Muslim community. It is matter of fact that Muslim community does not believe in family planning, and they are not very interested to impart education to their children in schools whereas all these aspects go to the root of the matter but the same have not been considered .”Tracing the constitutional policy on this subject, the petition pointed out the Constituent Assembly in its meeting held on October 14, 1949 discussed a proposal on the status of religious communities but accepted the amendment moved by K.M Munshi for appointment of Special Officer by the President only for Schedule Castes and Schedule Tribes to investigate all matters relating to safeguards provided to them in the Constitution.“A proposal which was considered and rejected by the Constituent Assembly cannot be enforced by indirect extra constitutional methods by issuing an order by the PMO,” the petition said. Again, in May 1949, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, the President of the Advisory Committee on Minorities and Fundamental Rights informed that “recommendations relating to providing reservation to minorities would be inappropriate and lead to certain degree of separatism and against the concept of secular democratic State”.The petition also claimed that the economic conditions of Muslims had changed for the better -- and pointed to some of Bollywood’s top actors, and senior government officials and politicians as evidence of this. “Therefore, no special provision can be made in favour of Muslim community as the same being based on religion is clearly forbidden by Article 15 (1) of the Constitution of India.” Article 15 promises that no citizen shall be discriminated on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-filed-in-sc-against-validity-of-sachar-panel-formed-by-former-pm-manmohan-singh-101627583999635.html
30-07-2021||India||Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was executed by Taliban: Report||Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was not simply killed in a crossfire in Afghanistan, nor was he simply collateral damage, but was "brutally murdered" by the Taliban after verifying his identity, according to a report published in a US-based magazine on Thursday.Siddiqui, 38, was on assignment in Afghanistan when he died. The award-winning journalist was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar city.According to the Washington Examiner report, Siddiqui travelled with an Afghan National Army team to the Spin Boldak region to cover fighting between Afghan forces and the Taliban to control the lucrative border crossing with Pakistan.When they got to within one-third of a mile of the customs post, a Taliban attack split the team, with the commander and a few men separated from Siddiqui, who remained with three other Afghan troops.During this assault, shrapnel hit Siddiqui, and so he and his team went to a local mosque where he received first aid. As word spread, however, that a journalist was in the mosque, the Taliban attacked. The local investigation suggests the Taliban attacked the mosque only because of Siddiqui’s presence there, the report said.“Siddiqui was alive when the Taliban captured him. The Taliban verified Siddiqui’s identity and then executed him, as well as those with him. The commander and the remainder of his team died as they tried to rescue him,” it said.“While a widely circulated public photograph shows Siddiqui’s face recognizable, I reviewed other photographs and a video of Siddiqui’s body provided to me by a source in the Indian government that show the Taliban beat Siddiqui around the head and then riddled his body with bullets,” wrote the writer Micheal Rubin, who is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.The Taliban’s decision to hunt down, execute Siddiqui, and then mutilate his corpse shows that they do not respect the rules of war or conventions that govern the behaviour of the global community., the report said.Siddiqui won the Pulitzer Prize in 2018 as part of the Reuters team for their coverage of the Rohingya crisis. He had extensively covered the Afghanistan conflict, the Hong Kong protests and other major events in Asia, Middle East, and Europe.Siddiqui was laid to rest at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard where a sea of mourners gathered to pay their last respects.His body arrived at the Delhi airport in the evening of July 18 and was later brought to his residence in Jamia Nagar where a huge crowd, including his family and friends, had gathered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photojournalist-danish-siddiqui-was-executed-by-taliban-report-101627583649814.html
30-07-2021||India||Din in House over snooping row, farm laws continues||Opposition parties’ protests against the Pegasus snooping row and the three farm laws,marred another day of the monsoon session of Parliament even as the government managed to clear key bills in the two houses.Amid the continuous shouting and sloganeering from Opposition members, the Rajya Sabha passed the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which aims to help the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in the availability of working capital, while agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was able to introduce the Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill.In the Lok Sabha, members of the Bharatiya Janata Party led protests, demanding an apology from Opposition leaders for throwing papers on the Chair.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Thursday that he was “saddened” by the incident and warned of a strict action against “habitual offenders” of the Parliamentary rituals. “I am very hurt over the incident that occurred on July 28. Flinging papers towards the Chair, disregarding the Chair is not in line with the parliamentary practices.” “If this continues, I’ll have to take any action against those members in order to maintain the decorum of the House,” he added.While Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said the Opposition has not been able to put forth its point due to the adamant attitude of the government, parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi hit back, saying that “they (Opposition) threw big bundles of papers towards us, the chair and the media… do they not want to even apologize to the chair?”Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also took a jibe at the Centre over the issues, saying that they “were not allowing” the Opposition to raise the issues of “national importance.”The Congress also accused the government of hiding from discussing Pegasus because they have “a lot to hide”.“I am making a proclamation here that today you discuss Pegasus, tomorrow we will discuss everything. Why are you avoiding discussing Pegasus? They are hiding, they have much to hide,” said Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi during a press conference.The lower house later passed two bills before the proceedings were adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by Opposition members. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 were passed without debate.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/din-in-house-over-snooping-row-farm-laws-continues-101627583817881.html
30-07-2021||India||Bill to acquire medical college passed in C’garh||The Chhattisgarh assembly on Thursday cleared a controversial bill to acquire a private medical college 50 km from state capital Raipur amid loud protests by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which alleged the Congres government signed off on a sweet deal with the college management to bail out the loss-making institution.The Chandulal Chandrakar Memorial Medical College (Acquisition) Bill 2021 was passed by a voice vote after a debate in the assembly where the Congress’ 70 members vastly outnumber the BJP’s 14 lawmakers. BJP legislators later walked out of the assembly, demanding that the government roll back the bill cleared by the assembly moments earlier.Health minister TS Singhdeo, who piloted the bill in the assembly, said the acquisition of the college was a step towards providing health facilities to the poor and common people.“This is the best option to start a government medical college in the state with limited resources,” Singhdeo told the assembly that it will annually cost the exchequer only ₹140 crore to run the college. He also countered claims by the BJP that the medical education regulator, the Medical Council of India, has cancelled the college’s recognition, and said the MCI has sanctioned 150 seats.The medical college was set up in 2013 in memory of the veteran Congress leader Chandulal Chandrakar. The acquisition, however, turned controversial after it emerged that among those on the board of the medical college is a member of the joint family into which chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s daughter is married.During the two-hour-long debate on the bill, Congress leaders emphasised that the bill will not transfer the liabilities of the college but only provide for the acquisition of its assets.The BJP, however, questioned section 8 of the bill that specified that the government would get an assessment of the college’s movable and immovable assets and then pay the owners, twice the assessed value.The leader of the opposition in the assembly Dharamlal Kaushik said this did not stand to reason. “When the government is facing a financial crisis and has a debt of around ₹76,000 crores, an additional government expense of ₹140 crore is not logical. Secondly, why is the government is paying twice the amount of the valuation of the medical college through acquisition? This could lead to corruption which is also not logical,” Kaushik said.Former chief minister Raman Singh said the government should have upgraded an existing 600-bed government hospital in Durg rather than acquiring a loss-making private medical college if the government wanted to expand health facilities. Singh said there was an attempt to sell the college in the past and litigation was still on to recover ₹35 crore paid to the owners in advance.“The bill has been brought to ensure relief to directors from debts,” Singh.Senior BJP MLA Brijmohan Agrawal said the bill is aimed at benefitting only some people. It is even against the interest of people who lent crores of rupees to the college and its employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-acquire-medical-college-passed-in-cgarh-101627583698162.html
30-07-2021||India||Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team gets anticipatory bail from Tripura court||AGARTALA: Twenty-three members of Prashant Kishor’s Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) ordered to appear before the Tripura police for alleged violation of Covid-19 restrictions were granted anticipatory bail by an Agartala court on Thursday, people familiar with the matter said.The team, which arrived in the state last week to assess the potential of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to expand its base ahead of the 2023 state elections, were ordered to stay in their hotel on Sunday evening till their Covid test results come in.The staffers of the political advisory firm tested negative on Tuesday. The same day, the Agartala police ordered them to appear before the police on August 1 in a case relating to violations of Covid guidelines. The group subsequently approached the court for the shield against arrest.“The public prosecutor raised objection for their bail. But the court granted them bail,” said Pijush Kanti Biswas, who appeared for them. Biswas is also president of Tripura Congress unit.Saroj Bhattacharjee, the officer-in-charge of East Agartala police station, suggested the group overreacted.“We got to know that they got bail from the court. But it is absurd to take bail in a (case filed under a) bailable section,” said the officer-in-charge of East Agartala Police Station Saroj Bhattacharjee.Bhattacharjee also insisted that the police didn’t detain them as was alleged by the I-PAC team. “They were served a notice under Section 41A (of the Criminal Procedure Code) on July 27,” the officer said. This section empowers the police to summon a person suspected to have committed a cognizable offence.An I-PAC member said they opted for the arrest shield from the court given how the state administration had acted over the last few days.“The way administration was dealing with us, it was safe to take bail… We had an indication that we might be stopped from leaving the state when we want to go,” the person said.Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, who has been criticised by opposition parties for the restrictions imposed on the team over the last several days, said the government welcomed all guests. “We believe in the culture of Atithi Devo Bhava. But as Independence Day is close, Covid restrictions have been imposed. In this time, movement of any unidentified persons are seen, the police hold an inquiry,” he said, adding that the government did not intend to interfere in the action taken by the police.Meanwhile, seven activists from Congress including Subal Bhowmik, who is also a former BJP vice president, joined Trinamool Congress in the presence of West Bengal education minister Bratya Basu, law minister Malay Ghatak and TMC leaders Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, Derek O’Brien and Ritabrata Banerjee. Subal Bhowmik, who had been with the Congress for decades, joined the BJP in 2014 before returning again to the Congress in 2019.“We took the decision to join the Trinamool Congress due to need of the time and people. Tripura has jungle raj for the past four years. Mamata Banerjee is the only leader who can show direction to the country. The Trinamool Congress will form its government here in 2023 Assembly polls,” Bhowmik told the reporters after joining. BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty said everyone was free to exercise their choice, and the party has no comments to make on this. “But I think that he himself has joined jungle raj party. We can see the reflection of jungle raj in West Bengal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-s-i-pac-team-gets-anticipatory-bail-from-tripura-court-101627583577891.html
30-07-2021||India||ED arrests Ambience Group chairman in money laundering case||Raj Singh Gehlot, chairman of Delhi-based realty firm Ambience Group, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with a money laundering case associated with a bank fraud of ₹902 crore, officials familiar with the developments said. He was remanded to the central agency’s custody for seven days by a Delhi court on Thursday.Gehlot, the owner of Ambience malls in the National Capital Region and the five-star Leela Ambience Convention hotel in east Delhi, has been accused of money laundering worth ₹469 crore. He was arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the central agency late on Wednesday, an ED official said on condition of anonymity.There is clear evidence of diversion of the loan amount through a web of companies, the official added.The central agency is probing the case against Ambience Group on the basis of a 2019 First Information Report registered by the Jammu Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) against M/s Aman Hospitality Pvt Ltd (AHPL), a group company, and its directors for purported money laundering in the construction and development of the five-star ‘Leela Ambience Convention Hotel’ situated at 1, CBD, Maharaj Surajmal Road, Near Yamuna Sports Complex, Delhi.A loan of ₹810 crore was sanctioned to the company by a consortium of banks led by Jammu and Kashmir Bank for developing the hotel. The loan amount along with the interest totaling ₹902 crore has already been declared as non performing asset (NPA).“The investigation conducted so far revealed that Raj Singh Gehlot entered into a criminal conspiracy to fraudulently divert the loan amount by diverting the funds for other purposes such as to settle the loan of other group companies and making fixed deposits as well as diversion of materials to other projects of the Ambience Group,” the officer cited above said.The officer added that an amount of ₹469 crore was found to be diverted to entities and individuals who are controlled by Gehlot and for which he is an authorized signatory.Last year, the anti-money laundering probe agency also raided seven premises, including the office of AHPL, other companies of the Ambience Group, and the residences of Gehlot, directors Dayanand Singh and Mohan Singh Gehlot and their associates in this regard.Gehlot’s communication team was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-ambience-group-chairman-in-money-laundering-case-101627583517756.html
30-07-2021||India||HC stays Nagaland govt’s order on compulsory vaccination||The Kohima bench of the Gauhati high court stayed Nagaland’s order asking government employees to get fully vaccinated or produce Covid-19 negative reports every 15 days, adding to a growing debate on the legality of compulsory vaccination and its potential impact on fundamental rights.The decision, which was made public on Thursday, came on a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the government’s July 17 order issued by the chief secretary. The verdict comes days after a similar judgment by the Manipur high court.In the order, Nagaland told the staff of the civil secretariat and directorates to get vaccinated or produce Covid-19 negative test reports every 15 days to attend office, failing which the government would stop paying their salaries beyond July 31 and they will be sent on unpaid forced leave.During Wednesday’s hearing, the government advocates objected on maintainability of the PIL and submitted that no interim order be passed. However, the court ordered a stay on the government order and directed to list the matter on August 18 along with similar other PILs on the same issue.“Till the returnable date, fees should not be charged for testing from government employees and their salaries should not be stopped for reason of not having being vaccinated,” the court stated. The court also kept the question on maintainability of the PIL open “for the sake of clarity”.This is the most recent in a raft of similar orders and observations by high courts.In Meghalaya, the government had made it mandatory for shopkeepers, vendors, local taxi drivers and others to get themselves vaccinated before resuming businesses. On June 23, the Meghalaya high court ruled against any policy that makes vaccination mandatory to exercise other fundamental rights.The court said mandatory vaccination affects an individual’s right, choice and liberty significantly more than affecting the general public, and impinges upon the autonomous decision of an individual human being of choosing not to be vaccinated.On July 5, the the Aizwal bench of the Gauhati high court observed that restrictions imposed by the Mizoram government on movement and work of persons who are yet to get vaccinated for Covid-19 were arbitrary and violated the provisions of the Constitution.The decision came in response to standard operating procedures issued on June 29 by Mizoram, which included a provision that stated, “Only vaccinated individuals of the family members may be detailed for errands within and around localities having significant Covid19 active cases.”The SOPs also said that only vaccinated persons should be engaged in manning stores, shops or undertaking any works. Store attendants and other employees should be able to produce proof of vaccination. Only those drivers and conductors of commercial passenger vehicles who have been vaccinated should be allowed to operate public transport, according to the SOPs.On July 13, the Manipur high court ruled that “denying people their livelihood by linking their employment to their getting vaccinated would be illegal on the part of the state”.The ruling came after a state government notification proposed to prioritise opening of institutions, organisations, factories, shops, markets, private offices etc where its employees and workers are Covid vaccinated. The government order on June 30 also said that it would also apply to Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act (MNREGA) job card holders and workers of government/private projects.But the court observed that such measures trample upon the freedom of the individual to get vaccinated or choose not to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-stays-nagaland-govt-s-order-on-compulsory-vaccination-101627583517168.html
30-07-2021||India||China targets Antony Blinken for meeting Dalai Lama aide||The Chinese government on Thursday lashed out at the US secretary of state Antony Blinken for meeting Tibetan leader Dalai Lama’s representative in New Delhi, terming it “a violation of the US commitment to acknowledge Tibet being a part of China”.The statement came a day after Blinken began his formal engagements in New Delhi on Wednesday by meeting Ngodup Dongchung of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA). Dongchung presented Blinken with a scarf from the Dalai Lama and conveyed the CTA’s gratitude for the US administration’s backing of the Tibetan cause.“The 14th Dalai Lama is not a mere religious figure, but a political exile who has long engaged in anti-China separatist activities and is trying to separate Tibet from China,” said spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, Zhao Lijian, at a press briefing.Shortly after the meeting, Blinken also met Geshe Dorji Damdul, director of Tibet House in New Delhi, for a civil society roundtable.Asserting that Tibet affairs were purely China’s own affairs and should not be interfered with by any outside forces, Zhao said: “Any formal contact between the US and the Dalai clique is a violation of the US commitment to acknowledge Tibet being a part of China; do not support Tibetan independence, do not support attempts to separate China.”“We urge the US to honour its commitment to stop meddling in China’s internal affairs under the pretext of Tibetan affairs, and offer no support to Tibet independence forces to engage in anti-China separatist activities,” he added.The engagement with Dongchung was seen as the most significant contact between American and Tibetan officials since former president Barack Obama met the Dalai Lama in Washington in 2016 and former CTA head Lobsang Sangay was invited to the White House last November.The meeting also came days after US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman met Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and raised American concerns about human rights, including abuses in Tibet, the anti-democracy crackdown in Hong Kong, and the genocide in Xinjiang.People familiar with the development, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the meetings are being seen as a strong signal of support for the Dalai Lama and was also significant as it was held in India at a time when New Delhi and Beijing are locked in standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).On July 6, in a rare public message from an Indian leader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished the Dalai Lama on his 86th birthday.Weeks later, on July 21, China’s President Xi Jinping visited the Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR) for the first time, beginning his visit from a border village close to the border with Arunachal Pradesh.In May, China said it would choose the successor to the Dalai Lama through “drawing lots from the golden urn” with the candidate subject to the approval of the Communist Party China (CPC)-ruled central government.Citing historical precedence, a government policy paper on Tibet, said that the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama and other grand Living Buddhas has been subjected to approval by the central government since an ordinance passed during the Qing Dynasty (1644-1911).“The ordinance stipulated that the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama and other grand Living Buddhas had to follow the procedure of ‘drawing lots from the golden urn’, and the selected candidate would be subject to approval by the central government of China,” the White Paper, titled “Tibet Since 1951: Liberation, Development and Prosperity”, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-targets-antony-blinken-for-meeting-dalai-lama-aide-101627583400613.html
30-07-2021||India||Centre approves 27% OBC, 10% EWS quota in medical courses||The Union government on Thursday announced 27% reservation for other backward class (OBC) students and 10% for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the all India quota of seats for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses, accepting a longstanding demand months before crucial elections in five states.The decision is seen as an effort by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to consolidate its support among the OBCs and the poor ahead of upcoming state elections early next year, including in Uttar Pradesh, where OBC communities have significant electoral heft.The reservation will be implemented from this academic session and benefit 5,500 students, said the Union health ministry. This includes 1,500 undergraduate OBC students and 550 EWS students, and 2,500 postgraduate OBC and 1,000 EWS candidates.“Our government has taken a landmark decision for providing 27% reservation for OBCs and 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Section in the All India Quota Scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical/dental courses from the current academic year,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“This will immensely help thousands of our youth every year get better opportunities and create a new paradigm of social justice in our country,” he added.Government medical seats in India are assigned under two streams: all-India quota (15% of undergraduate seats and 50% of postgraduate seats) and state quota. The all India quota, set up under the Supreme Court’s orders in 1986, is for candidates from across the country and the state quota largely caters to domiciled students.The government implemented 27% OBC reservation in higher-educational institutions in 2006-07 but didn’t include medical and dental course seats under the all-India quota.In recent years, OBC groups have claimed that the communities lost around 11,000 seats due to this lack of reservation and their mounting protests have pushed some state governments, such as Tamil Nadu, to approach the courts in this matter. Last year, the Madras high court ruled that there was no legal or constitutional impediment in extending OBC reservation to all-India quota seats in state-run institutions.On Monday,the PM held a review meeting where he instructed the health ministry to expedite the process of clearing the decks for the decision.On Wednesday, a group of OBC ministers and lawmakers representing the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) met PM Modi to push for allowing admissions from the all India quota.The decision can significantly influence the electoral prospects of the BJP that is seeking re-election in states such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat next year. In Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, OBCs make up around 40% of the population.Since coming to power at the Centre in 2014, the BJP has made a concerted effort to woo OBCs, giving them more politics space and positions in authority. This helped the BJP pitch itself as an alternate to parties such as the Samajwadi Party or Rashtriya Janata Dal that counted OBCs as core supporters.In recent months, the BJP renewed its outreach to make up for the alienation within the communities over lack of employment and economic development avenues. The most recent example is the Union cabinet expansion, where the party included three senior OBC leaders in the council of ministers. There are 27 other backward classes (OBC), 12 scheduled castes (SC) and eight scheduled tribes (ST) in the council of ministers, according to the data shared by the government.In 2019, the UP government extended reservation to 17 important castes by including them in the OBC list.“The BJP has shed its image as a party of the so-called upper castes. It is for this reason that OBC leaders were given prominence in states such as UP and Bihar and to some extent in Gujarat. A concerted attempt was also made to give the non-dominant OBC communities such as Kurmi, Kushwaha, Chaurasia and the Lodh more political space. The results of 2014 [general election] as well as the 2017 UP election showed that the outreach has worked and these communities have found an alternate in the BJP,” said a senior BJP leader on condition of anonymity.Thursday’s decision is also expected to placate dominant castes who are concerned by the possible impact of sub-categorisation of OBC reservation on quotas for them in government jobs and educational institutions. Though the committee on sub-categorisation of OBC reservation has not yet submitted its final report, it has put forth that one-fourth of the total 27% reservation for OBCs has been cornered by about 10 caste groups.“Overall there has been an increase in the party’s vote share from a large constituency among the OBCs and the Dalit voters because after the Mandal agitation the parties that spoke of championing social justice became family-oriented parties. With this decision the Modi government has met the long-pending aspirations of the OBCs, the EWSs and it will definitely stand to benefit,” said a second leader.The 10% reservation for EWS category announced in 2019 was seen as an effort by the party to retain support from the upper castes who were miffed with the outreach towards the OBCs, Dalits and the extremely backward castes.“The economically weaker sections in the general category, especially upper castes have been a core voter the party. When the government talks of sabka saath… it was imperative to ensure their welfare as well,” said a lawmaker from UP.Political analyst Manisha Priyam said the decision will “undoubtedly help the BJP” and aid in placating the “anger or concerns that emerged among the communities post the covid pandemic”.“The OBCs have not moved away from the BJP; but this will address whatever concerns they have had,” she said.Sandeep Shastry, also a political analyst, however, said that the benefits of the decision will depend on how it pans out on the ground and if it withstands legal scrutiny.Some Opposition leaders called the decision a token effort.“Mere tokenism in the name of social justice can’t dupe aware OBCs! How the anti-OBC NDA govt is going to compensate the OBC students for the loss of seats they have suffered for all these years due to denial of their rightful reservation in the NEET exams?” asked RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, whose party counts the dominant OBC group of Yadavs as a key support base.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-27-obc-10-ews-quota-in-medical-courses-101627583399407.html
30-07-2021||India||Centre rushes team to Kerala amid rise in Covid infections||The Union health ministry has sent a six-member multi-disciplinary team to Kerala on Thursday to monitor the on-ground Covid-19 situation there and suggest measures to control the spread of infection, as the state remains the country’s biggest hotspot region accounting for nearly half of India’s new cases.The central team, headed by director of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Dr Sujeet Singh, will reach Kerala on Friday, according to a statement by the health ministry.Nearly one in every two new Covid-19 infections recorded in India over the past week have come from Kerala, that is defying the national trend of falling infections since the decline of the country’s brutal second wave of infections. As of Wednesday night, the state has 150,040 active cases, accounting for 37% of all such cases of the country.According to data from the health ministry, seven districts in Kerala have been reporting an increase in new infections over the previous month.The average weekly positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested, generally indicative of the spread of the infection within the community – currently stands at 12.1% in Kerala, nearly five times that of the national average of 2.4% in the same period. The World Health Organization recommends that a 5% threshold for positivity rate be taken at which the Covid-19 infections in an area can be said to be testing adequately according to the caseload at hand. A number higher than 5% signifies that the region needs to test more to identify cases and isolate them as soon as possible.“Central government is sending six-member team to Kerala headed by NCDC director. As [a] large number of Covid cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid state’s ongoing efforts in #COVID19 management,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday.To be sure, there are indications that the state has been able to detect true infections better than any other region. Data released by the health ministry on Wednesday from the fourth round of national sero-surveillance by the Indian Council of Medical Research showed that the prevalence of antibodies – a measure for whether someone has been exposed to Sars-CoV-2 virus – was 44.4% in Kerala, the lowest among the states surveyed. The state also has a Covid-19 mortality rate of 0.5%, the best of any major state in the country, and significantly better than the national average of 1.3%.The results appear to explain Kerala’s current high numbers, experts said.“This is not surprising at all; Kerala implemented good Covid appropriate behaviour and strict lockdown since the first wave. The cases went down in places such as Bihar, UP, and Delhi not because people started following Covid appropriate behaviour but because a significant proportion was already exposed to the infection. What this means is that the second wave will continue in Kerala for a while and high number of new cases will be reported,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-team-to-kerala-amid-rise-in-covid-infections-101627583398043.html
30-07-2021||India||Assam urges its residents to avoid travel to Mizoram||Assam issued an advisory on travelling to Mizoram on Thursday as tensions between the northeastern neighbours continued to simmer three days after a fierce gunbattle at a disputed border killed seven people and injured 41 others.Assam asked its residents not to travel to Mizoram due to safety concerns and asked those already in the state to exercise caution. The unprecedented advisory came on a day a state minister upped the pitch against Mizoram, which alleged that the larger state had imposed an informal economic blockade by refusing to let goods pass through.“Given the critical prevailing situation, the people of Assam are advised not to travel to Mizoram as any threat to personal safety of people of Assam cannot be accepted,” said the advisory issued by MS Manivannan, commissioner and secretary in the home and political department.The advisory, which was brought into force with immediate effect, urged the people of Assam staying in Mizoram “due to work-related compulsion” to exercise “utmost caution”.“Certain Mizo civil society, students and youth organizations are constantly issuing provocative statements against the state of Assam and its people,” the advisory read. “In view of the above and with the purpose of ensuring safety and security, a travel advisory is hereby issued to all people of Assam,” it added.The police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle at a disputed border in southern Assam on July 26, in which six Assam policemen died. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on its forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claimed the land belongs to it.The clashes led some residents on the Assam side to block some sections of National Highway 306, disrupting transportation to the neighbouring state.On Wednesday at a meeting called by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, the two sides agreed to withdraw their police forces in the four-km disputed stretch which runs between Vairengte in Mizoram and Lailapur in Assam along NH-306. They also agreed to the deployment of central paramilitary troops in the area till a permanent solution is found.But tensions refused to die down.Assam urban development minister Ashok Singhal, forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya, Silchar MP Rajdeep Roy and local MLA Kaushik Rai visited the Lailapur border area on Thursday afternoon.“We have always supported the peace and wanted to solve the matter by dialogues. But at this moment peaceful discussion is not possible. We cannot talk about peace over six dead bodies of our police officials,” said Singhal.Rai raised the pitch even further.“Mizoram has forgotten that their lifeline moves through Assam’s land. If we block the supply of their essential commodities, they will starve to death...It is time for us to take revenge against them. We are supporting a complete economic blockade at all the roads connecting Mizoram with Assam,” he said.In another order, Assam said all vehicles coming to the state from Mizoram will be thoroughly checked for drugs. A separate circular asked deputy commissioners and police chiefs in Kamrup (Metropolitan) and Cachar districts to ensure the safety of persons from Mizoram staying in Mizoram House in Guwahati and Silchar.In Mizoram, too, anger mounted.Talking to a Hindi news channel on Wednesday, Rajya Sabha MP K Vanlalvena said, “Next time Assam Police tries to enter our territory, we will kill them all.”Mizoram’s home secretary Lalbiaksangi also wrote to the Centre complaining about the economic blockade.“Assam has blocked National Highway-306 since July 26 which has persisted till date. NH-306 is the main highway for the flow of essential commodities and supplies into Mizoram. The blockade is affecting the livelihood of the people of Mizoram adversely,” wrote Lalbiaksangi on Wednesday. He appealed to the central government to intervene.Drivers of several Mizoram-bound trucks said they were stuck near Lailapur. Ram Pravesh, a 35-year-old driver was carrying material for an oxygen generation plant at Aizawl Civil Hospital. He said, “When I started from Delhi, I didn’t know that is happening here. For almost three days, I am stuck here and I cannot go back also. I am not the only one here; we have so many people like me spending nights in fear.”In an open letter to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday, J Lalmuanzuala, president of Mizo Students Union, had suggested that Mizos would not shy away from resorting to arms if they are “taken for granted”.Assam Police have registered a case of murder against unknown persons and is probing the role of Mizoram MP K Vanlalvena in the clashes.(With inputs from Biswa Kalyan Purkayastha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-urges-its-residents-to-avoid-travel-to-mizoram-101627583037815.html
