31-07-2021||India||Kerala asks people to avoid crowds, events during Onam due to Covid surge||Kerala health minister Veena George asked people to avoid crowds, events, celebrations and visits to relatives and friends as the Onam festival approaches -- in order to reduce the risk of spreading Covid-19.George said that people should strictly avoid crowds and follow Covid-19 protocols while organising, attending events and celebrations. She said that visits to relatives and family should be avoided especially if there are small children in the family. Her suggestions come at a time when Kerala recorded 20,000 fresh cases for five days in a row.The health minister also warned citizens against complacency saying that the state is not yet out of the woods as it continues to fight against the second wave. She asked people to remain extra vigilant in order to prevent a third wave. She highlighted that half of Kerala’s population is susceptible to the virus and warned that if the third wave hits before the vaccination reaches everyone the rate of hospitalisation would soar.Kerala’s test positivity rate fell to 12.31% but the state recorded 20,624 fresh cases. Kerala recorded more than 20,000 cases for the fifth day in a row. Kerala has recorded more than 3.39 million cases and 16,781 deaths. Among the districts, Malappuram was worst affected as it logged 3,474 cases followed by Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Ernakulam, all of whom have recorded more than 200 cases. Kerala currently has 164,500 active cases in the state and is one of the largest contributors to the national caseload. The health minister said that there are 678 areas in the state with a test positivity rate above 10%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-asks-people-to-avoid-crowds-events-during-onam-due-to-covid-surge-101627751319043.html
31-07-2021||India||'Want Raghav, not free electricity,' Twitter user posts. Raghav Chadha replies||A Twitter user recently posted on the social media platform that she does not want free electricity, she wants Raghav Chadha. The tweet came to the AAP MLA's notice and he chose to reply to the tweet. "I'm not on the manifesto, but free electricity is," the AAP MLA quipped and said he can't commit the same about himself though. The reply has garnered several reactions on the social media platform.It all started when a Twitter user, going by the name Kirti Thakur, complained about power cuts. "Jab b ghar ayo light hi ni hoti," she wrote on July 29. To this, another Twitter user by the name Gurdeep Guru replied, saying, "Es bar AAP nu vote pao 24 ghnte light aau te free v hou". Kirti Thakur replied to this and wrote, "I want Raghav. Not electricity".I'm not on the manifesto, but free electricity is.Vote for Kejriwal and I promise you’ll get free electricty, 24x7. Can’t commit the same about myself though :) https://t.co/F0tqLLp1FL"I'm not on the manifesto, but free electricity is. Vote for Kejriwal and I promise you’ll get free electricity, 24x7. Can’t commit the same about myself though," Raghav Chadha wrote with a smiley emoji. He also shared the conversation on his Instagram hashtagging it with 'KejriwalDiGyarantee'.Several Twitter users joined the conversation praising Raghav Chadha's sense of humour and AAP's governance while some questioned AAP's "freebie politics".This is not the first time that Raghav Chadha is on demand. When he was campaigning as the Rajinder Nagar candidate during the Delhi assembly election, he used to get many marriage proposals, reports said.Sorry Kirti, it’s a bad time to get married considering the state of the economy. Let’s talk again after Acche Din arrive. https://t.co/ddxIhFL9l4Interestingly, this is also not the first time that Raghav Chadha interacted with this Twitter handle. In 2019, Kirti Thakur had asked Raghav Chadha for marriage on Twitter and that time too, Chadha came up with a prompt reply, saying, "Sorry Kirti, it’s a bad time to get married considering the state of the economy. Let’s talk again after Acche Din arrive. (sic)"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-raghav-not-free-electricity-twitter-user-posts-raghav-chadha-replies-101627749991535.html
31-07-2021||India||Presumed dead, Kerala man reunites with family after 45 years||It is a sweet homecoming for Sajjad Thangal (70) who was reported missing for the last 45 years and many of his family members also presumed him dead. When he returned home in Kollam (south Kerala) on Saturday evening, his 91-year-old mother was waiting for him with sweets. Both hugged and cried for a while as they lost words.Thangal’s life turned upside down in 1976 after the Indian Airlines plane crash in Mumbai which claimed 95 lives including famous south Indian actress Rani Chandra. Quite active in social circles those days, Thangal used to conduct cultural programmes in Gulf countries. Chandra and her troupe were invited to one of such programmes in Abu Dhabi in 1976.“He was planning to return with the troupe from Abu Dhabi on October 12, 1976. But due to some last-minute hitches with the organising committee he dropped his plan and survived the crash,” said Father KM Philip, founder of Social and Evangelical Association For Love, an NGO in Navi Mumbai which looked after Thangal.After surviving the crash, Thangal lived in Mumbai for many years. Philip said after the tragedy, in which Thangal lost some of his friends and business associates, he suffered a series of post-trauma bouts. He was moved to the NGO's shelter home after his mental ailments aggravated.“Those days insurance was not popular and I lost a good amount of money. I was also scared that police will hound me. Almost everyone thought I was among the dead in the crash. I started living in Mumbai doing odd jobs,” Thangal said.At the shelter home of the NGO, Thangal was undergoing treatment for mental ailments. Philip said Thangal remained an introvert most of the time and started sharing his story with one of the counsellors after a long time. Later, the NGO started making inquiries and found that his 91-year-old mother Fathima Beevi was alive. Later, both talked over the phone and he was brought to his ancestral home in Sathamkotta on Saturday.His relatives said after the crash, they checked the passengers’ list repeatedly and failed to find his name. But since there was no information after this, they presumed he was among the dead. Though they made some initial inquires, they also gave up later.“It is a dream come true for me. I never thought I will be able to meet my kin, especially my mother,” Thangal said. He has two brothers and three sisters. His village was all decked up to receive him and many local leaders also graced the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/presumed-dead-kerala-man-reunites-with-family-after-45-years-101627747877102.html
31-07-2021||India||'Clear gimmick': TMC says not giving any importance to Babul Supriyo||Former Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Babul Supriyo may have announced his departure from politics, but West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) dismissed Supriyo’s announcement as a “gimmick,” with party general secretary Kunal Ghosh remarking it is not giving "any importance" to the singer-turned-politician.Also Read | 'Alvida': Babul Supriyo quits politics, says his absence 'won't matter' in BJP“We’re not giving any importance to Babul Supriyo. It’s a clear gimmick. Lok Sabha is in session, he should tender his resignation to the Speaker. However, he is using Facebook only to attract the attention of his Delhi leaders as now he is a dissident leader,” Ghosh told news agency ANI.We're not giving any importance to him (Babul Supriyo) as it's a clear gimmick. Lok Sabha is in session, he must tender his resignation to the Speaker. Instead of it, he's using FB only to attract his Delhi leaders because he's now a dissident leader: TMC Gen Secy Kunal Ghosh pic.twitter.com/6FbFmGKpZASupriyo, who, through a Facebook post on Saturday, announced his decision to leave politics, initially mentioned he won’t be joining any political party. However, within hours, the Lok Sabha MP from West Bengal’s Asansol edited his post, deleting from it the “not joining any party” part, in which he specifically named the TMC, Congress and CPI(M). “I can confirm that no one has called me and neither I am going anywhere. I am a one-team player. Have only always supported one team Mohun Bagan, have supported only BJP. That’s it!!,” a rough translation of Supriyo’s original post, made in Bengali, read.Also Read | 'BJP was not expecting seat, didn't like it,' Babul Supriyo on joining politics in 2014Saturday’s announcement brings to an end an eventful last few months for the former minister who was dropped from the Union council of ministers in a major reshuffle which took place on July 7. The two-term parliamentarian from Asansol, who resigned as an MP as well, was also at the losing end in the West Bengal assembly elections, where he was among several MPs fielded by the BJP against a Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. In recent days, there have also been reports of issues between state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and Supriyo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clear-gimmick-tmc-says-not-giving-any-importance-to-babul-supriyo-101627745922441.html
31-07-2021||India||2nd terrorist killed in J&K encounter is Sameer Dar, chargesheeted for Pulwama attack||The encounter in J&K on Saturday in which two top Jaish terrorists were gunned down brought a somewhat closure to 2019's Pulwama attack as both of them were involved in the 2019's attack on security forces. While one was identified as Abu Saifullah aka Adnan, Ismail and Lamboo, the other was later identified as Sameer Dar, the cousin of Pulwama attacker Adil Ahmad Dar. Both Sameer and Saifullah were chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency. IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar said there were 19 terrorists accused in the Pulwama terror attack. Out of them, eight have been killed in encounters, seven have been arrested and four are still absconding.According to sources, Sameer Ahmad Dar was Jaish's local recruit and was active since 2018. In 2018, Sameer left his home in Pulwama for Kashmir University following which his family also filed a missing report. His photo with "illegal weapons" also went viral on social media. He was operating in South Kashmir along with Saifullah.Apart from his involvement in the Pulwama attack in which 40 security personnel were killed, Sameer was part of "anti-national demonstrations" in the funeral of terrorists, and thereby "jeopardising national security and provoking youth for law and order in that area".The Jaish terrorist was active in recent months. In June, Sameer Dar and his associates attacked SPO Fayaz Ahmad at the Hariparigam area of Awantipora, killing Ahmad, his wife and daughter. On July 24, Sameer and his associates killed one Javaid Ahmed Malik, son of Ghulam Mohammad Malik at Lurgam Tral, sources said.Saifullah ail Alvi, the IED expert, was from the family of JeM chief Masood Azhar and had trained the suicide bomber, Adil Dar, who carried out the Pulwama attack.Saturday's encounter took place in the forest area of Namibian and Marsar and the general area of Dachigam in Pulwama. Security forces had inputs about the presence of terrorists there."Firstly, it brings closure to the Pulwama incident because he was one of the masterminds for having trained a local youth Adil (Dar) who eventually blew himself up in the IED attack. Ever since, he has been responsible to continue to train people in making IED and deployment of IEDs against the security forces," an Army officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-terrorist-killed-in-j-k-encounter-is-sameer-dar-chargesheeted-for-pulwama-attack-101627745670212.html
31-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Babul Supriyo edits resignation post and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Babul Supriyo edits resignation post, deletes 'won't join any party' partHours after posting the news of his exit from politics on Facebook, Babul Supriyo on Saturday edited the post a little bit, triggering speculation of whether his road to any other party remains open or not. Read more‘They can fast, not my business’: Bommai says will implement Mekedatu projectKarnataka’s new chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that the state will get Centre’s approval regarding the Mekedatu drinking water project over the Cauvery river. Read moreTokyo Olympics 2020: PV Sindhu loses semi-final to Tai Tzu-Ying, to compete for bronze medalPV Sindhu lost to top-seed Tai Tzu-Ying 18-21, 12-21 in the semi-final of the women's singles badminton on Saturday but remains in contention of a podium finish. Read moreRicha Chadha backs Shilpa Shetty in Raj Kundra case, slams those ‘blaming women for mistakes of men'Richa Chadha, commenting on the negativity directed at Shilpa Shetty amid Raj Kundra’s arrest in a porn case, criticised the act of ‘blaming women for the mistakes of the men in their lives’. Read moreWhatsApp launches Billie Eilish animated sticker pack; Here’s how to download itLast month, WhatsApp rolled out an animated sticker pack to celebrate the Pride month. And now, the company has collaborated with US singing sensation Billie Eilish for a new animated sticker pack. Read moreWorse impact of Delta variant on pregnant women: Health expertsAmid rapid spread of the highly contagious Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2, several top UK health officials have urged expectant mothers to get vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as soon as possible. Read moreSBI's 'Monsoon Dhamaka' offer: Bank waives off processing fee on home loansState Bank of India (SBI) on Saturday announced a special "Monsoon Dhamaka" offer for its customers under which homebuyers will be able to avail loans without any processing fee till August 31. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-babul-supriyo-edits-resignation-post-and-all-the-latest-news-101627741811605.html
31-07-2021||India||Babul Supriyo edits resignation post, deletes 'won't join any party' part||Hours after posting the news of his exit from politics on Facebook, Babul Supriyo on Saturday edited the post a little bit, triggering speculation of whether his road to any other party remains open or not. In the original version of the post, the former Union minister specifically took the names of Trinamool, Congress and CPM and said he is not joining any other party. "I am confirming that no one has called me. Neither I am going anywhere. I am a one-team player. Have always supported one team Mohun Bagan, have done only BJP. That's it!!" he had written before taking this part out.On Saturday, Babul Supriyo resigned from BJP, from the MP post and also from politics through a Facebook post. In the long post, he made the reasons behind his exit clear. Removal from the Union cabinet is one of the reasons, Babul Supriyo acknowledged. Apart from that, there was disagreement with Bengal BJP leadership, he said, without naming Dilip Ghosh.'Clear gimmick': TMC says not giving any importance to Babul SupriyoThough he did not modify the rest of the post where he took retirement from politics, the deletion of the crucial part is triggering speculations.Bengal BJP leader Dilip Ghosh said he has not seen what someone writes on Facebook. "Has he resigned yet?" he asked.Trinamool general secretary Kunal Ghosh termed Babul Supriyo's Facebook announcement as a gimmick and said Trinamool is not giving any importance to this. "Lok Sabha is in session, he must tender his resignation to the Speaker. Instead of it, he's using FB only to attract his Delhi leaders because he's now a dissident leader," Ghosh said.On July 29, Babul Supriyo made a Facebook post in which he expressed the desire the leave politics. He wrote, "In 2018, I once tendered my resignation being disillusioned, but the party didn't accept it. At that time, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah encouraged me. But today, I am again thinking."In his Saturday's Facebook post, Babul Supriyo made it clear why he didn't approach the party leadership. He said he had already talked about this to Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda, but they have discouraged him from quitting politics. Babul Supriyo wrote he does not have the audacity to again approach them which might be misinterpreted as his persistent bargaining for some post. "This is not the case. I hope they will understand me and forgive me," Babul wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-edits-resignation-post-deletes-won-t-join-any-party-part-101627743170865.html
31-07-2021||India||Naqvi says triple talaq cases declined significantly after Govt banned practice||Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Saturday that there was a significant drop in the number of triple talaq cases after the Centre’s law criminalising it came into effect. He also said that Muslim women all over India have overwhelmingly welcomed the legislation.Naqvi’s remarks came on the eve of ‘Muslim Women's Rights Day’ an event observed across the country on August 1 to celebrate the enactment of the law against triple talaq. The Centre enacted the law on August 1 in 2019 which made the practice of instant triple talaq a criminal offense.“There is a significant decline in triple talaq cases after the law came into effect. Muslim women across the country have overwhelmingly welcomed this law,” Naqvi was quoted as saying in a statement, according to a report by news agency PTI.On Sunday, Naqvi along with fellow Union minister Smriti Irani and Bhupender Yadav will attend a programme in the Capital to observe ‘Muslim Women Rights Day’. Naqvi further added that the Centre strengthened the ‘self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence’ of Muslim women in India. He said that the enactment of the law against triple talaq protected the constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights of Muslim women in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naqvi-says-triple-talaq-cases-declined-significantly-after-govt-banned-practice-101627738753146.html
31-07-2021||India||Cong slams government for taking away power of states to identify OBCs||Congress on Saturday slammed the Union government for taking away the powers of states to identify and notify the Other Backward Classes. Party MP and spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said this was due to “lack of care to detail” by the government while granting constitutional status to National Commission for Backward Classes in 2018.“We are the ones who supported it… but (we told the government) that for God’s sake… it should not happen that established power of states to make their own state list (of OBCs) should go away,” Singhvi said while speaking to reporters at the AICC headquarters in Delhi.He added that then social justice minister Thawarchand Gehlot, along with other BJP members, agreed to this. “But due to the lack of care to detail, you (the government) did not add a two-line clarification that the creation of a national commission does not mean that the states will not have a list of inclusion or exclusion at the state level… How can that power go away at the state level?” Singhvi questioned.He added that the government’s “blunder” has cost the country much as the Supreme Court has interpreted the amendment in a way that “at the highest”, the list of states will be just one due to the “absence of a clarification” by the government.“Is it not a serious assault at the federalism of this country as nobody ever disputed that states had this power?” he said.Singhvi added that amid all this, it was funny as well as tragic that BJP today is “self-congratulating” itself for doing good for the OBCs. “… Should he (PM) be congratulated for making us reach a stage where no state can make a list of OBCs?” Singhvi said.The BJP leaders had been lauding PM Modi for the recent increase in the All India Medical education quota for the OBCs.Singhvi added that BJP “bungled” the amendment which is now used and interpreted to suggest that “states have lost a vital power which is at the bedrock of federalism.”Meanwhile, the government is mulling to bring another amendment to repower the states regarding identifying and notifying the OBCs. The government on Thursday said that the apex court had not taken into account the “legislative intent” of Parliament.“Government is in consultation with legal experts and the Ministry of Law and is examining ways to protect the power of the states in determining the state list of OBCs…” Ministry of Social Justice said in a press release.The government had also filed a review petition in the apex court to reconsider its interpretation which was dismissed. The court had upheld that list specified by the President shall be the only list of the OBCs for all purposes of the Constitution.Earlier in the day, Union minister Bhupendra Yadav lauded the government’s efforts in setting up this commission. He also listed other minority welfare efforts of the government.Yadav also slammed Congress saying that they never tried to bring in any schemes so that minorities can be uplifted. “It is a blot on the tradition of Congress in the parliament that when a large number OBCs, tribals, women and Dalits were inducted into the cabinet… the Congress did not even let (the PM) introduce them,” he said during a presser at the BJP headquarters in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-slams-government-for-taking-away-power-of-states-to-identify-obcs-101627740256672.html
31-07-2021||India||'BJP was not expecting seat, didn't like it,' Babul Supriyo on joining politics in 2014||As singer-turned-politician Babul Supriyo announced his exit from BJP and politics on Saturday, he reminisced his entry into the politics which was through Yoga guru Ramdev. In his Facebook post where he clarified the reasons behind his exit, he recounted that when he met Ramdev on a flight, which sealed his entry into politics, he felt bad when he understood that BJP was not expecting any seat from Bengal in Lok Sabha Election 2014."There was a brief conversation with Swami Ramdevji. Didn't like the fact at all that BJP was taking Bengal seriously but at the same time was not expecting any seat. I felt how can this happen that the same Bengal which respects Syama Prasad Mukherjee, Atal Bihari Vajpayee so much can deny BJP even one seat. Especially while entire India had decided before the elections that Narendra Modi will become the Prime Minister, why West Bengal would think differently. Then, I took up the challenge as a Bengali. Listened to everyone, but did what my heart said, without fearing tomorrow," Babul Supriyo added in his post.'Alvida': Babul Supriyo quits politics, says his absence 'won't matter' in BJPIn 2014 Lok Sabha election, BJP won two seats in West Bengal -- Babul Supriyo from Asansol and SS Ahluwalia from Darjeeling.The former Union minister on Saturday said the decision is not sudden as he has expressed his desire to quit politics to JP Nadda and Amit Shah, but somehow they have managed to stop him, he wrote."I will never forget this love. But I do not have the audacity to again go to them and say the same thing. They may think I am bargaining for any post. But this is not true," he added.Babul Supriyo also said that he will leave the government accommodation as soon as possible as many new ministers have not got government accommodation. He won't accept MP salary too, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-was-not-expecting-seat-didn-t-like-it-babul-supriyo-on-joining-politics-in-2014-101627737940699.html
31-07-2021||India||'Muslim Women Rights Day' on August 1 to commemorate 2 years of triple talaq law||The ministry of minority affairs announced on Saturday that "Muslim Women Rights Day" will be observed across the country on August 1. It will celebrate the second anniversary of the enactment of the law against triple talaq.The practice of granting instant divorce was classified as a criminal offence through a law enforced by the government on August 1, 2019. Though the Centre faced issues in clearing the bill through the Rajya Sabha, it finally succeeded in achieving the goal on July 31, 2019.Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today credited the Bharatiya Janata (BJP) of bringing a law against the malpractice of triple talaq.He also said that there is a significant decline in triple talaq cases after the law came into effect. "Muslim women across the country have overwhelmingly welcomed this law," said Naqvi.The minister added that the Centre has strengthened "self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence" of the Muslim women of the country and protected their constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights by bringing the law against the triple talaq.Naqvi, along with women and child development minister Smriti Irani and environment minister Bhupender Yadav will attend a programme in New Delhi on Sunday to observe the "Muslim Women Rights Day".Formally called the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, it was the first bill introduced in Parliament after the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government was re-elected to power in 2019.The legislation, which outlaws instant triple talaq, stipulates three years jail for violations and also make him liable to pay a fine. The law has made the practice of triple talaq a cognizable offence - one in which the police may carry out an arrest without a warrant.The opposition parties had targeted the government over the law, stating that it targeted the Muslim community. But the Centre asserted that it helps achieve gender justice for Muslim women.The Supreme Court had in August 2017 declared the practice of talaq-e-biddat or a form of divorce based on a husband pronouncing divorce thrice in quick succession as unconstitutional. It is banned in most Muslim countries including Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-women-rights-day-on-august-1-to-commemorate-2-years-of-triple-talaq-law-101627736043258.html
31-07-2021||India||Sputnik V production in India to go 'fully on stream' in September, announces RDIF||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) informed on Saturday that the production in India of Sputnik V, the Russia-made vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is expected to come "fully on stream" in September."Production in India is expected to come fully on stream in September. RDIF expects India to become a major production hub of Sputnik V," a statement from RDIF, Russia's sovereign wealth fund, that markets the vaccine globally, said. The statement also mentioned various Indian pharmaceutical firms with which RDIF has tied up to manufacture the shot in India. These are the Serum Institute of India (SII), Hetero Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen Laboratories.The September timeline mentioned in the statement is line with an announcement from earlier this month that the Pune-based SII will begin producing Sputnik V in September. SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, will produce more than 300 million doses annually, beginning this year itself.Also Read | Serum Institute to begin Sputnik V vaccine production in SeptemberThe fund also dismissed speculations in sections of media that the manufacturing of the second component of batches will be delayed. "Such reports, based on anonymous sources, are incorrect. A number of our partners in India have already produced the second component batches, which are being verified at the Gamaleya Center in Russia. Transfer of technology to our partners in India is also in process, and there is an active exchange between vaccine production specialists from the two countries," it said. The Gamaleya Institute, which comes under Russia's ministry of health, developed the vaccine with assistance from RDIF. Sputnik V, which has a two-dose regimen, was approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in April, when the country was in the grip of a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The first 250 million doses of the vaccine will be marketed by the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories.Also Read | Sputnik vaccine to be launched commercially ‘in the coming week’: Dr Reddy’sVaccination with Sputnik V in India began in Hyderabad in May in what was a soft launch roll-out. Since then, the jab, found 91.6% effective against Covid-19, has been launched to at least 50 cities or towns across the country.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-production-in-india-to-go-fully-on-stream-in-september-announces-rdif-101627731302202.html
31-07-2021||India||'Alvida': Babul Supriyo announces retirement from politics on Facebook, says his absence 'won't matter' for BJP||Former Union minister and BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who has recently been dropped from the Union cabinet after his defeat in the West Bengal Assembly election, on Saturday announced that he will be quitting politics as he needs some time. In a long Facebook post, the singer-turned-politician wrote social work can be done even without being associated with politics. " He explained that losing the ministry has played some role in his decision. "Have listened to what my father, wife, daughter and a few close friends had to say. After listening to everything, I am saying that I am not going to any other party. I am confirming that I am not joining the Congress, not the CPM. Neither they have called me, nor I am going. I am a one-team player. Have always supported Mohun Bagan.. have done only party BJP West Bengal.. That's it!" the former minister wrote.'Without a spot of corruption': Babul Supriyo says he is sad but he was 'not asked to quit'Babul's political career received two major blows in the recent days after he lost in the West Bengal Assembly election followed by the loss of Cabinet berth. In his post, he has elaborately answered the reason behind his decision and said that the loss of ministry is certainly responsible for the decision. "I don't want to play unfair, So it will be better if I clarify this. It will also give me some peace," Babul wrote,"There was a difference between 2014 and 2019. In 214, I was alone in Bengal BJP (with due respect to GJM's Ahluwaliaji), But today there are many new and bright leaders in the party. Some of them are young, some of them are veterans. Needless to say, under their guidance the party will go far in Bengal. I have no qualms to admit that today one individual does not matter a lot in the party and it is quite clear. And I think admitting this would be the right decision," his Facebook post written in Bengal read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-quits-politics-says-not-joining-any-party-101627731785125.html
31-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt issues guidelines to states with districts with high positivity rate and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bring back restrictions in districts with over 10% Covid positivity rate: Centre's 4-point guideline to these 10 statesAround 46 districts in India are reporting more than a 10 per cent positivity rate and 53 districts are proceeding towards the danger zone as their positivity rate is between 5 per cent and 10 per cent. Read more here. HT Spotlight: The thick tail of Maharashtra’s second waveLong after April’s peak, six districts continued to drive the state’s Covid-19 caseload. Ground reports indicate that a confluence of factors led to this. Read more here. Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: In Sangli, monitoring system vs lockdown fatigueSangli, which lies south of Pune and shares a border with Karnataka, recorded its highest daily caseload of 2,328 cases on May 6. Read more here. Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: In Kolhapur, young adults await a jabKolhapur has emerged as a district of concern for Maharashtra contributing the highest daily caseload in the state since June 23. And while it tops in vaccinations of those above 45 years, it has also vaccinated the least number of people between 18 to 44 years. Read more here. Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: In Satara, superspreader events drive up caseloadAs of July 23, Satara district reported 210,000 cases and 5076 deaths due to the Covid pandemic. District officials peg the start of the second wave in April, after neighbouring Pune began to record a meteroic spike in cases. Read more here. Maharashtra’s districts of concern in Covid fight: In Pune, rural areas drove surgePune has been the worst-hit district in the state in both waves of the pandemic. In August 2020, Pune district crossed other districts in the country with the highest active caseload. Read more here. Richa Chadha backs Shilpa Shetty in Raj Kundra case, slams those ‘blaming women for mistakes of men'Richa Chadha came out in support of Shilpa Shetty, amid the negativity directed at her in the Raj Kundra case. She also slammed those who are ‘blaming women for mistakes of men in their lives’. Read more here.Birthday girl Kiara Advani in nude crop top and bodycon skirt is a style iconHappy birthday, Kiara Advani: Kiara Advani recently starred in an ad, for which she wore a nude crop top and bodycon cut-out skirt. She is a literal style icon in the outfit. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-issues-four-point-guideline-to-states-with-district-101627730273224.html
31-07-2021||India||Covid-19: Delta variant, vaccines and other important developments from this week||India’s daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (covid-19) were mostly in a state of plateau this week, being recorded at more than 40,000 for four straight days (including in the last 24 hours) and just under the 40,000-mark on July 26. However, also this week, the country logged less than 30,000 daily Covid-19 infections for the first time in more than four months: 29,689 people tested positive in the 24-hour period leading to July 27.Here’s a round-up of important Covid-19 related developments from this week:(1.) Delta variant responsible for more than 80% cases from May to July: The highly infectious Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2, which was first found in India, accounted for nearly 8 out of every 10 cases of the coronavirus disease in the country from May to July, data released by the Indian SARS CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG) showed. The variant, which led to 82% of infections during this period, is also behind the pandemic’s recent surge in the United States, the study reported.(2.) 10% of all adults in India fully vaccinated: Nearly 10% of the country’s population, eligible for anti-Covid shots, is fully vaccinated against the viral disease, data from the government’s CoWIN platform showed on Monday. Also, nearly 27% (26.5%) of the 940 million adults eligible for vaccination, have received at least one dose, as per the dashboard. Every citizen aged 18 or above is eligible for the nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16.(3.) Vaccination of kids likely to begin in August: Vaccination of children against Covid-19 is likely to begin in August, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. On July 1, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadilla applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission for its vaccine to be administered to everyone above the age of 12. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, too, is conducting trials of its shot, Covaxin, on children.Also Read | Covid-19: Vaccination for kids likely to begin next month, says health minister Mandaviya(4.) US secretary of state backs Covid-19 origins probe: Antony Blinken met World Health Organization (WHO) chief, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, in Kuwait on July 28, and pledged the US’ support for the UN agency-led probe into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic. Though China has rejected plans calling for more checks on laboratories and markets in its territory, the WHO, earlier this month, urged all countries to work together to probe the origins of the pandemic.(5.) Japan sees record Covid-19 cases amid Tokyo Olympics: Japan, where Olympic games are currently underway in the Capital city of Tokyo, logged a record number of Covid-19 cases, some of which are linked to the global sporting event. On July 29, the country reported more than 10,000 daily infections for the first time, the state media reported. According to the organisers of the Olympics, 193 athletes have tested positive thus far, of which 24 cases are new. International Olympic Committee spokesperson, Mark Adams, has, however, denied any link between the Games and the fresh outbreak in Japan.(6.) US CDC reverses guidelines on masks: The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued tighter guidelines for the use of Covid-19 masks, asking even fully vaccinated citizens to resume wearing facemasks indoors, especially if they live in areas with high virus transmission rates. Dr Anthony Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, too, has warned that the country is moving in a “wrong” direction in combating a fresh wave, spurred by the Delta variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-delta-variant-vaccines-and-other-important-developments-from-this-week-101627729905143.html
31-07-2021||India||Bring back restrictions in districts with over 10% Covid positivity rate: Centre's 4-point guideline to these 10 states||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday chaired a high-level meeting with 10 states which are either reporting a rise in new daily Covid cases or a rise in the positivity rate. All districts that have been reporting a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the past few weeks need to consider strict restrictions, the health secretary said to the representatives of Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Manipur. Any laxity at this stage will result in the deterioration of the situation in these districts, the ministry noted. Director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargava, who was also present in the meeting, said 40,000 daily cases is not any reason for complacency. Around 46 districts in India are reporting more than a 10 per cent positivity rate and 53 districts are proceeding towards the danger zone as their positivity rate is between 5 per cent and 10 per cent.Numbers Matter | Kerala’s Covid numbers concerning, but it managed crisis betterThe states have been given a four-point guideline which includes: 1. Intensive containment and surveillance in clusters that are reporting higher cases, 2. Mapping cases, tracing contacts and defining containment zones based on these, 3. Ramping up health infrastructure in rural areas with a focus on paediatric care, 4. Reporting death count as per ICMR guideline.Dr Bhagrava also advised these states to avoid all non-essential travel and to discourage all large gatherings of a crowd.Covid 3rd wave? Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu on alert as infections increaseIn these 10 states, the ministry noted, over 80 per cent of active cases are in home isolation. Stressing the need to monitor these people, the ministry said that there should be local surveillance, at the levels of community, village mohalla, ward etc., to monitor these patients and whether they need hospitalisation.Use vaccination to arrest the rise in cases: CentreDistricts which have a case positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent should also be careful and what they can do is to focus on the saturation of vaccination, the ministry said. Since the Centre now informs the states how much vaccine doses they are going do get, states can concentrate on these districts, the ministry advised these states.Dr Bhargava reiterated that states should also focus on vaccinating senior citizens as this age group reports nearly 80 per cent of the mortality.Kerala, Maharashtra, Northeast statesThe Centre has flagged the Covid-19 situation of Kerala, Maharashtra and the northeast states as not positive like the other states in the country. While Maharashtra has hit a plateau of daily 8,000 new infections, the situation in Kerala has turned into worrying. A central team has been sent to Kerala which will visit the worst-hit districts and will probe into the sudden spike. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have reported a small spike in the number of cases following which both the states have tightened restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-back-restrictions-in-districts-with-over-10-covid-positivity-rate-centre-s-4-point-guideline-to-these-10-states-101627728757858.html
31-07-2021||India||Jaish commander involved in Pulwama attack killed: J&K Police||A Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander allegedly involved in the planning of the 2019 Pulwama attack, which left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers dead, was among two terrorists killed in an exchange of fire with security forces on Saturday, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said.The attack brought India and Pakistan on the verge of another war as it prompted New Delhi to launch an air strike on a JeM camp deep inside the Pakistani territory. The Pakistani air force carried out a retaliatory attack and captured an Indian pilot before releasing him days later.Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar identified the commander as Ismal Alvi alias Lamboo alias Adnan and said he was a relative of Masood Azhar, who founded JeM after his release from an Indian prison in exchange of passengers of a hijacked plane in 1999.The National Investigation Agency last year charged Pakistan-based Azhar, his two brothers, nephew and 15 others for their role in the February 2019 attack. At least six of the 19 accused were earlier killed in counter-insurgency operations in Kashmir while many have been arrested. India in late February 2019 handed over to dossier to Pakistan with specific details of JeM complicity in the attack. Kumar said Alvi was killed along with another unidentified JeM operative in the exchange of fire in Pulwama district triggered during a cordon and search operation in a forest. He added Alvi was involved in conspiracy and planning of Pulwama attack and stayed with Adil Dar, the suicide bombers who rammed his explosives laden car into a CRPF convoy, till the day of assault. He added Dar’s video on the attack also featured Alvi’s voice. “The Identification of the second terrorist is being ascertained,” said Kumar.Jammu and Kashmir Police called the commander’s killing a big sucess and a setback to Jaish. The killing comes as security forces have intensified the counter-insurgency operations in the Valley.At least 87 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year. They include top commanders of groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-commander-involved-in-pulwama-attack-killed-j-k-police-101627728196149.html
31-07-2021||India||'Happy to join probe but...': Himanta Sarma raises a question on Mizoram FIR||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, against whom the Mizoram Police registered an FIR, on Saturday said he will be very happy to join investigation. But at the same time, he also questioned the motive behind not handing over the case to a neutral agency.The case against Sarma is in connection with border clashes earlier this week in which seven people were killed."Will be very happy to join in any investigation. But why the case is not being handed over to a neutral agency, especially when the place of occurrence is well within the constitutional territory of Assam? Have already conveyed this to @ZoramthangaCM ji," Sarma said on Twitter.will be very happy to join in any investigation. But why the case is not being handed over to a neutral agency, especially when the place of occurrence is well within the constitutional territory of Assam? Have already conveyed this to @ZoramthangaCM ji https://t.co/v4eDi84isLThe chief minister, along with six top Assam officials, have been booked on charges of attempt to murder and assault. The clashes took place on the outskirts of Vairengte town in Mizoram's Kolasib district.The senior Assam Police officers named in the FIR include Inspector General of Police (IGP) Anurag Aggarwal, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Cachar Devojyoti Mukherjee, Cachar Superintendent of Police Cahndrakant Nimbalkar, and officer in-charge of Dholai police station, Sahab Uddin, according to Mizoram Inspector General of Police (Headquarter) John Neihlaia.Sarma, four police officers and two other administrative officials have been summoned for questioning on Sunday, he added.The FIR was filed for allegedly entering Mizoram’s Vairengte district and violating Covid protocols and under the Mizoram Containment and Prevention of Covid-19 Act 2020 along with the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga, meanwhile, condemned Assam’s decision to ask its citizens to not travel to the neighbouring state. “Public notice to all. Northeast India will always be one,” chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted.The Assam government has issued a travel advisory, asking its residents not to travel to Mizoram and those staying there to exercise utmost caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-to-join-probe-but-himanta-sarma-raises-a-question-on-mizoram-fir-101627727014710.html
31-07-2021||India||Covid 3rd wave? Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu on alert as infections increase||With Kerala again turning into a hotbed of Covid-19 infection, bordering states Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have tightened restrictions as these two states too have reported a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, albeit not as much as Kerala. A central team has reached Thiruvananthapuram on Friday night. The team will visit the 10 worst-hit districts of the state.Is it the beginning of the third wave?According to the health ministry, the second wave of the pandemic which reached its peak in May is not yet over as Kerala, Maharashtra and some northeastern states have been reporting a sustained number of daily infections, though the situation is improving in other states. Government experts earlier said that the situation is still under control and whether it is a new wave or a long 2nd wave will be understood after monitoring the situation for some more weeks. Minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar on Friday informed the Lok Sabha that the overall trajectory of Covid-19 is registering a sustained and considerable decline.Also Read: Why are Kerala Covid cases increasing? Study says every 100 people spreading infection to 111KeralaData reveals that Kerala was never out of the second wave but around June last week, Kerala's test positivity rate dropped to 9.44 per cent. Daily infections dropped to 8,000. In July, there has been a steady increase in the number of daily infections. On July 28, Kerala reported 22,129 new infections. On July 29, the number rose to 24,064; on July 30, around 20,772 new cases were reported. The state government has announced a weekend lockdown in Kerala.KarnatakaThe positivity rate is rising in Bengaluru Urban, Shivamogga, Kodagu and Chikmagalur. On July 29, Karnataka reported 2,052 new infections, which was a 34 per cent rise from the daily tally of July 28 (1,531). On July 30, the state reported 1,890 new infections.The positivity rate (1.30 per cent) is far below the alarming rate, the state is already on alert as there is a high chance of cases spilling into Karnataka from Kerala.The government has asked district authorities to impose restrictions as and when required. "...it has been observed that there has been a spike in the number of new cases in the bordering states as well as in few places in the state, which entails close monitoring and stringent micro-containment measures..." an order signed by principal secretary N Manjunatha Prasad said. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has been asked to strictly monitor Bengaluru cases.Tamil NaduTamil Nadi government has reported a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and extended some existing restrictions so that there is no crowding at a time when bordering Kerala is again fighting a fresh challenge. On Friday, Tamil Nadu reported 1,947 infections. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu reported 1,859 fresh cases.The state government has also asked health officials to not recommend home quarantine now so that the authorities can identify if there is a remarkable increase through hospitalisation figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-kerala-karnataka-tamil-nadu-on-alert-as-infections-increase-101627726433820.html
31-07-2021||India||'Major breakthrough': Assam CM hails agreement with Nagaland on border issue||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday announced de-escalation of tension of the state's border with Nagaland. He said that an understanding has been reached to immediately withdraw states' forces from border locations."In a major breakthrough towards de-escalating tensions at Assam-Nagaland border, the two Chief Secretaries have arrived at an understanding to immediately withdraw states' forces from border locations to their respective base camps," Sarma said on Twitter."This is a historic step in our relations. My gratitude to HCM Sri @Neiphiu_Rio for working with #Assam in restoring peace on the border. Assam is committed to ensuring peace along all its borders & strives for social & economic prosperity of #NorthEast region," Sarma said in subsequent tweet.In a major breakthrough towards de-escalating tensions at Assam-Nagaland border, the two Chief Secretaries have arrived at an understanding to immediately withdraw states' forces from border locations to their respective base camps. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/mFbz1YCnoXHe also attached the minutes of the meeting held between the chief secretaries of the two states on Saturday.Nagaland protested after the Assam Police allegedly tried to set up a camp close to Vikuto village under Tzurangkong range in Mokokchung district of Nagaland on June 29. The area is near Mariani in Assam's Jorhat district.Several rounds of negotiations were held to find a solution to the issue. Nagaland’s Deputy CM Y Patton a meeting with various organisations of the Tzurangkong area on Friday.He assured that the border issue is being taken up at the highest level for a peaceful resolution, but Nagaland did not withdraw its forces. Patton claimed that in the past agreements between the two Northeastern states, both police forces had agreed to withdraw from the border areas, but Assam did not do it and has in fact increased its strength while Nagaland withdrew its forces."We will not make the mistake again," he said before today's agreement was reached. Assam and Nagaland share a 512.1 km long border.The border dispute between Assam and Nagaland began soon after Nagaland became a state in 1963. The Nagaland State Act of 1962 had defined the state's borders according to a 1925 notification when Naga Hills and Tuensang Area were integrated into a new administrative unit.Nagaland, however, did not accept the boundary delineation and demanded that the new state should also have all Naga-dominated area in North Cachar and Nagaon districts of Assam. Major clashes on the inter-state border took place several times since 1965.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-breakthrough-assam-cm-hails-agreement-with-nagaland-on-border-issues-101627725882507.html
31-07-2021||India||Pak JeM Masood Azhar kin and Kashmir chief killed in Tral||A top Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist, operating in the Kashmir Valley since 2018, was killed during a very close coordinated operation by the Victor Force of the Indian Army headed by General Rashim Bali, Jammu and Kashmir police and intelligence on Saturday.Mohammad Ismail Alvi, also known as Ibrahim, Lamba, Lala, Lambu and Adnan, was the bodyguard of Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar, the de-facto chief of Jaish-e-Mohammed with Masood Azhar Alvi bed-ridden in Pakistan's Bahawalpur. According to intelligence inputs, Ismail entered the valley through the Shakargarh sector in the first week of May 2018 and was involved in a series of terror attacks since then. He also recruited several local men to the JeM fold in the valley.Before infiltrating into India, he visited the JeM training centre at Jaba-Balakot, Manshera in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, apart from JeM Markaz at Bahawalpur in Pakistan. An expert on vehicle-borne IEDs, which are routinely used in Afghanistan and was also used in the Pulwama attack, Ismail trained with the Taliban, according to senior officials.The resident of Pakistan's Bahawalpur, the global headquarters of the JeM, was also involved in the Pulwama attack in February 2019. His main handlers included Yousuf Azhar, the brother of Maulana Masood Azhar and the head of Balakot training centre and Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar. As the chief operational commander of JeM in Jammu and Kashmir, he was in constant contact with Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar as well as several other members of Maulana Masood Azhar's 'Maktoob-ul-Amir' operations for carrying out terror attacks.His contacts also included Talha Saif, the brother of Mufti Abdul Rauf Asghar, Hafeez Al Rehman the facilitator of the Pulwama attack, the son of Ibrahim Azhar Mohd Umar and other JeM commanders like Qari Zarrar, Shahid Lateef, Gazi Khan, Hammad and others.He was instrumental in training Adil Ahmed Dar, who carried out the suicide attack in Pulwama, which killed 40 security force personnel. He also trained Sameer Dar, the local JeM cadre and the cousin of Pulwama attacker Adil Ahmed Dar, in fabrication and handling shaped vehicle-borne IEDs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-jem-masood-azhar-kin-and-kashmir-chief-killed-in-tral-101627723236456.html
31-07-2021||India||Orissa HC rejects govt affidavit on Covid deaths citing discrepancies||Unimpressed by the Odisha government’s affidavit on Covid deaths during the first and second wave, the Orissa high court has asked for a comprehensive and up to date account before the next hearing on September 7.The HC said the state government’s figures on Covid deaths had discrepancies and rejected its affidavit made up of just three paragraphs and called for a detailed affidavit.The Odisha government on July 15 submitted an affidavit saying 4,925 persons had died due to Covid-19 in the state with the most 849 deaths taking place in Khurda district, followed by Sundargarh (427), Ganjam (400), Cuttack (311) and Nayagarh (132). It also claimed that a total 949,929 positive Covid-19 cases were registered in the state by July 15 and the maximum 167,913 were reported from Khurda, followed by 82,826 in Cuttack, 60,132 in Sundargarh, 41,825 in Puri and 41, 442 in Angul.The HC bench said the chief district medical officer of Nayagarh district had submitted that 117 Covid deaths had taken place in just 2 months of May and June this year, which was much higher than the state government’s statistics, which claimed the total number of Covid deaths due to the first and the second wave in the district was 132 and wanted to know the reason for the discrepancy.“What was the extent of under-reported deaths in each of the other districts is not known. The modality of conducting the audit of quality of care and death review has also not been explained,” the bench said, referring to the government’s claim that district level committees had audited Covid deaths.Refusing to accept the affidavit, the bench said, “The court directs that a far more detailed affidavit be filed by the additional chief secretary on this aspect before the next date (September 7), indicating whether in fact [and] the figures now disclosed can be accepted as reliable figures of the actual number of Covid deaths in the district”. The bench also directed that the affidavit should have updated statistics as on August 31.Early this month, vice-president of the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and a member of legislative assembly (MLA) Soumya Ranjan Patnaik kicked up a storm alleging the government statistics on Covid-19 were fudged. In a front page editorial of leading Odia daily Sambad, Patnaik said a desperate race to be on the top and the attempt to cling onto past glory, seems to have resulted in such manipulation.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also demanded a white paper on Covid deaths alleging massive under-reporting.Till July 31, Odisha has officially reported 5,902 Covid deaths including 68 deaths in the last 24 hours. Though the daily Covid cases have come down to about 1,500 from a peak of 12,852 on May 22, the deaths have been hovering between 65 and 70 since the last 20 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-hc-rejects-govt-affidavit-on-covid-deaths-citing-discrepancies-101627718415465.html
31-07-2021||India||Top Jaish terrorist involved in Pulwama attack gunned down in Kashmir||A top Pakistani terrorist affiliated with proscribed terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) involved in the Pulwama attack was gunned down in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, a senior police official said on Saturday. Abu Saifullah, who was also known as Adnan, Ismail and Lamboo and had been operating in the valley since 2017, was killed along with another terrorist at Hangalmarg in Tral of the Pulwama district, the official added."He was involved in a series of terror attacks, including the Pulwama attack of February 14, 2019, along with others. Adnan was a very strong associate of Pakistan-based top JeM hierarchy of Rauf Azhar, Maulana Masood Azhar and Ammar," the senior official said.Saifullah trained with the Taliban and was an expert on vehicle-borne IED, which is routinely used in Afghanistan and also in the Pulwama attack of 2019. He remained close to Talha Saif and Umer, who of whom have been killed. A security dossier said that the resident of Pakistan's Bahawalpur, the global headquarters of the JeM, tried to re-establish and strengthen the JeM outfit and utilise Awantipora, especially the Kakpora and Pampore areas of Pulwama, as a hotbed for recruiting new terrorist groups and transporting them to other parts for carrying out attacks.He escaped in during the encounter as a cordon and a search operation was launched at Zinpora at Chadoora Budgam in March 2020 during which one soldier was injured. He was booked under several sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with other acts between 2018 and 2020 across police stations in the region.The official also said that details on the identity of the second terrorist are awaited. adding that an M-4 rife, AK-47 rifle, a Glock pistol as well as another pistol was recovered from the dead terrorists among others.Security forces launched the joint operation in the morning and an exchange of fire was triggered during a cordon and search operation, police said.Security forces have killed at least 87 terrorists, including some top commanders, in Kashmir since January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-jaish-terrorist-involved-in-pulwama-attack-gunned-down-in-kashmir-101627716590991.html
31-07-2021||India||Over ₹1,800 crore sent to states, UTs to fight Covid-19: Mandaviya||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Saturday said that the Centre has disbursed ₹1827.8 crore to states and Union territories (UTs) to fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He said this is 15 per cent of the 'Emergency Covid Response Package' sanctioned by the central government." ₹1,827.80 crore (15 per cent of the total amount of 'Emergency Covid Response Package') fixed by the Central Government to fight against Covid-19 has been sent to the states and UTs," the Union health minister said on Twitter.According to the Union health ministry, more than 31.4 million unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered.The ministry said that over 487.8 million vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and further 68,57,590 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 45,82,60,052 doses.With a single-day rise of 41,649 new cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,16,13,993 on Saturday, while the death toll due to the viral disease shot up to 4,23,810 with 593 more people succumbing to it, the Union health ministry said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), meanwhile, said that 17,76,315 tests were conducted on Friday to detect the infection, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the nation to 46,64,27,038The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination started from June 21 this year. The nationwide vaccination drive started on January 16 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-rs-1-800-crore-sent-to-states-uts-to-fight-covid-19-mandaviya-101627714294149.html
31-07-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Centre to review Covid situation in 10 states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre to review Covid situation in 10 states as Kerala, northeast remain areas of concernUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan will on Saturday review the situation in 10 states, including Kerala, where cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise even as the rest of the country has reported fewer infections, officials said. Read moreMost wanted gangster in Delhi arrestedSandeep alias Kala Jatheri, the most wanted gangster in Delhi, has been arrested along with “woman don” Anuradha from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, a police officer said on Saturday. Read moreMumbai Police uses Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara scene featuring Hrithik Roshan in their latest advisoryIf you regularly follow Mumbai Police on social media, you may be aware that they are among the best when it comes to sharing advisories with a touch of creativity. Read moreWhen Shilpa Shetty rejected the idea to launch husband Raj Kundra as an actor in her moviesShilpa Shetty Kundra had once said that she wouldn't give her husband Raj Kundra a 'break' in her movies. The actor has been married to the businessman for close to 12 years now. Raj is currently in judicial custody in connection with a case regarding the production and circulation of pornography. Read more'Virat and Surya will follow them': Zaheer Khan picks India's 15 for T20 WC, omits star batsmanThe T20 World Cup is less than three months away but discussion regarding what India’s composition is going to be for the ICC global event has already gained momentum. With India having played its last set of T20I matches before the World Cup, the IPL is all that remains between now and the selection of their World Cup squad. Read moreDecoding Kerala's Covid Battle and how Centre and state can combat surgeKerala continues to show high number of Covid-19 cases in India while the second wave is abating in the country. In fact, Kerala is reporting 50% of the cases in India. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-centre-to-review-covid-situation-in-10-states-and-all-the-latest-news-101627714837746.html
31-07-2021||India||'Windshield crack': Air India Express flight makes emergency landing in Kerala||An Air India Express flight from Kerala to Saudi Arabia made an emergency landing at Thiruvananthapuram airport on Saturday morning. According to an airport official, as quoted by news agency PTI, the pilots noticed a crack in the windshield.The plane took off from Thiruvananthapuram international airport at 7.52am and just about an hour later the pilots detected a crack in the windshield, the official said. They then turned back the flight and landed in Thiruvananthapuram at 8.50am.The plane was without any passenger due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions in place. It was carrying some cargo along with eight-member crew."All the crew members, including the pilots, are safe," said CV Ravindran, director of Thiruvananthapuram airport.The flight was going to bring back Indian passengers from Damman in Saudi Arabia as part of the 'Vande Bharat Mission', according to Ravindran.In June, Air India Express, the budget wing of national carrier Air India, operated the country's first international flight with the crew fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The flight, IX 191, operated from Delhi to Dubai.Normal flight operations came to a halt in March last year after a nationwide lockdown was imposed. Flight movements resumed in the form of rescue operation as the Centre started Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded in other countries. Air India Express has been a part of the mission.Air India Express had operated India's first-ever Vande Bharat Mission flight which brought back passengers from Abu Dhabi on May 7.In Auguat last year, an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including its six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala amid heavy rains.The narrow-body B-737 plane fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 21 people, including both pilots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/windshield-crack-air-india-express-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-kerala-101627715420150.html
31-07-2021||India||At meet with IPS probationers, PM Modi says ensure negative image changes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers they are on a 25-year "special mission" to make policing in the country socially responsible so that an accountable framework is laid by the time India celebrates 100 years of Independence in 2047.Highlighting that there is a "negative connotation" associated with the police force in India, Prime Minister Modi said that officials should work hard to improve the image. "This perception changed temporarily when the Covid-19 crisis first arrived," the Prime Minister said while virtually interacting with the IPS probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy. "But things are back to where they were once again," he said.https://t.co/1IzYrgZRAAAs an example, Prime Minister Modi pointed out to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and said that much trust is associated with the personnel involved in rescue and relief operations. The police should strive to improve its public image, too, he said, especially since the country is currently going through one of the most significant phases in its history."Over the past 75 years, India has strived to improve police training," PM Modi said. "Now we can look forward to laying out a better framework for the same in the future."Announcing his schedule a day prior, the Prime Minister had expressed his confidence in the academy probationers, saying that they will go on to hold important police responsibilities in the years to come.The Prime Minister reiterated his "Nation first, always first" mantra to the IPS trainees and said that they should always prioritise India's interests, no matter how local their issues might normally be. He said that to establish a responsible policing framework, the officials will have to confront decades of malpractice and conventional customs every single day during work."Whether you will change the 'system' or it will change you depends on your mindset," Prime Minister Narendra Modi remarked. "In many ways, this will be yet another test laid out before you."The IPS trainees, already allocated to cadres across the country, shared their experiences with the Prime Minister regarding their journey in the police academy.Prime Minister Modi asked many of the IPS probationers regarding their hobbies and how they hoped to tackle the security situation in areas that will eventually be under their jurisdiction using their unique personality traits and experience that they brought with their backgrounds before joining the academy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meet-with-ips-probationers-pm-modi-lays-out-25-year-special-mission-101627710027168.html
31-07-2021||India||Orissa HC Bar Association opposes live streaming of court proceedings||The Orissa High Court Bar Association has opposed the live streaming of court proceedings scheduled to begin from August 2, saying it would lower the dignity of the institution.On Wednesday, the Orissa Livestreaming of Court Proceedings Rules were notified for broadening the implementation of the open court concept.The live streaming will not cover matrimonial matters and those involving children and juveniles and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act cases. Cases related to sexual offences, gender-based violence against women, Official Secrets Act, national security, Habeas Corpus petitions will also continue to be heard in camera.The Association, in a letter to Chief Justice S Muralidhar, said the order for live streaming should be rescinded to protect the dignity and majesty of courts. It added its views and suggestion were not considered while taking the decision.“The live streaming of court proceedings has its implicit hazards as this is amenable to public access even at all odd places/locations unless reasonable and proper care is taken after taking into confidence the members of the Bar for protecting the dignity and majesty of Courts and institution at large,” the Association wrote.The Association has asked the Chief Justice to keep the live streaming rules in abeyance.The court will also start from Monday hearing of cases through both virtual and physical modes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-hc-bar-association-opposes-live-streaming-of-court-proceedings-101627712295139.html
31-07-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border row heats up, Barak Valley MLAs extend support to CM||The Assam-Mizoram border conflict is picking up steam with each passing day following a fierce gun battle that resulted in the deaths of six police personnel and one civilian earlier this week. In the midst of these tensions, a joint all-party meeting in Assam's Barak Valley on Friday saw almost all the MLAs of the region extending their support across party lines to chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma."It was unanimously decided that the initiative taken by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the government will be supported wholeheartedly," said Ashok Singhal, guardian minister for Cachar, while speaking to reporters about the all-party meeting. "We are united at the moment of this Mizo-Assam border crisis."Attended a joint meeting of the Hon'ble MLAs from BJP, INC, AIUDF of Barak Valley at Circuit House, Cachar held today to support Hon’ble CM @himantabiswa & Govt of Assam on the present Assam-Mizoram border situation.I appreciate their support for our Govt on this issue. pic.twitter.com/hKkaOhJmEoSinghal presided over the meeting in which 11 out of 15 MLAs of three districts of Assam's Barak Valley were present.The development came on a day when the Mizoram police filed an FIR against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and four other police officers of the state. Two other Assam officials were also booked in connection with the clashes at the inter-state border. The charges include 'attempt to murder', 'criminal conspiracy', and 'assault', according to people aware of the developments.The FIR was filed against Assam officials for allegedly entering Mizoram’s Vairengte district and violating Covid-19 protocols and other rules under the Mizoram Containment and Prevention of Covid-19 Act, 2020. The chief minister and the others have been asked to appear at the police station on August 1.Mizoram has also condemned Assam’s decision to ask its citizens to not travel to the neighbouring state and a key government committee appeared to harden its stance on the border dispute.On the other hand, Assam police on Friday summoned K Vanlalvena, a Rajya Sabha member from Mizoram, in connection with the inter-state border clash and asked him to appear before them at the police station at 11am on August 1. A team from the Assam police, including officers of CID, has reached Delhi to serve a notice to the MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-row-heats-up-barak-valley-mlas-extend-support-to-cm-101627707643044.html
31-07-2021||India||Centre to review Covid situation in 10 states as Kerala, northeast remain areas of concern||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan will on Saturday review the situation in 10 states, including Kerala, where cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise even as the rest of the country has reported fewer infections, officials said. Bhushan will review the situation in Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Manipur.The Centre has already rushed a six-member multi-disciplinary team to Kerala which will monitor the Covid-19 pandemic situation there and suggest measures to control the spread of infection in the southern state. The team of experts headed by Dr Sujeet Singh, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), reached Thiruvananthapuram on Friday night."There are many concerns, rise in positivity rate is one. Cases are declining everywhere and transmission is continuing in Kerala," Singh, Director, who is a part of the team, said earlier, according to news agency PTI. "Let us discuss this with the state. It is a comprehensive situation, let us see how things unfold," he said.Kerala reported more than 20,000 fresh infections on Friday, which is 50 per cent of India's total single-day Covid-19 tally, for the fourth consecutive day. The state's test positivity rate has risen to 13.61 per cent.Also read | Rahul Gandhi expresses concern over rising Covid cases in KeralaAccording to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai, Kerala and northeastern states are among the regions where R-value, which indicates the rate at which Covid-19 infection is spreading in the nation, is on the rise. Kerala continues to have an R-value around 1.11.Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences said controlling an outbreak is much easier when the R-value is near one and the number of active cases of Covid-19 remains in the range of a few hundred. "India's overall active cases are fluctuating too much to get a reliable estimate, but data is pointing at a value close to one. It may tip over either way in the coming few days," Sinha told PTI.Also read | Delta caused 82% Covid cases in 3 months: DataIn Maharashtra, there were 6,600 new Covid-19 cases and 231 deaths on Friday pushing the caseload in the state to 62,96,756 and the death toll to 132,566.Union minister of state for health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar said earlier this month that the Centre has sent teams to the states and Union territories (UTs) that are reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases. Pawar also said that the Centre will take more steps to check the spread of Covid-19 in these regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-review-covid-situation-in-10-states-as-cases-rise-in-kerala-northeast-101627709402612.html
31-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown for another week without any relaxation||The Tamil Nadu government has announced that the Covid-19 lockdown will continue in the state for another week, till August 9, without any further relaxations. The decision was taken at the meeting chaired by chief minister MK Stalin on Friday.The state government said that relaxations were provided earlier with a view that the livelihood of the people should not be affected, but if people fail to follow the Covid-19 protocol, they will face serious issues. The district collectors and police have been instructed to strictly implement the protocols and close the areas where large gathering is witnessed in view of the welfare of the public, news agency PTI reported, quoting government statement.In accordance with the government order, the Greater Chennai Corporation has announced closure of commercial complexes and retail outlets in crowded market places located in nine areas in the metropolis from July 31 to August 9.Following the high-level meeting at state secretariat, Stalin extended curbs that are currently in place which includes closure of schools, colleges, cinemas and bars.Stalin advising officials to strictly enforce coronavirus guidelines comes against the backdrop of Tamil Nadu reporting a marginal increase in fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time on July 29 after a decline that began in the last week of May.While 1,859 new cases were reported on Thursday, the state recorded 1,947 fresh infections on Friday, the second day of spike. On July 28, Tamil Nadu registered 1,756 new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-for-another-week-without-any-relaxation-101627706716026.html
31-07-2021||India||PM Modi calls for need to do away with the negative perception of police||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for the need to do away with the negative perception of police among the people while highlighting their role including in the fight against terrorism and underlining the need for better conduct.“Why is not the public trust increasing (in police) despite its officers … laying down their lives to fight terrorism and to maintain law and order?” he asked while virtually interacting with 144 probationary Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, who have completed their training at Hyderabad’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy.Modi said India has strived for better police service for 75 years now. “There should be a new beginning to it now,” he said. “What matters are your principles and intentions… and this should reflect through your conduct.” He asked the officers to be friendly with masses and always prioritise nation first.Modi sought the views of the officers about how they could use their academic knowledge in policing. He said the job of a police officer is very demanding… I wish that you will use your strength to be better leaders in the police service,” he said. Modi emphasised that fitness and professionalism are pivotal to the work of a police officer. He added police should promote the fitness culture. “This will also motivate the youth of the country to be fit.”Interacting with an officer, who has been allotted the Chhattisgarh cadre, Modi said: “The role of a police officer becomes very important in conflict torn areas…. (Apart from conflict management) police officers also have to promote development and a social connect among the people.”Modi advised a woman officer, who secured the first rank in training, that she should pay regular visits to local schools and interact with woman students. “The (motivating) impact of these things is very high,” he said.Modi also interacted with an officer from the Maldives trained at the academy. The Maldivian officer thanked the Indian government for the training.Modi said every year he seeks to know the thoughts of young officers. Hereferred to Mahatma Gandhi’s Dandi March and advised the officers to adhere to the notion of Satyagraha. He added in the past, Indians were ready to die for independence. “Now, you should go ahead and live for this nation.”He the service of the officers to the country would be crucial for its development. “Therefore, you should remember that … you are chosen by India for this crucial mission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-and-interact-with-ips-officers-101627707674926.html
31-07-2021||India||Sirmaur landslide 'took a bus' along with portion of mountain; video viral||A landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Sirmaur district took away a huge portion of the mountain on Friday. The incident also took away a section of the road, which connected Paonta Sahib.The video of the landslide went viral on social media on Friday. It shows rocks and debris falling down the mountain as the landslide starts.Watch the video below:An eyewitness is heard telling those standing on the highway, which later caved in, to back their vehicles. Another man says that the landslide has "taken a bus".No casualties were reported in the landslide, which carried away a portion of National Highway 707. The site was less than 30 kilometres from Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district.Sirmaur deputy commissioner Ram Kumar Gautam said travellers were alerted when they saw a minor landslide first and stopped their vehicles.Paonta Sahib, which houses a Sikh shrine, is still accessible. Traffic has been diverted to a road passing through Uttarakhand's Vikasnagar from Kaffota.It will take at least a fortnight to reconstruct the road, Gautam said. A Geological Survey of India (GSI) team has visited the spot to study the situation.Heavy rainfall this week in Himachal Pradesh has triggered other, smaller landslides as well along with cloudburst.In Lahaul-Spiti, at least nine people were killed and seven others missing after a cloudburst. According to authorities, 168 tourists are still trapped in the upper reaches.On Friday, officials also reported that three trekkers are missing in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sirmaur-landslide-took-a-bus-along-with-portion-of-mountain-video-viral-101627707204958.html
31-07-2021||India||Maoists take over railway station in Bihar for 2 hrs, disrupt rail services||Heavily armed Maoist insurgents took control of Chaura railway station in Bihar’s Left-wing insurgency-hit Jamui district on Saturday morning and disrupted railway services on the Delhi-Howrah mainline for over two hours.Jamui police superintendent Pramod Kumar Mandal said a contingent of paramilitary forces rushed to the spot. But the Maoists had fled by then taking advantage of the hilly and forested terrain in the remote area, over 50 kilometres from the district headquarters.A railway official said the siege forced them to halt a dozen long route express trains at separate railway stations along the railway line. He added the train services were affected between 3.20 am to 5.30 am.Chief public relations officer (railways) Rajesh Kumar said the movement of trains on the Delhi-Howrah mainline resumed at 5.30 am after the tracks were examined for detection of sabotage or explosives.Officials said the insurgents first surrounded the station before one of them in police uniform entered station master Binay Kumar’s office and forced him to turn the track signals red to halt trains. They threatened to blow up the railway station if Kumar refused to do so.The insurgents asked other railway staffers to pass on a message to their seniors about their siege. They also addressed passengers on public address system and asked them to remain seated. The siege came on the fourth day of a weeklong bandh Maoists have called in memory of their slain comrades.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said it took the security forces over two hours to rush to the station as operations in remote Maoist insurgency hit areas require some preparation. He added there is always fear of ambush or trap and landmines. “Police go to Maoist areas in adequate numbers. Jamui is the worst affected area and going there needs utmost precaution. The police got information after the Maoists left the station and despite moving fast, the extremists took advantage of the jungle and hilly terrain.”Central Reserve Police Force officers said the Maoists intended to lure security forces to the area and ambush them.Jamui is among the Left-wing insurgency-hit areas of Bihar, where two Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel were killed and five injured when Maoists attacked a Howrah-Mokama passenger train near at Narganjo railway station on April 8, 2007. The Maoists also took away weapons of the slain and injured RPF personnel.On June 14, 2013, over 150 armed Maoists attacked a Patna-bound train and killed three people including a RPF personal in the district. Five people were injured, and Maoists looted passengers and fled the scene carrying away weapons of the security forces they targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-take-control-of-railway-station-in-bihar-for-2-hrs-disrupt-rail-services-101627706894940.html
31-07-2021||India||Kishtwar cloudburst: Community kitchen, tents for Honzar flash flood victims||Jammu and Kashmir Police started a community kitchen on Friday for residents of flood-hit Honzar village in Dachhan area of Kishtwar district. The police are also pitching tents to provide temporary shelter to those whose homes were washed away or damaged in the flash flood triggered by a cloudburst on Wednesday morning that took at least 7 lives and injured another 17. At least 19 residents of the village are still missing, police said.Additional director general of Jammu and Kashmir police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh camped for two days at Honzar village to review the ongoing rescue operations, a police spokesman said.Kishtwar’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shafqat Hussain too is camping at the flood hit site to supervise the ongoing rescue and relief operations out by police, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), army and Kishtwar district civil administration.“Search for the missing persons continues as intensified rescue operations enter the fourth day on Saturday,” the police spokesperson quoted above said.Jammu and Kashmir’s director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said that though chances of finding any survivor looked difficult, the search operations were still continuing.The search operation was interrupted by heavy rains late Thursday night and resumed around noon on Friday after slight improvement in the weather conditions. Honzar village has no road connectivity and it takes five hours of trek to reach the village from the nearest road. There is also no mobile phone connectivity in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-community-kitchen-tents-for-honzar-flash-flood-victims-101627706294943.html
31-07-2021||India||Kishtwar cloudburst: Rescue ops resume, cops trek long road to flood-hit village||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is continuing its rescue and relief operations in the Honzar village of Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district, where a cloudburst triggered heavy rains and subsequent floods. At least 20 people are still missing in the region, according to officials.The IAF rescued 74 of its personnel, who were stranded in different parts of Kishtwar, as well as five critically injured patients on Friday, ANI reported on Saturday morning. The IAF also lifted 3,150kg of the National Disaster Response Force's (NDRF's) relief material to the people in the area, ANI said.J&K | Indian Air Force (IAF) rescued 74 stranded personnel from different parts of Kishtwar including five critically injured patients yesterday IAF also lifted 3150 kg of relief material of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) #KishtwarCloudBurst pic.twitter.com/q8XJqw3zDxThe Kishtwar rescue operation is being conducted by teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), the NDRF, the police, military, district administration, and locals. The operation took a hit on late Thursday night due to heavy rains but resumed around noon on Friday after a slight improvement in weather conditions.The locals are demanding the constitution of a rehabilitation committee to facilitate the provision of relief and rehabilitation of the affected people, the police said. The people have also demanded government jobs to the next of kin of the deceased on an immediate basis, besides restoration of essential services like electricity, water supply, and other relief measures.Two senior officers of the Jammu and Kashmir police, additional director general of police Mukesh Singh and Raghav Langer, the divisional commissioner, Jammu, trekked on foot for a total of 34km to get first-hand information amid difficult terrain and continuous rainfall, PTI reported. The officials personally supervised the rescue and relief operation in the remote village of Dacchan tehsil during their two-day visit to the area, the agency cited an official spokesperson as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-rescue-ops-resume-cops-trek-long-road-to-flood-hit-village-101627702409953.html
31-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in Kashmir||Two unidentified militants were killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday in an exchange of fire with a joint army, police and paramilitary team. The gun battle was triggered during a cordon and search operation, police said.“Two militants were killed in the encounter and searches are going on,” the police said in a statement. It added that the identities of the two were immediately unclear.At least 87 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year. They include some top commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-militants-killed-in-kashmir-101627704374877.html
31-07-2021||India||India logs 41,649 new Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than yesterday; 593 new deaths take toll to 423,810||India recorded 41,649 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,613,993, and its death toll climbed to 4,23,810 with 593 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.Active cases of Covid-19 rose to 4,08,920 in the said time period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 1.29 per cent, it stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,07,81,263, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.The Centre has sent a six-member expert team to Kerala, which has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, for observation. Kerala on Friday reported 20,772 new Covid-9 cases, 14,651 recoveries and 116 deaths over a span of 24 hours."There are many concerns, rise in positivity rate is one. Cases are declining everywhere and transmission is continuing in Kerala. Let us discuss this with the state. It is a comprehensive situation, let us see how things unfold," said Dr SK Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) who is a part of the central team, according to news agency PTI.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the state has the capacity to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to one crore people every month and will urge the Centre to provide more vaccines.The health ministry informed that 45,60,33,754 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far.The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination had commenced on June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines. The government has been supporting the states and Union territories by providing them Covid-19 vaccines for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-41-649-new-covid-19-cases-slightly-lower-than-yesterday-593-new-deaths-take-toll-to-423810-101627691810798.html
31-07-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with IPS probationers today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address probationers of the Indian Police Service (IPS) at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy on Saturday. The interaction between PM Modi and the IPS probationers will be held virtually.PM Modi will also interact with the probationers during the event, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. It added that Union home minister Amit Shah will also be present on the occasion.The Prime Minister interacted with IPS probationers in September last year and asked them to respect their job and uniform. He said the human face of the khaki uniform in people's minds because of the good work performed by police specifically throughout the coronavirus pandemic.“Yours is a profession where the factor of encountering something unexpected is very high and all of you must be alert and prepared for this. There is a higher degree of stress and which is why it is important to keep speaking with your near and dear ones. From time to time, maybe on a day off, meet someone like a teacher or someone whose advice you value,” PM Modi also said while addressing the IPS probationers last year.The Hyderabad-based Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy is the premier police training institution in the nation. It trains officers of the IPS at the induction level and conducts various in-service courses for the serving IPS officers.On July 2, Shah advised IPS probationers to avoid social media and not chase after publicity. Shah asked them to be sensitive towards the concerns of the poor, Dalits and tribal people, a home ministry statement said. “There are allegations of no action and extreme action against the police. … the police should avoid these and move towards just action… Just action means natural action and the police should understand the law and do the right thing,” the statement quoted Shah as saying during a virtual address to the probationary officers of the 72nd IPS batch.According to the statement, Shah said, “Communication and sensitivity are necessary to improve the image of the police, and so there is a need to sensitise all police personnel and increase contact with the people."Shah asked officers of All India Services, especially from IPS, to stay away from publicity. “The urge to seek publicity hinders work… Although it is difficult to stay away from social media in the present times, police officers should stay away from it and focus on their duties. Before leaving the police academy, all of you should take a vow that every day you will make a note in your diary whether the work you have done was done only for the sake of publicity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-ips-probationers-today-101627692955911.html
31-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Red alert in MP, Rajasthan; heavy rains in Bihar, Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Red alert in MP, Rajasthan; heavy rains to lash Bengal, Bihar over weekendThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for east and west Madhya Pradesh and eastern Rajasthan, predicting heavy rains over the weekend. With monsoon wading in the eastern part of India, a well-marked low-pressure area hangs over the state of West Bengal and is expected to move westwards towards Jharkhand and Bihar, bringing heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning this weekend.Read more.India, China to hold 12th round of talks today on LAC standoffTop Indian and Chinese commanders will hold the 12th round of military talks in the Ladakh sector on Saturday to cool tensions between the two countries that have been locked in a border row for almost 14 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.Read more.Mizoram police file FIR against Assam CM HimantaMizoram Police registered an FIR against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six top state officials on charges of attempt to murder and assault, people aware of developments said on Friday, marking an escalation in tensions simmering between the northeastern neighbours days after violent border clashes killed seven people.Read more. As ruckus continues in House, govt says Oppn raking up a ‘non issue’Opposition leaders, who have disrupted proceedings in Parliament over the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens through Israeli Pegasus spyware, should not focus on “non-serious issues” but raise “important people-related issues”, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said in Lok Sabha on Friday.Read more. Covid-19 origin probe ‘driven by science, without taking sides’, says WHOThe World Health Organization (WHO) Emergencies expert Dr. Michael Ryan spoke on the probe into Covid-19 origin. Speaking during a briefing, Dr. Ryan said that WHO’s investigation into the origins of the virus “has always been driven by science”. Dr. Ryan also asked not to politicise the probe. “We are trying to control Covid-19 and to establish the origins of the virus,” Dr. Ryan said. Watch the full video for more details.Pakistan's Kamran Akmal reacts to India batsman Sanju Samson's poor show in Sri LankaVeteran Pakistan cricketer Kamran Akmal has expressed his disappointment over Sanju Samson’s dismal batting show in the three-match T20I series that Sri Lanka won 2-1 on Thursday. A depleted Indian team had only five batters available for the final two games but none of them could stand against the host bowling attack.Read more. Malaika Arora in one-shoulder gold gown with thigh-baring slit is a fashion goddessActor and television personality Malaika Arora's past sartorial choices have proved one thing: her style is anything but boring. And testimony to this statement is her latest look from the sets of the reality TV show Supermodel of the Year 2, where she is appearing as a judge. Malaika slipped into a red-carpet-ready golden dress to shoot for a promo of the show, and the pictures are just mind-blowing.Read more. Bigg Boss OTT’s first confirmed contestant is Neha Bhasin, says ‘yeh awaaz kisi se darti nahi’. Watch promoSinger Neha Bhasin has been revealed as the first confirmed contestant of Bigg Boss OTT, a six-week digital series hosted by filmmaker Karan Johar that will air on Voot ahead of the televised version of the show, Bigg Boss 15. On Friday night, Neha’s participation in the show was announced with a short promo.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-red-alert-in-mp-rajasthan-heavy-rains-in-bihar-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news-101627699747699.html
31-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, misses Parliament session||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has taken the first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) three days ago, according to several reports. News agency ANI cited people familiar with the matter that he did not attend Parliament on Thursday and Friday after receiving the jab against Covid-19. However, it was not clear whether he got Covaxin or Covishield.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has in the past questioned Rahul Gandhi over the delay in getting vaccinated against Covid-19 and accused him and his family of creating vaccine hesitancy.In June, the Congress party said party president Sonia Gandhi has taken both doses of the Covishield vaccine and that her daughter and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has taken her first dose. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Rahul Gandhi will take his shot after he recovers from Covid-18 as advised by doctors.Also read | Delta caused 82% Covid cases in 3 months: Data"Instead of beating around the bush and creating non-issues, the Modi government should concentrate on vaccinating 80 lakh to one crore people daily in order to meet the target of 100 crore Indians by December 31, 2021," Surjewala told PTI. "This is the only 'raj dharma' they need to follow after failing the people of India during the second wave of Covid-19," he added.The Wayanad MP tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20.Also read | Concerns rise as 46% of senior citizens yet to get first vaccine doseThe Congress has been criticising the government over its vaccination strategy and asked them to make its policy public on how to vaccinate all Indians and protect them from Covid-19 in future.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday that the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 460 million. The health ministry said that 20,96,446 first doses and 3,41,500 second doses were administered in the 18-44 age group on Friday. It added that 15,17,27,430 people in the 18-44 age category cumulatively have received their first dose across all states and Union territories and 80,31,011 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-gets-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-misses-parliament-session-101627699426156.html
31-07-2021||India||Red alert in MP, Rajasthan; heavy rains to lash Bengal, Bihar over weekend||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for east and west Madhya Pradesh and eastern Rajasthan, predicting heavy rains over the weekend.With monsoon wading in the eastern part of India, a well-marked low-pressure area hangs over the state of West Bengal and is expected to move westwards towards Jharkhand and Bihar, bringing heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning this weekend. According to the Skymet weather report, another low-pressure area is also forming over eastern Uttar Pradesh, and it will usher in heavy rainfall across the region over the next three days.Also Read | Rains likely to intensify in next 5 days, says IMDDuring the past 24 hours, heavy rains lashed the Gangetic plains of West Bengal, leading to inundation in several key parts of the state. Two labourers were killed, at least two others injured, and another four were missing after being swept by the Mamkhola, a rivulet in the Kalimpong hills of north Bengal, as the water level rose due to heavy overnight rains.Kolkata recorded over 150mm rainfall, with major sections of the city waterlogged throughout the past day. Moderate to heavy rainfall was also witnessed in the northern parts of Odisha, as well as in Jharkhand.West Bengal will have no respite yet from the rains, according to the Skymet projections. Moderate to heavy rainfall will occur over south Bihar, Jharkhand, north Chhattisgarh, north Madhya Pradesh, and the southern parts of Uttar Pradesh over the next two days. Rainfall activity is also likely to occur across several parts of northeast and eastern Rajasthan, according to the weather forecasting service.The deep low-pressure area, Skymet predicted, will eventually progress towards the western part of Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 to 48 hours, spreading out the rainfall activity.Light to moderate rainfall has also been predicted to continue over Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand. The southern part of the country, however, is currently looking weak in terms of monsoon projections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-alert-in-mp-rajasthan-heavy-rains-to-lash-bengal-bihar-over-weekend-101627696328732.html
31-07-2021||India||Mahatma Gandhi left Sabarmati Ashram on July 31: Know its significance||July 31 has a special significance in the history freedom struggle of the nation. On this day in 1933, Mahatma Gandhi left the Sabarmati Ashram forever. Sabarmati Ashram, also known as Gandhi Ashram and Harijan Ashram, is located in the Sabarmati suburb of Gujarat's Ahmedabad. It was one of the many residences of Mahatma Gandhi who lived at Sabarmati and Sevagram in Wardha of Maharashtra when he was not travelling across India or was not in prison.It was from Sabarmati that Gandhi led the Dandi March, also known as the Salt Satyagraha, on March 12, 1930. The government has established the ashram as a national monument in recognition of the influence that Dandi March had on the Indian independence movement.The Sabarmati Ashram was home to Gandhi from 1917 until 1930 and served as one of the main centres of the Indian freedom struggle. It was originally called the Satyagraha Ashram and became home to the ideology that set India free. Sabarmati Ashram is named after the river on which it sits and was created with a dual mission -- to serve as an institution that would carry on a search for truth and as a platform to bring together a group of workers committed to non-violence who would help secure freedom for India.During his stay at the ashram, Gandhi formed a school that focused on manual labour, agriculture and literacy to advance his efforts for self-sufficiency.Today, the Sabarmati Ashram serves as a source of inspiration and guidance and stands as a monument to Gandhi’s life mission and evidence to others who have fought a similar struggle.The ashram was a major tourist attraction, both with domestic and foreign travellers, before the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). On average, around 2,000 people used to visit this place every day, ashram’s director Atul Pandya said, adding that the footfalls are now going to be much less in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, reports news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahatma-gandhi-left-sabarmati-ashram-on-july-31-know-its-significance-101627693667578.html
31-07-2021||India||Last day to implement One Nation One Ration Card scheme. Here's how states fare||The Supreme Court last month set July 31, 2021, as the last date for the states and Union territories across India to implement the One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme. As the deadline nears its completion, the Centre said on Friday that state governments have completed the Aadhaar seeding of nearly 95 per cent of ration cards in their respective administrative regions."States/UTs have completed the Aadhaar seeding of about 21.91 crore (92.8 per cent) ration cards and 70.94 crore (90 per cent) NFSA (National Food Security Act) beneficiaries at the national level," informed Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, the Union minister of state (MoS) for food and consumer affairs, in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha.Also Read | One nation, one ration card possible because of Digital India: PM ModiThe One Nation One Ration Card scheme is one of the several plans being implemented under the NFSA to enable nationwide portability of ration cards. Under this scheme, all eligible ration card holders and beneficiaries covered under the NFSA can access their benefits from fair price shops (FPS) anywhere in the country. The beneficiaries (or their family members back home) would simply need their existing ration card(s) to claim their fair share of foodgrains. The authentication will be based on a biometric system or Aadhaar.The One Nation One Ration Card scheme was initially started in four states in August 2019. Now, two years later, it is enabled in 33 states and UTs covering almost 86.7 per cent of the NFSA population (about 690 million NFSA beneficiaries) in the country, according to the Union minister.Delhi is the latest territory to enable the ONORC plan from July 2021, the minister said, adding that the central government has been urging the remaining three states of Chhattisgarh, Assam, and West Bengal to enable the scheme at the earliest "depending upon their technical readiness to implement the portability of ration cards."Also Read | Uptick in use of ration card scheme in Delhi, days after roll-outUnder the NFSA, households covered under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) are entitled to receive 35kg of foodgrains per household per month at ₹1-3 per kg. The Priority Households are entitled to receive 5kg of foodgrains per person per month at ₹1-3 per kg. More than 800 million people are covered under the food law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-day-to-implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-here-s-how-states-fare-101627688548120.html
31-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: 50-year-old woman first case of Zika virus in Maharashtra||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.In the last 24 hours, India reported 41,649 new Covid-19 cases and 593 deaths, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Sunday. This is the fourth straight day when there were more than 40,000 fresh Covid-19 cases; however, the latest daily caseload was lower than the corresponding figures on the three previous days.Follow all the updates here:Haryana govt extends lockdown till August 9Haryana government extends lockdown for one more week till 5 am on August 9. Night curfew will come into force from 11 pm to 5 am on all days of the week in the State. pic.twitter.com/XM2emRmAUZHaryana govt extends Covid-19 lockdown for one more week till 5am on August 9. Night curfew will come into force from 11pm to 5am on all days of the week in the state.Maharashtra reports first case of Zika virusThe first case of Zika virus reported in Maharashtra. A 50-year-old woman patient was found in Purandar tehsil in Pune district. The patient is doing fine: Maharashtra health departmentUK PM Johnson, wife expecting second childUK PM Boris Johnson and wife Carrie Symonds are expecting a second child, just months she suffered a miscarriage, reports BBC.India, China conclude 12th round of crops commander level talks12th round of Corps Commander level talks between India and China concluded at 7:30pm in Moldo on Chinese side of Line of Actual Control. In the nine hour-long meeting, both sides discussed issues to resolve ongoing military standoff along Eastern Ladakh: Army sourcesJharkhand recommends CBI probe into judge's deathJharkhand govt recommends CBI probe into the alleged killing of a district judge in Dhanbad.Covid-19: Central team visits Kollam district in KeralaIn view of high test positivity rate of state, central team visited our district as well. We discussed current status of the district and strategies devised by the health department and district administration to contain the pandemic: Dr Arun S Nair, deputy collector, Kollam, KeralaUttarakhand issues SOP for reopening of schoolsUttarkhand Education Department issues SOP for reopening of schools in the state from 2nd August for students of classes 9-12 and from 16th August for classes 6-8. pic.twitter.com/VMHiaKhm0qUttarkhand education department issues SOP for reopening of schools in the state from 2nd August for students of classes 9-12 and from 16th August for classes 6-8.Kerala reports over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases for fifth straight dayKerala reports 20,624 new Covid-19 cases, 16,865 recoveries and 80 deaths in the last 24 hours. Positivity rate at 12.31%.Delhi reports 58 new Covid-19 cases and 1 deathDelhi reports 58 new #COVID19 cases, 56 recoveries and one death today.Total cases 14,36,265Total recoveries 14,10,631Death toll 25,053Active cases 581 pic.twitter.com/YxiVVrlLiSDelhi's daily Covid-19 cases and deaths fall to 58 and one respectively from 63 and three on July 30. Daily recoveries rise to 56 from 34 from the day before.Over 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in Delhi: KejriwalA little over 10 million (1 crore) doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered to people in Delhi so far. The milestone was reached today. These have been administered to around 7.4 million people, of whom 2.6 million have received both doses while the remaining received single dose: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalBabul Supriyo 'retires' from politics"Goodbye. I'm not going to any political party. TMC, Congress, CPI(M) nobody has called me, I'm not going anywhere...One need not be in politics to do social work," BJP MP and former Union minister Babul Supriyo posts on Facebook.Andhra Pradesh reports 2053 new Covid-19 cases and three deathsAndhra Pradesh reports 2,058 fresh #COVID cases, 2,053 recoveries, and 23 deaths in the past 24 hours. Active cases: 21,180Total recoveries: 19,31,618Death toll: 13,377 pic.twitter.com/QuzBQeegtOAndhra Pradesh reports 2058 fresh Covid-19 cases, 2,053 recoveries, and 23 deaths in the past 24 hours.'Importance of Jaish terrorist's killing is two-fold'The importance of killing Saifulla alias Lambu is two-fold. It brings closure to Feb 2019 Pulwama incident. He was one of the masterminds who trained a local, Adil, who blew himself up in an IED attack. Since then, Lambu was responsible to train people in making and deploying IEDs against security forces. He was also responsible to recruit young locals by brainwashing them, carrying out selective identification, radicalising them and giving them weapons: Lt Gen DP Pandey, Chinar Corps CommanderDelhi Police chief Rakesh Asthana holds crucial meetDelhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana chairs important security review meeting ahead of Independence Day. Special Cell DCPs, special police commissioner of Special Cell, all joint police commissioners and all deputy police commissioners present at the meeting.SAD MP leads delegation to meet President on farm lawsHarsimrat Kaur Badal leads delegation of SAD, BSP, NC and NCP to meet President Ram Nath Kovind over farm laws. "500 farmers have lost their lives during ongoing protests against the Centre's farm laws. A joint committee should be formed to sort out this issue," says Badal.Happy to join any investigation, tweets Assam CM Sarmawill be very happy to join in any investigation. But why the case is not being handed over to a neutral agency, especially when the place of occurrence is well within the constitutional territory of Assam? Have already conveyed this to @ZoramthangaCM ji https://t.co/v4eDi84isL"Will be very happy to join in any investigation. But why the case is not being handed over to a neutral agency, especially when the place of occurrence is well within the constitutional territory of Assam?," tweets Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma on FIR over Mizoram border dispute.Russia reports 23,807 new Covid-19 cases, 792 deathsRussia reported 23,807 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, including 3,514 in Moscow, taking the national tally of infections to 6,265,873.Punjab allows reopening of schools for all classes from August 2Punjab government allows reopening of schools for all classes from August 2, with proper protocols to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour.Basavaraj Bommai met Union Finance Minister Nirmala SitharamanKarnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi today.They discussed GST compensation, Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS), and other important matters pertaining to the state: Karnataka CMOBRO restores connectivity at Yarlung-Lamang roadBorder Roads Organisation (BRO) restores connectivity at Yarlung-Lamang road in Shi Yomi district of Arunachal Pradesh.On July 26, the road was breached at multiple locations due to incessant rain and cloudburst.Gangster Chhota Rajan discharged from AIIMS, returns to Tihar jailGangster Chhota Rajan, who was admitted to AIIMS on Tuesday due to stomach ache, was discharged from the hospital and taken back to Tihar jail, officials said on Saturday.Special Cell of Delhi Police arrests Lady Don AnuradhaSpecial Cell of Delhi Police arrested Lady Don Anuradha, an associate of gangster Kala Jathedi. Cases like murder, abduction, etc. were registered against Anuradha in Rajasthan. She was carrying reward of ₹10,000 on her head.Uttarakhand Board of Secondary Education (UBSE) declares Class 10 and 12 results today99.56% students have been passed Class 12 and 99.09 percent cleared Class 10 exams.Over 3.14 crore balance Covid-19 doses available with states, pvt hospitals: CentreMore than 3.14 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, union territories and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.12th round of Corps Commander level talks between India, China started today at 10:30am12th round of Corps Commander level talks between India and China started today at 10:30am in Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control.India & China discussing disengagement of troops from friction points incl Gogra Heights and Hot Springs area: Indian Army sources, reports ANI.China reports 55 new Covid-19 cases as Delta variant spreads from NanjingChina reported on Saturday 55 new coronavirus cases in the mainland for July 30, compared with 64 cases a day earlier, the health authority said.PM Modi interacts with IPS probationersPrime Minister Narendra Modi interacts virtually with Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy.BMC launches drive as Dengue cases reach 500 in BhubaneswarThere are 2-3 areas of concern where we are holding special drives. We have assigned senior officers to each ward to monitor sanitation drives: Anshuman Rath, BMC Zonal Deputy Commissioner (south east).Basavaraj Bommai pays floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj GhatKarnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai pays floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat.CM also visited 'Sadaiv Atal' to pay floral tributes to the former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.22 inmates injured as barrack wall of MP's Bhind jail collapsesBarrack wall of Bhind jail collapsed; 22 inmates injured. This jail is around 150 years old. Barrack 6 was completely destroyed after its wall collapsed. 22 critically injured inmates rescued & sent to hospital. No casualty reported: Manoj Kumar Singh, SP Bhind.NIA starts probe in explosive case of MizoramNational Investigation Agency (NIA) starts a probe in the explosives case of Mizoram. The agency took over the case from State Police on July 29. Explosives were found on July 26: NIAIndia logs 41,649 new Covid-19 casesIndia recorded 41,649 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,613,993, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.BSF guns down 2 Pakistani intrudersBSF guns down 2 Pakistani intruders near Khara village in Punjab's Bhikhiwind.NIA conducts raids at 14 places in J-KNational Investigation Agency conducting raids at 14 places including Jammu, Ramban, and Kashmir in connection with the arrest of LeM top commander Hidayatullah Malik and recovery of a 5kg IED in Jammu: Sources, reports news agency ANI.2 terrorists neutralised in Dachigam forest area: J-K PoliceTwo unidentified terrorists were neutralized. Search operation underway: Kashmir Zone Police.The exact location of the encounter is between Namibian and Marsar, general area of Dachigam forest, Kashmir Zone Police said.WHO urges action to suppress Covid-19 before deadlier variants emergeThe Delta variant of Covid-19 is a warning to the world to suppress the virus quickly before it mutates again into something even worse, the WHO said Friday.Encounter underway at Nagberan-Tarsar forest area of PulwamaEncounter has started at Nagberan-Tarsar forest area of Pulwama. Police and security forces are on the job. More Details awaited: Kashmir Zone Police.Amit Panghal bows out of Olympics boxing competition,World No.1 Amit Panghal (52kg) bows out of Olympics boxing competition, loses 1-4 to Colombia's Yuberjen Martinez in pre-quarters.Indian jailed for 15 months in US for money launderingAn Indian truck driver in the US has been sentenced to 15 months in prison and fined USD 4,710 for money laundering and firearm offences, according to the Department of Justice.Two more parts of China report Covid outbreaks: authoritiesChina's worst coronavirus outbreak in months has spread to two more areas, health authorities said Saturday, including a sprawling megacity of 31 million people.PM Modi to interact with IPS probationers todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy on Saturday via video conferencing.Australia's third-largest city of Brisbane to enter Covid lockdownAustralia's third-largest city of Brisbane and other parts of Queensland state will enter a snap Covid lockdown from Saturday as authorities race to contain an emerging outbreak of the Delta strain.6.1 magnitude quake hits Peru's SullanaA 6.1 magnitude earthquake jolted eight kilometres east of Sullana, Peru at 17.10.19 GMT on Friday, the US Geological Survey said.Sputnik V 2nd dose to be given from Saturday in GurugramThe second dose of the Sputnik V vaccine will be available at a government session site in Gurugram from Saturday.Joe Biden says US to see new Covid-19 restrictions 'in all probability'US President Joe Biden said on Friday "in all probability" new guidelines or restrictions would be imposed in the United States in response to a resurgence of Covid-19 cases.Delhi zoo to reopen from August; online tickets available from todayThe National Zoological Park in Delhi is all set to re-open from August 1 with Covid-19 safety protocols in place and online tickets will be available from Saturday, zoo officials said on Monday.India, China to hold 12th round of talks today on LAC standoffTop Indian and Chinese commanders will hold the 12th round of military talks in the Ladakh sector on Saturday to cool tensions between the two countries that have been locked in a border row for almost 14 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-31-2021-101627688038900.html
31-07-2021||India||As ruckus continues in House, govt says Oppn raking up a ‘non issue’||Opposition leaders, who have disrupted proceedings in Parliament over the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens through Israeli Pegasus spyware, should not focus on “non-serious issues” but raise “important people-related issues”, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said in Lok Sabha on Friday.Joshi’s statement came as the logjam in Parliament continued on Friday, prompting the Opposition and the Centre to blame each other for disruptions due to protests over the Pegasus snooping row and the three farm laws.“I want to appeal again that IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has given a detailed statement in both Houses. Unfortunately, they (the opposition members) are making an issue out of a non-issue and have been not been allowing to run the parliament since 7 or 8 days,” Joshi said.He added that there are many other “important people-related issues” for which the government is ready for discussion. “Bills are also an important issue. The government also does not want them to be passed without a discussion… our stand (on this) is very clear,” Joshi said.Hitting back, Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien tweeted: “The Opposition wants a structured discussion on Pegasus espionage, national security, with the Prime Minister present in the House. (The Govt is RUNNING AWAY from this discussion).”The government has been able to clear just a fraction of its legislative agenda due to the disruptions. On Friday, four key bills were introduced and one legislation, the Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was passed before the Houses were adjourned for the day. The LS was scheduled to take up discussion on Covid-19 but it could not be taken up.The DICGC (Amendment) Bill, The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, The LLP (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill were introduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-ruckus-continues-in-house-govt-says-oppn-raking-up-a-non-issue-101627687307657.html
31-07-2021||India||India, China to hold 12th round of talks today on LAC standoff||Top Indian and Chinese commanders will hold the 12th round of military talks in the Ladakh sector on Saturday to cool tensions between the two countries that have been locked in a border row for almost 14 months, officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.The talks between corps commander-ranked officers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will begin at 10.30 am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), one of the officials cited above said on the condition of anonymity.The previous round of military talks between the two sides was held on April 9 when the Indian Army told the PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for de-escalation of the conflict.“We are expecting forward movement in hammering out a disengagement agreement at Hot Springs and Gogra,” a second official said, asking not to be named.The Indian Army and the PLA have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-ranked officers since June 6 last year to resolve the border row in eastern Ladakh, but the two sides have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers deployed at friction points on the contested LAC.The only significant outcome of the military dialogue has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry in Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks. The focus of the next round of talks will be on resolving problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. Both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre and the deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector.On May 28, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said his soldiers were on high alert as the PLA continued to base its troops and mechanised elements, including tanks, in its “immediate depth” across the LAC from where they could be deployed to forward areas at short notice. The immediate depth in the context of the Ladakh sector refers to a distance of 150km to 200km from the LAC.Naravane had also said that results should not be expected after every round of talks, citing the case of Pangong Tso where disengagement took place after nine rounds.PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops and restore the status quo ante of April 2020 has hampered the disengagement process, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated. The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes, including the ones leading to Patrolling Points 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff.While the first round of military talks between the two armies was held on June 6 last year, the Galwan Valley skirmish on June 15, 2020, created severe complications and dashed hopes of any significant breakthrough. The brutal clash that left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead created a huge trust deficit between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-12th-round-of-talks-today-on-lac-standoff-101627687056236.html
31-07-2021||India||Girl fights odds to score a perfect 100||Ansuiya, a labour worker’s daughter, from Uttar Pradesh’s Badera village, overcame a series of seemingly insurmountable odds to score 100% in the Central Board of Secondary Education Class 12 exams, the results of which were declared on Friday.A student of Vidyagyan Bulandshahr, a free residential school for economically backward meritorious students from rural Uttar Pradesh run by the Shiv Nadar Foundation, Ansuiya said she is grateful for the opportunity to complete school, which is often a privilege in her village.“None of the girls in our village study beyond Class 8,” said the 17-year-old.“After school, they are groomed to become someone’s wife and await marriage. I have always been interested in studying, because I thought that it is something that will help me stand apart from others. That is how I cleared the application process for Vidyagyan as well,” she said.One of seven siblings, Ansuiya joined the school in 2014 when she was in Class 6.“Even boys in our village study till Class 8. After that, they are supposed to help their fathers in factories or work as labourer at farms in the village. When I got an opportunity to leave the village to study, my parents supported me. However, there were many in the village who taunted my parents saying that their daughter will go ‘out of their hands’. But my parents never let these taunts get the better of them,” she said.Ansuiya, a humanities student, wants to be an officer in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS).“I want to work for my village, which I think is very underdeveloped compared to other parts of the state. Here health, education are neglected and even the soil is not fertile,” she said.Ansuiya’s father works as a labourer at the village farms but when the monsoon is not kind, he has to look for work as a daily wage earner in industrial areas in the Mahoba district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-fights-odds-to-score-a-perfect-100-101627686855097.html
31-07-2021||India||Four questions about economic data in Aug ’21||In its July update to the World Economic Outlook (WEO), the International Monetary Fund downgraded India’s 2021-22 growth to 9.5% from its April projection of 12.5%. The main reason for the downgrade was the severe second wave of Covid-19 infections in the country. Gita Gopinath, the IMF chief economist, said that a (potential) third wave could further damage India’s growth prospects. To be sure, there is still a lot of time left for this fiscal year to end. And, if there is one thing which the pandemic has done to economic forecasts, it is that long-term projections have never been less reliable. Here are four questions, rooted in economic data to be released in August, which will shape the economic narrative going forward.1) Will NIBRI cross 100 and stay there?The pandemic has moved economy tracking from a quarterly affair to a monthly, even weekly affair. One of the most popular post-pandemic indicators has been the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI). A NIBRI value of 100 refers to pre-pandemic levels of economic activity. After falling to 45.4 on May 3, 2020, NIBRI gradually recovered to 99.3 in the week ending February 23, 2021. It started falling gradually thereafter, reaching 94.6 in the week ending March 28. As infections surged in April, it fell even more sharply. It reached 75.9 in the week ending April 25 and then to 60.3 in the week ending Mar 23. The second wave of Covid-19 infections peaked on May 9, in terms of seven-day average of daily new cases. Unlike during the first wave, NIBRI has seen a V-shaped recovery after the second wave to reach 96.4 in the week ending July 18. There was a marginal fall in NIBRI value in the week ending July 25, when it was at 95.3. The latest fall in NIBRI could well be a result of high rainfall in large parts of the country rather than fresh restrictions due to the pandemic, as no such restrictions have been imposed. The question to ask going forward is how soon NIBRI will reach 100 for the first time since the pandemic began.2) Will PMI cross 50 in July and August?Easing or removal of restrictions is only a necessary, not a sufficient condition for economic recovery. Two additional factors matter. The first is demand. If income shocks during the lockdown are significant enough, demand side headwinds can stall economic recovery even after restrictions are removed. The other important factor, especially as far as the contact intensive services economy is concerned, is the progress of vaccination. Unless a critical mass of people is vaccinated and the threat of getting infected comes down significantly, a full-scale recovery will continue to elude the services economy. As of now, 37% of the eligible population has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. There was a reflection of both these factors in the June Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) numbers for manufacturing and services. Both were lower in June than in May, even though the infection curve was more severe in May than in June. These numbers were also below the critical threshold of 50 . A PMI value below 50 signifies contraction in economic activity compared to previous month. It remains to be seen whether PMI numbers for July jump back above the 50-mark.3) Will retail inflation come below 6%?This is perhaps the most important question confronting policymakers. Retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index has been above 6%, the upper limit of RBI’s tolerance level in May and June. Prices of fuel and edible oil have been the major drivers of inflation so far. While prices of petrol and diesel have not increased since July 17 and July 15, they have not come down either. As of now it also appears that the deal among Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to gradually increase crude oil production has not had a major effect on prices. The price of India’s crude oil basket, as per data from the ministry of petroleum, was $74.2 per barrel on July 29. “Commodities as a whole have risen more than 20% this year, and around 50% in the case of crude oil. The Bloomberg Commodity Spot Index is at a decade high and heading for its fourth-straight monthly increase. Big Oil companies and miners, awash with cash, are returning billions of dollars to shareholders through dividends and buybacks. Few analysts expect the gains to reverse soon and many think they’ve got further to run”, a Bloomberg story published on July 30 said. To be sure, even core-inflation, the non-food non-fuel component of the CPI basket has been high in India, which makes inflation a broad-based problem at the moment. While officials at both RBI and government continue to maintain a brave face on inflation, terming it as a transient problem, if the headline number does not come down, pressure will increase towards rolling back the accommodative stance of monetary policy in the near future.4) Will June GDP growth meet the RBI’s forecast of 18.5%?The most important economic statistic of the fiscal year 2021-22 will come on August 31 when the GDP growth numbers for the quarter ending June are released. The Indian economy suffered its highest ever contraction of 24.4% in the quarter ending June 2020. This was a result of the 68-day long lockdown which was imposed from March 25. The gradual sequential recovery – the economy contracted by 7.4% in the quarter ending September 2020 before growing at 0.46% and 1.64% in the quarters ending December 2020 and March 2021 – was interrupted by the second wave in April and May. Most economists, both within the government and outside, have maintained that the second wave’s economic disruption was not as big as that of the first wave. The June resolution of RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee has predicted a growth rate of 18.5% in the first quarter of 2021-22. This means that the economy is not expected to regain the pre-pandemic levels even after two years. If the actual growth falls short of even this number, economic confidence could take further beating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-questions-about-economic-data-in-aug-21-101627685472225.html
31-07-2021||India||Mizoram police file FIR against Assam CM Himanta||Mizoram Police registered an FIR against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six top state officials on charges of attempt to murder and assault, people aware of developments said on Friday, marking an escalation in tensions simmering between the northeastern neighbours days after violent border clashes killed seven people.The developments came on a day Mizoram condemned Assam’s decision to ask its citizens to not travel to the neighbouring state and a key government committee appeared to harden its stance on the border dispute.“Public notice to all. Northeast India will always be one,” chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted. “I still hope for an amicable solution to the Assam-Mizoram border tension from the central government,” he added.Inspector of Vairengte police station, H Lalchawimawia, filed the case against Sarma, Assam police inspector general Anurag Aggarwal, deputy inspector general Devojyoti Mukherjee, Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli, Cachar superintendent of police (former) Vaibhav Chandrakant Nimbalkar, forest officer Sunnydeo Choudhury, officer incharge of Dholai police station, Sahab Uddin, and 200 unidentified Assam Police personnel, said the people quoted in the first instance.The FIR was filed for allegedly entering Mizoram’s Vairengte district and violating Covid protocols and under the Mizoram Containment and Prevention of Covid-19 Act 2020 along with the Indian Penal Code. Sarma and the officials were booked for attempt to murder, concealing design to commit offence, grievous hurt, assault and using criminal force against public servants, said the people.The CM and others were asked to appear in the police station on August 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-police-file-fir-against-assam-cm-himanta-101627674892363.html
31-07-2021||India||Two MLAs join BJP, Congress ahead of 2023 Karnataka elections||Bengaluru With under two years to go before assembly elections in Karnataka, it seems the two national outfits--Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress-- are trying to muster up all the support they can as they continue to rope in potential candidates to take each other head on.Former Karnataka chief minister S Bangarappa’s son, Madhu Bangarappa who was formerly with the Janata Dal (Secular) joined the Congress while the lone Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislator, who was expelled in 2019, joined the BJP on Friday.Madhu is from Soraba constituency in Shivamogga district which he lost to his brother, Kumar Bangarappa from the BJP in 2018.The inductions are taking place in the presence of the national leadership. Madhu Bangarappa joined the Congress in the presence of party president DK Shivakumar, former chief minister Siddaramaiah and national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala.“I promise to the Congress leadership that I will try my best to live up to the expectations that they have in me as Bangarappa’s son and work day and night to bring the party back to power,” Madhu said after his induction.“A New Beginning, A New Start…. Yet the same old legacy continues… Our tall leader,Late Sh. S. Bangarappa……TO Our young & dynamic, Madhu Bangarappa ! @INCKarnataka is proud to have you! Welcome to the Family!!!,” Surjewala said in a post on Twitter.Likewise, Mahesh who served as a minister in the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government in 2018, joined the BJP.“For the sake of my future in politics, I’ve decided to join the BJP. The president of the Karnataka unit of the party and other leaders will discuss and give the date, and I will join then,” Mahesh, who was ousted from the BSP in 2019, told PTI.Mahesh had been elected from Kollegal and Chamarajanagar district and was expelled by BSP supremo Mayawati for allegedly violating the party’s decision to back Kumaraswamy in the contentious trust vote in which the latter’s government collapsed after at least 17 members defected to the BJP.The 17 turncoats, most of whom became cabinet ministers, are now at a crossroads after BS Yediyurappa stepped down as chief minister earlier this week.There remains little clarity on if they will be placed in the cabinet under Basavaraj Bommai or be dropped since their connection, people aware of the developments said, was more with power than the ideology of the BJP.The Congress are leaving little to chance and Shivakumar has offered to take them back, adding more friction between him and Siddaramaiah, who has so far opposed any such move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-mlas-join-bjp-congress-ahead-of-2023-karnataka-elections-101627674191636.html
31-07-2021||India||Bommai seeks Centre nod to set up AIIMS||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday sought the approval of the union government to set up an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Hubbali-Dharwad, about 450 kms from Bengaluru.“Chief minister sought (the) Prime Minister to approve AIIMS for Hubballi-Dharwad and AIIMS like institute for Raichur, which is identified as (an) aspirational district by NITI Aayog. He also appealed to the Prime Minister to upgrade ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Kalaburagi to Regional AIIMS like Institute,” a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) stated.The chief minister who is in Delhi, also held a meeting with the Union ministers and MPs from the state. “He requested them to persuade the Union government to avail assistance for the development of the state and also to co-operate in making the best use of the central schemes. He said that all ministers would be taken into confidence in the implementation of these programmes. He requested the MPs to fight for the protection of state’s interests,” the statement from CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-seeks-centre-nod-to-set-up-aiims-101627674131627.html
31-07-2021||India||Stalker shoots dental student, kills self: police||Thiruvananthapuram: A 32-year-old man allegedly shot dead a final-year dental student before killing himself at Kothamangalam in Ernakulam district of Kerala on Friday, police said, adding that the woman had earlier complained of stalking and harassment against the man. K Karthick, superintendent of police, Ernakulam rural, who identified the stalker as A Rakhil (32), said both stalker and the 24-year-old woman were from Kannur district in north Kerala. Karthick, who visited the spot, told the reporters that the incident took place around 3.30 pm, adding that ballistic experts have been called to examine the revolver used by the stalker. “We have sought the help of ballistic experts to find out details of revolver. We are also in touch with relatives of both,” the SP said. The woman was a final-year student of Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) in Kothamangalam. Local residents said Rakhil was staying near the paying guest accommodation of the victim in the guise of a businessman for more than a month. “While we were having lunch, he barged into the dining room and entered into an argument with her. He later dragged her to a nearby room and bolted it. When we cried for help, we heard two sounds. Later these sounds repeated,” said one of her roommates. Later both were found in the pool of blood, she added. Police said both were declared brought dead at a hospital. The woman was staying with two other students on the first floor of the rented property near the college. Relatives of the victim said earlier a complain was registered in Kannur district after Rakhil stalked and harassed her. They further said that he was warned by officials who called him to the police station, where he had given an undertaking that he will not harass her. They said they have no idea about the immediate provocation behind the murder. Police said they have started an investigation on how he got the revolver and whether he got help from any other person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalker-shoots-dental-student-kills-self-police-101627674073262.html
31-07-2021||India||Cabinet buzz echoes in Delhi||Bengaluru Amid growing speculations over cabinet expansion in the newly formed government in Karnataka, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders in the union government. “I have spoken to our national president JP Nadda on flood and Covid and also told him that cabinet expansion should be done at the earliest,” Bommai said, adding that Nadda assured to finalise the process soon. The chief minister said that he would like to have a ‘creative cabinet’ that would comprise leaders who are ‘experienced’ and have a ‘new mindset’. Bommai said he is confident that of getting a ‘green signal’ within a week and that there is a possibility he would have to visit the national capital once again. The CM, however, said that he did not discuss any names yet with the national leaders. Expanding the ministry will be the first big challenge before Bommai as he will have to navigate through the cabinet formation exercise by maintaining balance between factions within the ruling BJP. There are several aspirants among the party old guard, and legislators who had joined the BJP after quitting the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019. Apart from cabinet expansion, the chief minister also apprised the leaders of the flood situation in the state and sought some relief from the Centre. He also discussed the state’s deteriorating financial condition. The southern state has been at the receiving end of nature’s fury as floods ravaged the coastal districts of Karnataka, dealing a double whammy to the population who have had more than a year of mounting losses due to Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. “This is a testing time for you, you have to rise to the occasion,” Bommai said, quoting what Amit Shah told him on Friday. Bommai said that he spent around 35-45 minutes with the Prime Minister who, the former said, gave him a lot of guidance. “JP Nadda said that along with politics, you have to build the party and make coordinated efforts in facing upcoming challenges and elections like local body, taluk and byelections,” Bommai said. The chief minister said that he also discussed contentious projects like Mekedatu, Upper Krishna, Upper Bhadra, Mahadayi and even Yettinahole with the central leadership and sought their cooperation for the same. Bommai said that he would like to bring in some changes to make the administration efficient so that programmes and schemes would reach the sections it is intended for. The CM also said that in the long term, he would like to improve the per-capita income of farmers, women, scheduled caste, scheduled tribes and other backward classes who account for more than 55% of the state’s population. “If their income increases, it would mean that the state’s economy is better and we will make a special programme for this,” he added. Lashing out at the state BJP government, former chief minister and the Congress party’s leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday said that legislators of the BJP are busy trying to get cabinet berths than protecting the calamity-stricken population. “Corona and the floods have put the people of the state in despair and instead of resolving their problems and standing with them, BJP leaders are sitting in Delhi aspiring for power and position,” Siddaramaiah said, adding that all legislators are “lobbying” for ministerial berths. He even called Bommai a “rubber stamp”, in reply to which the CM said that the “stamp” of his government would be that of the BJP, the prime minister, Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and of Yediyurappa which would be towards better governance. Bommai said that Siddaramaiah’s administration was “drowned in corruption” and said that the new government will ensure speedy and efficient delivery of services to bring down corruption. The statements come at a time when several BJP legislators have been accused of corruption, sex-scandals and even running a parallel administration in the previous government. Bommai is scheduled to meet union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday before returning to Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-buzz-echoes-in-delhi-101627671800277.html
31-07-2021||India||Covid curbs may return in K’taka||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Friday empowered district officials to assess and impose any additional restrictions and containment measures to control the resurgence of the Covid-19 pandemic in the southern state.The possibilities of reviving the restrictions comes at a time when Karnataka and some of its 30 districts, including Bengaluru, are witnessing a sudden surge in new infections.“In the last few days there were some relaxations to the restrictions but now we will make it more strict,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday.The chief minister said that he has already spoken with the district officials of Kodagu, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada and other places and will hold another round of talks with officials from other parts of the state on controlling the spike in new infections. He also said that there is a need to tighten the borders and asserted on compulsory testing to stop the spread of the virus. “We have to tighten our borders. Conduct compulsory testing, contact tracing of outsiders and strengthen our health infrastructure,” Bommai said.Karnataka on Wednesday saw cases go beyond the 2,000 mark from 1,531 a day before, registering an over 30% spike and adding to fears of a new round of infections. On Friday, the state reported 1,890 new infections, the state health department stated.In July, there were over 56,000 new infections reported in Karnataka, data from the state health department shows.During the same time, Bengaluru has seen over 12,654 new infections, indicating that India’s IT capital continues to be the top contributor of new Covid-19 cases in the state.“Daily, there are over 400-500 new infections being reported (in Bengaluru). When compared to the previous wave it is lower but even then the virus is between us and in the society,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said on Friday.The vaccination drive in Karnataka is also lagging behind even though it remains one of the top most states in the country to inoculate its citizens, data shows. The state has administered 3,00,12,137 doses so far with an average of just 200,000 to 300,000 lakh per day so far, according to information on cowin portal.Out of this, the first dose accounts for 2,36,10,569 while the number of second dose is 64,01,568, according to data on CoWin on Friday till 9.30 pm.Bommai said that he conveyed concerns of vaccine shortage to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. The chief minister also said that the Prime Minister has asked for Karnataka’s requirement and shortages and assured to set right the process in order to increase vaccination drive in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curbs-may-return-in-ktaka-101627671794565.html
31-07-2021||India||Kerala rolls out ₹5,650 crore relief as Covid rages on||Thiruvananthapuram: Amid a high Covid-19 caseload and lockdowns, the Kerala government on Friday announced a financial package of ₹5,650 crore to revive the economy that is reeling under the impact of the pandemic. The state reported over 20,000 Covid cases on Friday, according to the state health ministry. When 1,52,639 samples were tested, 20,772 turned positive with a test positivity rate of 13.61%. For the last four days the state has been reporting over 20,000 cases and contributing more than half of total Covid count in the country. Announcing the bailout package in the assembly, finance minister KN Balagopal said the government is committed to helping people hit hard by the pandemic. He said the government will subsidise loans, announcing two new schemes under the state-run Kerala Financial Corporation and Kerala State Financial Enterprises. “We will give loans to small-scale traders, entrepreneurs and framers. The government will bear interest of four per cent for six months for loans up to ₹2 lakh. This will be a big boost to farmers, small-scale traders and others,” he said, adding that the government will also give concession in rent and power charges to tide over the crisis. The state has witnessed suicides last week due to the financial burden incurred due to the Covid lockdown. “We have requested banks also to provide loans at a cheaper rate and not to insist for dues in the prevailing situation,” Balagopal said, adding that the government will give loans up to ₹1 crore at five per cent interest to 500 small enterprises this year. This is the third package announced by the LDF government, he said. But the Opposition called it a gimmick and asked the government to give details of the earlier packages. “We know the fate of earlier packages. This will remain only in announcements,” said opposition leader VD Satheesan. As cases gallop, experts and medical bodies have asked the state government to conduct more genetic studies and seroprevalence surveys to confirm the presence and depth of various strains in the state. “We are depending heavily on the Indian Council of Medical Research for sero survey and other tests. We all know that the ICMR is taking a small amount of samples and doing it randomly. The state can do such things elaborately to get a clear picture,” said Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter secretary Dr P Gopikumar. Meanwhile, the 6-member central experts’ team, headed by director of the National Centre for Disease Control Dr SK Singh, was to arrive in the state later in the night. The Union health ministry sent the six-member multi-disciplinary team to Kerala on Thursday to monitor the on-ground Covid-19 situation there and suggest measures to control the spread of infection, as the state remains the country’s biggest hot spot region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rolls-out-5-650-crore-relief-as-covid-rages-on-101627671312035.html
31-07-2021||India||Elgar parishad case: Gadling gets 9-day bail||The Bombay high court on Friday granted temporary bail to Surendra Gadling, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, from August 13 to 21, allowing him to perform the last rites of his mother who died last year. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was informed by senior counsel Indira Jaising that the final rites of Gadling’s mother, who died in Nagpur on August 15 last year, could not be performed as Gadling’s brother and other family members were suffering from Covid-19 and were hospitalised. The family decided to perform these rites on her first death anniversary on August 15, advocate Jaising told the court, seeking temporary bail for him.In September 2020, a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court rejected Gadling’s temporary bail . Earlier this year, he moved the high court. The high court, while allowing temporary bail on Friday, put strict conditions which include surrendering his passport, reporting to the police station in his area of residence on August 16 and 19 at 10 am, submit his itinerary during his release to the special NIA court and go out to Bina river on August 19 only for immersing the ashes. The high court also asked Gadling to furnish sureties in the sum of ₹50,000 to the satisfaction of the special NIA court. Gadling was arrested in 2018 on charges of conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018, He was lodged at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. The NIA is probing the case. Gadling and several other activists were arrested for alleged links with the Maoists and booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-gadling-gets-9-day-bail-101627671011368.html
31-07-2021||India||Mizoram MP summoned by Assam cops amid row||Assam Police summoned Mizoram’s Rajya Sabha member K Vanlalvena and six top officials over their alleged role in fanning tensions, people aware of developments said on Friday, as a standoff between the northeastern neighbours who clashed at a disputed border earlier this week refused to abate.The notice, under section 41A of the code of criminal procedure (which deals with appearance before a police officer], was issued on July 28 -- two days after seven people were killed at the interstate border in an unprecedented gunbattle. Police asked the MP to appear for investigation and questioning on August 1.A four-member team of Assam Police reached Delhi on Thursday to meet Vanlalvena and reached his residence and his office but could not find him, officials familiar with the matter said. The team pasted the notice on his residence.“It has come to light that you have given a threatening statement in media targeting civil and police officials in connection with the incident which is a subject matter of investigation.Therefore, there are reasonable grounds to question you to ascertain facts and circumstances from you,” the notice read.Assam Police have also filed an FIR against Vanlalvena, who told reporters on Wednesday, “More than 200 policemen entered our territory and they pushed back our policemen from our own posts and they gave firing orders first, before we fired. They are lucky that we didn’t kill them all. If they come again, we shall kill them all.”The MP couldn’t be reached for comment.The police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle at a disputed border in southern Assam on July 26, in which six Assam policemen died. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on its forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claimed the land belongs to it.Since then, tensions have simmered between the two states.Mizoram Police said it fired in self-defence after being attacked by Assam Police, who allege that post-mortem reports of the deceased showed that sophisticated weapons were used. It has registered a case of murder, attempt to murder, conspiracy, voluntary causing grievous hurt and under the Arms Act.Assam’s Cachar district deputy superintedent of police, Kalyan Kumar Das, also issued summons to Mizoram’s Kolasib district deputy commissioner Dr H Lalthlangliana and asked him to appear at Dholai Police station on August 2. Similar notices were sent to five other senior officials, said people aware of developments.“You are hereby directed to appear before the investigating Officer (the undersigned) at Dholai Police Station on the 02nd August, 2021 at 11 AM for your examination in connection with Dholai Police Station case No. 236 of 2021 under sections 153A/ 447/ 336/ 379/ 333/ 307/302/ 427/ 147 148/ 149/ 120(B)/ 34 of Indian Penal Code read with Section 25(1-A)/ 27 Arms Act read with section 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, as a reasonable and credible information has been received that you have committed the alleged cognizable offence. This direction is issued in exercise of powers conferred u/s 41A of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,” the notice read.The deputy commissioner is yet to respond to the notice, said the people quoted above,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-mp-summoned-by-assam-cops-amid-row-101627671011945.html
31-07-2021||India||Rains likely to intensify in next 5 days, says IMD||With monsoon entering an active phase “, an intense spell of rain is expected over parts of central India and adjoining northwest India” in the next 4-5 days, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday.“There are two low pressure systems one over Uttar Pradesh and another over Jharkhand. They have intensified rain. Also, both winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal are strong making monsoon very active. The monsoon trough is roughly passing along Ganganagar and Delhi which is why Delhi is also seeing some intense spells. But rains will be very intense over central India in the next 4-5 days particularly east Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and west Madhya Pradesh,” explained RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.IMD warned that widespread and extremely heavy (over 20 cm) rain is expected over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till August 4 with peak activity during July 31 and August 3. Widespread rain will also continue over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana till August 4.Widespread rain with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Uttar Pradesh during next five days while scattered, moderate rainfall is likely over Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab during next five days, IMD warned. There are likely to be intense rainfall spells intermittently over Delhi also during the period, according to the weather agency..The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift north of its normal position during next 48 hours. Its western end is very likely to remain to the south of its normal position and active during next 5-6 days.A fresh low-pressure area is lying over southern parts of central Uttar Pradesh and the associated cyclonic circulation extends upto 7.6 km above mean sea level. Another well marked low pressure area is lying over Gangetic West Bengal & adjoining Jharkhand. It is likely to move west-northwestwards across south Bihar and southern parts of Uttar Pradesh during next 2-3 days.Widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar on Saturday and over East Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh till August 2. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over Jharkhand and over East Madhya Pradesh on Saturday.Very heavy rain is likely to continue over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till August 4 with peak activity during July 31 to August 3. Isolated extremely heavy falls (over 20 cm) are likely over East Rajasthan during July 31 to August 3 and over West Madhya Pradesh from July 31– August 2 .There is a 1% rain deficiency over the country since June 1 with 3% deficiency over northwest India; 1% excess over central India; 18% excess over peninsular India and 15% deficiency over north and northwest India. Despite extreme rains over the west coast and in parts of northwest India, rain deficiency is yet to be covered.“The deficiency remained in July despite monsoon resuming after a break spell of 10 days earlier this month. This is because the distribution of rains was slightly skewed this month with most rain activity happening over the west coast. But now Punjab to West Bengal entire area will see an active spell. There will be intense spells of rain over Delhi and other parts of northwest India. Central India may see some flooding because very heavy rain is expected over east Rajasthan and parts of Madhya Pradesh,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-likely-to-intensify-in-next-5-days-says-imd-101627670959533.html
31-07-2021||India||Delta caused 82% Covid cases in 3 months: Data||Nearly 8 of every 10 (82%) of Covid-19 infections in the past three months (May, June and July) were caused by the highly infectious Delta variant of the SARS-Cov-2 virus according to data from the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium or INSACOG dashboard -- highlighting that most cases in India are now being caused by this variant of concern which is also behind the recent surge of cases in the US.In March, the Alpha variant was the dominant strain of the virus; in the past three months, only 0,54% of the cases were of this variant.To be sure, this data pertains to infections where the viral genome was sequenced. This sampling can be considered to be representative, though.Over all, nearly two in three coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the country so far have been caused by mutated variants, according to data from INSACOG. The consortium of 28 laboratories across the country sequenced 46,124 samples till July 22 (from the time the body started sequencing viral genomes), according to data provided by the minister for state of science and technology Dr Jitendra Singh on Friday.Of these, 26,957 or 58.4% were found to be either variants of concern or variants of interest.Of the total samples sequenced, 37.2% were of delta variant. In recent months, that proportion increased sharply.“This is not unexpected because it is the fastest spreading virus and has replaced almost all other variants across the world. Almost 80% of the cases in Indonesia, US, UK at the moment are caused by the Delta variant. South Africa also has Delta now; the second wave there was driven by Beta and the third by Delta ,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.The fact that the variant was behind India’s bruising second wave of infections may help the country now.“The Delta plus variant, which is essentially same as Delta, is unlikely to drive a surge in India,” added Dr John.Interestingly, the proportion of Delta, reduced in July with only 73% of the samples being of the variant. But this was not because the variant was being replaced.“There were very few samples (in July, including) some that were not of good quality so it becomes difficult to assign lineage,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, one of the 28 labs of INSACOG.There were 4,172 samples of the Alpha variant that was dominant in Northern India, especially Punjab, at the beginning of the year and was then replaced by the Delta variant. INSACOG has so far detected 217 cases of Beta variant that was first reported in South Africa and 1 of Gamma variant first detected in Brazil. Of the total samples, 5,398 were that of variants of interest such as the Kappa variant, close relative of the delta variant.The consortium has so far sequenced 70 samples of Delta plus variant, which is also considered to be variant of concern.The highest number of Delta plus cases has been reported from Maharashtra, which accounts for 23 of the 70 cases. This was followed by Madhya Pradesh with 11, and Tamil Nadu with 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-caused-82-covid-cases-in-3-months-data-101627670776015.html
31-07-2021||India||SC seeks probe report on judge’s death case||Emphasising that it is the State’s obligation to protect judges to ensure they can discharge their duties fearlessly, the Supreme Court on Friday registered on its own a public interest litigation over the death of an additional district and sessions judge in Jharkhand who was fatally knocked down by a vehicle on Wednesday morning.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana took suo motu (on its own motion) cognisance of the death of judicial officer Uttam Anand, and sought explanations from Jharkhand’s chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) within a week.Registering the suo motu case as ‘In Re: Safeguarding Courts and Protecting Judges (Death of Additional Sessions Judge, Dhanbad)’, the court termed the incident “unfortunate”, adding: “This gruesome incident has been widely reported in newspapers, and video clippings of the incident are also being circulated on social media platforms, suggesting that it was not a case of simplicitor road accident.”The court said in its order: “Having regard to the seriousness of the issue and its larger ramifications, we direct the chief secretary and director general of police, state of Jharkhand to jointly submit a status report of inquiry vis-a-vis the sad demise of the judicial officer, Shri Uttam Anand, with the registry of this court within a week’s time.”The bench added it was aware of the suo motu proceedings already initiated by the Jharkhand high court a day ago into the incident and clarified that the high court should continue monitoring the matter there. “However, we want to be appraised of the status of investigation,” added the bench, which also sought appearance of Jharkhand’s advocate general before it on August 6 when the matter will be heard next. The court has further requested attorney general KK Venugopal to assist it on the next date.In addition to the incident in Jharkhand, the court said, it was concerned with the larger issues pertaining to safety and security of judicial officers.“It has been brought to the notice of this court that similar incidents are happening across the country. Taking into consideration the duty and obligation of the State to create an environment and accord full protection to judicial officers as well as the legal fraternity so that they can perform their duties fearlessly, we deem it appropriate to take up this matter suo motu,” said the bench, which also included justice Surya Kant.“As there is an urgent need for wider consideration and consequential detailed explanation(s) by all concerned, we will consider the desirability of issuing notice to all other states and Union Territories on the next date of hearing,” underscored the bench in its order.On Thursday, the Supreme Court Bar Association’s President and senior advocate Vikas Singh had requested the CJI to order an independent probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into Anand’s death.Mentioning the matter before justice Ramana, Singh had called the incident an attack on independence of judiciary, demanding an intervention by the Supreme Court. To this, the CJI had told Singh that he has spoken to chief justice Ravi Ranjan of Jharkhand high court, who assured him that the matter will be taken up by them on the judicial side. “If there is any need for us to be involved, we will take it up,” justice Ramana had further said.Later on Thursday, the high court took suo motu cognisance of Anand’s death and it was informed that the police had formed a 14-member special investigation team (SIT), headed by an additional director general of police, to investigate into the FIR registered under murder charges.Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan told the high court that prima facie, it appeared that Anand was killed deliberately. Ranjan said two people, who were riding the offending vehicle, have been arrested and the auto rickshaw had also been recovered.Responding to the high court’s remark that it would transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) if the investigation was not done professionally, the state’s law officer said while it was the prerogative of the court to do this, the progress in investigation after the incident has been satisfactory.The police filed a murder case in the incident after CCTV footage of the incident showed a vehicle deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down the judge on Wednesday morning while he was out for a morning jog. The auto rickshaw used in the incident, which was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district on Wednesday night.Local police are yet to attribute motive to the alleged killers but the relatives of the judge, who was cremated in his hometown Hazaribag, have demanded a CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-probe-report-on-judge-s-death-case-101627670531336.html
31-07-2021||India||Mixed dosing of Covaxin, nasal vaccine trials get panel nod||The subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 under the country’s apex drug regulator approved vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s plan to experiment a mixed-dosing of two of its vaccines – the intramuscularly administered Covaxin and an nasal inoculation based on a different vector.Covaxin, based on an inactivated virus platform, is widely in use in India’s coronavirus immunisation while the second vaccine, based on an adenovirus vector, is in phase II clinical trials.“The committee recommended for grant of permission for conduct of the proposed clinical trial removing the word “interchageability” from the study title. Accordingly, the firm should submit revised clinical trial protocol to CDSCO for approval,” the minutes of the meeting read.After the SEC makes its recommendations, the final nod is given by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO).The decision was taken by the committee in its meeting on Thursday when it also approved another mixed-dose trial for two of the vaccines already in use in India: Covaxin and Covishield. This will be carried out by a team from Christian Medical College-Vellore.The meeting also discussed the decision by another coronavirus vaccine maker, Johnson and Johnson, to withdraw its proposal for a phase III bridging trial in India. “The firm has informed that they are withdrawing their proposal,” the minutes of the meeting read. The vaccine may still be brought to India since the drug regulator in April opened another route for foreign vaccine makers such as J&J, which have been approved by some western medical regulators, to be eligible for approval in India without the need for a bridging study.The application for emergency use authorisation by Gujarat-based Cadila healthcare for its vaccine was not reviewed in Thursday’s meeting. It is the world’s first DNA vaccine for Covid-19 in large scale trials. The company has already submitted interim results of its three-dose vaccine to the drug regulator.The protein subunit vaccine by BiologicalE also applied for a phase II/III clinical trial in children between the ages of 5 and 17 years. The proposal has been put on hold by the SEC stating that the decision will be taken only after complete safety and immunogenicity data from Phase II in adults is submitted.The CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute also submitted phase III clinical trial data for antiviral medicine Umifenovir. The committee noted that the results in moderate Covid-19 patients was not statistically significant and recommended that a phase III trial with mild Covid-19 patients be conducted.“The committee observed that results in moderate Covid-19 cases were not statistically significant. But, the sample size of mild patients was not adequate for considering emergency approval of the drug… the committee recommended that the applicant should conduct a large Phase III Clinical trial in statistically significant number of mild Covid-19 patients,” the minutes read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixed-dosing-of-covaxin-nasal-vaccine-trials-get-panel-nod-101627670172650.html
31-07-2021||India||UP polls: Blunting public anger over Covid handling on top of BJP’s agenda||The Bharatiya Janata Party leadership’s instruction to its lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh is to find ways to mitigate possible public anger over the state government’s handling of the second wave of the Covid pandemic that could cast a shadow over next year’s assembly elections.According to people familiar with the matter, the party‘s top brass has asked the lawmakers to reach out to the masses with the message that the government took timely steps to address systemic failures that resulted in shortage of oxygen, hospital beds and essential medicines causing loss of lives.At a two-day meeting of lawmakers from the election bound state that concluded on Thursday, the message was to undo the damage to the government’s credibility by ensuring a hassle-free vaccination drive and provision of essential supplies in case of an anticipated third wave.UP CM Yogi Adityanath was also present at the meetings that were chaired by BJP president JP Nadda.“There is a lot of work that has been accomplished in the state vis-a-vis development, crackdown on criminals, making arrangements to invite investors to the state but the second wave made a dent in the government’s track record. No state including UP was prepared for the scale of the pandemic and the challenges it brought with it. But since we are in power we cannot escape public anger,” said a party functionary aware of the details who asked not to be named.The party’s instruction to lawmakers is based on feedback from the ground and from its ideological mentor the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh indicating that the Covid crisis will play a decisive role in shaping the electoral outcome.“The Prime Minister has also repeatedly urged MPs and the MLAs to monitor the vaccination drive that is being carried out and to motivate those who are hesitant to take the vaccines. He has also asked us to make sure that hospitals and other arrangements are in place in case a third wave hits us,” said a second party functionary who too spoke on condition of anonymity.The two-day meeting which was described as a “routine interaction” between the party’s leadership and the lawmakers set the stage for preparing the blueprint for the upcoming election in 2022.Apart from focusing on the pandemic and how to prepare for a third wave the lawmakers were also asked to create awareness about the social welfare schemes and the sops that the government announced during the lockdown, such as free ration and monetary aid.The lawmakers have also been instructed to cover their respective constituencies, organising programmes on a small scale to ensure that Covid protocol is not breached. They have also been asked to address the issue of the ongoing protests against three reformist farm laws the government passed last year.“There is a very small percentage of farmers in western UP who are protesting against the farm laws so a concerted effort is being made to ensure that farmers across the state a made aware of the benefits that they stand to gain. Similarly, the union Government has been taking steps for the empowerment of the socially and economically backward communities, we will create awareness about these issues as well,” said the first functionary.In the run up to the election, the party will also be begun preparing a schedule for senior leaders to tour the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-polls-blunting-public-anger-over-covid-handling-on-top-of-bjp-s-agenda-101627669997782.html
31-07-2021||India||Concerns rise as 46% of senior citizens yet to get first vaccine dose||The slow pace of Covid-19 vaccines coverage among Indians over the age of 60 years is becoming a cause for concern, experts warned as more than 46% of the population group most vulnerable to the disease are yet to receive even a single shot.Till 7pm on Friday, a total of over 460 million doses had been administered across the country, with over 5.1 million jabs being given on Friday alone, to over 356 million people. Of these, 256 million people have been partially vaccinated, while more than 100 million people have received both shots of the vaccine.However, it is coverage among the elderly that is a cause for concern, according to experts.Till Friday morning (latest data released by the health ministry), just over 74.6 million people above the age of 60 had received a Covid-19 shot (39 million partially vaccinated, 35.6 million fully). This translates to around 54% of the 138 million people in this age group in the country, as per the population projection for 2021 based on the 2011 Census.Experts say those over 60 are at a higher risk of developing severe disease due to Covid-19 and also death. When the first wave of the pandemic had struck, 80% of the deaths happened among those over the age of 50 years, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul had said while explaining the process of identification of the vulnerable groups for the second phase of the vaccination drive.“With the limited number of vaccines available, it is really important to prioritise who gets it. First, there is a need to cover the gap between the number of people who have received the first dose and those who have received the second. This is because the efficacy of just one dose of Covishield is only about 30% against the Delta variant,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi.She said there is the need to prioritise the vaccine for pregnant women who could develop complications if they get the disease and also those who travel by public transport or interact with a lot of people in a day, like shopkeepers.“Those who have had the infection can wait. The government policy currently says they can wait for three months, but they can wait up to eight because they have protection against a second infection,” said Dr Garg who is a member of the Lancet Commission Covid-19 India Task Force. It has been set up by Lancet journal to independently monitor Covid-related interventions and give suggestions.The vaccine coverage seems to be better when it comes to healthcare workers and frontline workers.According to the data, over 10.2 million first doses have been administered to healthcare workers so far, which is higher than the government’s own estimate of there being about 10 million such workers in the country in total at the start of the vaccine programme. Over 75% of them have also received the second dose.As for the frontline workers, 89.5% of the estimated 20 million have received one jab and nearly 62% of them have received their second jab as well.The immunisation drive is likely pick up pace over the next three months, with more vaccine doses becoming available. There would be 150 to 180 million doses available in August, 200 million in September, and 300 million by October as HT reported on Thursday. In comparison, 120 million doses were administered across India until July 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerns-rise-as-46-of-senior-citizens-yet-to-get-first-vaccine-dose-101627669995355.html
31-07-2021||India||No deaths due to shortage of oxygen: Goa minister in assembly||No one died at the Goa Medical College (GMC) due to oxygen shortage and the hospital never ran out of supplies, state health minister Vishwajit Rane told the assembly on Friday, contradicting his previous comments and the administration’s submissions in the high court.Rane’s statement came in a written reply to Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat who sought to know the details of the total number of deaths of Covid patients who died in GMC due to shortage of oxygen.“At no point in time, the oxygen supplies at GMC ran out of stock and thus, no death has been reported to have caused due to non supply of oxygen,” Rane said in a written reply.The response comes days after the central government told Parliament that no deaths due to lack of oxygen were “specifically reported” by states or Union territories, triggering an uproar.At the height of the second wave of Covid in May, at least 83 people died over five days at the premier hospital due to a drop in oxygen pressure between 2 am and 6 am every day – a period later referred to by the high court as the “dark hours”. At the time, every second person being tested for the virus in Goa was returning a positive result.The deaths prompted the Bombay high court at Goa to take up the case and sharply criticise the government’s handling of the crisis at the hospital.In its submissions, the government had pointed to logistical problems in the supply of oxygen to some Covid wards, and said on May 13,“some deaths may have taken place due to fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients.”“There were logistical issues involved in maneuvering the tractor which carries the trolleys of oxygen and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold. During this process there was some interruption, which resulted in a fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. It is basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place,” the state government said in anaffidavit filed by health secretary Ravi Dhawanon May 13.GMC dean Shivanand Bandekar also told the court on May 12 that the hospital was facing a shortage of 6.5 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day, and that supply was not being augmented.At the time, GMC was handling more patients than its bed capacity. Authorities delivered oxygen in two ways – 700 regular beds through a central pipeline, and 250 additional beds set up during the pandemic by loose cylinders that needed to be replaced and refilled.On May 11, health minister Rane first flagged the issue of dropping oxygen pressure levels and called for a probe into the deaths.Rane said that on the night of May 10 and May 11, 26 and 21 people, respectively, died due to oxygen shortage. The following three nights, 15, 13 and eight more people died before the government shifted from using oxygen cylinders to a liquid medical oxygen tank.On May 12, the high court rejected the government’s submission that logistical problems with tractors caused the crisis.“We have long passed the stage of determining whether patients are suffering from the lack of oxygen or not. The material placed before us establishes that patients are indeed suffering and even in some cases, succumbing for want of the supply of oxygen, in the state of Goa,” the high court said.The Goa Association of Resident Doctors (GARD) flagged oxygen problems at GMC as early as May 3.Opposition parties on Friday were quick to pick on the Goa government for its claim.“Whether it’s rape victims or #COVID19 victims, the trauma never ends from this @DrPramodPSawant’s @GovtofGoa. Real #Goemkars (Goans) died, @visrane (Vishwajit Rane)! In #Goa. If you don’t feel any respect or sympathy towards their grieving families, at least pretend!” Goa Forward president Vijai Sardesai tweeted.HT reached out to Rane for a comment but did not get any response immediately.A resident doctor posted at a Covid ward said on condition of anonymity: “We also faced shortages of oxygen masks, faulty and non functioning NIV ventilators, faulty oximeters and other consumables during the entire duration of the peak.”The residents had initially complained that “higher authorities” were misleading the state over the real picture within the Covid wards.“On a daily basis, we saw all higher authorities giving statements that there is no issue of oxygen and beds. In the middle of the night when oxygen gets over, and patients’ situations worsen and sometimes die, it’s the junior doctor on duty who has to face angry relatives,” GARD had said in an earlier letter to the dean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deaths-due-to-shortage-of-oxygen-goa-minister-in-assembly-101627669994131.html
31-07-2021||India||Not getting time in Rajya Sabha: Oppn to Naidu||Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, has written to the chairman of the House, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, complaining that opposition parties are not being given time to speak, as protests over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws continued to cause a logjam in Parliament.The rare letter -- leaders of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, the House of elders aren’t given to complaining of how the House is being run to the chairman -- came even as two senior leaders said the Opposition is exploring more ways to register their protest with Naidu on the situation in the Rajya Sabha. While a section of the Opposition is toying with the idea of a motion against the chairman, others are of the view that PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah should be targeted for the logjam in Parliament.A top government functionary said on condition of anonymity that Naidu will not compromise on the issue of maintaining the decorum of the House. On Friday, as protests erupted in the House over the Pegasus snooping row and the farm laws, Naidu said it has been brought to his notice that “some members were blowing whistles in the house, placing their hands on the shoulders of marshals while proceedings were on and taking placards and standing in front of ministers”.Such actions were a new low, he added. “There are two ways to deal with this. Allow the House to become a bazaar or take action (against those behaving badly),” Naidu said. “I feel sorry to say this from the podium…I never expected my members to go that level.” He also cautioned that no one should “exhaust the patience of the House”.A Congress leader confirmed on condition of anonymity that Kharge “has written to the chairman expressing anguish at the manner in which the Opposition is being treated”.Congress functionaries added that Kharge has mentioned that even during former vice president Hamid Ansari’s tenure as the chairman, the leader of the Opposition enjoyed freedom in speaking in the House, and no one was allowed to disrupt or stop his speeches, but that this is happening now. He has also said that opposition parties are not getting time to raise their issues.The situation in the Rajya Sabha, where the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance is still in minority, was discussed among opposition parties in their meeting on Friday morning. According to a leader from a non-Congress opposition party , the general consensus was that the Opposition was being muzzled in the Rajya Sabha.Opposition-led protests have rocked both Houses of Parliament from the beginning of the monsoon session on July 19. The Opposition is demanding a debate on the Pegasus snooping row with either the PM or the HM participating in it. The government has, so far, not agreed to that demand.Senior government managers are expected to meet with opposition parties in an attempt to salvage the remaining 10 days of the current session.Another opposition leader who asked not to be named argued that no “calling attention motion” or short duration discussion was allowed in the previous two sessions and no debate under Rule 267 — or suspension of other business to take up a debate — has been allowed in this session so far.The government functionary cited above pointed out that Naidu has consideration for the Opposition having been an opposition member of the Rajya Sabha.“In the all-party meeting on July 17, Naidu urged the government to sit with opposition leaders to arrive at an agreement on legislative business and other issues. Later in the Business Advisory Committee meeting, he again urged the government to regularly consult with the Opposition on major bills and other issues to be taken up in the House.”According to this person Naidu “was upset over media reports that the Opposition has decided not to allow the House to function during this session”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-getting-time-in-rs-oppn-to-naidu-101627669871934.html
31-07-2021||India||Best-ever pass percentage in CBSE Class 12 this year||A record 99.37% of twelfth graders enrolled with the Central Board of the Secondary Education (CBSE) passed their finals, capping an unprecedented pandemic-stricken academic year in which schoolchildren learned from home before their assessments were eventually drawn up using their performance from past years.The pass rate was more than 10 percentage point higher than the 88.78% recorded in 2020, and close to 16 percentage more than in 2019, the last time normal board examinations were conducted.Of 1,369,745 candidates, 1,296,318 passed and results for 65,184 were under process. “The results of about 1,060 new schools is still under process as there was no reference year hence, looking into the interest of candidates the result of these schools will also be declared within a weeks’ time,” said Controller of Examinations, Sanyam Bhardwaj.In 2020, when India went into a lockdown in March end, exams for several subjects were pending. This year, none of the theory examinations – also known as externals – were held as the country entered the second wave of infections.“Batch which appeared for the Class 12 boards this year did so under unprecedented circumstances. The education world witnessed many changes through the year gone by. Yet, they adapted to the new normal and gave their best. Proud of them! To those who feel they could have worked harder or performed better, I want to say - learn from your experience and hold your head high. A bright and opportunity-filled future awaits you...” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet on Friday.The number of students scoring 95% and above almost doubled to 70,004 this year from last year’s 38,686, while the number of students scoring between 90-95% marks decreased from 157,934 last year to 150,152 this year.In region-wise performance, Trivandrum performed the best with overall pass percentage of 99.89%, followed by Delhi at 99.84%, Bengaluru at 99.83%, Chennai at 99.77%, and Bhubaneswar at 99.55%.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was a historic performance. “Congratulations to Delhi government schools students, teachers and parents. Congrats Team Delhi Education. Overall pass percentage is 99.96% up from 97.92% last year. 875 Schools have 100% result (396 last year) 885 students score above 95% (442 students last year) Its historic!” he tweeted.Students were evaluated on the basis of their finals in classes 10 and 11, and their mid-year tests in 12th. The final score was drawn up by their schools using a 30-30-40 formula set by the CBSE and experts said the better performance is likely to be an outcome of a more lenient approach by schools in a year when learning has been difficult.The formula was used to decide the theory component of the finals, which accounts for 70-80% of the total score. The 30-30-40 split meant that the theory marks were 60% based on past performance. From Class 10, a student’s average score from the three best subjects was chosen. From Class 11, the score of the final exam for that subject was taken into account. And from Class 12, the marks were calculated on the basis of their unit-tests, mid-terms or pre-boards.Several principals said that the 60% weight to previous years’ scores led to a jump in pass percentage across states this year.Malini Narayanan, principal of Army Public School in Shankar Vihar and chairperson of National Progressive, said: “Due to the moderation policy, children who may have scored below the passing limit of 33 marks may have been granted 34 or 35 marks. Only 40% weightage was given for Class 12 scores so there is no way children could have failed, because students score well in Class 10 board exams and keeping pandemic in mind they were promoted in Class 11 as well.”Narayanan added that while schools would have had some students in previous years who failed to clear some subjects, administrators “would have done positive moderation in the interest of the students”.Out of 3,925 children with special needs, 3,909 passed. Like in previous years, more girls passed the finals than boys but the difference in their pass percentage shrank from 6 last year to 0.54. The pass percentage of transgender students was recorded at 100% -- from last year’s 66.67%.Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) and Central Tibetan School Administration (CTSA) schools performed the best with 100% pass percentage following by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JKV), which had 99.94% pass percentage.Divya Bhatia, principal of Amity International School in Saket, said, “It has been an extremely tough year for everyone and I am sure getting the results has brought on a sigh of relief for all parents and students. By and large the results appear to be as per expectations. However, in case a child is unhappy with the marks in any of the subjects, CBSE has the option for them to appear for the board in the month of August.”Board officials said they would conduct Class 12 exams between August 16 and September 15. “Students who are not satisfied with their assessment done based on the policy, private and patrachar candidates, those registered for improving their papers, and first chance compartment candidates will be allowed to appear for these exams,” Bhardwaj said.Only 6,149 students have been placed under compartment as against 87,651 students last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bestever-pass-percentage-in-cbse-class-12-this-year-101627669451333.html
31-07-2021||India||Contempt plea in SC over Asthana’s appointment as Delhi Police top cop||A lawyer on Friday moved the Supreme Court seeking contempt action against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for the Centre’s decision to appoint Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner days before his retirement date.Manohar Lal Sharma, the petitioner, who is a serial litigator with a penchant for filing public interest litigations or PILs, argued that the decision is contrary to the Supreme Court’s July 3, 2018, judgment in the Prakash Singh case which said the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) should, as far as practicable, consider officers with two years of service for such appointments.The court held merit and seniority should be given due weightage.A Union home ministry spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.The 2018 order came up for reconsideration after several officers lost their chances as the UPSC insisted upon the “two-year residual tenure” rule.On March 13, 2019, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court took up the matter and observed the respective Police Acts of states do not provide for any fixed residual tenures for officers to be recommended as police chiefs. “The object in issuing directions in Prakash Singh case in our considered view, can best be achieved if the residual tenure of an officer, i.e. remaining period of service till normal retirement, is fixed on a reasonable basis, which, in our considered view, should be a period of six months,” the bench said.In May, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana alluded to the judgment when candidates, including Asthana, were being considered for the post of director of the Central Bureau of Investigation.Sharma has urged the court to declare the notification appointing Asthana “illegal”. He argued the appointment of Asthana, a 1984 batch Indian Police Service officer from the Gujarat cadre, “fell afoul of the rule laid down by the apex court”.The Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC) on Tuesday announced Asthana’s appointment three days before his retirement. “The respondent no.1 (PM Modi) is the head of the ACC and respondent no.2 (Amit Shah) is the Minister of Home Affairs who jointly decided and done impugned appointment against the judgment of the Supreme Court. Hence, they are party to this for contempt of court,” Sharma said in his plea.He filed the plea a day after the Delhi assembly on Thursday passed a resolution directing the Delhi government to write to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) seeking immediate withdrawal of the appointment of Asthana and initiate a fresh selection process. The resolution referred to the legal precedent on the appointment of police chiefs and said Asthana’s appointment flouted that.It said the appointment is in complete violation of the Supreme Court judgment in the Prakash Singh case, which “clearly lays down that no individual who has less than six months of service left, can be considered for appointment as head of a police force anywhere in the country”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-petition-against-pm-shah-over-asthana-appointment-as-delhi-top-cop-101627645810868.html
31-07-2021||India||Tharoor, Dubey spar amid row over officials missing IT panel meet||Congress lawmaker and chairperson of the parliamentary panel on information technology Shashi Tharoor on Friday told Hindustan Times that the Bharatiya Janata Party, members of which boycotted a committee meeting on Pegasus and the cinematograph act amendments, may need the same institutions to stand for them at some point, before fellow panel member and BJP’s Nishikant Dubey hit out afresh calling for his sacking.The spat escalated late on Friday when Tharoor posted a George Bernard Shaw quote in response to what he said were “certain uncouth & obnoxious comments”, without naming anyone. The quote read: “I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a pig. You get dirty and besides, the pig likes it”.Dubey quoted Tharoor’s tweet and wrote in Hindi: “Yes, I am a pig.”The exchange traces back to Tharoor and opposition MPs’ insistence on pursuing the Pegasus controversy. The panel summoned officials of the Union home ministry, department of telecommunications, and electronics and IT on Thursday, before each of them conveyed at the last moment they could not attend it.Tharoor, who wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking action against these officials, told HT on Friday that the developments set a dangerous precedent for Parliamentary accountability and democracy. “This is unprecedented and extremely dangerous,” said Tharoor.The meeting was eventually called off as the BJP members boycotted it, leaving it without the quorum of adequate presence for the meeting to proceed. “Tomorrow, the BJP can find itself in need of the institutions it is undermining,” Tharoor said.Dubey on Friday separately wrote to the Speaker for a second time in recent days, reiterating Tharoor should be sacked as the panel head. “For achieving their(Congress) nefarious objectives of maligning the smooth functioning of the Government as well as the Parliament, my learned Chairperson has now become a harbinger of all vicious activities which is not expected from an experienced individual, who had also occupied various positions in the government,” Dubey said.Opposition leader, journalists, activists, and a former election commissioner are believed to have been selected for targeting with Pegasus, a military-grade mobile device surveillance tool.The allegations have triggered protests in Parliament, triggering disruptions. The government has called allegations of snooping baseless and devoid of facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tharoor-says-absence-of-officials-from-parl-panel-meet-sets-dangerous-precedent-101627642150548.html
31-07-2021||India||No adverse effects by mixing Sputnik Light, Aztrazeneca jabs: Study||The world’s first study on using a cocktail of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and Russia’s Sputnik Light vaccine has shown “no serious adverse events or cases of coronavirus after vaccination”.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the main backer of the Sputnik V vaccine, on Friday announced the initial safety results of the first study on using a combination of the two vaccines that was done in Azerbaijan.“Studies on safety and immunogenicity of the combination of the AstraZeneca vaccine and the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine in Azerbaijan began in February 2021,” RDIF said in a statement.“To date 50 volunteers have been vaccinated and new participants are invited to join the trial. Interim analysis of the data demonstrates a high safety profile for the combined use of the vaccines with no serious adverse events or cases of coronavirus after vaccination,” it said.RDIF and its partners will publish initial data on the immunogenicity of the combined use of the AstraZeneca vaccine and the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine in Azerbaijan In August.Covishield, the version of the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, is one of the two main jabs being used for the national immunisation programme. RDIF has concluded agreements with several Indian pharmaceutical firms, including the Serum Institute of India (SII), to manufacture more than 300 million doses of the jab in India, with production set to start in September.RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev recently told a virtual news briefing that the developers of Sputnik V are looking at using the vaccine along with the AstraZeneca dose in a “mix and match” format. To be sure, India is yet to approve any mixing of vaccines although the Subject Expert Committee of the drugs regulator is said to be evaluating this. Sputnik V has an emergency use approval in India. The study in Azerbaijan used Sputnik Light or the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine based on human adenovirus serotype 26.“The heterogeneous boosting approach (‘vaccine cocktail’ using human adenovirus serotype 26 as the first component and human adenovirus serotype 5 as the second component) was at the core of Sputnik V,” RDIF said.“With this approach proving successful in creating a longer and more durable immunity against the coronavirus, RDIF took the lead in initiating partnerships with other vaccine producers to conduct joint studies of a combination of the first component of Sputnik V with foreign vaccines,” it added.RDIF, the Gamaleya Center, AstraZeneca and R-Pharm concluded the first such partnership in December 2020.Clinical trials of a combination of vaccines are also being carried out in several other countries. Volunteers are being vaccinated in UAE, and regulatory approval to conduct such trials has been granted in Russia and Belarus.Referring to the study in Azerbaijan, Dmitriev said: “As new strains of coronavirus emerge, partnerships between vaccine manufacturers and combining different vaccines are key to successfully fighting the pandemic. Based on the high efficacy of the heterogeneous boosting or vaccine cocktail approach, RDIF was the first in the world to initiate partnerships with other coronavirus vaccine manufacturers…We look forward to its success in Azerbaijan and other countries, which will allow a more effective implementation of vaccination programmes and protect people around the world.”Irina Panarina, general manager of AstraZeneca Russia and Eurasia, said, “A heterogeneous prime-boosting involving administering components of different vaccines to a patient…is becoming especially relevant now, when the issue of preventing the spread of new strains of coronavirus infection is acute, and the need for revaccination of the population is also coming to a head. That is why the results of the study can be of great importance for those countries where both the vaccine by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford and the Sputnik V vaccine are registered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-on-sputnik-astrazeneca-vaccine-cocktail-shows-no-serious-adverse-effect-101627636329769.html
31-07-2021||India||French agency confirms hacking of two journalists’ mobile phones||France’s cybersecurity agency has confirmed the mobile phones of two French journalists from the investigative news outlet Mediapart were hacked with the Pegasus spyware, the first instance of such surveillance being detected by a government agency. The hacking of the phones of Lénaïg Bredoux and Edwy Plenel, the two journalists from Mediapart, was earlier detected by Amnesty International’s security lab as part of the reporting by an international consortium of journalists on the targeting of 50,000 phone numbers around the world by clients of the Isreali firm NSO Group, which developed Pegasus. Mediapart has published a series of reports on alleged corruption, influence peddling, money laundering and favouritism in the ₹59,000 crore (7.8 billion euro) deal between France’s Dassault Aviation and India for 36 Rafale combat jets. Last month, a French judge was tasked with investigating suspicions of corruption in the defence deal. The hacking of their phones with Pegasus was confirmed by IT specialists from the Agence Nationale de la Securite des Systemes d’Information (ANSSI) on Thursday, Mediapart reported. In both cases, the specialists reached the same conclusions as Amnesty International’s security lab regarding the “Pegasus infection, its modalities, dates and duration”, the report said. Also Read | SC may take up journalists’ PIL against Pegasus snooping next weekThe phones of the two journalists were checked at the Paris headquarters of ANSSI by specialists from the central office for the fight against crime related to information and communication technologies (OCLCTIC). This was part of a preliminary investigation launched on July 20 by the public prosecutor of Paris, Rémy Heitz, a day after Mediapart filed a formal complaint. “This confirmation was recorded during the hearings, during which our two journalists explained why both the technical evidence and the chronological contexts designated the Moroccan intelligence services as the operators of this espionage,” Mediapart said in its report in French. France opened a probe into the matter after it emerged that French President Emmanuel Macron was among those targeted for surveillance, apparently at the behest of Moroccan government agencies. NSO Group, currently at the centre of a global controversy over misuse of its Pegasus spyware to hack phones of journalists and politicians, has temporarily blocked several government clients from using its technology, an unnamed company employee told NPR on Thursday.The move came a day after Israeli authorities conducted an inspection of NSO Group’s office over the reports of misuse of Pegasus around the world. An international media consortium last week began publishing reports based on what is believed to be a leaked list of 50,000 phone numbers worldwide that were targeted by NSO’s customers for surveillance. Evidence of the Pegasus spyware was found on 37 of 67 phones examined by forensic experts, including in India. NSO says its software is sold only to government customers after vetting by Israeli authorities. The Indian government has denied all wrong-doing and has also not confirmed or denied acquiring the Pegasus spyware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frances-cybersecurity-agency-confirms-phones-of-2-journalists-hacked-with-pegasus-101627634228952.html
31-07-2021||India||SC to hear journalists’ plea for probe into Pegasus next week||The Supreme Court will hear next week a petition filed by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar seeking a judicial inquiry into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware and to identify the entities responsible for this.Mentioning the petition before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said, “This matter has huge ramifications on civil liberties as it involves surveillance of opposition leaders, journalists and activists. It is creating waves not just in India but abroad as well.”The bench, also comprising justice Surya Kant, agreed to Sibal’s request of taking up the matter next week without specifying a date.The journalists demanded an inquiry into the alleged snooping by a retired or sitting judge of the top court to ascertain the extent of surveillance on Indian citizens and identify the entities responsible for it.In their plea, the two journalists said the government has not categorically denied obtaining Pegasus licences to conduct surveillance in the response given in Parliament by minister of electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw, and sought an exact response from the Centre in this regard. It also noted that no steps have been taken by the Centre to ensure a credible and independent investigation.Pegasus, developed by Israeli firm NSO Group, is an extremely sophisticated military software, the petition said, adding that “such mass surveillance using a military-grade spyware abridges several fundamental rights and appears to represent an attempt to infiltrate, attack and destabilise independent institutions that act as critical pillars of our democratic set-up.”The petition also stated that the snooping allegations must be viewed with seriousness as they impact the right to privacy and free speech protected under Articles 21 and 19(1)(a). Besides, the hacking of mobile phones using Pegasus spyware constitutes an offence punishable under various provisions of the Information Technology Act.The petition claimed that surveillance has been done bypassing the legal regime provided under Section 5(2) of the Telegraph Act which provides that surveillance can be done on grounds of public emergency or in the interest of public safety.This is the third petition to be filed in the top court seeking a probe into the controversy over Pegasus software that erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that phone numbers of many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted worldwide by the NSO Group’s phone hacking software. A forensic analysis of phones of 10 of the targets in India proved they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so.Communist Party of India (Marxist) member in the Rajya Sabha John Brittas and lawyer ML Sharma filed the other two petitions. The Court did not indicate whether these petitions will also be listed next week.On Monday, the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal was the first to appoint a commission of inquiry comprising former Supreme Court judge, justice MB Lokur and retired chief justice of Calcutta high court, justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya to look into the Pegasus issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-likely-to-take-up-journalists-pil-against-pegasus-snooping-next-week-101627625348688.html
31-07-2021||NA||News highlights: Kerala vaccinates nearly 500,000 beneficiaries in a single day||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update?Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi to address IPS probationers on SaturdayAt 11 AM tomorrow, 31st July, will interact with IPS probationers from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy. These probationers will go on to hold important police responsibilities in the years to come.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address Indian Police Service (IPS) at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy on Saturday via video conferencing."At 11 AM tomorrow, 31st July, will interact with IPS probationers from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy. These probationers will go on to hold important police responsibilities in the years to come," Modi tweeted.Covid-19: Punjab reports 49 new cases, zero deaths, 55 recoveriesPunjab on Friday reported 49 new Covid cases, taking the total count to 5,99,053, officials said. No Covid-related death was reported on Friday, they said. Read moreKerala vaccinates nearly 500,000 beneficiaries in a single dayKerala on Friday administered vaccine doses to record 496,619 eligible beneficiaries, state health minister Veena George said, adding such record vaccination is only possible if the state gets enough supply of vaccines.Can’t afford to invite 3rd wave: VP Naidu urges people to follow Covid protocolVice President Venkaiah Naidu said on Friday the temporary decline in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country should not make citizens complacent, adding the decline should be considered as a “breathing space” to get their act together in order to ensure that any subsequent health challenges can be faced with greater confidence and commitment. Read moreMaharashtra records 6,600 new Covid cases, 231 more deathsMaharashtra's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 6,296,756 on Friday after 6,600 new cases were logged in the last 24 hours. As many as 7,431 patients recovered while 231 succumbed to the viral disease, taking the the total recoveries and deaths to 6,083,319 and 132,566 respectively.Trajectory of Covid cases seeing considerable decline after May: GovtThe Centre said on Friday that the trajectory of Covid-19 cases is now recording a sustained and considerable decline after the peak in May this year. However, the Centre pointed out that Maharashtra and Kerala were still recording a high number of cases and certain northeastern states were showing an upward Covid-19 trend.ED issues fresh summons to ex-Maharashtra home minister, his sonThe Enforcement Directorate on Friday issued fresh summons to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son Hrishikesh, for questioning in connection with an alleged money laundering case. The ED has asked them to appear before it on Monday.Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai meets PM Modi in DelhiMet CM of Karnataka Shri @BSBommai ji today. Conveyed best wishes as he begins a new journey for Karnataka’s progress. Assured full support for the development of Karnataka. pic.twitter.com/C0pgJERPdxKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi. The CM is on a two-day visit to Delhi to meet with the BJP's central leadership, his first such visit after assuming office.Bommai is expected to discuss some key issues with the leaders including the state cabinet expansion.Earlier he met with party president JP Nadda, Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh.12th round of India-China corps commander-level talks to be held on July 31The twelfth round of corps commander-level talks between India and China would be held in Ladakh sector on Saturday (July 31). The talks would focus on disengagement in Hot Springs-Gogra sector.The talks have been scheduled for 10.30am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Defexpo-2022 to be held in Gandhinagar, Gujarat in March 2022The Defexpo-2022 is scheduled to be held in Gandhinagar, Gujarat in March next year. The show is organised by the Ministry of Defence every two years. The last edition was held in Lucknow: Defence Ministry officialsThe Defexpo-2022 has been scheduled to be held in Gandhinagar, Gujarat, in March 2022, reports ANI citing officials from the ministry of defence.'Proud of them': PM Modi congratulates class 12 students for CBSE resultsThe Batch which appeared for the Class XII Boards this year did so under unprecedented circumstances. The education world witnessed many changes through the year gone by. Yet, they adapted to the new normal and gave their best. Proud of them!Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveyed his wishes to class 12 students for the CBSE results today. "They adopted to the new normal and gave their best. Proud of them!" he tweeted.'Save democracy save country': Mamata Banerjee says after 'successful' meeting with Sharad PawarI talked to Sharad Pawar.Visit was successful. We met for political purpose. Democracy must go on. Our slogan is 'save democracy save country'. We support farmers' issues too. We'll come here every 2 months: WB CM Mamata Banerjee after leaving TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's residence pic.twitter.com/rQ1h4V5OByWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that her meeting with Sharad Pawar for political purpose was successful. "Democracy must go on. Our slogan is 'save democracy save country'. We support farmers' issues too. We'll come here every 2 months," she said, reports ANI.Delhi reports 63 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 63 new #COVID19 cases, 34 recoveries, and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 580Total recoveries: 14,10,575Death toll: 25,052 pic.twitter.com/2hLbCcJsjZWith 63 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's cases tally reached 1,436,207 and the death toll climbed to 25,052, reports ANI.2 CRPF jawans, policeman injured in grenade attack in J-K'S BaramulaTwo CRPF jawans and a policeman were injured in a grenade attack in Baramulla town. Details awaited: Jammu and Kashmir Police.India extends curbs on international flights till August 31India has extended curbs on international flights till August 31, cargo operations have been exempted.Combination between Astrazeneca vaccine, first component f Sputnik V vaccine shows no serious events of Covid-19The world’s first study of a combination between the AstraZeneca vaccine and the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine (Sputnik Light) in Azerbaijan shows no serious adverse events or Covid-19 infection cases following the vaccination, says Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF)Rescue operation resume in cloudburst-hit Kishtwar after suspension due to rainThe rescue operation to locate 20 people missing after a cloudburst in a village in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar resumed Friday after remaining suspended for hours together owing to inclement weather, officials said.Puducherry reports 90 new Covid-19 cases, overall tallyPuducherry logged 90 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours pushing the overall tally to 1,20,815, a senior official of the Department of Health said on Friday.Hong Kong man gets 9 years in jail in first trial under China-imposed national security lawHong Kong man gets 9 years in jail in first trial under China-imposed national security law, reports AFP.Fire erupts at warehouse of Brazil's national film instituteA government warehouse storing movies, documents and antique projectors from Brazil's film industry caught fire Thursday night in Sao Paulo.Thailand bans false messages amid criticism of handling of coronavirusThailand banned on Friday the dissemination of "false messages" that affect security, drawing accusations from media groups that it is trying to crack down on criticism of its handling of the coronavirus pandemic.Supreme Court takes suo motu cognisance of Dhanbad judge's death, seeks info from state policeSupreme Court takes suo motu cognizance of the alleged killing of Additional District Judge from Dhanbad, Jharkhand.CDC internal report says Delta variant as contagious as chickenpoxThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has described the Delta variant of the coronavirus to be as contagious as chickenpox and could cause severe illness, the New York Times reported, citing an internal CDC document.Thunderstorms, moderate rain likely in Delhi, says IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday predicted thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain over some parts of Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next two hours.SC to hear next week plea of senior journalist N Ram on Pegasus issueThe Supreme Court on Friday agreed to hear next week the plea of senior journalist N Ram seeking an independent probe by a sitting or a retired judge into the Pegasus snooping matter.Vedanta moves SC over Tuticorim plant issueVedanta moves Supreme Court seeking its direction to continue operating the Tuticorin plant in Tamil Nadu for producing Medical Oxygen.South African sets world swim record; Aussies add 6th goldSouth Africa's Tatjana Schoenmaker was the star of the day, setting the first individual swimming world record at the Tokyo Olympics.4 militants belonging to Niki Sumi faction of NSCN (K) arrested in NagalandFour militants belonging to Niki Sumi faction of NSCN (K) arrested in Nagaland's Phek district. Arms, ammunition seized from their possession: Assam Rifles.CBSE to announce Class 12 result today at 2pmCentral Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to announce Class XII result today, at 2pm.Activists allege Myanmar leaders are 'weaponizing' Covid-19With coronavirus deaths rising in Myanmar, allegations are growing from residents and human rights activists that the military government, which seized control in February, is using the pandemic to consolidate power and crush opposition.National Highway 707 blocked due to landslideNational Highway 707 blocked near Himachal Pradesh's Barwas due to landslide in Sirmaur District's Kamrau tehsil.India reports 44,230 new Covid-19 casesIndia reports 44,230 new Covid-19 cases, 42,360 recoveries, and 555 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health MinistryTotal cases: 3,15,72,344Active cases: 4,05,155Total recoveries: 3,07,43,972Death toll: 4,23,217Total vaccination: 45,60,33,754Sensex drops 10.56 points to 52,642.51 in opening sessionSensex drops 10.56 points to 52,642.51 in opening session; Nifty down 8.90 poits at 15,769.55.ovlina Borgohain beats Chinese Taipei's Chin-Chen NienBoxing, Women's Welterweight (64-69kg), Quarterfinal 2: Lovlina Borgohain beats Chinese Taipei's Chin-Chen Nien 4-1, assured of a medal.Fourth wave of Covid-19 hits Middle East, WHO sounds alarm over delta variantThe delta variant of the coronavirus has now triggered a fourth wave of the pandemic in the Middle East, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Thursday, adding that the surge in Covid-19 infections and deaths is primarily being reported among people who are yet to be vaccinated.A total of 204 locals and tourists stranded in Lahaul-Spiti districtA total of 204 people including locals and tourists stranded in different locations in the Lahaul-Spiti district: Himachal Pradesh Disaster Management Authority.3 killed, 4 hurt as roof of house collapses in UP's Muzaffarnagar: PoliceThree persons, including a minor, were killed and four injured when the roof of a house collapsed on them due to heavy rains in this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Friday.Sydney Covid-19 cases ease amid tightening of lockdown rulesAustralia's largest city, Sydney, on Friday reported a slight easing in locally acquired cases of Covid-19 amid a further tightening of restrictions in the worst-affected suburbs, with the military summoned to help enforce lockdown rules.ISS thrown out of control by misfire of Russian module: NASAThe International Space Station (ISS) was thrown briefly out of control on Thursday when jet thrusters of a newly arrived Russian research module inadvertently fired a few hours after it was docked to the orbiting outpost, NASA officials said.Basavaraj Bommai to meet PM Modi in Delhi todayKarnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai to meet PM Narendra Modi in Delhi today. He will also be meeting Union Ministers during his visit to the national capitalFlawed scientific papers fueling Covid-19 misinformationScientific studies with poor methodology and inaccurate findings are exacerbating a Covid-19 misinformation crisis that is discouraging vaccination and putting lives at risk.Saudi Arabia to reopen to vaccinated tourists after 17-month Covid closureSaudi Arabia announced Friday it would reopen its borders to fully vaccinated foreign tourists after a 17-month closure due to the coronavirus pandemic, the state news agency said.SC to hear ex-Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh's plea seeking protection in money laundering case todayThe Supreme Court is on Friday set to hear a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, seeking protection from any "coercive action", in the money laundering case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).WHO says delta variant driving 'fourth wave' in Middle EastThe delta variant has led to a surge in coronavirus outbreaks triggering a "fourth wave" in the Middle East, where vaccination rates remain low, said the World Health Organization (WHO).Hearing on Sri Krishna Janmabhumi suit to resume todayA court in Uttar Pradesh will on Friday resume the hearing of Sri Krishna Janmabhumi suit.Expert panel recommends trials on mixing Covaxin and CovishieldThe Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Thursday recommended granting permission for trials of mixing Covid-19 vaccines--Covaxin and Covishield--said sources, reports news agency ANI.US President calls on states to offer 100 dollars vaccine incentiveUS president Joe Biden on Thursday (local time) called on all states and local governments to use aid funding they have received to give 100 dollars to anyone who gets fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-30-2021-101627601489309.html
