08-02-2021||North East||“Conspiracy” hatched to malign the image of Indian tea: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday told a public rally in Assam that a “conspiracy” had been hatched to  malign the image of Indian tea but did not reveal the identity of the “vested” forces. He spoke about the alleged attack on Indian tea by vested forces abroad while dwelling on the contribution of the tea community,  the welfare activities underway to ease their hardship, besides eulogising Assam tea, at the massive rally held at Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district in poll-bound Assam. “When I am talking about Assam’s tea workers today, I must also tell you about the ongoing conspiracy against our country, to defame our country. The conspirators are now not even sparing Indian tea. You must have heard in the news that they are trying to systematically tarnish the image of Indian tea, tarnish its image worldwide,” Modi said in one of Assam’s tea belts. “The documents which have come to light reveal that vested forces sitting abroad are planning to attack India’s identity linked to its tea. Do you accept this attack on Indian tea?  These conspirators who are planning to tarnish India tea... they will not be allowed to succeed and people will demand answers from these attackers and those who support them.  Our tea workers will win this fight, these attacks on Indian tea. The conspirators do not have the strength to face the hard work of our tea garden workers,” Modi said. He did not identify the conspirators but Modi seemed to have indirectly referred to  tweets  by foreign celebrities extending support to the ongoing farmers’ protest seeking the repeal of the three farm laws. The Prime Minister dedicated a significant part of his speech on the tea community, which has decisive say in about 42 of the 126 Assembly constituencies in the state. Addressing the rally at Dhekiajuli, which is known for its Quit India movement martyrs,   Modi noted the centrality of tea gardens in the growth of Assam. India produces 1,255 million kg, of tea of which Assam contributes around  618.35 million kg. “Crores of rupees were transferred to the accounts of 7.5 lakh workers of tea gardens under Dhan Puruskar Mela Scheme yesterday. Pregnant women are being helped by a special scheme. Special medical units are being sent to the gardens to take care of the workers’ health,” he said. The Prime Minister, however, skirted the community’s long pending demands for a minimum daily wage and  ST status. He also stayed away from contentious issues such as the citizenship (Amendment) Act, implementation of  the Assam accord and the NRC. Congress counter Senior Congress and tea community leader Paban Singh  Ghatowar told the Telegraph that the Prime Minister should take “appropriate” action against the conspirators if the image of Indian tea had actually been tarnished. Assam PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said that Modi’s statement on attack on Indian tea appeared to be a “riddle”. “Who is attacking the tea industry? Tea is our pride. The Prime Minister should clear the air,” Sharma said. The Congress raised issues related to the tea community which were not touched by Modi. Ghatowar, the president of the Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha that is engaged in talks to fix the minimum daily wage for tea garden workers, said they were hoping that the Prime Minister would shed light on the demand for minimum daily wage and ST status. “It was the government proposal to hike the daily wage to Rs 351 but nothing has happened so far. The state government now says it will notify the revised wage in 10 days  We just hope it is done. The Prime Minister also did not say anything on the ST status.  If the government is sincere about the welfare of the tea community, they should finalise the minimum daily wage and ST status,” Ghatowar  said. The Congress held a news conference addressed by MP Gaurav Gogoi and MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi to punch holes in the claims made by Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
08-02-2021||North East||Narendra Modi lays stress on teaching in local language||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday shared a dream in poll-bound Assam: At least one medical and one technical college in every state should start imparting lessons in the local language. Addressing his second massive public rally at Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district, his second visit to the BJP-led Assam since January 23, Modi said: “There is no dearth of talent in our villages and or poor households but they don’t get opportunities. I have a dream, in every state, there should be at least one medical college, at least one technical college which should impart lessons in mother tongue.” Without going into specifics about his dream’s implementation, Modi went on to add, “Can’t one become a good doctor by studying in Assamese medium? When the new government is formed after the elections, I promise on behalf of the people of Assam, that we will start a medical college and a technical college in local language. This will only increase slowly and steadily. “Nobody can stop it. This too will help in treatment of the ailing by reaching out to the masses in their mother tongue.” Assam goes to the polls in April-May. A significant part of his speech was devoted to the improvement the health sector has undergone under the BJP-led regime in the state since 2016. On Sunday too, he laid the foundation stone of two hospitals, one in Biswanath district and the other in Charaideo district, besides launching the Asom Mala, a programme for the development of state highways and major district roads at an estimated cost of Rs 8,210 crore. The two medical colleges are being set up at an estimated cost of Rs 1,122 crore and will have 100 seats each. However, not everybody was enthused with Modi’s push to impart medical and technical courses in mother tongues. Indian Medical Association’s Assam branch secretary Hemanga Baishya, a leading gynaecologist based in Guwahati, said the move will encounter practical problems. “It will take some doing to turn this dream into reality. First, we will have to get everything translated into Assamese which is easier said than done. Even now when we talk or address meetings in Assamese, we use English to explain medical terms. “Secondly, when the Centre is pushing for one nation, one test, how far will this move be practical? Will a medical student from Chennai or Punjab come to study in Assam? What will a student from Assam do if he wants to study outside or go abroad? It seems like a poll talk,” Baishya said. Similar apprehensions were raised by the Opposition Congress. “We all welcome the extensive use of Assamese or its promotion but there are practical problems, like what happens if a medical student from Assam wants to go abroad? Will those studying in these institutions will remain confined to the state? “The Prime Minister should clearly spell what he has in mind. We have seen students from Assamese medium schools are studying in medical colleges and have done well for themselves!” In his speech, Modi recalled the “poor state” of the medical infrastructure in the state in the past. He said Assam had only six medical colleges till 2016, whereas work on six new medical colleges has been initiated in the past five years. “Similarly, there are 725 medical seats in the state but this will go up to 1600 seats a year once these new medical colleges become operational. This will significantly improve medical facilities in far-flung areas of the state. The Prime Minister also informed that work on Guwahati AIIMS will be over in the next one-and-half-years. “The present government is working for the people of Assam with full dedication,” Modi said while highlighting the benefits extended to the people of the state under the Centre’s flagship health schemes. Modi, like his earlier visit to Sivasagar on January 23, did not touch upon contentious issues such as the Citizenship amendment Act, the implementation of 1985 Assam Accord, according ST status to six communities or the NRC, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
