15-02-2021||North East||Plea for new BJP chief by February-end in Nagaland||Infighting within the Nagaland BJP unit has resurfaced after the lull of a few months with nine of the 14 district unit presidents threatening to resign if the state unit chief Temjen Imna Along Longkumer was not removed by February-end. In a letter to BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Friday, the nine district presidents have stated that “failure to urgently intervene into the crisis within BJP Nagaland by the end of February 2021 will compel us to put in our resignations from our posts even though we will remain loyal party karyakartas (workers) in the future too”. The nine signatories represent Phek, Wokha, Aboi (organisational district), Peren, Mon, Noklak, Tuensang, Kohima and Kiphire districts. A copy of the letter, accessed by The Telegraph, has also been marked to B.L. Santhosh, BJP national general secretary (organisation) and Nalin Kohli, party’s national spokesperson and in-charge of Nagaland. The three paragraph letter was an “urgent reminder” to Nadda about the seven petitions the district presidents had submitted last year to the party leaders, including him, about the problems plaguing the state BJP unit. The problem between the district presidents and Longkumer started after the latter removed the Phek unit chief on June 23 last year. Besides petitioning the leadership, they had last year even carried out a poster campaign in their districts seeking Longkumer’s removal. Though Longkumer could not be contacted, sources close to him said they were surprised over the development, claiming everything appeared fine on the surface after Kohli had brokered peace between the two groups at Hotel Japfu in Kohima besides assuring to convey their problems to the central leadership. As part of the deal, Longkumer was told to rehabilitate the three district chiefs he had removed. A BJP office-bearer told this newspaper that they have not heard from the central leadership after the cordial meeting with Kohli, a reason why they have revived their demand for the replacement of Longkumer in the greater interest of the state unit. BJP is part of the ruling alliance in Nagaland led by the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party. Six of its 12 MLAs are ministers in the Neiphiu Rio-led council of ministers. The nine district presidents had first petitioned Ram Madhav, the then BJP national general secretary on June 25, 2020, “for replacement/change” of Longkumer, who was re-elected as state unit chief in January last year. Four petitions, dated July 19, August 20, August 28 and September 5, were then sent to Nadda to intervene and resolve the problems within the Nagaland BJP unit. The district presidents had sent two more petitions, one each to Dilip Saikia, BJP national general secretary, on October 12 and to Kohli on December 3 with similar pleas. They said all their petitions listed out the “arbitrary” functioning of Longkumer and “his henchmen who were resorting to undemocratic practices at all levels of our party organisation to cover up his mismanagement and failings which is bogging down the functioning of our party at the organisational level and damaging the good image of our party in the state as a whole”. The nine district presidents also touched upon their plea for implementation of the “one man, one post” principle in Nagaland as Longkumer was also a minister with many important portfolios to look after and as such “cannot” provide time to party karyakartas from all levels. They also reminded the national leadership of their warning about the BJP’s tally dropping to “single digit” from the 12 MLAs they have in the present 60-member Assembly, if the party were to face the state polls under Longkumer. They claimed their warnings came true “to a degree” in the November 3 bypolls to Pungro constituency where the party finished a distant third, behind an Independent, adding that as loyal karyakartas, “rather than damage our party we are prepared to resign from our posts as we are, more than anything, concerned about the glorious image of our party”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
15-02-2021||North East||Assam: Rahul Gandhi promises no-CAA, tea workers' wage hike||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday made two categorical promises to the people of poll-bound Assam: the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) would not be allowed under any circumstances and a daily minimum wage of Rs 365 to tea garden workers. Addressing a pre-poll rally at Sivasagar’s Boarding Field in Upper Assam,  where the Opposition Congress has rapidly lost ground since the BJP-led alliance comprehensively won the 2016 state elections, a combative Rahul Gandhi went all out against the ruling dispensation. He flagged issues such as demonetisation, the pandemic management, privatisation, the CAA and unemployment. The Congress MP’s blistering attack on the BJP during his first such rally in the region suggested he was unperturbed by the tag of “doomsday man” bestowed on him on Saturday by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Rahul not only raised the same issues but also continued with his  “hum do, hamare do” barb. The first commitment the Congress MP  made was on maintaining the sanctity of the 1985 Assam Accord, which most in Assam  feel has been diluted with the imposition of the CAA under the BJP-led Centre despite widespread protests in the state. “The Assam Accord is Assam’s protector, it protects you.… First thing I want to say to you all on the Assam Accord,  me and all Congress leaders will defend and protect the Assam Accord, will not move back an inch on the Assam Accord.… Influx is an  issue and it can be resolved through talks,” Rahul said. He then showed the Gamucha (the traditional Assamese scarf) with which he was greeted and was worn by all Congress leaders on the dais. “I have worn this Gamucha with CAA written on it and over which we have put a cross. We have all worn it. This means, whatever happens, the CAA will not happen. Hum do, hamare do, acchi tarah se sun lo, (CAA) nahi hoga, kabhi nahi hoga,” he declared. Under the contentious legislation,   non-Muslims who have entered the country till December 2014 from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan can acquire Indian citizenship. The CAA is seen as a threat to Assamese culture and identity. On the other hand, the 1985 pact has fixed March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for detecting and deporting illegal foreigners. Rahul reached out to the influential tea community and its long-pending demand for a minimum daily wage. The BJP-led state government has committed to increase the daily wage from Rs 167 to  Rs 351 a day this month. “Our tea workers get Rs 167 a day while Gujarat traders get tea gardens. What do you get for Rs 167? This is why they want to divide Assam. They know if they want to steal from Assam, they will have to divide Assam. Therefore, our brothers from tea gardens, please listen carefully: you get Rs 167 and we will put another Rs 200 minus two in your pockets. Everyday you will get Rs 365 a day.  You will now ask where will we get this Rs 200 from.… We will get it from traders from Gujarat because they are snatching it from you.” He said India was being run by four persons, “hum do, hamare do, and if we extend it to Assam it will be hum do, hamare do, aur hamare do”,  alluding to state chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. The rally was high on symbolism with the Congress trying to convey that the party represented the interests of Assam. PCC leaders presented Rahul Gandhi with traditional Ahom attire complete with a hengdang (traditional Ahom sword). They played the state anthem O Mur Apunar Dex. PCC chief Ripun Bora and CLP leader Debabrata Saikia laid stress on the sacrifices and steps taken by the party to protect and keep Assam united. Rahul started his speech by chanting “Jai Aai Ahom (glory to Mother Assam)”, a popular slogan during the six-year-old Assam Agitation which culminated in the signing of the 1985 Assam Accord. He also felicitated Uma Kanta Baruah, grandson of 1830 martyr Swahid Jiuram Dulia Baruah. The meeting ended with the “aami CAA nemanu (we won’t accept CAA)” song. Sivasagar is a Ahom-dominated constituency, playing a decisive role in state polls just like the tea community. Prime minister Narendra Modi too had addressed his first poll rally at Sivasagar's Jerenga Pathar, about 4 km from Boarding Field. Modi will be visiting the state for the third time on February 22. Rahul said he had raised only a two to three Assam specific issues but there were a lot more which he would focus on in due course because we want this state to make rapid progress and generate jobs for its youths. He said the state should not be run by remote control from “Nagpur and Delhi”.  He is expected to attend at least six rallies. Congress workers and leaders are hoping Rahul’s visit will galvanise the party at the grassroots as they are up against a well-entrenched ruling dispensation.  Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had on Saturday said in the Assembly that the BJP would retain power because of the good work done by it since 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-23
