17-02-2021||North East||Two journalists arrested for attempting to 'malign' Himanta Biswa Sarma||Two journalists were arrested on Wednesday for their alleged attempt to malign Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma after they shared a photo of him along with his daughter with a "salacious intent", police said. Taufiquddin Ahmad, the Editor-in-Chief of local news website Pratibimba Live, and its News Editor Iqbal were arrested to investigate the "conspiracy", Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) GP Singh said. Police would take strong action against all such attempts under stringent provisions of the POCSO Act, he said. They were arrested on the basis of a case registered at the Dispur police station under IPC section 509 (intending to insult the modesty of any woman), and sections 14 and 21 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. "Action shall be taken against all persons irrespective of their place of residence who use any of the social media platforms to maliciously use such platforms for furthering this conspiracy," Singh added. The website had shared a photo of the minister hugging his daughter, following which it went viral on social media. The website later apologised for not mentioning that the girl in the photo was the minister's daughter and blamed others for sharing it with the intent to defame Sarma. The news outlet received backlash for the intent to post the photo with Sarma retweeting it and mentioning that it was him and his daughter. Police said they are investigating the matter to identify those behind the post going viral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
17-02-2021||North East||Kerala team promises to restore NRC papers in Assam village ||A Muslim Youth League delegation that recently visited Assam has promised to strive for ensuring adequate compensation for those who lost their houses and help restore National Register of Citizen papers destroyed in arson in Kachurthal village bordering Mizoram. A delegation of the youth wing of Indian Union Muslim League had visited the village and took stock the situation after alleged rioters burnt down houses of villagers from a minority community who lost all their belongings, including the NRC papers that establish their citizenship. The village falls under Ramnathpur police station in Katlicherra revenue circle of Hailakandi district that has witnessed communal tension over several years. More than a 100 houses have been damaged or destroyed in the recent arson attacks that left more than 20 people injured. The delegation visited the injured admitted in Silchar Medical College and Hospital, the Muslim Youth League said in a statement issued on Tuesday. “The total failure of the state government in controlling the situation was what led to the riots. The situation was quite peaceful in recent times,” it said. The delegation led by Youth League national president Asif Ansari and general secretary C.K. Zubair had embarked on the trip after IUML leader E.T. Mohammed Basheer raised the matter in the Lok Sabha recently. The visiting team provided emergency assistance of dry rations for the riot victims who had lost all their belongings. According to the statement, the villagers apprised the delegation on the larger conspiracy behind the rioting and arson that left them without the crucial NRC documents. “The villagers are in a state of shock after having lost the documents that prove their citizenship and their homes,” the statement said. The delegation headed to the village under an armed escort of Assam police and CRPF since the situation remained tense. The team met senior police officials and sought adequate security for the villagers living in fear since the attacks. The arson took place on February 9. Assam police had said that 20 houses were burnt and three persons were seriously injured in the incident. Katlicherra MLA Suzam Uddin Laskar told The Telegraph on Tuesday night that the situation remains tense in the affected area with economic activities coming to a standstill. “The locals of the affected area are moving out fearing more attacks. Deployment of security personnel is yet to happen,” Laskar said. According to him, 21 houses were burnt and 15 people were hurt, three of them seriously. The affected area in Assam borders Kolasib district of Mizoram. The interstate border has been witnessing flareups since August last year, triggered first by a row in Karimganj which then spread to Cachar. Additional reporting by Umanand Jaiswal from Guwahati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
17-02-2021||North East||Congress to build CAA martyrs’ memorial||The Congress will build a memorial in Assam to “commemorate the martyrdom” of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protesters who “sacrificed” their lives to save “Assamese pride” if it wins the upcoming Assembly polls. Five protesters had died at the peak of anti-CAA protests in Assam in December 2019. This is the second time in a week that the Opposition party has flagged the CAA issue, making the contentious law the cornerstone of its campaign to regain the state in the April-May polls. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi had in his first poll rally in Assam on Sunday said the party will not allow the imposition of the law under any circumstances and will “not move an inch” on the 1985 Assam Accord which “protects” the Assamese people. “I have worn this gamosa (Assamese scarf) with CAA written on it and over which we have put a cross. We have all worn it. This means, whatever happens, the CAA will not happen. Hum do (obliquely referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah), hamare do (alluding to Adani and Ambani), acchi tarah se sun lo (listen carefully), (CAA) nahi hoga, kabhi nahi hoga (CAA won’t happen ever),” Rahul said at the rally in Sivasagar in presence of senior party leaders all of whom had worn the gamosa. On Tuesday, senior state leaders declared the party’s plan to build a memorial against the “anti-Assam” law which makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship if they have entered the country till December 2014. According to the 1985 Assam Accord, the cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners is March 24, 1971. The CAA was notified by the Centre in January 2020 but is yet to be implemented. Shah had last week said that it will be implemented after the Covid-19 vaccination drive gets over. “The reason why the Congress has announced that it will make a memorial for the anti-CAA struggle is to make sure future generations remember how the people stood up to the autocratic rule of BJP and its imposition of an anti-Assamese law,” said Abdul Khaleque, chairman of the Congress media and communications committee. Nagaon MP Pradyut Bordoloi, who is the chairman of the Congress campaign committee, said: “After winning the election, we shall make a memorial for the anti-CAA people’s movement that has been ongoing in Assam over the past few years. The memorial shall remember the people’s struggle and sacrifices, protest songs and paintings.” Assam PCC president Ripun Bora also reiterated that Guwahati will see a new landmark: a grand memorial in memory of the anti-CAA movement to be built by the incoming Congress government. “This will be the state’s message to the ruling BJP. No CAA in Assam,” Bora said. Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia, MPs Gaurav Gogoi and Khaleque and senior MLA Rakibul Hussain too reiterated the party line. “The dark days of BJP’s oppression of Assamese people are about to get over. The Congress is winning Assam and will make a memorial to the historic people’s struggle against CAA,” Saikia said. The Congress leaders are campaigning hard against the “draconian CAA” while touring the state as part of their “Axom Basaon Ahok (Come, Save Assam)” Yatra. The state leadership is interacting and taking feedback from all sections of society on the CAA, unemployment and other pressing issues plaguing Assam. While the Congress has stepped up its ante on the CAA, senior Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma feels the people of the state are today more “concerned” about livelihood and developmental issues as they recover from Covid-19 and that they are looking for more a “positive” message from the political parties. The ruling BJP has launched scores of development and welfare schemes in the run-up to the polls, trying to fan a “feel good” factor among the populace. The state BJP said on Tuesday that it was building its poll plank around a “secure and developed Assam”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
