20-02-2021||North East||Manipur Anganwadi worker dies a week after taking first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||A 48-year-old Anganwadi worker in Manipur has died a week after receiving her first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, officials said on Saturday. W Sundari Devi of Kumbi Terakha area in Bishunpur district had received her first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine on February 12 at Kumbhi primary health centre (PHC), they said. She was taken to the Moirang community health centre (CHC) on February 18 as she had breathing problems and died at the CHC on Friday. Health Department officials said that a special team will conduct the post-mortem of the deceased to ascertain the true cause of the death. Meanwhile, Chief Minister N Biren Singh met the family members of Sundari and heard their grievances. He expressed deep condolences and assured the family members of suitable compensation duly considering the post-mortem report. "Heard the grievances of family of Anganwandi Worker W Sundari of Kumbi Terakha, Bishnupur District and expressed my deep condolences. Assured suitable compensation duly considering post mortem reports and instructed for taking strong action against defaulting officials," the chief minister tweeted. The Deputy Commissioner of Bishnupur, Neeta Arambam said that the family members of the deceased claimed that at the time of vaccination, Sundari had told the "vaccination team that she has allergy problem. However, the vaccination went ahead."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
20-02-2021||North East||Assam: Narendra Modi lays foundation stones for two bridges||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid foundation stones for two bridges in Assam, one of which will be the country’s longest river bridge, through the virtual mode in a push to improve connectivity in the poll-bound state. Modi said bridges such as Dr Bhupen Hazarika Setu, Bogibeel and Saraighat in Assam are not only making the life of people easy but also strengthening the security of the country by facilitating the smooth movement of troops. On Thursday, the foundation stone was laid for the 19km Dhubri-Phulbari bridge and the “bhoomi pujan (earth worship)” performed for the 6.8km Majuli-Jorhat bridge. “The campaign to connect Assam and the Northeast has been carried forward today,” Modi said, lauding the efforts of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and his government for the work on getting the projects moving. The bridge from Dhubri in Assam to Phulbari in Meghalaya will improve connectivity by reducing the distance between Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram and Assam. Modi pointed out that the distance between Meghalaya and Assam is around 250km, which will be reduced to just 19-20km after the completion of the bridge, as on day India’s longest river bridge. The bridge will be built at a cost of around Rs 4,997 crore. The current longest river bridge in India, at 9.15km, is the Bhupen Hazarika Setu which connects Dhola with Sadiya. The two-lane bridge on the Brahmaputra between Kamalabari in Majuli (north bank) and Neematighat in Jorhat (south bank) too has been a long-pending demand of the people of Majuli who for generations have been dependent on the ferry services for commuting like those living in Dhubri and Phulbari. Sonowal termed the day as historic as the dream of Majuli’s people for a bridge is going to be realised and he thanked the Prime Minister and Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari for this initiative. Sonowal represents Majuli constituency. The promise for the bridge was made in 2016. The chief minister also said that the Rs 3,200 crore Mahabahu Brahmaputra project would harness the potential of the Barak and the Brahmaputra rivers and strengthen the economic foundation of the state. Dwelling on the project, Modi said this will strengthen connectivity on the Brahmaputra through port-led development. The three Ro-Pax (passenger roll-on and roll-off) ferry services which were also launched online makes Assam a front-runner state to be connected with such services at this scale. This, along with the four tourist jetties, will significantly improve Assam’s connectivity with the Northeast, the Prime Minister said. Modi, who will visit Dhemaji on February 25, lamented that the neglect to connectivity issues over the years had deprived the state of its prosperity. The infrastructure deteriorated and waterways almost got wasted, which the Prime Minister said led to unrest. “The course correction started during the tenure of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee... In recent years, steps were taken to re-establish multi-modal connectivity in Assam. Efforts are on to make Assam and the Northeast the hub of our cultural and business relations with other East Asian countries... today’s connectivity related launches will open new avenues of tourism and Assam could emerge as a major destination for cruise tourism. We have to work collectively to make Assam and the Northeast a strong pillar of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” Modi said. Gadkari said road and infrastructure work worth Rs 1 lakh crore are being undertaken in Assam. He also said that the construction of the 55km-long road from Serampore in Bengal to Dhubri in Assam will begin in October, saving the distance and time needed to travel to Bhutan and Bangladesh. Congress queries The Opposition Congress was not enthused by the developments on Thursday. According to the party, the much-hyped launch of the Mahabahu Brahmaputra with the flagging off the Ro-Pax ferry services between Majuli and Neematighat, South Guwahati and North Guwahati and Dhubri to Hatisingimari by the Prime Minister had to be taken with a “pinch of salt” as a similar service launched in Gujarat in 2017 by Modi had “flopped badly”. “Now the question arises whether the technical details have been planned and laid out for the Ro-Pax ferry services in Assam? Or will it face the same fate as the much hyped Ro-Ro ferry in Gujarat which is dysfunctional? Given the negative reports of the ferry service in Gujarat, it is suspected that the much hyped Ro-Pax service in Assam is nothing but an election stunt,” PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said. “It is also noteworthy to mention that the foundation stone for the Neematighat-Majuli bridge was laid on February 27, 2016, by Gadkari near Majuli College playground. Today another foundation stone was laid for the same bridge! What was the government doing in the last five years?” she further asked. With the Election Commission likely to announce the poll dates by February-end, the government has stepped up its activities by launching or inaugurating one project or scheme after another in Assam that goes to polls in April-May. Modi’s visit will be followed by that of Union home minister Amit Shah to Nagaon on February 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
20-02-2021||North East||Nagaland Assembly adopts resolution urging Centre, political groups to conclude peace process||The Nagaland Assembly on Thursday adopted a four-point resolution urging the Centre and the Naga political groups to conclude the ongoing peace process for an honourable and inclusive solution without further delay. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio moved the resolutions drafted by a seven-member committee constituted on Tuesday for consideration and adoption in the House. One of the resolutions urged the stakeholders involved in the peace process to sit across the table for the conclusion of the negotiation that is “honourable, inclusive and acceptable to people as One Solution without any further delay”. The ongoing peace process started in 1997 and a framework agreement was signed in 2015. However, talks have stalled with the NSCN (I-M) sticking to its demand for a separate flag and constitution. During the special discussion on the Naga political issue on Tuesday, Rio had not only hailed that deliberations as “highly” fruitful but also delved into a brief history about the political movement dating back to 1918 when the first political organisation of the Nagas took birth in the form of the “Naga Club”. He had also explained in detail the numerous landmark events that took place over the span of a century, events that had defined the course of the long-standing political issue. The first of the four-point resolution adopted on Thursday “endorsed” and reiterated all past resolutions of the Assembly on the political issue while resolving to work “unitedly” in facilitating the political negotiations. Thursday was the seventh time the Assembly had adopted resolutions on the Naga political issue, the earlier ones being taken on December 12, 1964, August 28, 1970, September 16, 1994, December 18, 2003, July 27, 2015, and September 20, 2018. The 60-member House further appreciated the efforts of the Centre to resolve the issue through peaceful means, for “acknowledging” the “unique” history and identity of the Nagas by upholding the political talks. The Assembly also hailed the efforts of Naga political groups, political parties, civil society organisations, the Church and NGOs towards finding a peaceful resolution and urging them to continue working towards strengthening Naga unity and come together for the larger interest of the Naga people. The resolution passed in 2018 called for integration of the contiguous Naga-inhabited areas, appealing to all sections of Nagas to sustain and participate in the negotiations for an inclusive solution. In 2015, the Assembly had adopted a five-point resolution on the issue, reiterating the resolutions adopted in the past which called for integration of Naga-inhabited areas, withdrawal of Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act from the state and an appeal to all sections of Nagas to work unitedly for an early solution. Naga-inhabited areas fall in neighbouring Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and some portions in Myanmar. All the neighbouring states have objected to any move that could affect their territorial integrity. Assembly Speaker S. Longkumer had on Tuesday constituted a seven-member committee to draft a resolution on the Naga political issue after a special discussion in the House. The members were Neiba Kronu and Toshi Wungthung of the ruling NDPP, Pangnyu Phom and Jacob Zhimomi of the BJP, Chotisuh Sazo and Imkong L. Imchen of the Opposition NPF and Tongpang Ozukum, an Independent. The members met on Wednesday afternoon to finalise the draft of the resolution. “Three-fourths of the Assembly time was devoted to discussing the Naga political issue. All members were unanimous on how to take the long-drawn peace process forward,” Sazo had told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Rio had said on Tuesday that “it was time to rise above our differences and come together for the greater cause of our land and our children” and urged all sections of the society to continue to strive towards true and genuine unity. Opposition leader T.R. Zeliang of the NPF had said the Naga political issue “is not about who is right but what is right for the Nagas”. He had said that for decades they have struggled to find an amicable and early solution which is the desire and aspiration of “all Nagas spread across four Indian states and two nations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
20-02-2021||North East||NRC: Youth League delegation promises to strive for adequate compensation for homeless||A Muslim Youth League delegation that recently visited Assam has promised to strive for ensuring adequate compensation for those who lost their houses and offer legal help to restore National Register of Citizen papers destroyed in arson in Kachurthal village bordering Mizoram. A delegation of the youth wing of Indian Union Muslim League had visited the village and took stock the situation after alleged rioters burnt down houses of villagers from a minority community who lost all their belongings, including the NRC papers that establish their citizenship. The village falls under Ramnathpur police station in Katlicherra revenue circle of Hailakandi district that has witnessed communal tension over several years. More than a 100 houses have been damaged or destroyed in the recent arson attacks that left more than 20 people injured. The delegation visited the injured admitted to Silchar Medical College and Hospital, the Muslim Youth League said in a statement  issued on Tuesday. “The total failure of the state government in controlling the situation was what led to the riots. The situation was quite peaceful in recent times,” it said. The delegation led by Youth League national president Asif Ansari and general secretary C.K. Zubair had embarked on the trip after IUML leader E.T. Mohammed Basheer raised the matter in the Lok Sabha recently. The visiting team provided emergency assistance of dry rations to the riot victims who had lost all their belongings. According to the statement, the villagers apprised the delegation of the larger conspiracy behind the rioting and arson that left them without the crucial NRC documents. “The villagers are in a state of shock after having lost the documents that prove their citizenship and their homes,” the statement said. The delegation headed to the village under an armed escort of Assam police and CRPF since the situation remained tense. The team met senior police officials and sought adequate security for the villagers living in fear since the attacks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-22
