25-02-2021||North East||IIT Guwahati makes permission mandatory for all webinars ||IIT Guwahati has made permission mandatory for faculty members to participate in all types of webinars, going a step further than the Union government that had covered only international online seminars. IIT Guwahati registrar Suresh S.M. issued a circular on Monday, making approval mandatory for faculty members and senior officers for participating in meetings of selection committees, screening committees and tender committees, apart from webinars and seminars. “We are aware that faculty members and some of the staff members… are invited by other organisations/government departments as external experts for various selection committee meetings/screening committees/ expert committees/ tender committees or as experts for delivering lectures/ participating in webinars/ seminars,” the circular said. The circular said: “In view of the above, all concerned are requested to take prior permission from the competent authority (dean of faculty affairs for faculty and registrar for staff) to attend any selection committee/ screening committee/ expert committee/ tender committee meetings/ webinars/seminars etc in both online and offline mode.” A faculty member said the requirement would create hindrances. “For webinars, we are not taking any permission now. But the teachers would feel constrained since permission would be taken from now,” he said. But Parameswar K. Iyer, dean, public relations, branding and ranking, IIT Guwahati, said the notice was not intended at curbing the freedom of the faculty to participate in events. “The notification issued by the institute is only to ensure there is a systematic mechanism to collate data on faculty involvement in outreach activities at IIT Guwahati. This is required for providing data for ranking and branding activities of the institute. It is not easy to obtain such data unless processes are put in place to track and monitor such activities. This is not issued for denying permission to faculty for participation in webinars or conferences or any similar academic activities,” Iyer said in an email to this newspaper. “Any misrepresentation of this institute circular as curbing of faculty freedom of participation in events and committees is absolutely baseless,” he added. The Union education ministry had last month made approval mandatory for academics to participate in international webinars and conferences. Such approval will be granted only to events not related to security issues and “internal matters”. The Centre’s guidelines have drawn criticism from academicians globally. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) is learnt to have asked the education ministry to explore modifications in the light of the criticism. Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Associations (FEDCUTA) president Rajib Ray said the change in the overall atmosphere in the country in the past 10 years was triggering more apprehensions among academics about these guidelines. “There is an atmosphere of more scrutiny and attack on dissent. The academicians are under more pressure now than in 2010. The latest guidelines might have iterated most things from the 2010 guidelines but these are creating more hindrances to the free flow of ideas,” Ray said. But Rajeev Kumar, a computer science professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), supported the guidelines, citing past practices. “This standard operating procedure through the ages implies indirect permission to deliver a guest lecture. In online work-culture, none of the above is required. Notwithstanding, when a faculty speaks in a webinar, she or he is associated with an academic institution, bringing the name of the institute indirectly in her/his expressed views. Therefore, prior permission in a webinar should be treated as enforcing accountability,” Kumar said. He said the guidelines should not be treated as suppression of views. The faculty should impose self-discipline, speaking only on matters of her or his area of expertise and not only subject, Kumar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
25-02-2021||North East||Gauhati HC asks Centre to frame rules to regulate supply of fruit ripener ||Gauhati High Court has directed the central government to “frame appropriate rules” for regulating the easy availability of calcium carbide, used as an artificial fruit ripener, in the open market. A division bench of Justices Achintya Malla Bujorbarua and Nelson Sailo passed the order acting on a PIL filed by advocate Bhaskar Baruah in 2018 articulating concerns about artificial ripening of fruits such as banana, papaya and mango by using calcium carbide, a “highly toxic and highly inflammable” chemical substance. The court said: “...We require the authorities in the central government to frame appropriate rules for regulating the open availability of calcium carbide in the market and for the purpose, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India and the ministry of petroleum and natural gas may coordinate amongst themselves for… framing the required rules.” The court also directed the Assam government to “monitor the activities” of senior food safety officers for compliance of its directions to check the artificial ripening of fruits. Baruah had contended in his PIL that such artificially ripened fruits were being sold illegally not only in the markets of Guwahati but also across the state by adopting unfair practices, posing chronic health hazards like abdominal problem, skin diseases and cancer. Calcium carbide is used as a ripener in many other parts of the country too. The method of artificially ripening fruits had reached a “menacing proportion” and that it was now “difficult” to find fruits in the market that were not ripened artificially, the petitioner said. The court was of the view that a “more meaningful interpretation and implementation of the provisions” of the Food and Safety Standards Act, 2016, and the Calcium Carbide Rules, 1987, would be a “requirement” for effecting a “total eradication of the illegitimate procedure” adopted for the ripening of fruits using calcium carbide. It said guidelines were also needed to complement the efforts. The court order took note of certain studies by Baruah on the availability of the chemical in Assam. The study revealed that recognised and licenced industrial houses, which manufacture acetylene gas, may use calcium carbide in a regulated manner. However, calcium carbide was “abundantly available” in the open market and “any person” could procure it at any time because of the prolific use of the chemical in an unregulated manner in motor garages and workshops to generate acetylene gas. Calcium carbide is mainly used for producing acetylene and calcium cyanamide. The court also requested Baruah to be “alert” to whether its directions had been “suitably” followed by the respondents. “In the event of any adverse situation being noticed, the PIL petitioner may bring it to the notice of the court by filing appropriate application,” the order said. Baruah told The Telegraph that his “prayer has been answered” and he was hoping that both the central and the state government would implement the order in the “greater interest” of public health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
