01-11-2021||The way to deal with crowding is either declare Section 144 or shut markets and both these measures are impossible to implement. The best way to make people take precautions is create a “Green Force” comprising police||How can Chandigarh control gatherings  during festive season to prevent 3rd wave?||Capt Amar Jeet, Greater MohaliImpose partial lockdownsThe festival season has already set in. It is necessary to keep a check on social gatherings. The government may impose partial lockdowns. The shops may be allowed to open on an odd-even basis with curtailed timings. The Administration may order the closure of educational institutions for one week during Diwali.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhProvide multiple exits, entrancesUT administration can take various steps to control gatherings during the festival season. They can offer online attendance options in addition to in-person attendance to help reduce the number of people at events. Ensure that people standing in queues maintain a 6-foot distance from one another. Provide multiple entrances and exits and discourage crowding in waiting areas. Designate an administrator or office to be responsible for responding to Covid-19 concerns.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhGatherings cannot be controlledThere will be no third wave of Covid. Unnecessary hype is being created. Gatherings cannot be controlled as people are now tired of following protocols. Most people are already vaccinated. Now, all restrictions should be removed so that people live normal lives as in pre-Covid times.IPS Anand, ChandigarhResidents should adhere to normsResidents should avoid gathering at one place in market places during the festive season. At the same time, the UT Administration should deploy police force to sensitise the public to preventive measures. If someone does not follow the norms, then he or she be dealt with strictly.MR Bhateja, NayagaonPolice need to be more vigilantInstead of issuing any fresh directives to people, the UT Administration just has to ensure strict implementation of its existing orders with regard to limiting the number of people at marriages, religious places, hotels, buses, cinemas and other public places. The police have to be proactive. Penal action against the wilful violators must be taken irrespective of the fact who he or she happens to be.SC Luthra, ChandigarhPublic should realise the factThe natives of Chandigarh and adjoining towns are considered to be educated and awakened society. Hence, they can very well perceive the consequences of the possible third wave of Covid. Celebrations of festivals is a routine matter in India, so heaven is not going to fall if we change the trend of festivity for the sake of wellbeing of our society. This is hardly possible to follow restrictions and guidelines in crowded public places. The administration should not turn a blind eye to the situation and be prepared to enforce the regulations by any means. Leniency on the part of either the public or the administration can lead to problems.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliCreate awareness among publicTo control gatherings during the festive season, the Administration should plan in advance. It should identify market zones that see crowding, and deploy policemen there. There should be restrictions on the number of persons inside any shop at a given time, based on the covered area of the premises. People must be sensitised to the danger of crowding during the festive season. There should be similar restrictions for fairs and parks. Shoppers not following social distancing or wearing masks below their noses must be penalised. Shops must be urged to provide home delivery service for festive items.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhCovid-appropriate behaviourWe, as responsible citizens, must come forward and follow the guidelines laid down by the government. We, too, have some moral responsibilities which we all must perform. Shopkeepers have a big task of not allowing more than the specified number of customers in their shops and that too maintaining a distance of 6 feet wherever possible. Shopkeepers must encourage customers to wear masks and also sport one themselves. The festive season is for fun and frolic, but at the same time we should not forget that the danger of the pandemic still looms large. Therefore, there should not be any laxity on the part of Covid-19 guidelines.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhCelebrate all festivals at homeThe Administration can deny permission for major functions such as Diwali mela in various sectors. Other major public gatherings must not be allowed in the city. People should be encouraged to celebrate all festivals at home with their families. There should be extra deployment of police in markets. Wearing a mask must be made compulsory and violators challaned Rs500.Manish Jindal, PatialaTake help of social groups, volunteersDuring the festive season, people have a fundamental right to hold gatherings. At the same time, the public must be advised to follow the guidelines issued by the UT to keep a check on gatherings. Exit and entrances to the venues of public gatherings must be properly marked. The help of social and volunteer groups must be taken to manage the crowds. Let us celebrate the festive season in a peaceful and cordial manner rather than giving reasons to authorities to impose a ban on gatherings which will have a negative effect.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliNo festival is risk-freeFestivals potentially become “super-spreader” events. All citizens will have to abide by new Covid protocols. People celebrate festivals at home and need not to leave the house unless they have an urgent work. The third wave of Covid is likely to be more dangerous than the first and second waves. Ensure people show Covid-appropriate behaviour at crowded places. Religious and spiritual leaders can play a life-saving role in encouraging healthy practices and offering guidance in time of uncertainty. Necessary relaxation should be given only with strict adherence of the social-distancing norm.Anita K Tandon, KhararPromote home delivery serviceTo prevent a possible third wave of Covid, the UT Administration must ensure that there is no crowding at a particular place in markets in the city. Shopkeepers must be instructed to follow the Covid protocol strictly at their establishments during this festive season. A proper follow-up by the Administration is the need of the hour. Violators should be fined nominally for the first time and three-day closure of business places can be the punishment thereafter. The Administration can call a meeting of big business houses of the city and ask them to promote home delivery service and online shopping.AK Jindal, PatialaWe should act sensiblyWhy should all responsibility be thrown on the Chandigarh Administration? We all know what Covid is and as responsible citizens, we should act sensibly. However, the Administration can make public announcements to warn residents of a possible third wave of Covid.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhPeople have become carelessThough there is a sharp decline in fresh cases in the city, and life has started limping back to normalcy, the danger of a third Covid wave looms large. It appears that people by and large have become careless. The Administration should cautioned people against laxity and urge them to strictly follow the norms during the festive season. It should act tough against violators. There is a need to scale up vaccination as it’s the only tool to fight Covid. The challenge of controlling gathering is still on and warrants safety guidelines as wearing a mask, washing hands frequently and keeping distance. Above all, a collective effort is the need of the hour to fight the pandemic.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaRestrict entry at public placesWe see hundreds of people thronging temples, amusement parks, markets etc without adhering to the Covid protocol. In order to prevent the third wave of Covid, the Administration should start enforcing the guidelines strictly. Moreover, we also see public personalities and leaders lowering their guard at public functions. This gives a very wrong message to others. The Administration has to restrict entry at public places so that the police can control crowds. If we can celebrate this festive season by adhering to all Covid guidelines, we will do yeoman service to self and others.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhVax against variants, masks against mutantsAt present, the downward trend in Covid cases is continuing, positivity rate is very low and hospitals are not crowded with patients. However, health experts urge public for exercising caution in their conduct. Keep the seat belt on even when the flight has taken off, they say. As the festive season advances to the joyful Diwali in early November, there is good news of vaccination hitting the 1 billion mark. The danger of a new variant also lurks which can trigger a third wave. However, it can be prevented if we continue to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour. Vaccines against variants and masks against mutants, must be our slogan for safety.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliEnforce strict rulesIn its concern for reviving the economy and the compulsions of elections in adjoining states, the Administration has ignored precautions and removed necessary checks on gatherings everywhere. The public has gone further and started violating the Covid protocol with impunity. Unless strict rules are enforced, like cancelling Diwali melas, parties in clubs and hotels and even restricting entry to markets, lake and malls, any steps taken by the authorities will be ineffective. Announcing guidelines/rules are ineffective unless violators are immediately and severely punished to set an example for others.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhEducate citizens on responsibilitiesAs the entire nation is opening up after terrifying times of lockdowns, citizens will like to celebrate festivals with enthusiasm. There should be a limit to gatherings at a function and the organisers should follow the doctrine of “sanitise hands frequently, keep distance and wear the mask”. Educate citizens on their responsibilities. Stern action should be taken against those violating the protocol.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhExercise self-disciplineThe coming festive season may add to the spread of Covid. First and the foremost thing which may reduce the chances of its spread during the period depends on people’s awareness and self-involvement in avoiding visits to congested places. The Administration should provide open spaces to vendors to reduce congestion during festive shopping. The extended selling areas in front of shops or in verandas must be banned. Masks must also be made compulsory for all customers as well as shopkeepers. Self-discipline of people will go a long way in reducing the suspected Covid spread during the festive period.Wg Cdr (Dr) JS Minhas (retd), MohaliPeople have become ignorantAmid scaled-up vaccination, people are feeling relaxed and have become ignorant about taking precautions during the festival season. Only the police alone by imposing a fine on violators cannot make all residents wear masks. A few precautions could help to build a safe and prosperous India.Charu Malhotra, MohaliProper police patrolling a mustIt is the need of the hour to control gatherings and prevent the impending third wave of Covid. To do so efficiently, the Administration should firstly identify places attracting crowds. Proper police patrolling must be ensured to avoid crowding. Mass media should be constructively utilised and people educated on how to prevent the third wave. It is critical to implement Covid-appropriate behaviour without any laxity to keep the masses safe.Ananya Goel, Ambala CanttAvoid unnecessary outingsTo prevent the third wave, people should not form large gatherings and also avoid unnecessary outings. The Administration should issue challans for not wearing masks not only to the public but also shopkeepers who entertain people sans masks. Shopkeepers allowing large gatherings outside their shops should be asked to keep their establishments closed for a day or two. Almost every third person in markets or parking areas has stopped wearing a mask as if there is no fear in his mind. Such people should be strictly dealt with.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhPrevention is better than cureAmid this festival season, the UT Administration should ensure that all people must follow Covid-19 protocol properly. The coronavirus variant, AY.4.2, has been found in India which indicates that the third wave will be coming in a few months. The vaccination drive should be scaled up. The proverb, “Prevention is better than cure”, should be followed by one and all. An awareness campaign regarding the Covid protocol should be conducted through online platforms such as Zoom, Cisco Webex, YouTube and Google Meet.Adish Sood, AmlohSelf-check is importantIt is difficult for the Administration to check each and every individual for their actions. It is high time we learnt self-discipline and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour by wearing masks, sanitising hands regularly and maintaining social distance. Self-check is prime and that only can help society in general, whether festivals or otherwise.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaAppoint corona volunteersPeople understand the language of penalty and punishment. The Administration needs to appoint corona volunteers as “monitors” at various places. People violating the rules must be penalised. It is evident that people do not have any self-discipline so the Administration needs to go strict.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaQUESTIONNow that the Ministry of Home Affairs has asked the UT to reconsider its proposal on violations and misuse of building bylaws, what further relief can residents expect from the authorities?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/how-can-chandigarh-control-gatherings-during-festive-season-to-prevent-3rd-wave-332653
01-11-2021||Candigarh||Punjab girls beat Andhra by 80 runs||Punjab girls beat Andhra Pradesh by 80 runs in an Elite Group C League match of the ongoing Women’s Senior One Day Trophy 2021-22 in Bengaluru today.Punjab made 231/6 in 50 overs, with Ridhima Aggarwal hitting a patient 77 and skipper Tania Bhatia scoring a sedate 67. Sarayu (4/35) was the most successful bowler for Andhra.Andhra girls were bowled out for 151 runs in 43.3 overs.CH Jhansi Lakshmi (39) and E Padmaja (37) were the main scorers for Andhra. For Punjab, Harpreet took 3/23, while Komalpreet Kaur returned with figures of 2/19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-girls-beat-andhra-by-80-runs-332652
01-11-2021||Kharar||Will make Nayagaon part of New Chandigarh, says Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal here today announced to make Nayagaon a part of the New Chandigarh for speedy development, on the formation of the SAD-BSP government in the state.Sukhbir Singh Badal was here to participate in a road show from the Siswan T-point to the Marble Market in Mullanpur.SAD candidate from Kharar Ranjit Singh Gill and senior party leader Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra also participated in the rally.People in large numbers came out in support of SAD.Badal also interacted with a cross section of people. “It is astonishing that despite being so close to the capital city of Chandigarh, the town does not have access to the modern facilities,” said Badal.He said the SAD-BSP government would develop Kharar in an integrated manner as per the master plan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-make-nayagaon-part-of-new-chandigarh-says-sukhbir-singh-badal-332651
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Civic body chief approaches RBI||MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra has filed a complaint with the Banking Ombudsman, Reserve Bank of India, Sector 17, against the branch manager, Bank of Baroda, Sector 37.Mitra urged the RBI to direct the branch manager to credit Rs 28.51 lakh in the saving bank account of the civic body.According to the complaint, the Medical Officer of Health, MC, had opened a saving bank account in Bank of Baroda, Sector 37 branch, for realisation of cow fee receipts.The bank also issued cheque book to the Medical Officer. On October 18, the branch manager informed the civic body telephonically that a cheque of Rs28.51 lakh, dated October 11, had been paid to Kartikya Fish Plant-Wani. However, the cheque was not issued by the accounts branch of the corporation.The matter was taken up with the branch manager for reversal of Rs28.51 lakh paid to Kartikya Fish Plant-Wani, but the bank has not credited the amount in the account of the MC till date. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-civic-body-chief-approaches-rbi-332650
01-11-2021||---||Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel a true son of Mother India: Satya Pal Jain||Chandigarh, October 31Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was a true son of Mother India, who paved the way for making India a very strong nation, Satya Pal Jain, former MP and Additional Solicitor General of India, said while addressing a gathering at Panjab University here today.On the occasion of Sardar Patel’s birth anniversary, Malik also inaugurated Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Reading Hall at the university.Vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar, who presided over the function, said the works of Sardar Patel encouraged the young generation to work for making India stronger.The ultra-modern, fully air conditioned reading hall, which was inaugurated today, can accommodate 75 students at a time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sardar-vallabhbhai-patel-a-true-son-of-mother-india-satya-pal-jain-332649
01-11-2021||---||Sehaj Kaur wins gold at Horse Show||Mohali, October 31Sehaj Kaur from PPS, Nabha, claimed gold medal in the stick and ball race (Group I) on the concluding day of the Chandigarh Horse Show at Mullanpur today.Birkuwar of PPS, Nabha, claimed second position, while Anureet from Chandigarh Horse Riding Society (CHRS) finished third.The show was organised in association with The Tribune.Jaiveer from YPS, Patiala, led the field in Group II event. He was followed by Gaurav from CHRS in second place, while Dhanveer Singh from PPS, Nabha, claimed third position.Fateh, Mehreen and Nihal, all from CHRS, claimed the top-three positions, respectively, in the Group III contest.Gurkaran, Anmoldeep and Kuljit from PPS, Nabha, topped the podium in medley relay race.Tejver, Azadnoor and Harshwardhan, also from PPS, Nabha, finished second while Vishal Kumar, Jarmanjit Singh and Simranjit Singh from Punjab Police bagged the third position.Gurkaran Singh, meanwhile, claimed the gold medal in the show jumping contest. Abhijot won the silver and Kuljit Singh clinched the bronze medal. All the three riders represented PPS, Nabha.Dr RS Rana from ITBP won top position in the dressage elementary event.Zorawar Singh Kohli, Kunsh Kataria, Caroline, Inaara Kaur Jagirdar, Ayaana Kaur Jagirdar, Jaj Singh Khehra and Farman Khosa won fancy dress event.Gursobha Singh, Javed Khan and Anmoldeep Singh, all from Heritage Equestrian Sports Academy, won the top honours in the six-bar open.MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, Punjab DGP Iqbalpreet Sahota, Harsukhinder Singh Bubby Badal and Rahul Sidhu awarded the winners.“The event witnessed a good footfall. We tried to hold all events listed as per the Equestrian Federation of India norms. Both amateur and professional riders participated in the event,” said one of the organisers.The CHRS riders finished the competition with 20 medals.Adhiraj Toor cleared the Regional Equestrian League - Tent Pegging event with 26 points and qualified for the nationals.Suharsh, Amanpreet, Suhani, Neeraj, Gaurav, Maira, Fateh, Sukhman, Mehreen, Fateh Brar, Perinia, Nihal, Mehreen, Sifat, Anureet and Gaurav won the medals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sehaj-kaur-wins-gold-at-horse-show-332648
01-11-2021||Mohali||Man booked for thrashing daughter in Mohali||The police have booked a person running a salon in Phase 3B2 here for thrashing his daughter and snatching her mobile phone. The suspect has been identified as Ranjit Singh, a native of Noida in Uttar Pradesh.The victim, Parminder Kaur, a resident of Sector 63, in her complaint to the police, alleged that her father, Ranjit Singh, runs a salon in Phase 3B2 here. On October 28, her father took her to one of the cabins in the salon. He first abused her and thrashed her. Later, Ranjit fled from the spot taking away her mobile phone.The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6, here. She informed the police, following which a complaint was lodged against the suspect.The victim alleged that after her mother’s death, her father started living in Noida with another woman. The girl said she had rift with her father as he used to often fight with her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-thrashing-daughter-in-mohali-332647
01-11-2021||---||2 held with 3,959 cartons of spurious liquor||Mohali, October 31The Mohali police have arrested two persons and recovered 3,959 cartons of spurious liquor from a godown at Moharra village near Ambala Cantonment in Haryana.The arrested accused have been identified as Krishan Kumar, a truck driver aged around 45 and a resident of Haibowal village in Ludhiana, and Divay Khanna, a resident of Motiaz Royal City, Zirakpur.The consignment was brought from Uttarakhand. It had a seal of the Uttarakhand Excise Department. The seal on the bottles mentioned that the liquor was meant for sale in Chandigarh only. The police have also seized three trucks.Divulging details, Mohali SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said a special drive was initiated against anti-social elements, criminals and drug peddlers in view of the forthcoming Assembly elections. After receiving a tip-off, a police team, under the supervision of SP (City) Akashdeep Singh Aulakh and OSP (City-1) Gursher Singh Sandhu, laid a naka in Phase 6, Mohali, on October 29. A police team, headed by Phase 6 police post in-charge Sub-Inspector Kulwant Singh, signalled a commercial vehicle, bearing registration number HR-68-B-0606, to stop for checking. The vehicle was ferrying vegetables and fruits to Amritsar. During the checking of the vehicle, 520 cases of fake ‘Naina’ whisky (for sale in Chandigarh only having seal of the Uttarakhand excise) were recovered. The cases were concealed beneath the crates of fruits and vegetables.The SSP said during preliminary investigation, vehicle driver Krishan Kumar made a disclosure statement that the fake liquor was supplied by Divay Khanna, alias Vicky, and there was a godown at Moharra village, Ambala Cantonment, where spurious liquor was stored. The said godown was raided and a recovery of another 3,439 cases of spurious liquor was made which was stored in two trucks bearing registration numbers HR-550-N-9457 and HR-37-D-1704. The police arrested Divay Khanna, alias Vicky, today from Zirakpur.Mahal said further investigations were on in the case and they were hoping to get further revelations. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the two accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-with-3-959-cartons-of-spurious-liquor-332646
01-11-2021||Mohali||Dengue stings Mohali residents hard, 100 fresh dengue cases in a day||A total of 100 fresh dengue cases surfaced during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the district to 2,631. However, no death due to dengue was reported from across the district till this evening, health officials said.Also read: Dengue: Free hospitalisation, tests at Tera Hi Tera Mission Hospital, ChandigarhA total of 2,631 dengue cases have been reported from the district in the past two months. While September saw 344 cases and two deaths, as many as 2,260 cases with 31 fatalities surfaced till October 31. A total of 260 samples of suspected dengue patients were collected. Out of these, 100 tested positive for the disease. A total of 410 dengue cases surfaced from the district in the past five days.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “We have an alarming situation at our hands. To deal with it, anti-dengue drives have already been started. However, we need full cooperation of residents as well. The number of anti-larvae teams has been increased as our aim is to check the spread of vector-borne diseases.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-stings-mohali-residents-hard-100-fresh-dengue-cases-in-a-day-332645
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s foundation day: Over 100 attend heritage walk at Capitol Complex||As part of Chandigarh’s foundation day celebrations, the Department of Tourism conducted a guided heritage walk at the Capitol Complex.Over 100 people joined the tour guided by Deepika Gandhi, Director, Le Corbusier Centre. People explored various buildings and features of the Capital Complex.The enthusiastic group comprising of students and senior citizens learnt about the genesis of the Capitol Complex and Le Corbusier’s philosophy and theories about the making of the administrative head of the city. Each building was explained in detail revealing several unknown facets about their design and construction to the participants along with the symbolism behind the elements of the High Court and Assembly buildings. The walk ended at the rooftop restaurant of the Secretariat building.Purohit extends greetingsPunjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit has extended his greetings to residents on the city’s foundation day. Chandigarh was formed on November 1, 1966, andwas given the status of Union Territory. In his message, the Punjab Governor said during these 55 years of its formation, Chandigarh had made unprecedented progress in diverse fields. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-foundation-day-over-100-attend-heritage-walk-at-capitol-complex-332644
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Lt Gen RP Singh retires after 39 years of service||The General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen RP Singh, relinquished charge today on superannuation after 39 years of service.Lt Gen NK Khanduri, an Army Air Defence officer of the December 1983 seniority, will take over the reins of the Western Command on November 1.Before hanging up his boots, Lt Gen Singh laid a wreath at Veer Smriti in Chandimandir to pay homage to martyrs and was presented a guard of honour by a contingent from the Dogra Regiment. Later, he was given a ceremonial send-off by officers and men of the command.In a statement, he said the Western Command had been instrumental in formulating futuristic operational concepts in offensive and defensive employment of Army formations in the western sector and also paved the roadmap for restructuring and modernisation.Referring to the recent spurt in terrorist activity in Kashmir, he said this definitely had an impact on the security situation in the Jammu sector, which was part of the Western Command. The situation was being assessed constantly and formations of the command, he said, were fully prepared to meet any challenge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lt-gen-rp-singh-retires-after-39-years-of-service-332643
01-11-2021||---||Rashtriya Ekta Diwas: Chandigah Administrator asks youth to follow in footsteps of Vallabhbhai||Chandigarh, October 31Rashtriya Ekta Diwas was celebrated here today to mark the 146th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.Several events were held in the city to honour the journey of the Iron Man of India, who played an instrumental role in integration of our country. The celebrations augmented with a grand event at the parade ground in Sector 17 here, wherein UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit was the chief guest. The event began with a parade from the police contingents.Addressing the gathering, the UT Administrator said: “Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel championed for the nation’s unity and integration. As citizens of this largest democratic country, we should pledge to strengthen this unity and join hands to make our country the foremost nation and the leader in all spheres”.The Administrator flagged off a motorcycle rally. It was followed by a bicycle rally wherein children also participated.A “Run for Unity” was also flagged off from the Parade Ground. Later in the evening, the celebrations concluded with the performance of a police band, followed by a laser show at Sukhna Lake, which showcased the journey of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.Purohit encouraged the youth to follow in his footsteps and propagate the message of his life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rashtriya-ekta-diwas-chandigah-administrator-asks-youth-to-follow-in-footsteps-of-vallabhbhai-332642
01-11-2021||---||Door-to-door Covid vaccination drive in Panchkula soon||Panchkula, October 31Panchkula would soon begin a door-to-door vaccine campaign, said District Immunisation Officer Dr Meenu Sasan here today.She said they received a letter from the higher authorities in this regard yesterday. The schedule for the same would be released soon.The pace of vaccination over the past few weeks has taken a hit due to the ongoing festive season, leaving the Health Department worried. Daily vaccination of average 1,803 people during this week established a clear picture of decline in the number of people coming forward for inoculation. The worst figure was recorded on October 28, which remained at 1,123 only.It comes at a time when attempts are being made by the Health Department to ramp up the second dose coverage.The district has already achieved 100 coverage of the first dose. As of Sunday, the first dose coverage stood at 102.7 per cent.As many as 51,506 people, who have taken their first dose of Covid vaccine, have not got themselves jabbed with the second dose even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two doses, Panchkula CMO Dr Mukta Kumar said. She said people were hesitant to take the vaccine in the festive season.The CMO, however, stated that all required steps were being taken to reach out to those left to be covered under the vaccine campaign. Both doses were required for adequate protection against Covid-19. Hence, everybody should come forward to get themselves fully vaccinated.The district has ample vaccine stock, with over 1.15 lakh doses available in its kitty. Vaccination pace hitThe pace of vaccination over the past few weeks has taken a hit due to the ongoing festive season, leaving the Health Department worried. Daily vaccination of average 1,803 people during this week established a clear picture of decline in the number of people coming forward for inoculation. The worst figure was recorded on October 28, which remained at 1,123 only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/door-to-door-covid-vaccination-drive-in-panchkula-soon-332641
01-11-2021||Naina Mishra||October sees only one Covid death in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 31The month of October saw only one death due to Covid-19 and 121 persons testing positive for the disease. This is the lowest monthly Covid statistics recorded this year. Last month, six persons had succumbed to the virus and 126 had tested positive.A total of 53,886 tests were conducted this month, while 69,105 patients were tested for Covid last month. There is a dip in testing by 22 per cent.“The trend of Covid cases is stable in our region. However, a minor upsurge has been noticed in southern states of the country. Next month will be crucial to keep a watch on the pandemic. Season is changing and people will stay more indoors during winter in close groups, which will increase transmission. There will be a huge gathering in markets and elsewhere due to the festival season. The pandemic is still around as patients keep coming to the PGI and other hospitals of the city. People need to be cautious and wear a mask even though they are vaccinated,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the School of Community Medicine and Public Health, PGI.For every lakh people in Chandigarh, 67,129 samples were tested and 5,542 out of every lakh people in the city have tested positive for the virus.In the past one week, 0.2 per cent of the samples tested came back positive. For every 100 confirmed cases, 0.1 are currently infected, 99 have recovered from the virus and one has succumbed to the deadly virus.Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, Public Policy and Health Systems expert, said: “Nationwide rise in the cases is very unlikely. There may be a minor rise in cases after Diwali in different states, but barely to qualify a fresh wave. The number of cases is low and a two-threefold increase at the state level has not much relevance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/october-sees-only-one-covid-death-in-chandigarh-332640
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Girl’s gold chain snatched in Sector 37, Chandigarh||Man arrested with heroinChandigarh: The Operations Cell of the UT police arrested a man while possessing 50.50 grams of heroin. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Sunil Kumar, alias Sandy (29), a resident of Dhanas, was nabbed from near a community centre in Dhanas while possessing heroin. A case has been registered against the suspect at the Sarangpur police station. TNS3-day tennis tournamentChandigarh: The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association will organise CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament for Boys and Girls (U-14) from November 1 to 3. As many as 51 players have signed in for the main draw events. Players from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Telangana state are taking part in the tournament. The first and second main round matches will be played at the Sector 10 CLTA Complex on November 1. TNSCricket meet begins todayChandigarh: The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, will organise the U-16 Multi-Day Cricket Tournament for Balramji Das Tandon Trophy from November 1. The championship will be inaugurated by Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium. Six teams - Plaza Zone, Terrace Zone, Rose Zone, Leisure Zone, Sukhna Zone and Rock Zone - will participate in the championship. The matches will be held at the Sector 16 cricket stadium and Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 26. In the opening match, Plaza Zone will face Terrace Zone, followed by Rose Zone taking on Leisure Zone. TNSCity eves face 246-run defeatChandigarh: City girls faced a massive 246-run defeat against Mithali Raj-led Railways in their opening encounter at Women’s One-Day Tournament at Pune. Chandigarh collapsed at 110 runs while chasing a mammoth of 256 runs. Earlier, Railways’ opener S Meghna (142) and Captain Mithali (87) helped Railways to pile up 356/4. Parul Saini claimed two wickets while Priyanka Guleria and Rajni Devi shared one wicket each for the bowling side. In reply, Chandigarh was bundled out for 110 in 43 overs. Manisha Badhan (47) was the top scorer for the side. Chandigarh will take on Odisha in their second fixture on November 1. TNSSector 48 RWA chief joins AAPChandigarh: Sector 48 RWA president JJ Singh and his team joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday. Sandeep Bhardwaj, vice-president, city AAP, organised a rally in Sector 48 where the joining event was held. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girls-gold-chain-snatched-in-sector-37-chandigarh-332639
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 5 more found infected in Chandigarh||3 fresh cases in Mohali distMohali: Three fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,821. No death was reported, while three patients were cured. Among the new cases, one was from Mohali and two from Dhakoli. Of the 68,821 cases reported so far, 67,726 patients have been cured. There are now 27 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,068. — TNSPanchkula dist sees one casePanchkula: The district saw just one fresh Covid case on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 30,770. The toll remained at 378. While 30,379 people have recovered from the virus so far, 13 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-5-more-found-infected-in-chandigarh-332635
01-11-2021||Mohali||Zirakpur: 22-year-old woman raped by her 'friend' at gunpoint||A 22-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her friend at gunpoint in Zirakpur when she asked for a lift from the suspect to drop her at her PG in Mohali. The suspect has been identified as Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Batala.In her complaint to the police, the victim said on Friday last, she was coming from her home in Barnala to Mohali, where she stays in a paying guest accommodation. She said on the way, she called up her friend Kulwinder Singh and requested him to pick her from the Chhat light point and drop her at her PG. She said Kulwinder was already wating for her in his Innova car when she reached the light point at 8 pm. She said after giving her a lift, the suspect took her to a secluded place instead of dropping her at her PG and raped her at gunpoint. Later, the suspect abandoned her on the road from where she hired a cab and reached her PG. The next morning, she lodged a police complaint. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-22-year-old-woman-raped-by-her-friend-at-gunpoint-332607
01-11-2021||---||Four car thieves arrested in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 31The crime branch of the Sector 26 police today claimed to have arrested four members of a gang of car thieves, who used to allegedly sell stolen high-end SUVs in the north-eastern parts of the country at cheap prices.The modus operandi of the gang was unique as it would use a tablet and other high-end gadgets to hijack the engine control module (ECM), prepare a duplicate key on the spot and a jammer to disable the GPS and security system of the car, said the in-charge of the Sector 26 crime branch, Inspector Aman Kumar, who led the two police teams which cracked the case. Although all suspects were merely Class XII pass, they were tech savvy and friendly with modern gadgets, he added.The suspects have been identified as Sunny (the mastermind), Sandeep and Ashok, residents of Hisar, and Surender, a resident of Sirsa. Two of them were arrested from Sector 21 and the other two from Sethi Dhaba, Dera Bassi.The police also arrested a resident of Arunachal Pradesh, Lechi, who bought a stolen car from them.“Lechi is a dismissed constable of the Arunachal Pradesh Police. He used to sell stolen vehicles further to other customers at higher prices,” said the police.Two high-end SUVs stolen from the city – both Toyota Fortuner — have also been recovered from their possession.These cars were stolen from Sector 21 on September 25, and Sector 7 on October 8.“They (suspects) had sold these cars in Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. However, the team investigating the matter managed to recover these cars during the 10-day police custody of the suspects,” the police added.These cases were registered at the Sector 5 and Sector 7 police stations, respectively.According to the police, on being questioned, the gang members confessed that they used to steal high-end cars parked in public and residential areas and would later sell these in the north-eastern region.Two of the suspects – Sandeep and Surender – have a criminal record.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-car-thieves-arrested-in-panchkula-332597
01-11-2021||---||Two shots fired outside Sector 26 club in Chandigarh, youth hurt||Chandigarh, October 31Two shots were fired outside a club in Sector 26 here last night, leaving a 25-year-old youth injured. The suspects managed to escape in an i20 car. The incident took place near the Sector 26 police station.The victim, Simarpreet Singh, a resident of Ambala, had come to the nightclub along with his cousin, a Panchkula resident.The police said four occupants of the i20 car were having an argument with occupants of an Alto over “wrong parking” on the road in front of the club, Bargain Booze.In the meantime, the victim, along with his cousin, was leaving after having dinner.The police said the victim started tying the laces of his shoes by keeping his feet on the bonnet of the i20 car. “The suspects thought that the victim was accompanying the youths riding the Alto car following which they entered into an argument with him.One of the suspects pulled out a gun and fired two shots, one of which hit the victim on his left leg.The suspects then escaped in the car, bearing a Chandigarh number. The police were informed and the victim rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where he is under treatment.A team of the CFSL also inspected the spot. Empty shells were recovered by the police. The police said they had the registration number of the car through which they would soon nab the suspects. “Two of the suspects have been identified. They are from Punjab. Raids are being conducted to nab them,” said a police official.Meanwhile, a case under Section 307 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the car occupants at the Sector 26 police station. The police have collected the footage of CCTV cameras installed outside the club.Recent incidents of firing outside clubsOctober 12, 2020: Three shots fired outside a nightclub in Sector 9, leaving a 22-year-old youth injuredOctober 11, 2020: Former PU leader Gurlal Brar shot dead outside a nightclub in the Industrial Area, Phase I||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-shots-fired-outside-sector-26-club-in-chandigarh-youth-hurt-332593
