02-11-2021||Panchkula||Fire at Panchkula furniture factory kills two||A fire at a furniture factory in Panchkula’s Phase 2 killed two people on Tuesday, officials said.The fire broke out on the second floor of Westwood, the furniture factory, on Tuesday afternoon, and spread quickly, fed by ample wood at the factory. The two who died have been identified as 21-year-old Avdesh Kumar and 30-year-old Sonali Devi, both of whom died of suffocation.It took 10 fire tenders up to three hours to put out the flames completely, officials.Avdesh Kumar lived in Mouli Jagran, who, according to his brother Krishan Pal, got married only four months ago. Sonali Devi worked at the factory with some others of her family. She leaves behind her husband Satyanarayan and their two children. The family lived in another factory in Industrial Area.One person injured in the fire is undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.Officials put down the fire to a short circuit.Krishan Pal said that the lack of space at the factory prevented both victims from escaping to safety. Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta—who’s the legislator for Panchkula—Panchkula Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and councillor Harender Malik came down to the site of the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-panchkula-furniture-factory-kills-two-333402
02-11-2021||---||Weightlifting Championship: Coaching Centre boys triumph||Chandigarh, November 1Weightlifting Coaching Centre, Sector 42, amassed 425 points to win the 32nd Senior (men), 24th Junior (boys) and 16th Sub-Junior (boys) Chandigarh State Weightlifting Championship.Chandigarh Amateur Weightlifting Association finished runners-up with 354 points, while Public Sports Club, Sector 56, scored 313 points to claim third position.In the boys’ sub-junior category, Roynis (92kg) won the first position in the 49kg contest. He was followed Pankaj (71kg) and Harkhushdeep Singh (42kg) in second and third positions respectively.Ishwor (197kg) claimed the title in the 55kg competition. Arjun (165kg) bagged the second position.Himanshu Ahiya (150kg), Shubham Choudhary (97kg) and Harkirat Singh (70kg) claimed the top-three positions, respectively, in the 61kg contest.In the 67kg final, Mohamad Shahjahan topped the podium with a lift of 225kg. Ajeet (103kg) bagged the second position, while Hemant Rana (74kg) finished third.Manav Singh (144kg) won the gold medal in the 73kg competition. He was followed by Harsh (105kg) in second place, while Parmeet Singh (97kg) bagged the third position.Vishavjeet Singh (267kg) dominated the field in the 81kg category. Abhishek Kumar (235kg) pocketed the silver, while Varun (207kg) secured the bronze medal.In the 89kg final, Jay Kaushal (155kg) claimed the gold medal, while Mohit Singh (232kg) topped the podium in the 96kg contest. Sanjay (160kg) finished second.Paramvir Singh (258kg) and Uday Singh (132kg) won the two-top positions, respectively, in the 102+kg competition.In the men’s junior category, Vakeel Chand (191kg) topped the podium in the 55kg contest. Anil Saini (168kg) finished second.In the 61kg competition, Amarjeet (178kg) claimed the gold medal, whuile Harjot Singh (93kg) returned home with a silver.In the 67kg contest, Brijlal Saroj (227kg), Bhagyajeet Singh (177kg) and Aman (110kg) claimed the top-three positions, respectively.Gurkaran Singh (264kg) ruled the 73kg competition. Gurkirit Singh (240kg) bagged the second position, while Jatin (194kg) claimed the third spot.Surinder Singh (220kg) claimed the top position in the 81kg category. He was followed by Sandeep Singh (155kg) and Paramvir Singh (123kg).In the 89kg contest, Aditya Narang (275kg) won the gold, while Harshnoor Singh (235kg) bagged the silver medal. Prashant Sood (160kg) got the bronze medal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weightlifting-championship-coaching-centre-boys-triumph-333140
02-11-2021||---||Cricket: Punjab eves beat Himachal by 7 wickets||Chandigarh, November 1Punjab girls beat Himachal Pradesh by seven wickets on VJD method in an Elite Group C match of the Women’s Senior One Day Trophy 2021-22, at M Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bengaluru today.Chasing 148 runs for victory, Punjab were batting on 119/3 in 41 overs when rain stopped the play. The side was declared winners on the basis of VJD method.Skipper Tania Bhatia (44) and Kanika Ahuja (33) made useful contributions to the chase.Anisha A Ansari, NM Chauhan and Yamuna V Rana took one wicket each for Himachal Pradesh.Earlier, Himachal girls were bowled out for 147 runs in 49.3 overs. SM Singh made 33 runs, while Kashish H Verma added 29 runs to the total.Mehal Kesar took three wickets for Punjab, while Komalpreet Kaur and Kanika Ahuja bagged two wickets each.Punjab girls will now face West Bengal on November 4 at Alur Cricket Stadium II in Bengaluru.City girls go down to OdishaChandigarh: Captain Amanjot Kaur’s 97-run knock went in vain as Chandigarh girls suffered a 35-run defeat against Odisha in their second match of the Women’s Seniors ODI Trophy at Pune on Monday. Batting first, Odisha scored 253 runs with Madhuri Meheta (76) and Tanmayee Behera (53) scoring a half-century each. Nandini Sharma, Parul Saini and Amanjot Kaur took two wickets each for Chandigarh, while Priyanka Guleria accounted for one wicket. In reply, Chandigarh could only manage 218 runs, even as Amanjot scored a valiant 97. Shivangi contributed 35 runs to the chase. Chandigarh will now play Uttarakhand on Wednesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-punjab-eves-beat-himachal-by-7-wickets-333139
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Yuvraj Sandhu set to tee off in Jeev Milkha Invitational||City golfer Yuvraj Sandhu, who made big strides on the PGTI circuit after the pandemic-induced break, is all set to tee off in the Jeev Milkha Invitational Championship, starting at Chandigarh Golf Course here from November 11.A significant highlight of my last one and a half months has been my shooting. A deep 10-under-par round on the last day of the Jaipur Open 21 at the Rambagh Golf Course was really exciting. Yuvraj Singh SandhuThe 24-year-old has participated in five tournaments after the resumption of PGTI tournaments. While he finished on podium in the Tata Steel Open in Panchkula, he secured fourth position in the TATA Steel PGTI MP Cup 2021, which was played at the Delhi Golf Club.“A significant highlight of my last one and a half months has been my shooting. A deep 10-under-par round on the last day of the Jaipur Open 21 at the Rambagh Golf Course was really exciting for me,” said Sandhu.With one podium, two top-five and two top-10 finishes in his last five appearances on the PGTI Tour, Sandhu has made rapid strides on the Order of Merit and currently stands among the top-10.“It helped me to make a major jump of 372 positions in the Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR). Quality play has always kept me in contention for a long awaited win,” said Sandhu.Back from Jaipur, Sandhu discussed his game with his team and resumed training to iron out some of the rough edges. After the Jeev Milkha Invitational, Sandhu will feature in four more PGTI tournaments, including the Tata Steel Tour Championship at Tata Nagar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yuvraj-sandhu-set-to-tee-off-in-jeev-milkha-invitational-333137
02-11-2021||---||Amrit Dhankar eases into quarterfinals||Chandigarh, November 1Amrit Dhankar of Uttarakhand defeated Chandigarh’s Pragun Thakur 8-2 to enter the boys’ U-14 quarterfinals on the opening day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament here today.Fifth seed Prabhav Sibbal of Haryana registered an 8-1 win over Anish Sharma, while fourth seed Armaan Walia drubbed Arnav Chaudhary 8-1.Sachit Thakur blanked Manan Dhir and Parth Sharma edged out Ranveer Chaudhary 8-2. Punjab’s Devansh Parajuli stunned third seed Advit Tiwari 8-6.Parmarth Kaushik outplayed Devvert Singh Kadian 8-3, while second seed Hridhay secured an 8-4 win over Gaurish Madaan 8-4.In the girls’ U-16 competition, top seed Inaaya Mittal defeated Jasmine Kaur 8-5.Rhosyn William stunned sixth seed Ajenika Puri of Chandigarh 8-6, while fourth seed Krittika Katoch blanked Shauryaa Pathak 8-0. Saravnoor Kaur registered an identical win over Dhriti Parashar.In the opening round matches of the boys’ U-14 contest, top seed Amrit Dhankar thrashed Vansh Sharma 8-0, while Pragun Thakur defeated Sneh Kashyap 8-7(4).Prabhav Sibbal overcame Abhinav Sangra 8-5 and Anish Sharma edged out Love Pahal 8-7(4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amrit-dhankar-eases-into-quarterfinals-333134
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Girish Khatri claims 6-for as Plaza Zone bowl out Terrace Zone for 271||Girish Khatri claimed a six-for as Plaza Zone bowled out Terrace Zone for 271 runs on the opening day of a two-day U-16 match in the 1st Balramji Dass Tandon Memorial Tournament here today.At the close of play, Plaza Zone were batting on 8/1.Earlier, Sujal Rohilla made a patient 64 to guide Terrace Zone to a respectable total. Ashutosh Gautam scored 45 runs.In the second match, Rose Zone made 287/9 on Day 1.Udayveer Singh scored 90 runs, while Mehul Dutt contributed 48 runs total.Bhavya Kapoor took four wickets for the bowling side.The championship was inaugurated by Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit.Around 90 players are representing six teams in the 10-day-long tournament.Mayor Ravikant Sharma, Director Sports Tejdeep Singh Saini, UTCA members Subhash Mahajan and Ravindra Talwar and event convener Sushil Kapoor were also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girish-khatri-claims-6-for-as-plaza-zone-bowl-out-terrace-zone-for-271-333121
02-11-2021||---||Panjab University receives MAKA trophy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1Panjab University formally received the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy 2020 at a felicitation function in New Delhi today.Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar received the trophy from Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur. Professor Kumar was accompanied by Prof Prashant Gautam, Director, Sports (additional charge), PU, and Deputy Director, Sports, PU, Dr Rakesh Malik.The sportspersons also received Dyan Chand Khel Ratna Awards, Arjuna Awards, and Droncaharya Awards during the function.Professor Kumar said: “Panjab University is proud and delighted to receive the prestigious MAKA Trophy.”The VC dedicated the trophy to coaches and players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-receives-maka-trophy-333111
02-11-2021||---||Mohali begins crackdown on illegal mining||Mohali, November 1The district administration today began a campaign to check illegal mining across the district.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday announced ‘Mission Clean’ and directed that strict action should be taken against unscrupulous elements indulging in illicit practices related to sand mining. Various teams of mining officials of the district today visited four mining and desilting sites in the district to weed out illegal mining at Mirzapur, Kakrala, Bhankarpur and Sarangpur.Isha added the state government had fixed sand rates at Rs 9 cubic feet on the mining spots throughout the state and strict adherence to the fixed rate would be ensured in the district. She urged the people to come forward and lodge their complaints with the Deputy Commissioner’s office, if they had any inputs about illegal mining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-begins-crackdown-on-illegal-mining-333091
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Museum of Architecture rededicated to residents||As part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, UT Adviser Dharam Pal today rededicated the Museum of Architecture at the UT Secretariat to the residents.The Adviser took a round of the museum and UT Chief Architect Kapil Setia explained the planning concepts of the city evolved by the original team of architects.Illustrated excerpts from the PhD thesis of Dr SS Bhatti, Founder Teacher and Principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture, on “Chandigarh and the context on the Le-Corbusier, Statute of the Land” was part of the event as temporary exhibits. The exhibition would be open to the general public till November 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/museum-of-architecture-rededicated-to-residents-333090
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three held for duping Chandigarh MC of Rs 28.51 lakh||Three persons have been arrested for withdrawing Rs 28.51 lakh from the bank account of the Municipal Corporation (MC) by presenting a forged cheque.In his complaint to the police, Varinder Singh Thakur, Chief Accounts Officer, MC, reported that the persons presented two forged cheques at the Bank of Baroda, Sector 37, on October 18 and tried to withdraw money. It was then discovered that an Rs 28.51 lakh was withdrawn at the same bank by presenting a forged cheque on October 11.A team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of Sector 17, nabbed the suspects, identified as Kotta Gadvani Thirupathi (43), Anand, alias Bunty Nair (45), and Kamal (42), all residents of Maharashtra.Meanwhile, the main suspects, identified as Amit Nair and Srawan, are in the custody of the Pune police.The police said the three were hired by the prime suspects to commit the crime. Kotta had received Rs 2 lakh, Kama Rs 50,000 and Anand Rs 30,000 for helping the prime suspects in committing the crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-for-duping-chandigarh-mc-of-rs-28-51-lakh-333079
02-11-2021||---||Make Punjabi official language of city: Chandigarh Punjabi Manch||Chandigarh, November 1Chandigarh Punjabi Manch took out a protest march today from Sector 19 to Sector 17 Plaza along with several other organisations. They have demanded that Punjabi be made the official language of Chandigarh. Around 400 people from all villages in and around Chandigarh, including various writers and poets, took part in the march.General secretary of Chandigarh Punjabi Manch Devi Dayal Sharma said, “Ideally, the official language of Chandigarh was Punjabi. How it changed to English is still not known. There’s no official notification regarding this change. The people of this region have been robbed of their culture, their mother tongue.”From the Pendu Sangharsh Committee, Gurpreet Singh Somal, shared on November 1, 1966, Haryana was carved out of the eastern and southern part of East Punjab to create a new state for a majority Haryanvi-speaking people, while the western portion of East Punjab retained a mostly Punjabi-speaking majority and was renamed as Punjab. “Chandigarh was declared a Union Territory to serve as the capital of both states, but it still is the only UT in India to have English as its official language,” he said.Aman of PSU Lalkaar and Naujawan Bharat Sabha said, “Punjabi is the official language of Chandigarh even before it was planned. That’s why Punjabi should be the official language of this city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-punjabi-official-language-of-city-chandigarh-punjabi-manch-333077
02-11-2021||---||Youth Akali Dal protests against Jagdish Tytler's appointment as special invitee member||Mohali, November 1Protesting the appointment of Jagdish Tytler as special invitee member by the Congress, the district unit of the Youth Akali Dal (Mohali Urban) burnt an effigy of Congress leaders here today.The protesters, led by YAD president Harmanpreet Singh Prince, held a dharna near the district administrative complex and raised slogans against Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu.Addressing the protesters, Harmanpreet Singh Prince said the Congress had rubbed salt on the wounds of the Sikhs by making Jagdish Tytler, the main accused in the 1984 Sikh genocide, a special invitee. He said Tytler and Sajjan Kumar were the main culprits in the 1984 genocide of Sikhs in Delhi and other cities.He said the worst thing was that Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu, who were tweeting every minute, were silent on this issue.Simranjit Singh Chandumajra said 37 years had passed since the Sikh genocide in 1984 but justice eluded the Sikh community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-akali-dal-protests-against-jagdish-tytlers-appointment-as-special-invitee-member-333076
02-11-2021||---||Mohali Municipal Corporation completes Phase II of extension of limits||Mohali, November 1The second phase of extension of boundaries by the Mohali Municipal Corporation was completed today after obtaining documents from GMADA and the Revenue Department.The map was approved by Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu at a meeting of the MC held today after scrutiny and sent to the Local Government Department.The Mayor said as per the demand of the people of Mohali and adjoining villages, a resolution was passed to bring different areas under the Mohali MC in the first phase. He said resolution no. 25 was passed on June 28 this year at the General House meeting. Under this, Mohali Sector 82, Sector 66A, Sector 91, 92, 116, 117, villages of Balongi, Bariali, Badmajra and TDI area would come under the MC, he added.The Mayor said the Local Government Department had asked the corporation to prepare and send a map regarding the resolution. He had instructed the officials of the corporation to get the complete documents from GMADA and other departments and prepare the map so that there would be no error in it. The map was prepared by the officials today and after holding a meeting regarding the map, it was approved and sent to the department for approval.Jeeti Sidhu said that the promise made by former Health Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu to the people would be fulfilled soon and after this area comes under the jurisdiction of Municipal Corporation, the entire area would be developed by the MC. Development works would be carried out in all villages to provide city-like facilities to the people, he added.He further said under the third phase, the Local Bodies Department would send the map and resolution after passing the same and the corporation would ask for objections from the people. “After completion of this process and clearance from the government, the entire area would come under the limits of the Mohali MC,” he added.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, SE Sanjay Kanwar, MTP Rajneesh Wadhwa and other officials were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-completes-phase-ii-of-extension-of-limits-333074
02-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bailable warrants issued against MDs of Ansal Lotus Melange||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has issued bailable warrants of arrest against two managing directors and vice-president of Ansal Lotus Melange Projects Pvt Ltd.The commission has issued the order on the execution petition filed by Mohinder Paul Soni, a resident of Kharar, under Section 72 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, for the enforcement of the order passed by the Commission on June 22, 2020.The commission, comprising Justice Raj Shekhar Attri, President, and members Padma Pandey and Rajesh Kumar Arya, said the judgment debtors had failed to comply with the order under execution within the stipulated period. Accordingly, this execution application is treated as a complaint and it be tried as a summons case. The commission said the prima facie case was made out to summon the judgment debtors to face a trial for the offence punishable under Section 27 of the Consumer Protection Act.The commission, while allowing the complaint in June last year, had directed the builder to refund Rs 24,97,432 to the complainant, along with interest at the rate 12% per annum from the respective dates of deposit onwards, within a period of 30 days. The commission has also directed to pay Rs 50,000 the cost of litigation to the complainant within a month.Soni said but the builder had failed to comply with the order within the stipulated time as directed by the commission.“We are of the view that this execution application be treated as a complaint and it be tried as a summons case. Let the presence of judgment debtors, namely Pranav Ansal and Vishwa Prakash, Managing Directors, and Jatinder Batra, Vice-President, of Ansal Lotus Melange Projects Pvt Ltd be secured through bailable warrants of arrest in the sum of Rs 50,000 each with one surety each in the like amount,” says the commission in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bailable-warrants-issued-against-mds-of-ansal-lotus-melange-333071
02-11-2021||---||Late night Mumbai flight brings cheer to tricity||Mohali, November 1Late night Mumbai flight introduced in the winter schedule of the Chandigarh International Airport has brought cheer to travel agents as they hope to do good business as people prefer the flight due to low fares of the late night service.After attaining the 24x7 status, these winter flights will arrive after midnight giving a good connectivity to passengers aspiring to reach Chandigarh late in the night. According to the schedule, the Mumbai flight will depart from Chandigarh at 10:45 pm and reach Mumbai at 1:15 am. The Indigo Mumbai flight 6E-328 A-320 Airbus will arrive from Mumbai at 12:35 am at Chandigarh and will depart after overnight stay.Welcoming the late night Mumbai flight, the travel agents said companies generally reduced the fares of flights operating late in the night or early in the morning. One of the travel agents said they used to see a good demand for late night flights to Mumbai as the fares were low. Now, with the Mumbai flight operating late in the night, they are hoping to get a good business.Rajeev Singla, a resident of Mohali and senior officer in the IT company, said the late night flight to Mumbai introduced from the Chandigarh Airport would not only save money but also time. He said now, he could board a flight late in the night and return to the city after completing work in the day in Mumbai.Five more flights in winter scheduleChandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ajay Bhardwaj said five more flights in domestic sectors had been announced in the winter schedule. He said flights to Patna, Jammu, Goa, Mumbai and Delhi had been announced, taking the total flights to 48 from the airport daily. The airport footfall is also picking up after Covid-induced closure. Earlier, 43 flights were operating to various destinations within the country and one to a foreign country, he added.However, the Dubai flight was again missing from the winter schedule as the arrival and departure flight from Chandigarh International Airport has not been announced.The flight to Patna flight will depart from Chandigarh at 7:35 am and reach there at 9:40 am, and thereafter, the same flight will arrive at Chandigarh from Patna at 11:55 pm. An additional flight from Delhi of GoAir will depart at 10:35 am and arrive at Chandigarh at 11:35 am. This flight will then depart for Ahmedabad at 12 noon and return to Chandigarh from Ahmedabad at 4:50 pm, and then further depart for Delhi.Bhardwaj said the schedule for the Jammu flight is yet to be announced by the airline operator and the additional flight for Goa had also been introduced. Indigo is already operating the flight connecting Chandigarh-Goa-Bengaluru-Goa, he added.No Dubai flightDubai flight was again missing from the winter schedule as the arrival and departure flight from Chandigarh International Airport has not been announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/late-night-mumbai-flight-brings-cheer-to-tricity-333066
02-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Administration to speed up restoration of heritage buildings in Sector 17||Chandigarh, November 1Aimed at the preservation of the Sector 17 architecture in sync with the heritage of the city, the UT Administration today directed the officials concerned to speed up the restoration work of buildings here.During a review meeting on the restoration of heritage buildings in Sector 17, the officials were directed to divide the work in components to accelerate the restoration of buildings.The Chandigarh Administration has already started the restoration process of private heritage buildings in Sector 17.In phase I of the project, the restoration of facade and corridor flooring of SCOs were to be completed to prevent further damage to the exteriors and to restore the original character of these private buildings.The Administration has also undertaken the restoration of the facade of 30 Bays and 17 Bays buildings, Town Hall, Additional Town Hall and Central Library in Sector 17.After the private building owners had expressed their inability to restore heritage buildings, the Administration had decided to carry out the work on its own.In a survey, out of 500 public or privately owned heritage buildings in Sector 17, only 23.40 per cent were found to be maintaining the original architectural building facade.The project includes facade restoration and uniform flooring in all public corridors to make the buildings in Sector 17C and 17D look alike. Besides, all individual advertisement boards in front of the retail shops will also be removed.Meanwhile, the construction of a 40mx40m city map in front of the Neelam cinema has nearly been completed. It has been carved out in the floor with a stainless steel frame with concrete embedded in it. All sectors and tourists destinations, like Capitol Complex, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden, Leisure Valley and Rose Garden will be reflected on the map with colourful lights.Survey findingsIn a survey, out of 500 public or privately owned heritage buildings in Sector 17, only 23.40 per cent were found to be maintaining the original architectural building facade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-speed-up-restoration-of-heritage-buildings-in-sector-17-333061
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mauli Jagran resident gets 10-year RI in NDPS case||A local court here has sentenced a Mauli Jagran resident to 10 years rigorous imprisonment in an NDPS case.Islam Khan was also fined Rs1 after the court found him guilty under Section 22 of the NDPS Act. Khan was arrested on January 1 last year.As per the prosecution, Khan had been apprehended with 20 injections of buprenorphine (2 ml each) and 20 injections of pheniramine maleate of (10 ml each).When asked about the recovery, Khan had failed to produce any valid permit or licence for stocking the injections.Khan’s counsel, however, claimed that his client had been falsely implicated.After hearing the arguments, Jaibir Singh, Judge, Special Court, Chandigarh, observed that the prosecution had been successful in bringing home the guilt against Khan beyond every shadow of reasonable doubt.The prosecution examined 11 witnesses to prove the charge that the accused was found in conscious possession of 40 injections and was not having any permit, licence or authorisation for possessing the same.Public prosecutor Hukam Singh, while arguing on the quantum of sentence, sought deterrent punishment for the convict in view of the nature of the offence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mauli-jagran-resident-gets-10-year-ri-in-ndps-case-333060
02-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh logs 4% growth in GST collection in October this year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1With economic activities returning to near normal after a sharp decline in fresh Covid-19 cases, the tax collection has also improved in the city. The gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) collected in the UT in October stood at Rs158 crore, 4 per cent higher than the revenue generated in the same month last year.According to the Ministry of Finance, the GST collection in the UT stood at Rs158 crore in October, whereas the city had received a revenue of over Rs152 crore during the same period last year.The GST collection in September stood at Rs152 crore, which was 8 per cent higher than the revenue of Rs141 crore generated during the same month last year.In August, the GST collection stood at Rs144 crore, 4 per cent higher than the revenue of Rs139 crore received during the corresponding period last year.With a gross GST collection of Rs169 crore, the UT Administration had registered a robust growth of 23 per cent in July this year in comparison to the revenue of Rs137 crore generated in July last year. However, the Finance Ministry did not release the state-wise data of the GST collection during January, April, May and June, 2021. In March, the GST collection was Rs165.27 crore, 8 per cent more than the revenue of Rs153.26 crore generated during the same period last year.The GST collection stood at Rs148.5 crore in February, 14 per cent less than the revenue of Rs172.37 crore received during the corresponding period last year.The GST collection stood at Rs158 crore in December 2020, Rs141 crore in November, Rs151.98 crore in October and Rs141.48 crore in September last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-4-growth-in-gst-collection-in-october-this-year-333059
02-11-2021||Mohali||Three Mohali DSPs shifted||Athletics meet on November 7Chandigarh: Chandigarh Athletics Association will organise the Chandigarh North District & South District Athletics Championship at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here on November 7. Athletes residing or studying in Chandigarh will be eligible to participate in the championship. The interested athletes need to register four the competition before November 4. TNSNGO celebrates Diwali with kidsChandigarh: Members of Green Pencil Foundation - an NGO - celebrated pre-Diwali with slum children of Sector 25 to mark the month of festivities in a green and peaceful way. The NGO aims to spread the message of a cracker-free and green Diwali by celebrating the occasion with the ones who cannot afford to spend money on festivities. TNSRally marks Punjab DivasPatiala: The Languages Department, Punjab, along with noted writers and thinkers, held a Punjabi Vikas Yatra on the occasion of Punjab Divas here on Monday. The rally was carried out from the District Administrative Complex to the office of the Languages Department via Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, Khanda chowk, Leela Bhawan and YPS chowk. Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said Punjabi was a rich language, adding that people should love and respect their mother tongue. The rally Karamjit Kaur, Director, Languages Department, along with noted literary personalities took part in the rally. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-mohali-dsps-shifted-333056
02-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC  ELECTIONS: Broken roads, litter trouble residents of Mauli Jagran||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1At the end of his five-year term, several parts of BJP councillor Anil Kumar Dube’s ward number 24, which comprises Mauli Jagran, have broken roads and garbage dumped at different points. Even the “long-debated” booths of the MC at Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, are lying vacant. Of the 112 booths, only five-seven could be auctioned, with some saying that the construction of the complex has been a wastage of taxpayers’ money. Lakhanpal, a local resident and Congress leader, said, “It has been around one year but the roads, which were dug up to lay sewer pipelines, have not been repaired. Waste is lying dumped at many places in the ward and is not being lifted. Street lights are non-functional. Women have a tough time at the local community centre as there is just one toilet, that too common.”Road recarpeting work has been carried out and only part two of Mauli Jagran is left and will be covered soon. Anil Kumar DubeDuring a visit to the area, waste was seen lying at different places. Some streets had kutcha or broken roads. Even parks were not properly maintained.Residents said the councillor had promised to provide ownership rights of houses on lease and to allot booths, but nothing was done.A resident said, “Vikasnagar market booths could not be disposed of in 10 years. Their rent is too high. The authorities are now planning to give these to outsiders. Where will local residents go?”On this, the councillor said, “Road recarpeting work has been carried out and only part two of Mauli Jagran is left and will be covered soon. I am regularly getting the waste cleared. Some residents carrying out renovation work and dump the debris here at night.”“As far as booths are concerned, these could not be disposed of earlier due to high price and leasehold tag. We have passed an agenda in the MC to give these on a monthly rent, but the UT Administration has not given its approval yet.”Anil Kumar Dube Councillor, ward number 24Area: Mauli JagranPromises: To build roads, new sewerage, water pipelines, disposing of boothsResult: Partly keptAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-broken-roads-litter-trouble-residents-of-mauli-jagran-333054
02-11-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Youth held for using phone in HSSC exam||A youth has been arrested for using a phone during the evening shift of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) exam for the post of male constable held on Sunday.The suspect has been identified as Adarsh of Kaithal.A case was filed under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) and 417 (cheating) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.In his complaint, centre superintendent Sukhmeet stated that on Sunday, during the evening shift of the HSSC male constable exam at BN Senior Secondary School in Sector 12, the invigilator in room number 16, Madhur Sharma, caught the candidate using a phone. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-youth-held-for-using-phone-in-hssc-exam-333051
02-11-2021||---||Two lives snuffed out in Mohali road accidents||Mohali, November 1A biker and a cyclist were killed in separate mishaps in the district. Baldev Singh, a 38-year-old man from Mohali, died when his motorcycle was hit by a rashly-driven three-wheeler at Naraingarh Jhungain village on Airport Road.According to the police, the victim, along with his wife Tejinder Kaur, was heading home from Zirakpur around 8:30 pm on Sunday when a three-wheeler hit their bike. Baldev Singh suffered serious injuries in the mishap and was rushed to a private hospital in Zirkapur where he was declared brought dead.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Ajit Singh said a case under Sections 304A, 279 and 427 of the IPC was registered against Lala, the driver of the three-wheeler. He said Lala was arrested and later released on bail.In another accident, a 52-year-old man, Gurpal Singh of Tiwana, died when a rashly-driven car hit his bicycle near PRTC Dhaba late on Sunday night.In his statement to the police, the victim’s son Surjit Singh stated that his father was going to Lalru Mandi from his home when a speeding vehicle hit his bicycle and dragged it for a few yards. He said his father sustained serious injuries and was taken to the Civil Hospital at Dera Bassi where he was declared brought dead.Investigating officer Sulakhan Singh said a case was registered against the car driver, Jarnail Singh of Jodhpur village in Ambala. He was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-lives-snuffed-out-in-mohali-road-accidents-333050
02-11-2021||---||Chandigarh to enforce ban on crackers strictly; review decision: Traders||Chandigarh, November 1The UT Administration will strictly implement the ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city.Ahead of the festival season, the Administration had imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of crackers of any kind in the city to prevent the risk of the spread of Covid-19 due to polluted atmosphere created by bursting of crackers.A senior UT official said the ban would not be diluted and it would be implemented strictly in the city. Any violation of the order would invite penal action under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and other provisions as applicable.After the Supreme Court set aside the order of the Calcutta High Court on a total ban on firecrackers in West Bengal, the Cracker Dealers Association, Chandigarh, today urged the UT Administration to issue a temporary cracker licence for Diwali and Gurpurb this year as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT).In a letter to District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, association president Davinder Kumar Gupta and general secretary Chirag Aggarwal stated that members of the association were selling firecrackers in Chandigarh for the past over two decades, but the Administration had failed to provide any justice to them.Despite specific instructions and guidelines from the NGT and the Supreme Court with regard to the sale of green crackers, the Administration had imposed a complete ban in Chandigarh.They stated that the Supreme Court today set aside an order of the Calcutta High Court on a total ban on firecrackers in West Bengal and even the neighbouring states here had allowed the sale and bursting of crackers as per the orders of NGT and the apex court.“Every member of the association earns his livelihood on the occasion of the Diwali festival and by imposing a complete ban, the Administration is depriving the members of their constitutional right to earn their livelihood,” they stated, adding that due to the complete ban, the members were facing a lot of hardship, mental agony and financial loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-enforce-ban-on-crackers-strictly-review-decision-traders-333049
02-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 3 new cases in Chandigarh||2 test +ve in MohaliMohali: Two new cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours while there was no fresh fatality due to the virus. Four more patients were cured on Monday. A case each was reported from Mohali and Dhakoli. No new case came from Dera Bassi, Boothgarh, Lalru, Kurali, Gharuan, Banur and Kharar. — TNSNo case in P’kulaPanchkula: No new case of Covid was reported from the district on Monday, keeping the overall virus tally unchanged at 30,770. The death toll remained at 378. While 30,381 people have recovered from the disease so far, 11 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-3-new-cases-in-chandigarh-333048
02-11-2021||Mohali||77 new dengue cases in Mohali||As many as 77 fresh cases of dengue surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,260. However, no death due to dengue was reported from across the district.Also read: Free hospitalisation, tests at Tera Hi Tera Mission Hospital, ChandigarhIn Mohali, 2,260 dengue cases have been reported in the past two months with 344 cases and two deaths being reported in September and 2,160 cases and 29 deaths till October 30. A total of 188 samples of suspected dengue patients were collected of which 77 tested positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/77-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-333047
02-11-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI a victim of its own popularity: Prof Jagat Ram||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1From focussing more on research and patents to pressing upon improving healthcare infrastructure in neighbouring states to minimise patient load, former Director of PGI Prof Jagat Ram today listed a slew of measures to help the institute outgrow AIIMS, New Delhi, and emerge as country’s premier healthcare provider.“There are many areas in the PGI that require improvement. To begin with, institute needs to manage the huge rush of patients in medical and surgical emergency,” said Prof Jagat Ram.“There is 300 per cent more patient load at any given time at the PGI. We are victim of our own popularity. People trust the expertise of the institute and we have patients from all quarters - J&K, Himachal, Punjab, Uttarakhand, parts of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan,” he said.“I have found a solution to cater to this problem, which is a long term and an intermediate solution. The short term solution is shifting the screening OPD to the Sarangpur centre,” he said.“We had also planned to shift 500 bedded emergency trauma centre to Sarangpur so that the focus remains on serious medical emergencies,” Prof Jagat Ram added.He, however, said the long-term solution to the problem would be improving the infrastructure in neighbouring states. “The neighbouring states of Chandigarh need to strengthen their area in neurosurgery, tumor cases, cardio surgery and trauma. A majority of patients are referred for these facilities from other states. If the health infrastructure of other states improves, the PGI will not get choked with patients,” he pointed out.Another area that PGI can improve upon is in the field of research and academics. “We should always strive to be No. 1 in the country. To do so, we need to increase the number of patents and innovations,” said the veteran. “We are always occupied with patient care and academics, so much so, that we hardly get time for research. There should be equal distribution of time for patient care, academic teaching and research…”In a message for the incumbent director, Prof Ram said: “A Director should be competent enough to maintain harmony among all the workers. Success of any institute depends on teamwork. Any individual excellence will not work. A Director should handle all the situations without any bias.”Talking about his future, Prof Ram said: “I worked at the PGI for 42 years and I have a habit of waking up early in the morning these days due to jetlag. In days to come, I will decide where to join as I have many offers. I will remain in touch with ophthalmology specialisation and also do some charity work.”Prof Jagat Ram retired from service on October 31.Under his leadership, PGI was consistently ranked as the second-best medical institute of the country after AIIMS, New Delhi.The biggest challenge Prof Ram faced during his tenure was perhaps the management of Covid-19 pandemic. He took the tough call of scaling down the physical OPD services for general patients.The PGI also mentored over 70 labs from all over north India and served as the referral centre for moderate-severe Covid cases from the neighboring states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-a-victim-of-its-own-popularity-prof-jagat-ram-333046
02-11-2021||Naina Mishra||With quality patient care on his mind, Prof Surjit Singh joins as PGI officiating Director||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1Prof Surjit Singh, Head, Department of Paediatrics, PGI, today joined as the officiating Director of the PGI.Also read: PGI a victim of its own popularity: Prof Jagat RamTalking about his future commitments and challenges, Professor Singh said, “The major challenge has always been providing quality patient care and handling the rush at the institute as the patient load is again increasing. We are doing our best to cater to such a large number of patients in OPDs and emergency wards. The footfall has reached 8,000 and gradually the institute is moving towards pre-Covid times when the footfall used to exceed 10,000. Patients have now gained the confidence to physically visit hospitals.”‘3rd wave unlikely’The high sero prevalence in the region suggests that we are protected and this is the reason to believe that there won’t be a third wave. Prof Surjit SinghOn the fear of a third wave, Professor Singh said, “The high sero prevalence in the region suggests that we are protected and this is the reason to believe that there won’t be a third wave. However, taking adequate precaution should be everyone’s priority to prevent any surge.”“The PGI is well-prepared to handle any surge; we are on our guard. We hope that it doesn’t happen because we want to start normal services, including operation theatres,” he said.While a majority of the adult population has received both doses, children still remain unvaccinated. On this, Professor Singh said, “The sero prevalence among children is also very high and hopefully they should be protected. Trials of a vaccine for children are going on at the institute currently. Children will always be our priority to provide patient care.”Regarding a surge in the dengue cases, Professor Singh said, “We are trying our best in the emergency ward, but the patient load is unmanageable. Usually dengue cases settle down during this month and a relief may be expected soon. This year, the surge came late; it will settle down in two weeks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-quality-patient-care-on-his-mind-prof-surjit-singh-joins-as-pgi-officiating-director-333045
02-11-2021||---||Civic body elections on mind, AAP plays free water card in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1Ahead of the MC poll in the city, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today reiterated its promise of providing 20,000 litres of clean and free water per household per month.Addressing a press conference here, Chandigarh in-charge Jarnail Singh said “The city is receiving a supply of 114 MGD of water. According to the BJP, the per-head water consumption is 245 litres, which is high. If we talk about the water consumption in India, it is 135 litres per head. If we assume a consumption of 245 litres per head, the city still has surplus water.”AAP leaders asked the BJP that if the city had more water than what was required, why was the government charging three times the cost and where was the surplus water going from the city? This is a matter of concern and an inquiry should be conducted by the department.Residents were promised 24-hour water supply at low cost, but, the BJP has been unable to deliver on its promises, they added. City AAP convener Prem Garg said, “We will ensure that all ongoing arrangements are reviewed. Even the loan agreement will be reviewed. If there is something that the public has to pay, we will make such an arrangemnet that the MC pays it. This will be made possible by reducing unnecessary expenditures in providing and maintaining the water supply.”Party leaders claimed that Chandigarh, under a membership campaign being run under the name of AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, had added one lakh people to the party in just 25 days.Jarnail Singh said people were fed up with the “false promises and anti-people policies” of the BJP and the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-elections-on-mind-aap-plays-free-water-card-in-chandigarh-333043
02-11-2021||---||Panchkula’s Suyash Arora does a NEET job||Chandigarh, November 1Panchkula boy Suyash Arora has secured all-India rank 5 in NEET. The result was declared today. Suyash got 715 marks out of 720 in the exam.Sharing his success strategy, Arora said, “For NEET preparation, I focused on the NCERT syllabus. Whenever I scored less in my exams, instead of getting frustrated, I used to look at the reasons and work accordingly to improve my performance. I used to study with a daily target. Developing a strategy is important to crack exams such as NEET.”Apart from classroom teaching, he used to focus on self-study for three to four hours. He has qualified the Indian Olympiad and has also qualified the physics/astronomy/biology (IOQP/A/B) and was selected for the OCSC (biology) and AOOC (astronomy). He is also a KVPY and NTSE scholar.Suyash’s mother Renu Arora is a CA based in Panchkula. His inspiration has been his elder sister Mehak Arora, who had bagged AIR 3 in the AIIMS entrance exam in 2018. A resident of Sector 35, Chandigarh, Pavit Singh, has bagged AIR 23 in NEET. Pavit has been a bright student in school and has now done well in this competitive exam too. Pavit’s mother, Dr Brahmyjot Kaur, is a doctor based in Chandigarh. Pavit wants to be a doctor like her mother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkulas-suyash-arora-does-a-neet-job-332996
