03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sacked NHM staff threaten hunger strike||Sacked employees of the National Health Mission have threatened to go on indefinite hunger strike from tomorrow if their demand for a salary hike is not fulfilled.In a letter to UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit, the employees have charted out their demands that include immediate revocation of termination orders for NHM employees executed by the Health Secretary, early release of enhanced salaries of all categories of NHM employees in lieu of approval of extra budgetary provisions of 3.92 crore by the Finance Department without any additional terms and conditions.The UT on Friday terminated the services of 178 contractual employees working under the NHM for holding a strike.Meanwhile, the Administration has withdrawn the condition of extended hours in lieu of salary on a par with DC rates. The Executive Committee decided that the aspect of pay to the NHM staff as per the DC rates needed to be re-examined carefully after getting status from other UTs, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Till then the guidelines issued by the Central Government for service conditions, including pay to the NHM staff, are to be strictly followed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sacked-nhm-staff-threaten-hunger-strike-333465
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fire safety preparations for Diwali||Fire safety and emergency service wing of the MC has been divided into seven fire zones for the deployment of fire safety vehicles on Wednesday and Thursday.“A large number of vehicles will be plying on roads during the festival of Diwali and a huge number of people will be visiting market places. The people will put candles and earthen lamps (diyas) for lighting during Diwali, due to which the likelihood of a fire incident will be high. Hence, the measures are proposed to be taken to ensure that firefighting vehicles and fire personnel reach the venue within the shortest response time and the risk of loss and damage to life and property respectively is minimised in case of fire,” said an official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-safety-preparations-for-diwali-333466
03-11-2021||---||Woman teacher gets 10-year jail for sexually abusing 14-year-old student||Chandigarh, November 2A local court has awarded 10-years jail term to a woman teacher for sexually abusing a 14-years-old boy who was taking tuition from her. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs10, 000 on the convict.The police arrested the woman teacher in 2018 on a complaint filed by the boy’s parents. A case under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered.As per the prosecution the boy, a Class X student, and his younger sister started taking tuition from the woman in September 2017. The matter to came to the knowledge of the parents when the grades of the victim were dropped and they checked the mobile of the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-teacher-gets-10-year-jail-for-sexually-abusing-14-year-old-student-333467
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Food Corporation of India manager granted bail||A Special Judge, CBI Court, has granted bail to Gagan Negi, a manager of the Food Corporation of India (FCI), arrested in a case registered under the Prevention of the Corruption Act.The CBI had registered a case against Gagan Singh Negi and Ravinder Singh, alias Bunty, on the basis of source information that Ravinder had been obtaining undue business from the FCI by manipulating the process of procurement and e-auction of food grain and Gagan Negi was showing favour to him in the illegal act.Siddharth Pandit, counsel for the accused, said the accused was arrested on August 14, 2021, and has been in custody since then. The challan has also been filed in the case.The court allowed the bail application by saying that the conclusion of trial would take some time to conclude and at this stage, the investigation having been completed, there is less likelihood of the accused tampering with the evidence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-corporation-of-india-manager-granted-bail-333468
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gears up to tackle bird flu||The Department of Animal Husbandry has geared up to prevent any type of ingression of avian influenza (bird flu) in the UT.Dr Kanwajit Bhangoo, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, UT, said four rapid response teams had been made to handle any eventuality. The department had started physical and sera surveillance of all kind of birds, including commercial, poultry, backyard poultry and migratory birds.The migratory birds have started arriving in the city and usually stay here till February. Migratory birds play a huge role in transmission of avian influenza. The department has activated its surveillance at Sukhna Lake where these birds arrive during winters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gears-up-to-tackle-bird-flu-333572
03-11-2021||---||Plaza Zone, Leisure Zone triumph||Chandigarh, November 2A sensible knock by tailender Manraj helped Plaza Zone win a thriller against Terrace Zone in an U-16 Multi-Day Cricket Tournament match here today.Resuming at overnight 8/1, in reply to Terrace Zone’s 271 all out, Plaza Zone were struggling at 231/9 before Manraj scored a dogged 43 to take the total to 279.Manraj smashed eight fours and one six during his stay at the crease. Karman Paul contributed 48 runs to the chase, while Aksh Rana scored 42 runs.Girish Khatri of Plaza Zone was named man of the match for his six-wicket effort.At Government Mode Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, Leisure Zone overcame Rose Zone on the second and final day of their two-day match.Anurag Chauhan (95) and Balraj Singh (88) scored a half-century each to steer Leisure Zone to 289/4 on Day 2.Earlier, Rose Zone had declared their innings closed at 287/9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plaza-zone-leisure-zone-triumph-333571
03-11-2021||---||237 slum dwellers in Mohali district get  proprietary rights||Dera Bassi, November 2Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia granted sanad of five marla plot to each of the 34 landless beneficiaries of Sarsini village and 11 beneficiaries of other villages.Under the state government’s slum development scheme – Basera – five marla land will be granted to landless and homeless to build their houses.Kalia said the main beneficiary under the scheme were poor people who don’t have any type of land or house in their name or any family member’s name.The Deputy Commissioner said the gram panchyat officials were given the responsibility to identify the correct beneficiary under the scheme.Earlier, 237 slum dwellers in Lalru got the proprietary rights under the slum development scheme.A survey is underway in various parts of the city to identify more eligible families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/237-slum-dwellers-in-mohali-district-get-proprietary-rights-333570
03-11-2021||---||5-yr-old girl among 3 hurt in car crash in New Chandigarh||Mohali, November 2Three members of a family, including a five-year-old girl, were injured in a head-on collision between two cars near the Omaxe housing complex in New Chandigarh on Tuesday. A woman, her child another family member were injured when two cars collided on a single lane road. The driver of the other car, too, suffered injuries and was rushed to the nearby hospital.Ritesh Sehgal, a businessman, said, “Accidents happen frequently on this road as it is single lane. One side of the road is permanently blocked. Heavy vehicles also take this road. It has been nine years but the developers have failed to complete the road. In winter, dense fog makes things worse.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-yr-old-girl-among-3-hurt-in-car-crash-in-new-chandigarh-333569
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit takes up issues pending with Centre||UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit took up the issues of the Chandigarh Administration lying pending with various ministries during a meeting today.Niti Aayog members Prof Ramesh Chand, adviser Kundan Kumar and deputy adviser Dr Biswanath Bishnoi attended the meeting alongside UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Purohit highlighted that Chandigarh had achieved most of the goals set by the Niti Aayog in the third edition of the Sustainable Development Goals India Index 2020-21. However, there are certain issues that need attention at the Centre level, he said.The issue of setting up of ‘Chandigarh Innovation Circle’ was also raised during the meeting. The project aims to serve as a platform for collaborations between higher education, R&D institutions, industries, investors, startups and government agencies, which can lead to innovation driven growth and employment.Enhancing monthly pension from Rs1,000 to Rs2,000 (old age pension, widow pension and pension to disabled persons with less than 70 per cent disability) and Rs2,000 to Rs2,500 for those with above 70 per cent disability was also tabled in the meeting.Formation of 14 more Atal Tinkering Labs in schools and release of subsidy for installation of rooftop solar power projects were also discussed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-takes-up-issues-pending-with-centre-333568
03-11-2021||---||Panjab University ranks  301-350 in QS Asia Rankings||Chandigarh, November 2Panjab University has been placed in the 301-350 bracket in the QS Asia Rankings 2022, released today.The National University of Singapore topped the list, while Tsinghua University and Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, have been placed second and third, respectively.As many as 18 Indian institutes are among the top 200 institutes in Asia, with the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay leading at 42nd place.Chandigarh University has become the youngest university of Asia to make it to QS Asia University Rankings. It placed in the 271-280 band and features among the top 1.7 per cent universities across Asia.Chandigarh University has also been ranked seventh among the private universities of India in the QS Asia Rankings and fifth in north India.Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) is an independent and prestigious global ranking organisation for educational institutions. The rankings were declared during an online function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-ranks-301-350-in-qs-asia-rankings-333567
03-11-2021||---||Follow your dreams, Pargat Singh tells students||Mohali, November 2The youth should dedicate themselves to achieve their life goals with hard work, determination and devotion, as sky is the limit for them given their unbounded energy, said Education Minister Pargat Singh while interacting with teachers and students of government schools through EDUSAT.Every child has talent, but the need is to spot and hone it and the situation warrants career counseling to students from the primary level, said the minister.Going down the memory lane, the minister recalled his school days and credited his teachers for shaping him into what he was today.Pargat remember his school headmaster Mukhtiyar Singh, math teacher Basant Singh, physical education teacher Daljit Singh, Hindi teacher Sita Sharma and drawing teacher Gian Chand. Nobody can match the stature a teacher enjoys in society, he said.The minister also exhorted people to desist from bursting crackers and celebrate ‘Green Diwali’.He also said students should place equal importance on studies and sports, besides having balanced diet. By doing this, they can enjoy much healthier life, he said.Emphasising the importance of mother tongue, Pargat said: “Today, countries like China and Japan have progressed by adopting their mother tongue. What a child can learn in his/her mother tongue, cannot be learned in any other language.”“Knowledge of every subject must be translated into Punjabi and digitized,” he added.Remembering his initial days as a hockey player, Pargat said at the age of 18 he travelled from New Delhi to Jalandhar during night to fetch his passport for his first tour and then ran 7 km to Mithapur from Jalandhar in the afternoon.He said hockey taught him the all important aspect of team spirit. “I strongly believe in team spirit at every platform in life,” he said.Secretary, Education, Ajoy Sharma said the main motive of education was the overall development of students.Surprise checkHigher Education and Languages Minister Pargat Singh on Tuesday conducted a surprise check at the DPI (Colleges) Headquarters at Sikhya Bhawan in Mohali. Pargat Singh visited the branches of the head office to access the functioning of various divisions. He also checked the attendance of staff and asked the employees to be punctual. He also visited the NCC branch. The minister said he had got feedback from general public regarding inordinate delay in their work by some employees and warned the staff that such behaviour would not be tolerated. He said services should be provided to people within the stipulated time period. People should not face any sort of inconvenience. Transparency and clean administration should be ensured, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/follow-your-dreams-pargat-singh-tells-students-333566
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rail scam: Nine apply for bail, PMLA Court issues notices to ED||A PMLA Court here has issued notices to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on the anticipatory bail applications filed by nine accused in a money laundering case related to the seven-year-old alleged rail scam. Jagjit Singh, Special judge, asked the ED to file its reply on November 9.Mahesh Kumar, Narayan Rao Manjunath, Sandeep Goyal, Vijay Singla, Rahul Yadav, Sameer Sandhir, Sushil Daga, CV Venugopal and MV Murali Krishna filed the anticipatory bail applications through advocate Siddharth Pandit.Finding a prima facie case against all the accused for commission of the offence under Section 3 punishable under Section 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, the PMLA court had issued summons to accused for November 18.Earlier, Assistant Director, ED, had filed the complaint against the accused persons.The CBI had registered an FIR in the case on May 3, 2013 on the basis of source information against Mahesh Kumar, then Member (Staff), Railway Board, New Delhi, and seven other private persons.The court in its summoning order stated that the source information revealed that Mahesh Kumar being a public servant was in regular contact with a private person Narayan Rao Manjunath, Managing Director of M/s GG Tronics India Pvt Ltd, and was trying to get himself appointed as Member (Electrical), Railway Board.Manjunath and Mahesh Kumar were further in contact with other accused, who allegedly demanded an illegal gratification for the task.After investigation, the CBI had filed a chargesheet in the case on July 2, 2013 under Section 120B of the IPC read with Sections 7, 8 and 12 of the PC Act, 1988 before the Special Judge, CBI, against 11 persons.Being a matter of scheduled offence of money laundering, a case was recorded by the Directorate of Enforcement, Chandigarh Zonal Office and matter was taken up for investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rail-scam-nine-apply-for-bail-pmla-court-issues-notices-to-ed-333565
03-11-2021||---||Panchkula councillors likely to get Rs 5K hike in monthly perks||Panchkula, November 2The allowances for the councillors in the Panchkula Municipal Corporation are likely to be increased from Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per month.The increase in allowances is a part of the 21-point agenda to be presented in the MC House meeting on November 12.The civic body has also proposed to allow 10 fruit and vegetable vendors in a Sector, including three-wheelers and four-wheelers.The MC has also proposed to develop group housing societies in Kot Billa and Jaswantgarh and the sites would be preferably given to corporation employees and councillors.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said they had also decided to charge Rs10,000 as rent from Vita booths, which have been allotted the site on MC land.He also said the e-bike project should be started at the earliest in the MC area so that the residents can enjoy the e-bike facility.Goyal also highlighted the lack of parking facility in the main markets of the city. To tackle the problem, multi-level parking will be constructed in every Sector even if small parks on the corners of the Sectors are to be abolished, he said.To increase the revenue of the corporation, tender for advertisement in the MC area would also be started soon, he added.Goyal said the MC fee on Kisan Mandi organised in different Sectors will also be increased from Rs30-50 per phari to Rs100 per phari.He said the corporation had also decided to set up gaushala on the six-eight acre land of Bharat Mata Mandir in Kot village to rid the city of stray cattle menace.Agenda for MC house meeting||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-councillors-likely-to-get-rs-5k-hike-in-monthly-perks-333564
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board online transactions||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has received Rs16.18 crore through 17,326 online transactions since January 2020.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the board had introduced the facility of online payment for all kinds of dues in October 2019 and now the allottees were not required to visit the office and could pay their dues online by visiting the website of the CHB, www.chbonline.in.During October this year, an amount of Rs70.65 lakh was collected through 895 online transactions, he said, adding that Rs16.18 crore had been received through 17,326 online transactions between January 2020 and October 2021.To encourage online payments, the CHB had decided to give a monthly reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions every month. A computerised draw to decide 10 winners for the month of October was held today. “Among the winners, three allottees deposited Rs366, Rs472 and Rs960, respectively but each of them have got the prize of Rs1,000,” stated the CEO.The 10 winners include four allottees of small flats, two allottees of affordable rental housing and four allottees of residential units. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-online-transactions-333563
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Lalit Kala Akademi slips, celebrates Chandigarh’s foundation day on the day it became a UT||History probably repeats itself only to teach us lessons we refuse to learn and this one is about Chandigarh’s Foundation Day.Much recently, Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi sent out invites for a 14-day photography exhibition, titled ‘Chandigarh - Down the Memory Lane’, to celebrate the city’s foundation day from November 1 to 14 at the Sector 17 underpass.I think we need to sit and agree on the dates as to when there is UT day and inaugural day. That’s caused the confusion. I will tell the Chief Architect of UT to do something about it. Dharam Pal, UT AdviserHowever, after a thorough digging, with some help from The Tribune archives, relevant books, and a chat with architects, intellectuals, and activists of the city, this correspondent arrived at the brink of establishing plain facts: Chandigarh’s foundation stone was never laid by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. On November 1, 1966, it was declared a Union Territory. It was formally inaugurated on October 7, 1953.The book, “Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret - The Indian Architecture”, by Sarbjit Bahga and Surinder Bahga states: “The construction of the Capital Project started in 1951, and the city was inaugurated by Dr Rajendra Prasad, the first President of India, on October 7, 1953. Political exigencies in 1966 led to the further division of Punjab and the new state of Haryana was carved out of it. At present, as an interim arrangement, Chandigarh continues to function as the capital of both states”.On April 5, 2002, The Tribune published an investigative report headlined ‘Inventing an Event’ after a paper reported that the foundation stone of Chandigarh was laid by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on April 2, 1952, and that the UT Administration had forgotten to ‘celebrate the golden jubilee of the city’. The Tribune report quoted MN Sharma, a former Chief Architect of Chandigarh, and a close associate of Le Corbusier, the French architect who planned the city, saying, “I have been associated with various activities, functions, and ceremonies with regard to Chandigarh right from the beginning and I do not recall Pandit Nehru ever laying the foundation stone of Chandigarh...”The report also mentions that a memorial was built to commemorate Nehru’s visit. “The cube was designed by me and it is still there for all to see,” Sharma told The Tribune. On the side of the cube is inscribed: “This monument was dedicated to the memory of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on November 14, 1989, in his birth centenary year.”Activist RK Garg, president of Second Innings Association, has now written to the UT authorities about the goof-up while citing the dates mentioned on the UT website. He asked: “Is the administration trying to rewrite the history of Chandigarh or they have not verified the facts available with them before greeting the people on November 1, saying it a Foundation Day of Chandigarh? How come Chandigarh was founded on November 1, 1966, when it was formed a UT only and how come after 70 years of its existence all are greeting on its 55th day of being UT as its birthday?”“Chandigarh was declared a Union Territory on 1st November 1966. It was just a political arrangement, and thus November 1 cannot be treated as Foundation Day of Chandigarh by any stretch of the imagination. Because of the above, either the date on which the construction of Chandigarh started in 1951 or the date of the inauguration on 7th October 1953 should be celebrated as the Foundation Day of Chandigarh,” said architect and author Sarbjit Bahga.Shilpa Das, practising architect and convener of discussion - Process of Chandigarh, said, “The reorganisation of Punjab made Chandigarh a UT that was a temporary measure. Non-resolution of the vital issue with states led to this stalemate where the UT is the biggest loser, as its urban form was permanently impacted and it couldn’t develop and grow as was intended. Presently, all infrastructure-related issues of the UT, especially traffic can only be resolved in coordination with Punjab and Haryana. So November 1, 1966, is actually a reminder of the beginning of a huge crisis for the city, that has kept its destiny on hold.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lalit-kala-akademi-slips-celebrates-chandigarhs-foundation-day-on-the-day-it-became-a-ut-333562
03-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Graft Case: CBI files chargesheet against Chandigarh Police woman SI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2The CBI has filed a chargesheet before the CBI court against a woman Sub-Inspector of Chandigarh Police, Sarabjit Kaur, who was arrested while allegedly taking bribe on September 17.The CBI registered the FIR against the accused on a complaint of a person who alleged that the former had demanded and accepted the bribe money from him for not putting his name in a case registered at the Sector 36 police station.Senior Public Prosecutor for the CBI PK Dogra has filed the chargesheet against the accused in the court. Sarabjit Kaur has been booked by the CBI under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The CBI Court had rejected her bail application earlier.As per the chargesheet, Sarabjit was assigned the task of investigating a complaint filed by a woman who had levelled allegation against her husband. An FIR was registered in this connection under the POCSO Act. The daughter of the woman had also recorded her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC before a local magistrate.The girl had disclosed names of some other persons in her statements. It has been alleged that Sarabjit started calling other people to join the investigation. She allegedly demanded bribe from one of them in lieu of not taking legal action against him. She reportedly asked for Rs10,000 from one of the persons, who complained to the CBI.The CBI laid a trap and caught the accused while allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/graft-case-cbi-files-chargesheet-against-chandigarh-police-woman-si-333561
03-11-2021||---||Mohali roads illuminated||Mohali, November 2In a unique initiative, the road from Phase 7 to Phase 3-5 lights was illuminated.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu today inaugurated the work to install colourful lights on the central verge for beautification of Mohali city at the Phase 3-5 lights. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present.This road has been illuminated by the VRS group and the responsibility of its beautification lies with this builder company.The Mayor said the central verges and triangles had been allotted to various companies for beautification of roads and adjacent triangles of traffic lights in the entire city. The MC would not have to spend any money on this complete beautification and these companies would be permitted to put up advertisements of a fixed size at these places besides awareness boards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-roads-illuminated-333560
03-11-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC House gives nod to city bus service||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 2The Municipal Corporation (MC) House today passed a resolution for starting a local bus service in the city and the areas falling under the municipal limits. Besides, the House also passed a resolution for installing 100 cameras in busy markets where the footfall of women is more.During a meeting of the House today, Opposition councillors raised objections on some issues but on the whole, all agenda items were passed either unanimously or with a majority.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu chaired the meeting. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and MC Commissioner Kamal Garg were among those present. The Mayor said by passing the resolution to start the city bus service, the MC gave a Diwali gift to Mohali residents.Opposing the resolution on introducing CNG buses in the city, councillor Sukhdev Patwari said these buses should be procured and operated by the MC itself instead of the build-own-operate (BOO) basis as it would only increase privatisation and benefit private companies.The Mayor replied that it was a resolution of the Mohali MC to serve the poor in the city. He said one of the buses would depart for the PGI at 7 am, which would help patients reach the hospital in time so that they could get their cards made. Similarly, there would be an evening route, which would bring the passengers back from the PGI. He said the fare of these buses would not exceed Rs10.Former Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi alleged that MC employees were taking bribe from rehri owners. On this, MC Commissioner Kamal Garg said the allegations were serious and would be investigated.On a resolution regarding extension of the sanitation contract, the Mayor said due to an issue in recruitment of sanitation employees by the corporation, the work of the old contractor had been extended for three months. On the issue of non-issuance of experience certificates by the contractor to the sanitation employees, Kamal Garg said strict instructions had been issued to the contractor to issue experience certificates to these workers.The MC House also empowered the Commissioner to set up an appellate authority to deal with issues pertaining to street vendors.Another resolution regarding supply of paddy briquettes to the crematorium under the Mohali MC was passed unanimously.Special bus service for PGIOne of the buses would depart for the PGI at 7 am, which would help patients reach the hospital in time so that they could get their cards made. Similarly, there would be an evening route, which would bring the passengers back from the PGI. He said the fare of these buses would not exceed Rs10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-house-gives-nod-to-city-bus-service-333559
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Snatchers target two in Chandigarh||Mohali logs one Dengue deathMohali: One more person succumbed to suspected dengue in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 32. Meanwhile, 75 fresh cases of dengue surfaced. In Mohali, 2,783 positive cases have been reported in the past two months. A total of 168 samples of suspected dengue patients had been collected of which 75 tested positive. TNS11 fresh dengue cases in P’kulaPanchkula: Eleven cases of dengue were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 606. No fresh fatality due to the vector-borne disease was reported from the district. TNSWorld Ayurveda Day celebratedChandigarh: World Ayurveda Day was celebrated at the Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences here on Tuesday. ‘Ayurveda for poshan’ was the theme of the event this year. On the occasion, a session was organised to sensitise the medical institute faculty to streamline the Indian systems of medicine with the modern allopathic system. With this aim, Bal Krishan Sharma Kaushik, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Ravidas Ayurved University, Hoshiarpur, and Sanjeev Goyal, Registrar, Board of Ayurveda, Punjab, interacted with the faculty of the institute. TNSVolunteers visit special childrenChandigarh: Volunteers of The Himalayan Foundation Chandigarh – an NGO – visited underprivileged and special children ahead of Diwali and distributed gifts and sweets among them. The event began with the lighting of lamp. Dance and nukkad natak was also performed on the occasion. TNSCity cyclists win bronze medalsChandigarh: The Chandigarh cycling team won two bronze medals in the four-day 18th Mountain Bike Championship at Alandi, Pune. Jai Dogra won the bronze in the boys' sub-junior competition, while Arman Dua finished third in the youth boys’ contest. Maharashtra won the gold, while Ladakh finished with the silver medal in the youth boys’ competition. Karnataka won the gold in the sub-junior category. TNSFreshers’ party for newcomersChandigarh: GGDSD College on Tuesday organised a freshers’ party to welcome the 2020-21 batch of students. The purpose of the party was to introduce the newcomers to the congenial atmosphere of the college and to boost their confidence. The ceremony began with a speech by Principal Rama Arora. Folk dances of Punjab and Haryana were special attraction of the event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-target-two-in-chandigarh-333469
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: One tests +ve in Chandigarh||2 more found infected in P’kula, no deathPanchkula: Two fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 30,772. No new death was reported. Of the 30,772 positive cases reported so far, 30,381 patients have been cured. There are now 13 active cases. The death toll stands at 378. — TNSOnly one Covid case surfaces in Mohali Mohali: Only one Covid case surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case count to 68,824. No fresh death was reported, while four patients recovered from the virus. The only Covid case came from Mohali. Of the 68,824 positive cases reported so far, 67,734 patients have been cured. There are now 22 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,068. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-tests-ve-in-chandigarh-333473
03-11-2021||Chandigarh||3 Chandigarh MC officials suspended for misconduct||MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra today suspended three MC officials on a charge of “misconduct on duty” over “wrongly issued” coupons to vendors for the Sector 17 Plaza. She also chargesheeted the Officer on Special Duty (OSD)-II for lack of supervision, being the officer in-charge.Mitra suspended Sudesh Kumar, senior assistant, posted in the parking branch, for gross misconduct on his part by not performing his specific duty of issuance of coupons to shopkeepers of Sector 17 only. Yogesh Kumar, clerk, and Simranjeet Singh, peon in the office of the Executive Engineer, Roads Division No. 3, have also been suspended for gross misconduct on their part by performing unauthorised duty and wrongly issuing coupons to vendors, which were supposed to be issued to shopkeepers of Sector 17 only.The MC chief also chargesheeted Surinder Sharma, accounts officer, looking after the charge of the OSD-II, MC, for lack of supervision, being the officer incharge for issuance of coupons for setting up temporary stalls for Diwali. The wrongly issued slips were withdrawn and the enforcement wing removed all unauthorised vendors from Sector 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-chandigarh-mc-officials-suspended-for-misconduct-333470
03-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC  ELECTIONS: Major promise met, but issues remain in Jagga’s ward||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh,November 2Though BJP councillor from ward number 25 Jagtar Singh Jagga was able to fulfil his major promise of getting a railway underbridge built, road recarpeting and sanitation issues could not be fixed during his five-year tenure. A local resident said road recarpeting work was not carried out at Modern Housing Complex while near duplex houses, it was left midway. Lack of cleanliness and garbage and malba dumps are among other issues bothering local residents.Due to rain, recarpeting was stopped, but the work will commence soon. As far as malba is concerned, the MC has now decided that it will go to the C&D waste plant. — Jagtar Singh Jagga, BJP Councillor “Road recarpeting work started late in our area. Worse, it was left half done as the contractor left in between. We got to know there was some payment issue. No regular cleaning of roads is done by the sanitation staff of the MC. When we take up the matter with the authorities, they blame it on shortage of staff,” said KL Aggarwal, president, Modern Housing Complex (Duplex) Residents Welfare Association, Mani Majra.“Garbage and debris dumped in different parts of the area are a nuisance. Debris can be seen dumped on the road from Shani Mandir to Durga Nursery and near the gate of duplex houses. Garbage is strewn near a garbage box on the rear side of the BSNL building,” he said.Col Gursewak Singh (retd), president of the RWA, Modern Housing Complex, said, “We have 30-year-old worn-out water pipelines which haven’t been replaced. We get dirty drinking water supply. Besides, roads are in bad shape and recarpeting is due, but the work hasn’t been started. Sanitation is an issue in the entire ward. After my request, a few sanitation workers were increased, but the sanitation hasn’t improved.” He said, “It is a big relief that the underbridge has come up, but there is no drainage system. Whenever it rains, waterlogging is witnessed under the bridge. It leads to cases of dengue.”Councillor Jagtar Singh Jagga said, “Due to rain, recarpeting was stopped, but the work will commence soon. For other areas, where recarpeting has not begun, the tendering process is over and the job will be done soon. For sanitation, we are increasing the staff. As far as malba is concerned, the MC has now decided that it will go to the C&D waste plant.”On underbridge, the former Deputy Mayor said, “It provided great relief from a major traffic bottleneck in my ward. Besides, it provided additional connectivity to Chandigarh and Panchkula for Mani Majra residents. Teething problems of waterlogging have been taken up with the Railways under whose jurisdiction it falls.”Jagtar Singh Jagga Councillor from ward 25Area: Old Mani Majra (NAC), Shanti Nagar, Mariwala Town, Thakur Dwara, Chandigarh Housing Complex) and Mohalla GovindpuraMajor promise: Getting railway underbridge builtResult: FulfilledAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-major-promise-met-but-issues-remain-in-jaggas-ward-333471
03-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh: Vehicle sale in top gear on Dhanteras||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2Notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, Dhanteras brought joy to automobile dealers as they reported a 20 per cent increase in sales as compared to last year.Mohit Pratap Singh, a dealer of Tata Motors and Renault, said nearly 20 per cent jump in the sale of vehicles was witnessed. They received an overwhelming response as the demand was higher than the supply, he said, adding that there was a short supply of vehicles due to shortage of semiconductor chips, which were used in vehicles. The shortage of semiconductor chips had impacted manufacturing of vehicles this year and this shortage could continue till January next year, he added.With a sharp rise in the prices of petrol and diesel, he said the demand for CNG-fitted vehicles had also increased this time. Due to a short supply of vehicles, many buyers had decided to wait to get CNG-fitted vehicles as the travel cost was quite cheaper in comparison to fossil fuel. He, however, said due to high cost and lack of infrastructure on highways, people were reluctant to buy electric vehicles despite low running cost.Karan Gilhotra, a dealer of Honda two-wheelers, said the response this Dhanteras was robust in comparison to previous years.In retail sale of passenger vehicles, the dealers received a more-than-expected response. “On this auspicious day, we have delivered more than 40 vehicles, said Parveen Singh, general manager, Harbir Automobiles, a dealer of Mahindra.“The demand has surpassed the supply,” he said, adding that they would have to wait for the full supply of vehicles as the manufacturing of vehicles had to be scaled down due to shortage of semiconductor chips, which were imported.He, however, said there was no impact of Covid-19 on the sale of vehicles, but the shortage of semiconductor chips had affected the supply as manufactures were unable to meet the demand for passenger vehicles.Gold glittersThe sale of gold saw an unprecedented increase this Dhanteras. Anil Talwar of Talwar Jewellers said the response was more than expected as the marriage season was going to start soon. With the opening of air travel from Canada and European countries, a large of NRIs had arrived in India for marriage functions and they were buying jewellery in a big way. Another jeweller said they saw nearly 120 per cent jump in the sale of gold this time in comparison to the previous year and it appeared that the pre-Covid era had returned this festival season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-vehicle-sale-in-top-gear-on-dhanteras-333474
03-11-2021||---||Panchkula furniture factory fire leaves 3 dead||Panchkula, November 2Three persons, including two women, died of suffocation and severe burn injuries when a fire broke out at a furniture factory, Westwood, in the Industrial Area, Phase II, here this afternoon.The deceased have been identified as Avdesh Kumar (21), a resident of Mauli Jagran, Sonali Devi (30), who, along with her family, was living in a factory in Panchkula, and Mamta, a native of Nepal.At least 10 fire engines were pressed into service. It took firemen about three hours to control the blaze. A short circuit was stated to be the cause of the fire.The fire broke out around 1.30 pm on the second floor of the factory located at plot number 268. It then spread to the first floor destroying furniture and other items worth Rs30 lakh. Both Avdesh Kumar and Sonali Devi died on the factory premises.Avdesh’s brother Krishan Pal said a large number of furniture items and other goods were kept on the second floor of the factory, leaving little space for movement. He said Avdesh and Sonali, who were on the second floor, could not run away to save their lives and became unconscious due to dense smoke. They suffered burn injuries, leading to their death on the spot. He said Avdesh had got married nearly four months ago.Sonali’s husband Satyanarayan said with her death, there would be no one to look after their two children, Neha and Mahesh, as he had to go for work at a factory. After receiving information about the incident, senior officials of the police reached the site. Panchkula ACP Vijay Kumar Nehra, DSP Sardara Singh, the SHO of the Sector 20 police station and Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa also reached there.Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, Panchkula Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and councillor Harender Malik too reached the spot and sought information about the reason of the incident. Offering condolences to the victims’ families, Gupta assured that every possible help would be provided to them. He also instructed the district fire officer, Tarsem, to confirm whether there was a hydrant in the Industrial Area and was it functional or not. He said a proposal be sent to him to set up a hydrant in the area in case it was not available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-furniture-factory-fire-leaves-3-dead-333475
03-11-2021||---||Boost to start-ups: Union Minister opens two technical facilities at Mohali||Mohali, November 2An advanced 650 teraflops supercomputing facility has been established at the National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI) here, which was inaugurated by the Union Minister of State for Science and Technology, Dr Jitendra Singh, today.Speaking on the occasion, he said the Central Government would identify and promote 75 innovative start-ups in the 75th year of India’s independence and this new supercomputing facility will act as a facilitator for these start-ups working in areas such as telemedicine, digital health, BIG data, artificial intelligence and block chain technologies.The minister, who also holds charge for earth sciences; prime minister’s office, personnel, public grievances, pensions, atomic energy and space, further said the 75 best chosen start-ups would be an asset for India to lead the country in the next 25 years, during the celebrations of Centenary of India’s Independence.About NABI, he said the facility had come up under the National Supercomputing Mission (NSM) in collaboration with C-DAC, Pune. This high-end facility will be a boon for the analysis of BIG data accruing from the large-scale genomics, functional genomics, structural genomics and population studies being carried out at various institutes and universities of national and international repute.Established with an approximate cost of Rs20 crore, Dr Jitendra said the 650 teraflops supercomputing facility would cater to the needs of the interdisciplinary cutting-edge research being carried out at the institute related to agricultural and nutritional biotechnology and would be open to collaborative work for the scientists working in other institutes and universities as well as for projects sanctioned under NSM.He also launched two digital working platforms, NABI-Labify and e-Office at NABI under the Digital India Initiative. NABI Labify is a unique software that facilitates live tracking of funds, which are sanctioned for purchase of equipment, consumable, manpower, extramural projects, etc.In another event, Dr Jitendra Singh inaugurated the i-RISE Technology Business Incubator (TBI) at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali, which will provide world-class research facilities for start-ups in the country. He said with the formation of the TBI, Mohali would join the league of other start-up hubs in the country like Bengaluru and Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boost-to-start-ups-union-minister-opens-two-technical-facilities-at-mohali-333472
