04-11-2021||---||Uttarakhand beat Chandigarh by 103 runs in Women’sSr One-day Trophy||Chandigarh, November 3City girls suffered the third consecutive defeat in the Women’s Senior One-day Trophy, which was played in Pune. The city team faced a 103-run defeat against Uttarakhand. Chasing the target of 232 runs, Chandigarh collapsed at the score of 128.Earlier, Uttrakhand piled up a decent total of 231/6 with the help of AN Tomar (124) and Sarika Koli (58 ). Rajni Devi took two wickets while Nandini Sharma and Priyanka Guleria shared one wicket each for the bowling sideIn reply, Chandigarh bundled out for 128 runs in 47 overs wherein Shivani Thakur, who made 33 runs, was the top scorer. Chandigarh will now play its fourth match against Tamil Nadu on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uttarakhand-beat-chandigarh-by-103-runs-in-womenssr-one-day-trophy-333903
04-11-2021||---||PGGCG-42 NSS wing organises anti-cracker campaign||Chandigarh, November 3Under the umbrella of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, the NSS wing of the PGGCG-42 and Srishti, the environment society of the college organised an anti-cracker campaign to spread awareness on “Green Diwali Swatch Diwali”.Various activities like poster making, slogan writing, poem recitation, rally and pledge ceremony were conducted in lieu of keeping the mother Earth green and pollution free as Diwali approaches.Principal Nisha Aggarwal addressed the gathering on eco-friendly Diwali celebration and said be blessed with smiles and not pollution on Diwali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pggcg-42-nss-wing-organises-anti-cracker-campaign-333904
04-11-2021||---||Amrit Dhankar, Diya Chaudhary win titles in U-14 tennis tourney||Chandigarh, November 3Top seed Amrit Dhankar faced a tough resistence before defeating seventh seeded Chandigarh’s Parmarth Kaushik to win boys’ U-14 final on the concluding day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament.Dhankar logged a 3-6/6-3/ 6-1 win in the title clash. In the girls’ U-14 final, Diya Chaudhary defeated Rhosyn William 6-2/6-2 to claim the title. Dr Reet Mahinder Sindh, member, executive committee, and Y Romen Singh, chief coach, CLTA, awarded the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amrit-dhankar-diya-chaudhary-win-titles-in-u-14-tennis-tourney-333905
04-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Police recover 163 stolen mobiles, give them back to owners in Fatehgarh Sahib||The district police recovered 163 stolen mobiles, worth Rs 25 lakh, and handed over to their respective owners during a function at the Police Lines today. One of the owners came from Saharanpur to get back his Apple iPhone lost during his Mandi Gobindgarh visit six months ago. The overjoyed owner of the mobile phone said he never expected that his phone would be recovered and the police would make a call that he should come here to get it. He really appreciated the district police for the efforts.Sandeep Goel, SSP, while interacting with mediapersons termed it as a Diwali gift from the police side to those who had not only lost their cell phones but also the hope to get back. He said during the review of crime, he noticed that hundreds of FIRs relating to lost mobiles were registered. The SSP said he deputed a cybercrime team of the district police specifically to make efforts to recover the lost and stolen mobiles. He said the cyber team succeeded in recovering 163 mobiles worth Rs 25 lakh. He said after verification of the documents the mobile phones were returned to the owners.Meanwhile, in another function, Deputy Commissioner Poonamdeep and SSP Sandeep Goel distributed refrigerators, microwaves, water dispensers, mosquito killers and other equipment and stationery, purchased from welfare fund, among in- charges of police stations and chowkison the occasion of Diwali.SP (H) Rajpal Singh, SP (D) Vijay Alam and SP Navreet Singh Virk also addressed employees present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-recover-163-stolen-mobiles-give-them-back-to-owners-in-fatehgarh-sahib-333906
04-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||RERA files another criminal complaint against developer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Punjab, has filed another criminal complaint against Gupta Builders and Promoters Private limited (GBP) before a Chandigarh court. This time the criminal complaint has been filed in a case related with the City Central Project, situated at Kishanpur and Dhakoli villages at Zirakpur. In the complaint filed through advocate Siddharth Pandit, RERA Punjab alleged that the builder had violated the RERA Act in the project.As per the complaint the RERA imposed a penalty of Rs75 lakh on the builder on May 6, 2019, for launching the project without its approval.But, the builder has paid only two installments of Rs5 lakh each and then defaulted. The builder failed to comply with the orders and was liable to be punished under Section 59(2), RERA Act.The criminal complaint has been filed under Section 80 to summon company directors, including company Satish Kumar Gupta, Pradeep Kumar Gupta and Raman Kumar Gupta, in order to prosecute them under Sections 59(1) and 59 (2) for non compliance of orders/directions issued by RERA Punjab under Section 59(1), RERA Act.Siddharth Pandit told the court, “Section 3 of the Act makes it mandatory for promoters’ to prior register the real estate project with Real Estate Regulatory Authority.”“The Act imposes a bar upon promoters to advertise, market, book, sell or offer for sale, or invite persons to purchase in any manner any plot, apartment or building without registration,” added Pandit.When it came to the notice of the authority that the builder was violating provision of RERA a penalty was imposed as per the Act, said Pandit. “The violation of the RERA order invites imprisonment for a term, which may extend up to three years or with fine, which may extend up to a further 10 per cent of the estimated cost of the real estate project, or with both,” added Pandit.Pandit prayed to the court that in view of this, directors may be summoned, prosecuted and punished in accordance with provisions u/s Section 80 read with Sections 59(1), 59(2) for violation of Section 3, Real Estate (Regulations and Development) Act, 2016. The group is already in the thick of controversy after its directors allegedly left projects midway and investors were filing cases every day in courts and before the police.Court has issued notices to directors for February 09, 2022, for filing reply. Earlier, RERA had filed a criminal complaint for launching residential projects in New Chandigarh Smart City/GBP Smart City at Togan village in Mohali without necessary RERA approval. In that case also RERA imposed a penalty of Rs1.50 crore on the builder. Later, the builder paid only Rs40 lakh. Till date, the builder had not deposited the remaining amount and violated RERA Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rera-files-another-criminal-complaint-against-developer-333907
04-11-2021||---||Illegal cracker stalls come up in Mohali||Mohali, November 3The Mohali Municipal Corporation officials today visited the Dashera ground near Phase 7 and found several unauthorised cracker stalls there.Vendors were seen doing brisk business throughout the day with buyers from Mohali, Chandigarh and nearby areas thronging stalls.Officials of the civic body said only 14 vendors had been given license to sell crackers. There were more than 14 stalls at the allocated space, officials added. Sources said some of the vendors were without license but managed to put up a stall, courtesy influential people.The administration allotted 40 temporary licences for the sale of firecrackers throughout the district. The bursting of crackers is allowed in Mohali between 8 pm and 10 pm on Diwali.The state government has announced a two-hour time to light green firecrackers on the occasion of Diwali and Gurpurb in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-cracker-stalls-come-up-in-mohali-333908
04-11-2021||---||Panjab University wins MAKA Trophy||Chandigarh, November 3Panjab University will be receiving Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy for the third consecutive year. The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports announced the National Sports Awards 2021 on November 2. President Ram Nath Kovind will give away awards at a special function to be organised at the Darbar Hall of Rashtrapati Bhavan on November 13.It is a matter of great honour for Panjab University for winning MAKA Trophy for the 16th time and making a hat-trick twice. Dr Prashant Gautam, Director (Sports)Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University (PU), lauded the commendable achievement of the university sportspersons, coaches and officials of the Directorate of Sports for bringing laurels in sports.Dr Prashant Gautam, Director (Sports), informed, “It is a matter of great honour for the Panjab University for winning MAKA Trophy for the 16th time and making a hat trick twice.” He appreciated the hardwork of coaches and players.Dr Neena Seth Pajni, president, Panjab University Sports Committee and Principal, Govindgarh College, Khanna, along with Dr Prashant Gautam, Director (Sports), and Dr Rakesh Malik, Deputy Director (Sports), visited the office of Prof Raj Kumar for congratulating him on getting the MAKA Trophy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-wins-maka-trophy-333909
04-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC  ELECTIONS: In Chanderwati’s ward, stray cattle rule the roost||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3BJP councillor from ward number 12 Chanderwati Shukla has failed to solve the huge problem of stray cattle menace and pending road recarpeting work during her five-year term.Residents said there was a huge problem of cattle roaming on roads in Sector 52, especially the stretch from the Sector 52/61 light point towards the old tin house site.Some people have made huts in an open area in Sector 52 and are rearing cattle. It is the UT Administration’s land and I’ve taken up the issue with it several times. Road work at some places is pending due to Covid and funds crunch. Chanderwati ShuklaThey said despite numerous complaints of road accidents due to stray cattle, nothing has been done to curb the menace. Though cattle rearing is banned in the city, people are rearing cattle with impunity in the open ground in Sector 52.“There have been a few road accidents due to cattle roaming on roads. Neither the authorities nor the councillor have done anything in this regard. No concrete efforts have been made to ensure that cattle do not come on roads. People have been rearing cattle in open land in Sector 52. Despite the issue having been highlighted, no action has been taken,” said Narender Singh, a member of LIG Houses Residents Welfare Association, Sector 52.“Besides, garbage is collected and thrown around a waste box as it is always full and overflowing.The strewn garbage is leading to breeding of mosquitoes and flies. It also presents a dirty picture as cattle and dogs eat there and roam on the roads, causing road accidents and dog bite cases,” said a resident.Rajesh Chauhan, a resident of the Sector 52 colony, lamented, “Road work has not been done in the colony. At some places where recarpeting was done, due to poor quality, the road has started to break. During the five years, the work could not be completed. Of late, they have started the work with elections on mind.”In Kajheri, Pardeep, a local resident, said, “Due to mushrooming of hotels, all sorts of illegal activities are going on and there is no one to check it.”A Sector 52 resident said though a dispensary had been opened, there was no staff. A resident of Sector 43 said nothing had been done about dark spots.Area councillor Shukla said, “Some people have made huts in an open area in Sector 52 and are rearing cattle. It is the UT Administration’s land and I’ve taken up the issue with it several times. Waste is dumped near the waste box by collectors from Mohali. We have told the Medical Officer of Health several times to fix the issue.”“Road work at some places is pending due to Covid and fund crunch; it will be completed soon, “ she added.Chanderwati Shukla Councillor from Ward number 12Area: Sector 43, 52, EWS, LIG Colony, 61 and KajheriMajor promise: Improving civic issuesResult: Partly doneAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-in-chanderwatis-ward-stray-cattle-rule-the-roost-333910
04-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Another festival of lights here, dark spots yet to be lit in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3Another Diwali is here, but the work of lighting the dark spots could not be completed in the city. It has been nearly five years that MC officials have been claiming that it will be done ahead of Diwali.Darkness in some parks and roads discourages people from going for a walk after evening hours. Residents said there was a rise in petty thefts and dark parks also provided a safe haven to those indulging in anti-social activities and consume drugs.Baljinder Singh Bittu, Chairman, FOSWAC, an umbrella body of RWAs, lamented, “For the past few years, we have been hearing that dark spots will be lit by Diwali. However, it has not happened yet. It is shocking that the MC has taken nearly five years to complete the project.”An MC official said, “We had received fittings which were not of the right size. Thus, we have got these replaced. The work will be completed soon.”Of the total 8,500 dark spots, 6,000 are in gardens and 2,500 on roads. The MC had got streetlight poles erected through a private company more than two years ago. While fittings have been installed at some places, the work is still pending at others.The MC had earlier failed to hire any agency to carry out the work of putting up electricity poles. The civic body had initially asked Energy Efficient Services Ltd, a public sector undertaking, to float a tender and hire a company for the purpose, but it could not find any takers for the project despite floating tenders several times.Then, the MC took over the job and floated two tenders and finalised two companies for fittings. A survey to identify the dark spots was conducted in 2017.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “We have received all fittings now and the work will be completed in a month.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-festival-of-lights-here-dark-spots-yet-to-be-lit-in-chandigarh-333911
04-11-2021||---||Day after tragedy at factory, Panchkula Fire Department fails to ascertain cause||Panchkula, November 3The Panchkula Fire Department has so far struggled to ascertain the cause of the massive fire at a furniture factory in the Industrial Area, Phase II, which left three workers dead yesterday.Saying that the cause was still “unknown”, District Fire Officer Tarsem today stated their investigation into the incident was underway. He added that the factory had flaws in fire safety measures and “appropriate action” would be taken as per norms.Meanwhile, the factory owner, Arjun Kakkar, refuted the claim and blamed the fire department for the death of his factory workers.Speaking to Chandigarh Tribune over the phone, Kakkar said, “There were shortcomings in firefighting operation at my factory. Not just that they responded late, the fire personnel lacked skills to deal with fire incidents. If they had acted actively and timely, precious lives could have been saved.”Meanwhile, the fourth worker, who sustained severe burn injuries and was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, has been shifted to the PGI in Chandigarh in view of his critical condition.At least seven fire tenders were pressed into action to control the massive fire that erupted at Westwood Industries on Tuesday afternoon. The firefighting operation, which lasted for seven hours, saw involvement of over 35 firemen.Diwali: Leave of fire staff cancelled, duty extendedTerming the next few days “crucial” in view of possibility of mishaps during Diwali, Fire Officer Tarsem said the firemen would be on their toes up to ensure quick response to any exigency. He said they had cancelled leave of firemen till further notice and directed them to work on a 12-hour shift instead of the usual eight-hour duty to ensure the maximum presence of staff for any possible fire mishaps.DC orders probe into incidentCM announces compensation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-tragedy-at-factory-panchkula-fire-department-fails-to-ascertain-cause-333912
04-11-2021||---||Two arrested with 7-kg opium, pistol||Mohali, November 3The CIA, Mohali, arrested two persons with 7 kg of opium, a country-made pistol, and a white taxi in Kharar.The suspects have been identified as Jasveer Singh, a resident of Durali village, who works as a labourer, and Ashu Hans, a resident of Ram Darbar, Chandigarh, a taxi driver. The duo has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Arms Act at the Sadar Kharar police station.The police said the duo used to supply intoxicants to their customers in Mohali, Kharar and Ropar areas.The suspects were being interrogated to find out the main suspects and arrest them to break the supply chain, the police said. The duo would be produced in a court and their police remand sought, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-with-7-kg-opium-pistol-333913
04-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Electric buses to hit Chandigarh roads on November 13||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3The wait to ride eco-friendly public transport will end soon, as the first lot of electric buses will hit the city roads on November 13.UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit will flag off a fleet of six electric buses.In order to reduce air and noise pollution and dependence on fossil fuels, the UT Administration has decided to replace diesel buses with electric vehicles.In September last year, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme. The UT had floated tenders for procurement of 40 buses in the first phase.Three companies had submitted bids to run 40 electric buses. However, the lowest bidder, Ashok Leyland, was awarded the contract to run the environment-friendly buses for a period of 10 years on the basis of km scheme. The fare collection will be done by the Transport Authority, UT.On August 11, former UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore flagged off the first electric bus —proto-bus — from the Raj Bhavan to run on a trial basis for nearly 20 days. Initially, during the trial, the bus operated on the PGI-Mani Majra route via Madhya Marg.After a one-month trial run of the first electric bus, the UT Transport Department had asked the manufacturing company to make some technical changes in the bus. The company had assured to make a modification and supplied the remaining buses with the changes suggested by the department.The arrival of the buses got delayed as 19 buses were to be received by September 30 and remaining 20 by October.The official said the first batch of six electric vehicles would arrive by November 6, another six by November 11, three by November 15, five by November 15 and the remaining buses by December 15.Meanwhile, the process for procurement of another 40 electric buses has been started.An official said after getting approval from the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, the UT Administration has decided to invite bids for the second batch of 40 electric buses by the end of this month.After being charged, the bus will be able to cover a distance of nearly 130 km and it will take nearly two to two and a half hours to fully charge the bus. The procurement of the buses will give a major boost to the plan of the UT to replace its entire fleet of 358 diesel buses of the CTU with electric buses by 2027-28.Features in eco-friendly vehicles||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/electric-buses-to-hit-chandigarh-roads-on-november-13-333914
04-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh likely to reduce VAT on petrol, diesel by Rs 7||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3After the Central Government reduced the excise duty on petrol by Rs 5 and on diesel by Rs 10, city consumers are likely to get further relief, as the UT Administration is likely to reduce the state VAT on petrol and diesel by Rs 7.Diesel was sold at Rs98.16 per litre and petrol at Rs105.94 per litre in the city today. The petrol price had breached the Rs100 mark in the city on October 10. However, fuel prices in Chandigarh are still a notch below than the prices in the neighbouring states.‘Some Respite for common man’The decision taken by the Centre and likely reduction in the VAT will definitely provide some respite to the common man who has been hit hard by high prices of petrol and diesel. Maninder Singh, Sector 13 residentOn the eve of Diwali, the Centre has announced a reduction in the excise duty charged on petrol and diesel and the new prices will be effective from November 4. The Centre also urged the state governments and union territories to commensurately reduce the VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to the consumers.A senior UT official said the Administration was also planning to reduce the state VAT on fossil fuel by Rs7 and the order in this regard would be issued soon.In May last year, the UT Administration had increased the VAT on fuel by 5 per cent.Maninder Singh, a resident of Sector 13, said the decision taken by the Central Government and likely reduction in the VAT by the UT Administration would definitely provide some respite to the common man who has been hit hard by high prices of petrol and diesel, as inflation was at all-time high.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-likely-to-reduce-vat-on-petrol-diesel-by-rs-7-333915
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: One case in Chandigarh||One in P’kula tooPanchkula: The district saw one fresh case on Wednesday, taking the tally to 30,773. The toll remained at 378. While 30,382 people have recovered from the disease so far, 13 cases are still active. TNS1 death in mohaliMohali: One person died while two new cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. One person recovered from the virus. There are now 22 active cases in the district. With one fresh death, the toll has reached 1,069. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-case-in-chandigarh-333916
04-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Finally, dengue cases begin to decline in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3Dengue cases in the city have been on the decline for the past three days. The city witnessed 29 cases of dengue today.In the past three days, 93 cases have surfaced in the city. As many as 117 cases were recorded in the last three days of October.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, said, “The cases of dengue have started decreasing in the past three days. Even in emergency wards, we see less rush of patients reporting for dengue fever. As the temperature will fall, the breeding of mosquitoes will also decrease. Relief is expected in the next 10 days.”In 2017, 1,951 cases of dengue were recorded while the number dipped to 301 cases in 2018 followed by 286 in 2019 and 265 last year. This year, the UT has seen 982 cases so far.A total of 9,339 notices and 466 challans have been issued to occupants of houses where larvae were found breeding. Around 335 show-cause notices have also been issued to private and government institutions.Due to delayed rain, cases had cropped up in October.70 new cases in MohaliMohali: The district on Wednesday reported 70 new cases of dengue, taking the tally to 2,853. In the past three days, 222 cases have been confirmed. Last month, 2,260 cases were reported. As many as 32 suspected deaths due to the vector-borne disease have been reported this year. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-dengue-cases-begin-to-decline-in-chandigarh-333917
04-11-2021||---||Panchkula bans crackers, residents say too late||Panchkula, November 3The Panchkula District Magistrate today prohibited the sale and use of firecrackers across the district, permitting only green crackers during Diwali.District Magistrate Vinay Pratap Singh also constituted area-wise checking teams of officers to conduct raids and checking in their respective areas.“These officers will keep a strict vigil in their respective areas and will take action against the sale and use of firecrackers,” he said.The notice read, “Air pollution not only has adverse effects on the health of people but also causes serious damage to the environment. The health of children, the elderly and those suffering from respiratory disease/heart disease is particularly affected.”He said the officials would keep a strict vigil in their respective areas and ensure implementation of these orders regarding use of only green crackers.Along with this, the officers concerned have been directed to ensure action under the provisions of the Explosives Act, 1884, the CrPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as Section 188 of the IPC, 1860, for violation of these orders.Earlier on Sunday, the Haryana Government had imposed a ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 districts in the National Capital Region while restrictions were imposed in other parts.The districts where the ban has been imposed included Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendragarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonepat.The cities and towns in which air quality was in the “moderate” or below categories, only green crackers would be sold, the order had said, adding that the bursting of crackers during Diwali and other festivals would be allowed only from 8 pm to 10 pm.Most people have already bought crackersIf residents are to be believed, the order banning the firecrackers in the district has come too late.“Most households in my locality have already purchased firecrackers. It should have been issued earlier, not a day before Diwali,” said Samit, a resident of Sector 12-A.“The real question is how the administration would ensure its implementation. Such orders are issued always, but its impact is not seen on the ground,” said a resident of Sector 7, who did not wish to be named.Health Dept on alertThe Civil Surgeon, Panchkula, Dr Mukta Kumar, said adequate provisions had been made at the Civil Hospital and other medical facilities across the district to meet any eventuality during Diwali.She said specialists and consultants would remain on duty round the clock and at least four dedicated ambulances had been deputed to attend to emergencies during the festival.She further urged the citizens to celebrate a safe and cracker-free Diwali and follow the Covid guidelines to contain the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-bans-crackers-residents-say-too-late-333918
04-11-2021||Chandigarh||Man held in arms case||Bike stolen from Sec 63Chandigarh: Miscreants stole a motorcycle of a Sector 63 resident, Manpreet Singh, from the parking lot of his residence on November 2. A case has been registered. TNSTwo hit-and-run cases, 4 injuredChandigarh: Four persons were injured in two hit-and-run cases in the city. An unknown car driver hit three persons, including two cyclists, near Bitta petrol pump. The complainant, Harilal of Zirakpur, reported that a driver of an unknown car sped away after hitting him and two other cyclists, Vijay Kumar and Shiv Murat, both residents of Mauli Jagran. A case was registered at the Mani Majra police station. All the injured were admitted to the GMSH-16. In another case, Ram Darbar resident Ram Niwas, astride his bike, was hit by an unknown motorcyclist at Ram Darbar, Phase 1, on October 31. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. Ram Niwas got hurt and was admitted to the GMCH-32. TNSCricket trials on November 6, 7Mohali: The Mohali Cricket Association will organise trials to select U-16 team on November 6 at C Ground (9.30am). The selected team will participate in the Inter District Tournament. Likewise the trials for selecting U-19 team will be held on at the C-Ground in Mohali on November 7 at 9:30 am. The team would take part in the Inter District Tournament. Players born, residing and studying continuously for the one year prior to the year of the tournament in Mohali district are eligible for the trials. It’s mandatory for the players to carry documents, including digital birth certificate (Mandatory) passport or voter ID any one of the two. TNSLogo for youth fest releasedChandigarh: Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, released a logo for the Panjab University Youth and Heritage Festival on the theme “Love and respect the nature” to be organised by the Department of Youth Welfare in different zones of the university during this session. TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University has declared results of BCom LLB (Hons five year integrated course) fourth semester and BA LLB (Hons five year integrated course) fourth semester examinations. TNSAdmission date extendedChandigarh: Panjab University has extended the last date of admission in UG/PG courses of all affiliated/constituent colleges for the 2021-22 session upto November 10 with permission of the Vice-Chancellor and late fee of Rs3,000, which is to be deposited online, offline, NEFT and RTGS in Panjab University SBI Account No.10444978333 on or before November 10. The competent authority has also extended the last date to submit students’ registration returns, along with complete documents, in original, of all its affiliated/constituent colleges for the 2021-22 session from November 2 to 15. TNSHouse allotment: PUTA writes to VCChandigarh: The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has written to Panjab University Vice-Chancellor condemning alleged delay in allotment of flats for teachers in G-type, F-type, T-1 and T-1 categories in violation of Syndicate decision and to disadvantage of deserving applicants. “At a meeting, PUTA executive has taken note of the manner in which the Vice-Chancellor has manipulated finalisation of the seniority list of teachers for the G-type, F-type, T-1 and T-1 category flats, which has been cleared by the DUI, chairperson, house allotment committee, by keeping the file pending for a long time despite umpteen requests made by PUTA president and secretary in person,” the letter stated. TNSGreen Diwali celebratedPatiala: Students of Government Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, celebrated green Diwali here on Wednesday. Students pledged not to burst crackers and instead plant trees. They were also apprised about harmful effects of stubble burning. As most students have agricultural background, they promised to share information with their families and convince them not to burn stubble. Principal SK Nirmal Goyal, ANO Satvir Singh and NCC cadet Jotsroop Kaur addressed students on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-in-arms-case-334006
