06-11-2021||Chandigarh||State badminton championship from November 17||Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) will organise state championships for boys and girls from November 17-21. The championship will be held in U-13, U-15, U-17 and senior categories at the Sector 38 Sports Complex here. The interested players need to register their entries before November 10.The CBA, on the basis of players’ performance in the tournament, will select city teams for the forthcoming north zone and national championships.The championship will be conducted following all Covid protocols and guidelines.The CBA has also decided to telecast matches live at http://videoflakes.tv, said CBA vice-president Col Raj Parmar.During the championship, participants will be allowed to enter the playing premises only 30 minutes prior to the match.Players will have to leave the arena soon after completing their matches. Also, no parent/friend or relative will be allowed inside the arena. Only one coach will be allowed inside the complex, informed Surinder Mahajan, general secretary, CBA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/state-badminton-championship-from-november-17-334386
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Chandigarh girls’ poor run continues, lose to Tamil Nadu by 6 wickets||City girls’ losing streak continues in the Women’s Seniors ODI tournament being played in Pune as the side lost by six wickets against Tamil Nadu in their fourth fixture.Batting first, Chandigarh women made 187 runs for the loss of eight wickets in 50 overs, with Palak Rana hitting 41. Rajni Devi and Shivangi scored 28 runs each.KN Ramsayari was the most successful bowler for Tamil Nadu, claiming 3/33 in her 10 overs.Needing to score 3.76 runs per over for victory, Tamil Nadu rode on an unbeaten century by MD Thirushkamini (102) to reach home in the 39th over. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-chandigarh-girls-poor-run-continues-lose-to-tamil-nadu-by-6-wickets-334387
06-11-2021||---||Shaumik guides Sukhna Zone to 279 on Day 1||Chandigarh, November 5A half-century each by Shaumik (73) and Yuvraj Singh (63) helped Sukhna Zone pile up 279 runs against Leisure Zone on Day 1 of their U-16 Multi Day Cricket Tournament match for the inaugural Balramji Das Tandon Memorial Trophy, here today.Electing to bat at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, Sukhna Zone batters put up a decent show to close the day on 279.Apart from Shaumik and Yuvraj, Harshul (43) and Suraj Kumar (39) made useful contributions to the total.Vardan Sharma, Hrithik Sandhu, Ishaan Gaba and Ujjwal Saini took two wickets each for Leisure Zone.At Sector 16 Stadium, Rock Zone were batting on 70/2 after bowling out Terrace Zone for 189 runs in 64 overs.Nikhil was unbeaten on 57 at the close of opening day’s play.Earlier, Amar Bahadur, Gursimar, Vivek and Aditya took two wickets each to restrict Terrace Zone to a below par total.Mridul Chawla (54) and Ashutosh Gautam (47) were the main contributors for Terrace Zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shaumik-guides-sukhna-zone-to-279-on-day-1-334388
06-11-2021||---||Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 trophy: Chandigarh boys go down to Delhi||Chandigarh, November 5City boys suffered a seven-wicket loss against Delhi in their second match of the ongoing Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy today.This is Chandigarh’s second successive defeat in the tournament. The side had lost to Uttar Pradesh by 22 runs in their campaign opener yesterday.Playing at Chaudhary Bansi Lal Cricket Stadium in Lahli, near Rohtak, Delhi won the toss and decided to field first.Openers captain Manan Vohra and Sarul Kanwar gave Chandigarh a decent start by scoring 79 runs in 12 overs.Delhi got its first breakthrough in the form of Manan Vohra (42), while Shivam Bhambri (5) fell in the 14th over.Kanwar (50), Ankit Kaushik (12) and Kunal Mahajan (8) then went away in quick succession as Chandigarh slumped to 117 for five.Jaskarandeep Singh then played a 19-run cameo to steer Chandigarh to 144 for eight in 20 overs.In reply, Delhi had a poor start as Jaskarandeep sent back in form Priyansh Arya for just seven runs.Anuj Rawat and Himmat Singh though stabilised Delhi innings with a 39-run partnership for the second wicket.Gurinder Singh dismissed Himmat Singh (21) in the 10th over to reduce Delhi to 61 for two, while Parmesh sent back Rawat (44) three overs later to give some hope to Chandigarh. However, Nitish Rana (50 not out) and Lalit Yadav (23 not out) ensured a smooth sail for Delhi as the side reached home in the 18th over with seven wickets to spare.Chandigarh will play Hyderabad tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/syed-mushtaq-ali-t20-trophy-chandigarh-boys-go-down-to-delhi-334389
06-11-2021||---||Panjab University youth and heritage festival||Chandigarh, November 5The 62nd Inter-Zonal Youth and Heritage Festival of Panjab University will be held at AS College, Khanna, from December 13-18.Students who had excelled in 12 zones of nearly 200 colleges affiliated to PU will participate in the six-day festival.Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar today released the logo of the festival.The Vice-Chancellor said the youth festival would bring in positivity among the youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-youth-and-heritage-festival-334390
06-11-2021||---||Mohali Utsav Mela: A day out for special children||Mohali, November 5Mohali Utsav Mela remains a centre of attraction for the visitors.It has been more than 10 days since the fair started in front of the PUDA Bhawan in Phase 8, but there is no dearth in enthusiasm among the audience.Special children, who visited the fair today, had a field day as they enjoyed various swings and fun games at the venue.“Our real Diwali is today. Very few people understand that we also have our desires, we also like fun,” said Rajiv, a special child.The children enjoyed the whole evening in presence of Pooja Ghai and Sheetal Negi. Various types of swings and fun games are available in the fair.Apart from camel ride, dance stage, attraction centre, round hammock and arrangement of pool for children, we have also placed a food stall in the fair, said Deepak Tiwari, one of the organisers.The fair will continue till November 21, with more attractions for children below three years of age, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-utsav-mela-a-day-out-for-special-children-334391
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Accused woman suffering from delusion disorder, says report||Haryana woman, who was arrested by the Chandigarh Police while forcing her entry into the official residence of Haryana Chief Secretary in Sector 7 here in June, has been diagnosed with “delusional disorder”.Additional Sessions Judge Jaibir Singh had ordered to conduct the mental calibre test of the woman and his male accomplice after they showed unusual behavior during the hearing last month.When confronted, the woman said she did nothing wrong by entering the house and asserted she would visit the house of Chief Secretary Vijay Vardhan again “as a wife cannot be stopped from entering the house of her husband”.She also demanded that her matter should be referred to the CBI. The woman questioned the court that how a Haryana Police constable could lodge a complaint with the UT police against her.After observing the conduct of the accused, the court ordered the jail authorities to conduct a mental capability test, saying that they were talking in a manner in which a prudent person cannot and should not talk.The FIR was registered against the duo on the complaint of a policeman deputed at the Chief Secretary’s residence, for the offences committed under Sections 379 A, 353, 452, 34 IPC of the IPC.The incident took place on June 1, 2021.After the order, a committee of doctors at the GMCH-32, conducted a medical test on the accused and submitted the report to the court through the Superintendent of Model Jail, Chandigarh.The doctors also had a tough time conducting the medical tests of the woman as she initially denied them permission for any such tests. However, the tests were conducted after the court’s direction.As per the report, the accused woman has been tentatively diagnosed with persistent delusional disorder.In respect of the male accused, it is mentioned in the report that he had traits of narcissism, repressed aggression and disturbance by acute stimuli and strong tensions.The committee also informed the court that treatment of the accused woman had been started and it would apprise the court about the progress of her mental status in next two weeks.About her male accomplice, it was mentioned that for confirmation of a psychiatric illness he would require detailed evaluation and observation.After examining the reports, the court fixed the next date of hearing for November 11.The police said the woman had made two attempts to enter the house. In one of the attempts, she tried to enter the house without intimating the security guards, who stopped her. Subsequently, she tried to enter the house after scaling the boundary wall. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-woman-suffering-from-delusion-disorder-says-report-334392
06-11-2021||---||No major fire incident reported in Chandigarh on Diwali||Chandigarh, November 5No major fire incident was reported in the city on Diwali.According to fire safety department, about 13 minor fire incidents were reported but there was no untoward incident.Short circuit, locked house, fire due to lighting of lamps and gas leakage were among the causes of fire, they said.In two cases, the reason of fire was not known.Damage to air conditioner and some toys was reported from one house. At other places, no such loss was reported.The MC had made seven different fire safety zones in the city for two days – Diwali eve and Diwali. “Since crackers were banned, there was lesser risk of fire incidents,” said a fire official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-major-fire-incident-reported-in-chandigarh-on-diwali-334393
06-11-2021||Mohali||Mohali: LoP Harpal Singh Cheema meets protesting teachers||Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly and Aam Aadmi Party leader Harpal Singh Cheema today visited the overhead water tank near the Sohana gurdwara and spoke to 646 unemployed PTI teachers who had been holding a protest there for the past 23 days.Cheema contacted Sippy Sharma, who was atop the overhead water tank, on her mobile phone and asked about her welfare. Sippy, along with four others, has been atop the water tank for the past 22 days and observing fast unto death for the past 17 days.The AAP leader assured the protesters that he would take up their demand for jobs with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Education Minister Pargat Singh.Gurlabh Singh, aka Bhola, president of the 646 Unemployed PTI Teachers’ Union, said five of the protesting teachers climbed atop the 26-ft high water tank and sat on a hunger strike. He said for the past two months, they had been receiving assurances from the administration as well as ministers but nothing was done to fulfill their demand.Bhola claimed that Pargat Singh, when he was just an MLA, had promised to provide them regular jobs and also told them that if he became a minister, he would get it done at the earliest. He said after becoming the minister, Pargat Singh forgot the promise.The union leader said they had already submitted a memorandum with regards to their demand to the state government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-lop-harpal-singh-cheema-meets-protesting-teachers-334394
06-11-2021||---||Fire breaks out at Panchkula gift shop||Panchkula, November 5A fire broke out at a gift shop in Sector 11 here today destroying goods worth around Rs35 lakh.The incident took place at Raghav Gift Gallery. A short circuit is suspected to be the cause of the fire. No casualty was reported in the incident.Goods, majorly plastic products, were burnt, said fire officials, quoting the owner’s statement.District reports eight incidentsAs many as eight fire calls were received from across the district from Thursday evening till 5 pm on Friday. Tarsem, District Fire OfficerAs many as eight fire engines from Sector 5, Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 20, Kalka and Barwala were pressed into service. It took firefighters at least two hours to douse the flames.District Fire Officer Tarsem said they had received a call about the fire around 11:35 pm following which they rushed fire-fighting vehicles to the spot.He said it took our 30 firemen two hours to extinguish the fire, adding that highly inflammable plastic products led to fast spreading of the blaze.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta visited the shop and announced Rs5 lakh from his discretionary fund to compensate the loss caused to the owner.Terming the incident “unfortunate”, Gupta urged traders to register themselves under the Traders Welfare Board constituted by the state government under which insurance benefits up to Rs25 lakh are provided on the basis of the trader’s turnover to compensate for the loss of their stock caused by fire, theft, flood and earthquake.On Tuesday, a major fire at a furniture factory in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, had left three persons, including two women, dead. Subsequently, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced a compensation of Rs2 lakh each to the family members of those who died in the incident and Rs50,000 to the injured. As directed by Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, the report on the incident is expected in two weeks.Short-circuit suspected cause||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-panchkula-gift-shop-334395
06-11-2021||---||15 suffer minor burns in Mohali district||Mohali, November 5On the Diwali night, as many as 15 persons, including three children, with minor burn injuries were admitted to government hospitals in the district.The spokesperson of the Health Department said 15 cases of burn injuries were reported from the district and seven of these had suffered injuries in their eyes.Two of the cases were reported from Zirakpur.Out of the three children injured due to firecrackers, two had had their hands burnt. The children were aged two, four and six.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur visited the District Hospital on Thursday night and monitored the emergency arrangements.She said, “This year, no major case of burn injuries was reported from Panchkula district. All patients had minor injuries and were discharged after the treatment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-suffer-minor-burns-in-mohali-district-334396
06-11-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula air quality turns poor on Diwali night||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 5The usual ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ Air Quality Index (AQI) in the city entered the ‘poor’ category on the Diwali night as people burst crackers in a blatant disregard to the Deputy Magistrate’s Wednesday order prohibiting sale and use of firecrackers. Only bursting of green crackers was allowed for two hours (8 pm to 10 pm).Although the district administration had constituted inspection teams, it failed to keep a check on violators.Meanwhile, the police took no action against offenders. No FIR was registered in connection with defying of the DM’s order.No response from helpline numbers led to people venting out their frustration on their social media profiles.Saurav, a Twitter user, tweeted, “The 8-10 pm window to burst only green crackers is long over, still crackers are bursting non-stop. Authorities need to find more effective ways to implement bans. Police not responsive to calls despite repeated attempts.”Another social media user shared, “Law is a joke in this country, so is the basic right to be able to breathe.”All police personnel on duty across the city had been directed to ensure action under the provisions of the Explosives Act, 1884, the CrPC and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as Section 188 of the IPC, 1860, for violation of the cracker ban order.The PRO of the Deputy Commissioner of Police confirmed that the police filed no case under any of these sections on Wednesday.SK Nayar, president, Citizens’ Welfare Association, said, “There was no adequate police presence to keep a check on violators. The ban order was a mere announcement as it was not implemented at all. Elderly citizens, including me, weren’t able to sleep as sound of bursting of crackers went on until 1 am. Ultimately, I wasn’t able to go out for a morning walk unlike normal days.”Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta claimed that the use of crackers came down significantly in comparison to last year.16 cases of burnsA total of 16 burn incidents took place in the district on Diwali. Besides, five cases each of assault and road accidents also reported. A 29-year-old from Dharampur in Himachal Pradesh had reported with severe burns and was referred to the PGI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-air-quality-turns-poor-on-diwali-night-334397
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 test +ve for Covid in Chandigarh||No fresh case in Mohali distMohali: After a gap of 20 days, no new case of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours. No fresh fatality was reported till Friday evening while one patient got the better of the disease. Meanwhile, a total of 220 persons were vaccinated at various hospitals in the district on Friday and 49 of them got their first jab while 171 received their second dose. — TNSOnly one case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded just one new case of coronavirus on Friday, taking the overall tally to 30,774. The toll, however, remained at 379. While 30,387 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, eight cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-test-ve-for-covid-in-chandigarh-334398
06-11-2021||Mohali||Mohali: Dengue stings 99 more||BMW gutted due to snagZirakpur: A luxury car was gutted in the Urban Estate, Zirakpur, on Thursday. The police said a BMW car caught fire due to a technical fault. However, no one was injured in the incident. Onkar Singh Brar, SHO of the Zirakpur police station, said no untoward incident, including fire and quarrel, was reported from Zirakpur on Diwali night. TNS3 fire mishaps in Dera BassiDera Bassi: Three incidents of fire were reported from Dera Bassi. In one of the incidents, a cardboard godown in Bhagat Singh Nagar suffered damages. Goods worth lakhs were reduced to ashes in the fire accidents. The police said nobody was injured in any of these incidents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dengue-stings-99-more-334399
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University professor’s wife found murdered on campus||A 59-year-old woman was reportedly found murdered at her house on the Panjab University (PU) campus here on Diwali morning.The deceased has been identified as Seema Goyal, wife of Bharat Bhushan Goyal, a professor in the University Business School, PU. It was Bharat Bhushan’s second marriage.On getting information, the police reached the house and found her hands and legs tied with a cloth. There was an injury mark on the back of her head, said sources.A case was registered against unknown persons under Section 302 of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station.Sources said the mobile phone and some cash of the deceased were missing since the incident. However, her gold chain was intact.The police said a call was received by the Police Control Room that a woman was lying unconscious on the PU campus with her hands and legs tied. She was shifted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 where doctors declared her brought dead.The police recorded the statement of the victim’s husband.Bharat Bhushan stated that the victim, a housewife, was sleeping in a bedroom on the ground floor while he was at the first floor of the house. Around 7:31am on Thursday, he received a call on his mobile phone from the milkman who told him that he had kept the milk packets at the main gate.The victim’s husband went to the ground floor and tried to open the main door but failed to do so. Then, he went to pick the packets from the other door and found the main door locked from outside. He entered the bedroom on the ground floor and found his wife lying unconscious on the bed. Both her hands and legs were tied with a piece of cloth, he stated.The police have questioned domestic helps in connection with the incident.The post-mortem of the deceased was conducted and the body handed over to her legal heirs for the last rites.The investigation in the case was in progress, the police said.The incident took place on the rear of the PU Vice-Chancellor’s residence, which has round-the-clock security. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-professors-wife-found-murdered-on-campus-334400
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reduces VAT on petrol, diesel by Rs 7||After the Centre, the UT Administration has also given some relief to consumers by reducing the state VAT on petrol and diesel by Rs 7.“After the Centre cut levy on petrol and diesel, the Chandigarh Administration has reduced VAT by Rs7 on petrol and diesel with effect from midnight of November 4, 2021. As per the notification issued by the Department of Excise and Taxation, UT, the VAT percentage on petrol has been reduced from 22.45% to 15.24% and on diesel from 14.02% to 6.66%,” read a communique of the Administration. The petrol price had breached the Rs 100 mark in the city on October 10. The Central Government had reduced the excise duty on petrol by Rs 5 and on diesel by Rs 10. Surender Kumar, a resident of Sector 43, said, “After Covid-induced tough financial times, it had become difficult for the public to use their vehciles even for going to office. There is some respite now.”“The governments should automatically reduce the VAT and excise duty whenever the rates go up,” said Riya, an employee of a private company. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reduces-vat-on-petrol-diesel-by-rs-7-334401
06-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh hospitals see 71 burns cases on Diwali night||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5Three major government hospitals of the city received 71 patients with burns, including serious eye injuries, on Diwali night. The patients included residents of Mohali and Panchkula as well.Only 27 such cases had been reported in 2020 against 162 cases in 2019.A total of 15 patients with injuries caused by firecrackers reached the Advanced Eye Centre, PGI, Chandigarh. Of them, six were children, the youngest one being eight years old. The firecrackers that caused injuries to the 15 patients were rockets and crackers producing a loud sound. Dr SS Pandav, Head of Ophthalmology Department, PGI, said, “A total of 12 patients will be needing surgical intervention and nine of them have serious open globe injuries. Three patients require minor surgical procedures. All patients have unilateral injuries. Nine patients have been operated on and three are undergoing surgery.”Advanced Trauma Centre of the PGI received three patients with burns. A 26-year-old patient had suffered about 25 per cent burns on the chest and arms. He has been admitted to Burns Ward of Nehru Hospital. The rest of the two patients were discharged after first aid.The department of plastic surgery, PGI, received four patients who were injured during the Diwali celebrations. Two suffered major thermal burns while lighting candles. Both are being monitored closely in the Burns ICU. Another young patient suffered grievous hand injuries as a firecracker exploded while he was holding it. Similarly, one patient suffered deep burns on the thigh and hand in a firecracker blast. Both patients are also under close observation and will require multiple surgeries over the next few days.The Emergency at the GMSH-16 also remained busy on the Diwali night dealing with routine emergency cases as well as patients with firecracker injuries. A total of 24 cases of minor burns were witnessed at the hospital. Four more cases of eye injuries were also reported in the emergency. A total of 21 patients visited the GMCH-32 with cracker injuries. Of them, 20 were discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospitals-see-71-burns-cases-on-diwali-night-334402
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police arrest 13 for bursting, selling crackers||Thirteen persons were arrested and 28 cases registered for bursting and selling crackers on the Diwali night under sections 188 of the IPC and 51-B of the Disaster Management Act-2005 at separate police stations in the city.Twentyfour cases were registered for bursting crackers and four cases for selling crackers.As many as 818 calls were received and 442 spots were generated. The police dispatched PCRs to 351 spots. Fire engines were rushed to 13 spots and ambulances to 63 places.No untoward incident was reported and the situation remained peaceful in the city, said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-arrest-13-for-bursting-selling-crackers-334403
06-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Diwali Celebrations: Despite ban, air quality worsens in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5Despite a ban on the bursting of crackers, the air quality index (AQI) level rose to 465 (severe category), the highest since 2019, when the hourly monitoring was started at Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS), Sector 25.As per the National Air Quality Index, the severe category air affects healthy people and seriously impacts those suffering from diseases.At the Sector 25 station, the AQI level remained 465 (severe category) between 10 am and 11 pm, while it was 409, the highest AQI level between 9 pm and 10 pm, at the Sector 22 station.In 2020 and 2019, hourly AQI level had remained lower on Diwali. However, 24-hour AQI average was lesser compared to the past two years. This year, overall AQI average was 115 at the Sector 25 station and 167 at the Sector 22 station. Last year, the stations recorded overall AQI of 140 (moderate category). In 2019, it was 341 (very poor).Unlike the previous years when the air quality used to be bad for two-three days around Diwali, the quality improved gradually in a few hours this year. After 2 am, the AQI level returned to the satisfactory category at both stations where hourly monitoring is done.Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), said the crackers were banned, still the sound of crackers being exploded was heard in the city.According to the Chandigarh Administration, monitoring was carried out on October 29 (normal day) and on November 4 (Diwali day) at five locations.The air quality trend during the normal day was satisfactory (AQI levels below 100) at all stations and even on the day of Diwali, it was observed to be satisfactory up to 6 pm. However, after 6 pm, the air quality worsened.It was observed that at each station, the AQI and noise levels rose on Diwali day in comparison to normal day.Of the five stations, AQI (24 hourly) was in the moderate category at three stations (Sector 22, 17 and 25) and in the poor category at two stations (Sector 39 and 12).“It is a matter of relief that because of weather conditions, the AQI improved to the satisfactory level after 2 am,” said an official.Though the UT Administration had imposed a ban on the sale and bursting of crackers, the crackers were exploded openly in the city. People bought crackers from Panchkula or Mohali where there was a fixed time to burst crackers.“In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and to avoid inconvenience to Covid-affected persons as well those with respiratory issues, we had banned the sale/bursting of firecrackers in Chandigarh. A campaign was launched through newspapers and schools to create awareness amongst the general public regarding the ill-effects of bursting firecrackers,” said an Administration’s note today.“However, the citizens should also cooperate with such decisions of the Administration for both short-term as well as long-term benefit of good air quality,” it added.Every year, monitoring is conducted by CPCC during Diwali to know the impact of Diwali on air and noise quality. Monitoring is conducted on normal day, i.e. approx one week before Diwali day, and on Diwali day.Noise levelNoise levels were also higher than the last year on Diwali in the city. These increased on Diwali day in comparison to a normal day. The highest noise level was recorded in Sector 39 which was 78.2 dB(A) and the lowest in Sector 17, which was 58.4 dB(A).The maximum noise level recorded during Diwali in 2020 was 66.6 dB(A) against the maximum level of 79.8 dB(A) recorded on Diwali in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diwali-celebrations-despite-ban-air-quality-worsens-in-chandigarh-334404
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reduces VAT on petrol, diesel by Rs 7 a litre after Centre's excise duty cut||With the Centre slashing excise duty on petrol and diesel, the Chandigarh Administration has also announced a reduction of Rs 7 per litre in value-added tax (VAT) on the fuels making them cheaper in the Union Territory."After the Centre cut levy on petrol and diesel, the Chandigarh Administration has reduced VAT by Rs 7 on petrol and diesel with effect from midnight of November 4," an official statement said.As per the notification issued by the Department of Excise and Taxation, UT Chandigarh, on Thursday, the VAT percentage on petrol has been reduced from 22.45 per cent to 15.24 per cent and on diesel from 14.02 per cent to 6.66 per cent.The Haryana government had also announced a reduction in VAT on the fuels on Thursday, making them cheaper in the BJP-JJP-ruled state by Rs 12 per litre.On Wednesday, the central government announced a cut in the excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10, respectively, bringing down their retail rates from record highs.Reducing the excise duty, the Union government had urged states to commensurately reduce VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal has urged the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government to reduce VAT rate on petrol and diesel to provide relief to the consumers."High fuel prices have been eating into the Pbis pocket. Centre's late reduction of rates is a half measure! On behalf of SAD & Punjab, I demand that CM @CharanjitChanni take note from other states & reduce sky high petrol and diesel prices by Rs 10. Punjab has suffered enough!," Badal tweeted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reduces-vat-on-petrol-diesel-by-rs-7-a-litre-after-centres-excise-duty-cut-334239
