07-11-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Near zero fuel sale in Mohali areas||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 6Petrol stations located near Chandigarh border wore a deserted look with people preferring the UT to Mohali where petrol is Rs11.95 costlier. Chandigarh slashed VAT on fuel by Rs7 yesterday.Dealers pin hopes on Punjab GovtAshwinder Singh Mongia, a spokesman for the Petrol Pump Dealers Association, Punjab, said the association had taken up the matter with state Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal who had assured them that he would soon take a decision in this regard. He said the state government should take a populist decision keeping in view the coming Assembly elections in the state.Near zero sale was reported from around 64 filling stations located on Chandigarh border. Petrol is costlier by Rs11.95 per litre and diesel by about Rs9 per litre in Mohali than Chandigarh.The UT Administration had announced the reduction in VAT on fuel immediately after the Centre announced a cut in the duty on fuel as a Diwali gift to the citizens of the country. During a random survey of the filling stations in Mohali by this reporter, hardly any customer was found there and workers were sitting idle. A worker at a filling station said on Friday, a few customers visited the pump to get fuel but today, no one had come till 4 pm.Ranjeet Singh, a resident of Sohana, said petrol was cheaper by Rs11.95 in Chandigarh, so he visited the Sector 52 petrol station in Chandigarh to refill the tank of his car. Petrol dealers say as the diesel price in Himachal Pradesh (Rs80 per litre) is even lower than Chandigarh, it would lead to the smuggling of fuel from the hill state.Ashwinder Singh Mongia, a spokesman for the Petrol Pump Dealers Association, Punjab, said earlier fuel prices were very low in Punjab and now there was a big difference in the prices of petrol and diesel in Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh where the state governments had reduced VAT. He claimed that there was zero sale at the filling stations located on Mohali-Chandigarh border.Mongia said in Punjab, which was an agrarian state, the cost of diesel was very high and it would not only affect the agricultural sector but also the industrial and business sectors. He said the association had taken up the matter with state Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal who had assured them that he would soon take a decision in this regard. He said the state government should take a populist decision keeping in view the coming Assembly elections in the state.Meanwhile, sources in the Punjab Government said Cabinet was seriously considering bringing the fuel rates on a par in the Punjab area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/near-zero-fuel-sale-in-mohali-areas-334943
07-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Market associations to run parking lots||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6The decks are cleared for the running of the parking lots in inner markets by the respective market welfare associations. The MC has finally prepared an MoU to this effect. It will be put up at the MC General House meeting for approval on November 12.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “The MoU is almost ready and its agenda will be tabled in the House to decide on what pattern and conditions these parking lots are to be handed over to the market welfare associations.”A nominated councillor and president of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Charanjiv Singh, said, “There are around 80 such associations. Initially, all those who show interest based on conditions approved by the House will be allotted the parking lots. The associations had earlier shown interest, following which the House had passed and agenda and decided to prepare the MoU.”It is expected that the parking lots will be run free of cost like the ones being run in the Sector 22 and 19 markets. However, there could be a nominal fee. But, the House will take a final call regarding it at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/market-associations-to-run-parking-lots-334944
07-11-2021||Naina Mishra||20 patients in hospitals, Covid bed occupancy now 3% in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6Only 20 Covid beds are occupied in the city hospitals. Seven patients are on ventilator beds and 13 on oxygen support. The occupancy is barely 3 per cent of the total beds (533 beds).The UT has 101 ventilator beds and 452 oxygen beds reserved for Covid patients. All 20 patients are being treated at the PGI.One case in UTChandigarh: The city on Saturday reported one case of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Five more patients have been cured of the disease. TNSAccording to experts, the severity of the disease has decreased due to immunisation. Even if the third wave came, the hospitalisation rate would not be huge enough to cause shortage of beds, they added. In Chandigarh, only 29 patients are currently infected with the virus.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, said, “The rate of infection is low at the moment. This has happened because of vaccination coverage and herd immunity. The severity of the disease is dependent on the immunity and comorbidity of the patient. As the virus has a mutant nature, we have to be very careful. We should follow the Covid protocol and get fully vaccinated. Every pandemic has its own course and takes at least two years to ebb. We hope in the near future the virus loses severity and life returns to normal.”Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32, said, “It is difficult to say that the pandemic is over, but the number of new cases are less and positivity rate is less too. As other countries have shown an upward trend in the daily cases, we have to keep our fingers crossed and continue taking precautions.”Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, a scientific adviser, said, “The pandemic comes in waves and there will be high tide and low tide. At this moment, it is low tide in several parts of India, which means the total number of cases and severity are low. After sometime, more people will be infected and tide will change in natural upswing of pandemic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-patients-in-hospitals-covid-bed-occupancy-now-3-in-chandigarh-334945
07-11-2021||Mohali||Mohali sees 10 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-10-fresh-cases-334946
07-11-2021||Panchkula||Just one new case in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/just-one-new-case-in-panchkula-334947
07-11-2021||Mohali||Middukhera murder: Gangsters Amit Dagar, Kaushal Chaudhary’s remand extended by 4 days||The court today extended the remand of gangsters Amit Dagar and Kaushal Chaudhary in the Vicky Middukhera murder case by four days. The duo was produced in the court after their seven-day remand ended on November 6.Sources said certain aspects of the case were to be probed in detail to solve the case. Dagar and Chaudhary have been nominated in the murder case of Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera.Dagar was brought on a production warrant from the Mandoli jail in Delhi while Chaudhary was brought from the Karnal jail a week ago.The police said the duo was involved with Armenia-based gangster Gaurav Padial in hiring four shooters who shot dead Middukhera in broad daylight on August 7.According to the police, four shooters, two each from the Bhola-Latth gang and the Bambiha gang run by Gaurav Padial, were involved in the case. Two gangsters were waiting in a car while two others carried out the murder.The police have not been able to arrest any of the four suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/middukhera-murder-gangsters-amit-dagar-kaushal-chaudharys-remand-extended-by-4-days-334948
07-11-2021||Mohali||Man stabbed to death in Mohali||The deceased has been identified as Ranje, a native of Bihar and resident of Behlolpur. A case has been registered at the Balongi police station. No arrest has been made so far.The police said there were stab wounds on victim’s chest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-stabbed-to-death-in-mohali-334949
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Man found dead on railway tracks||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-334950
07-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC elections : To beat poll code, opening of projects, stone-laying paced up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6Less than two months before the MC elections and ahead of the model code of conduct, which is likely to be imposed in mid-November, six projects are either scheduled to be inaugurated or their foundation stone is to be laid in a span of 10 days. Besides, the inauguration of a community centre at Mauli Jagran and laying of the foundation stone of another centre at Sector 45 were done today by MP Kirron Kher.Events lined upOur aim is that all those projects on which the MC and the UT Administration have been working for a long time should not get delayed due to the model code of conduct or elections. — Ravi Kant Sharma, MayorLeader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla alleged, “It is being done only to get names mentioned on plaques. Even those community centres where work was not completed yet, are hurriedly being inaugurated by the Mayor with an eye on votes. People can’t be fooled.” “The work of the community centre in Mauli Jagran is incomplete, but MP Kirron Kher today inaugurated it virtually. Works like AC installation is yet to be done. Also, the foundation stone of a community centre was laid in Sector 45 even as its tendering process was not done. It will give a false hope to residents,” he added. Refuting the charge, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “We have opened a fully-furnished community centre in Mauli Jagran. The ACs will also be installed. The tendering process of the Sector 45 centre has already been completed.”“Our aim is that all those projects on which the MC and the UT Administration have been working for a long time should not get delayed due to the model code of conduct or elections,” he added.The projects lined up include opening of community centres, green belts, C&D plant’s automation project and 24x7 water supply project in Mani Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-elections-to-beat-poll-code-opening-of-projects-stone-laying-paced-up-334951
07-11-2021||---||Former BSP vice-president joins AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6Former BSP vice-president Shiv Kumar Nathi, along with his brother Deshraj Shanawar and supporters, has joined AAP.Santosh, Rakesh, Rajinder, Ilm Singh, Sunil Kumar, Pramod, Vikas, Rajan, Sanjeev, and Mahesh were among Shiv Kumar’s supporters who joined AAP.Welcoming them into the party, co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra said the joining of Shiv Kumar had strengthened AAP in Ward No. 7, as the latter had secured a lot of votes in the MC elections held in 2011, and he was known as an honest leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-bsp-vice-president-joins-aap-334952
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU murder: Strangulation not ruled out in preliminary autopsy||Two days after a 59-year-old woman was found murdered in her house on the Panjab University campus, the police have failed to make headway in the case.A senior police official said, “The preliminary postmortem findings do not rule out death due to strangulation. The deceased might have struggled as there were some bruises on the body. The conclusive postmortem report is yet to come.”A panel of doctors conducted the autopsy at the GMSH-16 yesterday.The victim, Seema Goyal, wife of Bharat Bhushan Goyal, a professor in the University Business School, PU, was found dead with her hands and legs tied with a cloth on Thursday morning. There was an injury mark on her head. The CCTV footage in the area and the mobile phone dump data are being scanned. The victim’s husband, who first saw the body in the bedroom, told the police that he was on the first floor while his wife was on the ground floor of their house at night. Their daughter was not present at home. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-murder-strangulation-not-ruled-out-in-preliminary-autopsy-334953
07-11-2021||---||Salary scam: Accused cop surrenders before court||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, November 6Head constable Naresh Kumar, one of the accused in the alleged salary scam in the Chandigarh Police, surrendered before a local court here today.The court has given six days remand of the accused to the police.Case fileDikshit Arora, counsel for Naresh Kumar, opposed the remand, claiming that his client had been falsely implicated in the case and he had no role in the alleged scam.The police had sought 10 days’ remand, stating that they needed to interrogate the accused to find out the details of the scam worth over one crore.The police claimed that the excess amount was transferred in the salary account of around 156 police personnel.They claimed that thorough investigation was required to explore how the amount was transferred.Arora though argued that Kumar had earlier joined the investigation on two occasions and there was nothing to be recovered from him.He said all the records were available with the police.The police had earlier arrested two other employees, including a former in-charge of the salary branch and a home guard volunteer with the UT police, in connection with the Rs1.01-crore salary scam, which came to light in February 2020.Earlier, Kumar reached the district court with his counsel after his bail applications were rejected.The scam was detected when salary accounts of 40 police personnel were found to have been credited with huge money against fake entries of inflated conveyance allowances, ration/food allowances, TA/DA, and other allowances in February last year.When the matter came to light, the then Finance Secretary ordered a probe, which indicted some police personnel deputed in the salary branch.The matter was then handed to a special investigating team under the supervision of SP, Crime.An FIR was registered at the Sector 3 police station on the basis of the report, which established a loss of over Rs1.01 crore to the state exchequer.The police said the embezzlement was carried out through two modus operandi – first by taking advantage of many loopholes in the E-Sevaarth portal of the National Informatic Centre and secondly, by preparing bogus bills on account of pay arrears LTC, etc.The police also claimed that Kumar was earlier called for questioning but he did not disclose anything.The police said it was a big scam where other actors were to be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/salary-scam-accused-cop-surrenders-before-court-334954
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala Division earns Rs 6.14 cr in fine in Oct||The Ambala Division of Northern Railways earned Rs6.14 crore through ticket checking in October.Ambala Division has recorded the highest ever ticket checking earnings, amounting to Rs6.14 crore during October, 2021, surpassing the previous best of Rs5.03 crore registered during October, 2019. — Gurinder Mohan Singh, Divisional Railway ManagerTotal 820 checks were conducted during the month across the division and 1.07 lakh irregular travelers were penalised.To ensure proper implantation of Covid norms, 255 cases without masks were implicated and a penalty of Rs56,350 was realised from them.“To ensure cleanliness at the stations, regular checks are conducted over the main stations of the division as a result of which 181 passengers were apprehended under the Anti-Littering Act and Rs43,300 have been realised from them,” said Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh.“Ambala Division has recorded the highest ever ticket checking earnings, amounting to Rs6.14 crore during October, 2021, surpassing the previous best of Rs5.03 crore registered during October, 2019,” he said.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan appreciated the ticket-checking staff of the division for their efforts.“Two ticket-checking staff members, Simran and Parveen Kumar, earned more than Rs20 lakh, which is also a record in terms of highest ever individual earnings,” said Hari Mohan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-division-earns-rs-6-14-cr-in-fine-in-oct-334955
07-11-2021||---||Pawan Kumar Bansal slams BJP over relief in fuel prices||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6Senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal today lashed out at Narendra Modi-led Centre for “playing a cruel joke on the people of the country by giving them too less a relief in petrol and diesel prices”.Bansal was addressing a meeting of Congress leaders and workers at Rajiv Gandhi Congress Bhawan in Sector 35.He said prices were increased by Rs30 to 40 and relief of just Rs5 to 10 was provided to the people.“The BJP-led Centre government has become totally insensitive towards the common man,” he said.Subhash Chawla, president of the Chandigarh unit of Congress, accused the BJP of “looting people with both hands”.He said Congress workers would take the issue of price rise to every nook and corner of Chandigarh as people of the city were most affected by the unprecedented hike.Chawla also attacked the BJP-led Municipal Corporation for “failing on all fronts”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pawan-kumar-bansal-slams-bjp-over-relief-in-fuel-prices-334956
07-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Drunken driving not proved in absence of blood, urine tests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6A local court has acquitted a Kharar resident on the charges of drunken driving in the absence of any blood or urine sample report. While acquitting the person, the court says the medical report given by the duty doctor was based on the smell of alcohol coming from the breath of the accused but the possibility of such smell from taking cough syrup could not be ruled out.What the court saysIt is obligatory on the prosecution to medically examine the accused either by taking a urine sample or a blood sample, but no such examination was done by the prosecution, the court stated in its order.The police arrested Gaurav Verma of Kharar, on July 13, 2021, on the charges of driving in a drunken state and creating a nuisance after registering a DRR against him for the offence punishable under section 185 of the MV Act.As per the prosecution, the accused had parked his vehicle in front of the main gate of a police station and was creating a nuisance. The prosecution alleged that when they asked him to stop, he started quarrelling with them. The police claimed that the accused smelled a breath of alcohol.They claimed that the accused was taken to the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, and his medical examination was conducted which confirmed he had consumed alcohol. On the basis of a complaint, a DDR was registered and statements of witnesses were recorded.After the completion of investigation, “Kalandra” was presented in the court under Section 185 of the MV Act. Finding a prima facie case against the accused, a notice of accusation was served on him to which he did not plead guilty and claimed trial.Counsel for the accused SS Rana argued that the accused had been falsely implicated in the case.After hearing the arguments, Sanjay, JMIC, Chandigarh, observed that “The allegation that the accused was in a drunken state can only be proved by way of evidence of the doctor concerned who has medically examined the accused. But the prosecution did not examine the doctor concerned. Therefore, even if the testimony of the IO is considered, still that is not sufficient to prove that the accused was in a drunkard state while he was driving an impugned vehicle.“Because for proving the alleged offence, it is obligatory on the prosecution to medically examine the accused either by taking a urine sample or a blood sample but no such examination was done by the prosecution. Also, the IO is very much interested in the success of the present case.“But once his testimony is not supported by any oral as well as documentary evidence, then it is not safe to base conviction merely on the deposition of the IO. Therefore, this court is of the considered view that the prosecution miserably failed to prove the allegation on record.“Hence, the benefit of the doubt goes in favour of the accused as the relevant witnesses concerned are not joined at the time of investigation and also not examined during the trial of the case. Therefore, in view of the above discussion, the accused is acquitted of the charge framed against him by extending the benefit of the doubt.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drunken-driving-not-proved-in-absence-of-blood-urine-tests-334957
07-11-2021||---||Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher inaugurates Mauli Jagran community centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6MP Kirron Kher virtually inaugurated a community centre at Mauli Jagran today. She also laid the foundation stone of a new community centre at Sector 45.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, MC chief Anindita Mitra, Chief Engineer-cum-Special Secretary CB Ojha, councillors and other officers of the Chandigarh Administration and Municipal Corporation were present on the occasion.The existing community centre in Sector 45-C is unable to cater to the needs of the residents and as such a plot measuring 0.76 acre has been earmarked for the reconstruction of community centre.The two-storey building will be built at an estimated cost of Rs4.82 crore.The community centre at Mauli Jagran has been built at a cost of Rs3.18 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mp-kirron-kher-inaugurates-mauli-jagran-community-centre-334958
07-11-2021||---||Manan’s century goes in vain as city boys bow to Hyderabad||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6An unbeaten century knock by skipper Manan Vohra went in vain, as Chandigarh suffered an eight-wicket loss against Hyderabad in a Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy match at Gurugram today.Put in to bat, Chandigarh scored 162 runs in the allotted 20 overs, with Vohra hitting a fluent 106.Chandigarh had a decent start to their innings as Vohra and Sarul Kanwar added 52 runs for the opening wicket.The two were separated when Ravi Teja sent back Kanwar on 13. Shivam Bhambri did not last long and returned to the pavilion on six.Ankit Kaushik and Vohra added 33 runs for the third and took the total past the 100-run mark before the former fell to Tyagaranajan on 15.Jaskarandeep Singh’s cameo of 19 runs came to an end after he was dismissed by CV Milind.Vohra, meanwhile, completed gathered 106 off 64 balls to steer Chandigarh to a competitive total.Needing 8.15 runs per over for victory, openers Tanmay Agarwal and Hanuma Vihari were off to a flying start as Hyderabad raced to 82 runs inside the 11th over.Arpit Pannu drew the first blood for Chandigarh, claiming Agarwal on 34.Vihari (57) fell after completing his half-century. He was dismissed by Jaskarandeep.Tilak Varma, meanwhile, hit an unbeaten 29-ball 61 to help Hyderabad reach home in 18.4 overs with eight wickets to spare. Buddhi Rahul remained not out on four.Chandigarh will now face Saurashtra on November 8.Girls lose to MumbaiChandigarh: City girls' woes in the Women's Senior ODI Trophy continued as they received a 112-run thrashing against Mumbai in their last league match at Pune on Saturday. Batting first, Mumbai scored 300 for 6 in allotted 50 overs, with RS Chaudhary (129) and H Kazi (102) hitting a century each. Priyanka Guleria took 4/42 in her 10 overs. In reply, Chandig were bowled out for 188 runs in 49.2 overs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manans-century-goes-in-vain-as-city-boys-bow-to-hyderabad-334959
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 motorcyclists snatch phone||Car with fake number, 2 heldChandigarh: The police apprehended Chamba native Akshey Kumar, alias Rimpy, and Shahpur native Akhil Jamwal, alias Akhu, for using a fake registration number (CH-04B-3425) on their car, whose actual registration number was HP-68A-3138, behind the Police Lines in Sector 26 here on Friday. A case under Sections 473 and 471 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 26 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-motorcyclists-snatch-phone-334960
