08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police book SAD leaders||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-book-sad-leaders-335477
08-11-2021||Mohali||Abhinav eases into 2nd round||Top seed Abhinav Sangra beat Punjab’s Abhinav Chaudhary 6-4 4-6 (10-4) to move into the boys’ U-14 second round in the Roots-AITA CS(7) U­14 National Ranking Championship here today.Second seed Shaurya Goyal outplayed Mohit 6-1 6-3, while Ayaan Chandel drubbed Haryana’s Mayank Bishnoi 6-0 7-5 in the opening round.Chandigarh’s Harman Singh edged out Punjab’s Samvir Singh 6-1 7-5 and Haryana’s Devvert Singh outplayed Hardit Singh 6-3 6-1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhinav-eases-into-2nd-round-335475
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashvee’s knock goes in vain as India B crush India D by 9 wkts||A fighting half-century by Chandigarh’s Kashvee Gautam went in vain as India D suffered a nine-wicket loss against India B in the Women’s U-19 Challenger Trophy final at the Rajasthan Cricket Association’s Academy Ground in Jaipur today.Chasing a 141 runs for victory, India B girls reached home in 41.4 overs with opener G Trisha hitting an unbeaten 78. Skipper Anushka Sharma made 54 runs.Earlier, India D won the toss and decided to bat. However, the side was reduced to 65 for seven inside 30 overs before a rearguard by Kashvee helped them reach 140. The vice-captain hammered a defiant 62-ball 50 to give some semblance to India D total. Anushka Sharma (2/16), Sonam Yadav (2/20), Sakshi (2/29) and Sricharani (2/34) took two wickets each for India B. — TNSCricket trials todayThe Mohali Cricket Association will on Monday conduct trials to select the U-23 team. The trials will be held at the PCA Stadium C-Ground from 2 pm. Players born on or after September 1, 1999, will be eligible for the trials. The players need to carry their documents, including digital birth certificate, passport or voter ID to the venue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kashvees-knock-goes-in-vain-as-india-b-crush-india-d-by-9-wkts-335474
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Paras, Vikram pedal to gold||Paras clocked 1:08:33s to claim gold medal in the elite men’s 40km event on the opening day of the Chandigarh State Road Cycling Championship.Yogesh Kumar (1:13:35s) clinched the silver medal, while Vikram Malik (1:14:05s) bagged the bronze.The championship is being organised by Chandigarh Amateur Cycling Association.In the 40km men’s U-23 event, Vikram Seth (1:03:49s), Manan Kundal (1:10:26s) and Ajay Sharma (1:14:20s) claimed top three positions respectively.Vineeta Kumari (44:08.66s) topped the podium in the elite women’s 28km race. She was followed by Rupali Khurana (49:07.42s) in second place.In the men’s junior category, Dushyant Beniwal (34:09.22s) bagged the gold medal in the 28km contest. Jaskirat Singh (36:37.97s) pocketed the silver, while Jastej Singh (37:48.35s) returned with a bronze medal.Reet Kapoor (40:04.12s) and Pravishi Sadyal (47:51.05s) claimed top two positions, respectively, in the 20km contest in the women’s junior category.In the 20km boys’ sub-junior event, Akshat Sindhu (33:44.87s) won the gold medal, while Akshit (35:20.81s) bagged the silver. Himmat Singh (37:27.31s) claimed the bronze medal.Arman Dua (21:19.10s) won the top position in the 12km competition in the boys’ youth category. He was followed by Arnav Jain (22:02.50s) and Aditya Rathore (25:28.14s) in second and third places, respectively.In the girls’ youth competition, Rehat Kapoor (18:15.64s) clinched the gold medal in the 8km race. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paras-vikram-pedal-to-gold-335472
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shrejal, Hansika grab gold in 100-m dash||Shrejal Goyat claimed gold medal in the girls’ U-10 100m dash in the South Zone Chandigarh Inter-State Athletics Championship, which is being held at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here.Ekam Ghuman (19.06s) and Amaira Sharma (19.25s) bagged the second and third positions, respectively.In the girl’s U-12 category, Hansika (17.79s), Vaidhai (17.91s) and Deepanshi (17.99s) claimed the top three positions, respectively, in the 100m run. Hanshika, meanwhile, won the long jump gold with a leap of 2.29m followed by Simran Bisht (2.36m) and Kirti (2.07m) in the second and third places, respectively.In the boys’ U-12 category, Ankush (41.65m) claimed gold medal in the throw ball event. Divanshu (38.03m) bagged the silver, while Athrav Thakur (37.10m) pocketed the bronze medal.In the boys’ U-14 category, Prince (8.30s) topped the podium in the 60m sprint. Naman (8.40s) won the silver, while Aryman (8.60s) the bronze. Alok (4.50m) topped the podium in the long jump event. Aryan Antil (3.89m) finished second and Shivdev Singh (3.45m) third.In the boys’ U-14 category, Gaurav clocked 8.25s to win the gold medal in the 60m sprint. Aarush (8.45s) clinched the silver and Sahil Gupta (8.63s) the bronze.Nitin Singh (1:58.69s), Shivam Joshi (2:09.07s) and Ksho Thapa (2:14.04s) claimed the top three positions, respectively, in the 600m competition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shrejal-hansika-grab-gold-in-100-m-dash-335470
08-11-2021||---||Lakshya rallies to beat Sehroon on Day 1||Panchkula, November 7Jind’s Lakshya came back well in time to beat Sehroon 19-21 24-22 21-18 in a boys’ U-17 match on the opening day of the 54th Haryana State Junior Badminton Championship at Tau Devi Lal Stadium here today.Ishan Rohilla advanced to the next round after defeating Gurugram’s Aaryan Raheja 21-9 21-11, while Hisar’s Nitigya drubbed Panchkula’s Shaurya 21-10 21-14.Chaitanya from Sonipat rallied to beat Yashwant 18-21 21-14 21-7. Raghav Narwal of Karnal registered a 21-18 21-11 win over Ambala’s Akshit Vij, while Devansh Jajoria drubbed Mosam 21-13 21-11.Faridabad’s Manraj Singh packed off Dev Rawal 21-9 21-9 and Rydham edged out Lakshya 21-4 21-3. Ankit Malik prevailed 21-13 22-20 over Arya Shreshta Sagar.In the girl’s U-17 qualifiers, Sonepat’s Vinita thrashed Khushi 15-10 15-9, while Vedika Dahiya from Rohtak edged out Garvita 15-2 16-14. Tanya defeated Jiya 15-11 15-7.Hirdey won his boys’ U-19 qualifying round match by defeating Suryansh 15-4 15-8. Parv Gaur from Karnal overcame Shubham 15-13 8-15 15-7, while Chaitanya trounced Madhav 15-4 15-10.Anshul Budhwar humbled Yashwant 16-14 15-11, while Deepanshu shunted out Nikhil Sahu 15-7 15-2. Akash Kannan outplayed Aryan Ruhil 15-7 15-6.Bhiwani’s Harshit Jangra thrashed Panchkula’s Sangam 21-5 21-7 and Harsh Anand Deshwal downed Rahul 21-5 21-17. Aadarsh of Kurukshetra crushed Mustufa 21-10 21-12.Under-19 championship from November 17The Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) will organise the U-19 state championships for boys and girls from November 17-21 at the Sector 38 Sports Complex here. Earlier, the association had announced to conduct championships in U-13, U-15, U-17 and senior age groups. The interested shuttlers need to register for the tournament before November 10. During the championship, the CBA will also select the city U-19 team for the forthcoming north zone and national championships. Players registered in Chandigarh and with CBA will be eligible to participate in the event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lakshya-rallies-to-beat-sehroon-on-day-1-335469
08-11-2021||---||Bowlers give Rose Zone the edge on opening day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7A fine bowling spell by Aayush (4/25) and Armaan (2/9) helped Rose Zone restrict Sukhna Zone to a below par 116 on the opening day of their U-16 Multi-Day Cricket Tournament match here today.Harshul (50) was the top scorer for Sukhna Zone.In reply, Rose Zone were batting on 156/4 at the close of opening day’s play. Abhimanyu made 73 runs, while Neeraj contributed 35 runs to the total.In another match, Divyansh hit a strokeful 101 to guide Rock Zone to 306/8 against Plaza Zone on Day 1.Harsimran (45) and Vivek (38) also made useful contributions Rock Zone’s total. Parmeet and Manraj took two wickets each for Plaza Zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bowlers-give-rose-zone-the-edge-on-opening-day-335467
08-11-2021||Mohali||Mohali: Man dies, kin say was suffering from dengue||A 67-year-old resident of VIP Enclave died today. Family members said the victim was suffering from dengue.Health officials, however, did not confirm that the death was due to dengue. The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “We do not have information in this regard. The daily official update is till 4 pm.”The deceased, Raj Kumar, was a resident of a housing society in ward number 21. The victim was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Zirakpur.As of Sunday, 12 dengue patients were admitted to the community health centre in Dhakoli, of whom five were discharged while seven are still undergoing treatment. Besides, several patients are undergoing treatment at private hospitals In Zirakpur.VIP Enclave residents GS Bhatti and Haridesh Srivastava alleged that the colony did not have adequate sewer and drainage facilities. “As a result, there is stagnant water in several places in the colony where mosquitoes are breeding. There is an urgent need for fogging by the Municipal Council here,” they said. — TNSNeed for foggingVIP Enclave residents alleged that the colony did not have adequate sewer and drainage facilities. As a result, there is stagnant water in several places in the colony where mosquitoes are breeding, they said. There is an urgent need for fogging by the Municipal Council here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-man-dies-kin-say-was-suffering-from-dengue-335465
08-11-2021||---||3 cars, truck damaged in pile-up near Lalru||Tribune News ServiceLalru, November 7Three cars and a truck were damaged in a high speed pile-up near the Lalru bridge this afternoon. A woman suffered serious injuries and was rushed to the GMCH, Sector 32, for treatment. The freak accident led to a long traffic jam and movement of vehicles was affected for more than half an hour on the main Chandigarh-Ambala highway around 12.30 pm.Eyewitnesses said the accident took place after one of the vehicle drivers applied sudden brakes near the bridge following which vehicles coming from behind crashed into each other. A truck and three cars were badly damaged while several passengers received minor injuries. One of the three women in a car suffered serious injuries and had to be rushed to the hospital.The Lalru police visited the spot. The police are investigating the matter. The accident led to a traffic jam and a serpentine queue of vehicles could be seen for more than a kilometre.“It was a freak incident and it happened so fast that no one got time to avert the accident. It is a big relief that no casualty took place. Many passengers in the car received minor injuries. Three cars were badly damaged as a truck hit them from behind. The area is accident prone as vehicles move at a high speed. Signboards need to be installed near the bridge to caution drivers,” said a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-cars-truck-damaged-in-pile-up-near-lalru-335464
08-11-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Farmers protest against screening of Akshay Kumar-starrer ‘Sooryavanshi’||Members of various farmer unions staged a protest demonstration outside Dhillon Plaza and Cosmo Mall over screening of Akshay Kumar-starrer ‘Sooryavanshi’ here today. They also blocked the Aerocity road.Also read: BKU halts screening of Akshay Kumar’s film ‘Sooryavanshi’ in Punjab's JalalabadProtesting farmer union leaders said Akshay Kumar had repeatedly given statements against farmers. “No film of Akshay Kumar and Sunny Deol will be allowed to run in Punjab,” they said.DSP Harjinder Singh Gill reached the spot and stopped the screening of the film to prevent any untoward incident. The movement of vehicles on the Aerocity road, which came to a halt, was restored after sometime.The protesters raised slogans against the BJP-led Central government and demanded that the three farm bills be taken back immediately.A day before too, farmers had held a protest to stop the screening of the film here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-farmers-protest-against-screening-of-akshay-kumar-starrer-sooryavanshi-335463
08-11-2021||Mohali||In Mohali, 89 test +ve for dengue||The district on Sunday reported 89 confirmed cases of dengue. The total cases have now reached 3,235.In the last five days alone, 452 cases have been reported. This month, a total of 604 persons have tested positive for the disease.As many as 2,260 persons were reported to be down with dengue last month. Thirty-two patients have died of the disease this year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-89-test-ve-for-dengue-335462
08-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Battered roads, parking woes remain in ward number 26||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7Broken roads and parking woes are the bane of ward number 26, comprising parts of Mani Majra, of BJP councillor Vinod Aggarwal.Residents said only Indira Colony saw some development, but other areas of this ward had several civic issues unresolved. Poor condition of roads and parking problem haunted the residents.SS Parwana, head of all resident welfare associations, Mani Majra, said, “Roads are in a bad condition. Recently, the work started at Indira Colony only. The old Ropar road and the motor market road have not been recarpeted. Parking is a big issue in the entire ward. No work was taken up in this regard during the five-year term of the current MC.”Bua Singh, a resident of Pipliwala Town, added, “There are big potholes in the inner roads of Pipliwala Town. We have raised the issue several times, but the councillor has turned a deaf ear. We also get dirty water supply. Sometimes, it gets mixed with sewage. The MC tries to fix the sewerage issue, but when it fixes one part of the pipeline, another part develops a problem. It has been going on for a long time.”Rambhaj Sharma, ex-president, Social Welfare Association, Subhash Nagar, Mani Majra, said water and electricity supply as well as the condition of roads were fine in his area, but the parking was a big issue. “There is ample open space in Subhash Nagar. It must be put to use by developing a parking lot. At present, people park their vehicles on roadsides or wherever they find space, leading to a chaos,” he said.Sharma said all houses in Subhash Nagar were not numbered serial-wise. Besides, Smart City officials were going to set up the 24x7 water supply project in the children’s park. It must be shifted to some other area, he added.Ram Krishan of Indira Colony said cleanliness and blocked road gullies were the problems being faced by colony residents.Vinod Aggarwal: Councillor from ward number 26Area: Dhillon Complex, Motor Market Pocket No. 8, Darshani Bagh, Subhash Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Pipliwala Town, Gawala Colony, Indira Colony and the IT Park.Promise: Improving civic amenitiesResult: Partly keptAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-battered-roads-parking-woes-remain-in-ward-number-26-335461
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||BJP trying to divide people,  says Cong minority dept head||Imran Partapgarhi, poet and chairman of the minority department of All-India Congress Committee, today said the ruling BJP was trying to divide the country and set a communal narrative. He was addressing a public meeting at Mani Majra where he recited couplets to woo the gathering.The Congress leader spoke of the “divisive politics” of the BJP and called upon people of Chandigarh to defeat it in the forthcoming Municipal Corporation elections.Pawan Kumar Bansal, former Union minister and Congress treasurer, alleged that people of the country were suffering because of the faulty policies of the BJP.City Congress president Subhash Chawla alleged, “The ruling BJP has emptied the coffers of the Chandigarh MC and backtracked on all promises it made to the city residents.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-trying-to-divide-people-says-cong-minority-dept-head-335445
08-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Conduct exams online, Panjab University students ask authorities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7Panjab University students here have come out in support of conducting the exams in online mode, saying that “if classes are being held online, the authorities should also take examinations online”.“The offline examinations should be held from the next semester, when the classes start in physical mode,” said a PU student.The PU authorities, meanwhile, claimed that they were planning to conduct examinations offline, but nothing had been finalised yet.“Nothing has been finalised so far. Before taking a final decision, we will consider all the demands of students,” said a highly placed Panjab University source.The PU has partially started offline classes.In the past, sources had said the authorities were also planning to fully open the campus for physical classes.“The demand for online examinations has been raised following students’ demand for offline classes,” said Anshul Gupta, a PU student.Sources also claimed that the pass percentage in online examinations was much higher than the offline examinations.“For many students it’s convenient to appear for online examinations. The results ended up in favour of students, so they believe that their demand is genuine,” said a professor.In the past, various student groups had written to the Vice-Chancellor to open the campus for offline classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/conduct-exams-online-panjab-university-students-ask-authorities-335444
08-11-2021||Chandigarh has a unique character which sets it apart from other cities. Let us preserve the basic character and allow only minor changes which do not take away the essence of the city.||Building bylaws: What further relief can Chandigarh residents expect?||Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhAllow only need-based changes in plansThe Ministry of Home Affairs should keep the requirements of people in mind and allow only need-based changes in the existing building plans. People shouldn’t be given undue liberty. Everyone should keep in mind that Chandigarh is City Beautiful, but over the period, it is losing its charm due to the violations of building bylaws and traffic problems. Now is the time to allow relief in such a manner that there shouldn’t be the need for any changes for another 30-40 years. A strict enforcement of the bylaws should be ensured to prevent violations.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhQUESTIONDespite the cracker ban, people burst crackers across the tricity, leading to ‘severe’ air pollution. How can residents be encouraged to celebrate an environment-friendly Diwali?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toopenhouse@tribunemail.comKeep in mind expanding size of familiesHouses constructed by the Chandigarh Housing Board and by residents on freehold plots way back need changes in view of the increasing members of families over the years. There is a need for creating additional space by converting a balcony into a room, if structurally safe. The construction of an additional room on the rooftop be allowed keeping in mind the requirement of house owners. Further, the provision of lift may be allowed in multi-storey flats keeping in view the requirement of senior citizens. As a one-time measure, regularise so-called violations if changes are structurally sound and also wave any penalty as a goodwill gesture by the Chandigarh Administration.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliDon’t treat need-based changes as violationsThe spirit of the building bylaws for Chandigarh city was basically people-friendly. But over the years, the CHB, a no-profit-no-loss construction wing of the UT Administration, which was created to construct and allot houses to its residents at affordable prices under various schemes, have forgotten that very mission and started earning money by treating even the genuine need-based changes as violations of building bylaws. Residents of these houses expect that the better sense should now prevail and all those changes carried out by them within the boundary line and skyline of their dwelling units at their own cost, even to rectify the original design fault, particularly when these changes do not in any way disturb the structural stability and have not evoked any objection whatsoever by the immediate neighbour, should be regularised by the CHB by charging a one-time nominal compounding fee.SC Luthra, ChandigarhUT’s original design has to be maintainedThe UT Administration has to inspect flats and may regularise reasonable changes that do not affect the original design. Absurd violations by allottees be declared unauthorised and they be asked to retreat to need-based changes. Chandigarh was designed by Le Corbusier and the design has to be kept intact to maintain the beauty of City Beautiful.MR Bhateja, NayagaonViolations may weaken foundationA large chunk of houses in the city are three or four-storey EWS and LIG flats which are too old. Residents have carried out constructions in violation of building bylaws to meet the requirements of their expanding families. As these are not properly maintained by the owners, specially those allotted to slum dwellers, and are too old, building violations may weaken the foundation of the flats which may cause a tragedy anytime. The Administration should allow only temporary alterations such as the use of fabricated sheets and demolish illegal concrete structures for the safety of residents.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohalitake a practical view of the whole issueChandigarh is suffering due to the rules framed way back in the 60s by the authorities regarding the building bylaws. The constructions, which had been carried out almost three or four decades back, are under threat till now. Agitations held by various bodies in the past have had no effect on the authorities. In all states across the country, illegal colonies and settlements have been regularised from time to time. But there is no such development in Chandigarh because of these old rules. Now that the Ministry of Home Affairs has asked the UT Administration to reconsider the case, it is high time the authorities took a practical view of the whole issue. The authorities should not differentiate between illegal constructions in commercial and residential areas. The business and commercial lobbies have more power and say. All so-called illegal constructions carried out almost three or four decades back within the boundaries should be regularised with minimum penalties. All notices issued in the past and cases pending in the courts should be withdrawn. Allowing only cosmetic changes, if any, will not serve any purpose. A practical and rational view is required to settle the issue to the satisfaction of all.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhLet’s wait till UT sends its reply to ministryWith the aim of reducing the financial burden, the UT Administration had sent a proposal to the Centre to change the penalty rate. The proposal pertains to an amendment to the Capital of Punjab, Development and Regulations Act, 1952, to reduce the penalty rate. If this proposal had been accepted, the penalty would have been reduced to one sixth the present rate charged. But, it is too early to predict what further relief is expected from the authorities. Let us wait till the time the UT sends its reply to the MHA.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaNeed for amending building bylawsThere should be an amendment to the bylaws to regularise need-based changes. Owners can make changes within the premises to suit their needs. Houses outside “lal dora” should not be demolished. The Administration should not ignore the HC directions and need not impose any penalty in the garb of rules. Only then can the residents of the city heave a sigh of relief.Anita K Tandon, KhararFollow pattern of Delhi Development AuthoritySince there is a large number of constructions outside the “lal dora”, the Administration should come up with a scheme to regularise these. The contentious issue has elicited strong views from supporters and detractors of the plan. Political parties and villagers have been consistently asking for the extension of “lal dora” and regularisation of constructions outside it. Architects and city’s heritage conservationists are demanding that these illegal constructions should be removed to protect the character of the city. The UT Urban Planning Department, too, has consistently flagged the large-scale illegal constructions in villages of Chandigarh. Illegal constructions are mushrooming against the notified Chandigarh Master Plan – 2031, which had strongly recommended for a planned development of the peri-urban areas of Chandigarh. The department has also warned of “serious consequences” in allowing such unplanned constructions, stating that these will change the character of the planned city. Most city villages and semi-urban areas, which include Kishangarh, Mani Majra, Hallo Majra, Maloya, areas around Bapu Dham near Sukhna Choe, Khuda Ali Sher and Kaimbwala, have unauthorised constructions, which have taken the form of colonies in recent months with land mafia becoming active. While violators used to just rent out spaces in illegal constructions earlier, the sale of smaller plots had come to light recently. Unauthorised constructions picked up after the city’s villages were transferred to the municipal corporation. Significantly, the constructions are also in violation of the Punjab New Capital (Periphery) Control Act, 1952, which is applicable to areas outside inhabited area of a village. The Chandigarh Housing Board must examine the demand of residents for one-time regularisation of additional construction on the pattern of the Delhi Development Authority. Residents have been demanding regularisation of construction beyond the original and stipulated CHB regulations for a long time. The CHB has also come under criticism for issuing notices against such constructions.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliNeed for relaxation in building bylawsSome relaxation in the building bylaws is the need of the hour. It has become difficult for a common man to own a house. But, if some changes can be allowed, then people can make some space to adjust the members of their extended families.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhNeed to review proposed penaltyThe proposed penalty is very high and requires a downward revision. The average proposal of a penalty of Rs250 to Rs350 per square foot per month is very high for the owners to pay. Structure-weakening violations should not be allowed. Need-based changes such as the provision of toilets may be allowed without any penalty or owners be charged one-time fee (per square foot). Demolition which causes damage to a structure should be avoided.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhConduct a survey of bylaw violationsThe authorities must conduct a survey of violations. In most of the residential areas, people have two balconies — one in the front and the other in the back. The respective authorities must levy a lump sum penalty calculated according to the violations and ask the owner concerned to get a new map of the building passed from a competent authority. If the authorities think that the new changes are well within the limit, then they should pass these, otherwise the owner may be asked to remove the changes.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhMost people not aware of normsResidents expect from the authorities that a relief should be provided in the form of reduced penalty. Some people inadvertently violate the building laws as they are not aware of the rules.Adish Sood, AmlohA fresh proposal will take more timeThe Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked the UT Administration to re-examine the recommendation for a revision of penalty charges being imposed for misuse of building bylaws in the city. The issue has frustrated the city residents as they do not have any clarity on the compliance of the directions. It would have been appropriate that before forwarding the proposal to the MHA, the UT authorities had taken all stakeholders on board. It would have led to a more consultative approach to solve this vexed issue. Submitting a fresh proposal to the Central Government on deciding on the penalty charges for the misuse of building bylaws will once again take more time and the UT Administration till then is going to lose crores of rupees as they will not be able to recover misuse charges. In the proposal submitted to the MHA nearly two years ago, the UT Administration had recommended fixing the penalty at 0.75 per cent of the minimum collector rate per square yard per month for misuse and violation. If the proposal had been accepted by the MHA, the penalty would have been reduced to one-sixth of the current amount. So, till a fresh proposal is prepared and submitted, the residents will not know what is in store for them. Let us keep our fingers crossed!Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhExpect cut in misuse, violation chargesWith the MHA seeking a fresh proposal regarding the misuse and violation of building bylaws from the UT Administration, residents, traders and industrialists can expect further relief in the form of reduction of building misuse and violation charges and penalty per square feet per month by the Estate Office, according to the lowest collector rates in all three categories namely residential, commercial and industrial.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhMake property freehold, allow need-based changesThe city was planned for a population of five lakh, but it has increased to about 12 lakh over the years. Its total area of 114 sq km cannot be expanded to accommodate the present population. Residents have to make additions and alterations in houses to accommodate their expanded families. Besides, the major portion of the land which is being used for industrial, commercial and residential purposes is sold on a lease basis. Since the entire money is paid for the land, which is purchased through auction or through allotment, it needs to be on a freehold basis. Apart from it, need-based changes made over the years should be regularised after paying some reasonable money as one-time settlement.SK Khosla, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/building-bylaws-what-further-relief-can-chandigarh-residents-expect-335443
08-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Civic body proposes to waive licence  fee of Covid-hit vendors in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7Two months before elections, the Municipal Corporation is finally going to consider a long-pending demand of exempting registered street vendors from paying vending licence fee for the period when Covid restrictions were in place in the city.The MC is bringing the agenda in this connection for approval in the House meeting scheduled to be held on November 12.As per information, it is being proposed that the exemption should be given for the month of May when the UT Administration had imposed restrictions due to Covid’s second wave. However, councillors may press for increasing in the number of months in the exemption period.The exemption is being proposed only for those street vendors who are not fee defaulters.The proposal also excludes around 2,000 “habitual defaulters” whose vending licences have been suspended for three months. If the pending monthly fee is still unpaid, the licences of these vendors will be cancelled. Their pending payment pertains to the pre-Covid period, up to January 1, 2020.The vendors pay a monthly fee between Rs300 and Rs2,000 depending upon their category and the area of vending.“The MC should exempt the fee for at least three months as there was no business around the second wave of Covid,” demanded a vendor.The vendors were also given fee exemption at the time of first phase. This year, second-hand car sellers and night food street outlet operators were exempted from paying rent quite early, but vendors’ grievance was yet to be heard.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “We are bringing the agenda in the House and will provide them relief.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-proposes-to-waive-licence-fee-of-covid-hit-vendors-in-chandigarh-335442
08-11-2021||Panchkula||Thieves make off with cash, jewellery in Panchkula||Thieves targeted a house in Sector 26 and took away cash and jewellery worth Rs2,50,000 last night.At the time of the incident, the family was out for dinner in Sector 5. When it returned to the house around 11 pm, it found items scattered and the DVR of a CCTV camera missing. The back door of the house was found open, said the complainant, Ram Gopal. A case has been registered under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-make-off-with-cash-jewellery-in-panchkula-335440
08-11-2021||---||PU murder: Chandigarh cops record statement of victim’s daughter, seize laptop||Chandigarh, November 7The UT police today recorded the statement of Panjab University (PU) Professor’s daughter in connection with his wife’s murder. Prof Bharat Bhushan Goyal’s wife Seema Goyal was found murdered at their house on the university campus on November 4. The police recorded the statement of the victim’s daughter. She was not at home on the day of the incident. The victim was found dead with her hands and legs tied with a cloth. There was an injury mark on her head. The CCTV footage of the area was scanned by the police, but they failed to find any clue. The call detail record of the victim’s mobile phone is being scrutinised by the police, besides the mobile dump data.The victim’s husband, who first saw the body in the bedroom, told the police that he was on the first floor while his wife was on the ground floor of their house at night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-murder-chandigarh-cops-record-statement-of-victims-daughter-seize-laptop-335439
08-11-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Despite cut, petrol still costliest in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 7After the much-awaited cut in petrol and diesel prices in Punjab, effective Monday (6 am), petrol will cost Rs97.02 per litre in Mohali, which will still be the highest in the tricity, while diesel will cost Rs85.38. The effective price revision is Rs9.05 and Rs4.33 for petrol and diesel, respectively, in Mohali.Petrol and diesel continue to be the cheapest in Chandigarh in the tricity.Petrol Pump Dealers Association, Punjab, spokesperson Ashwinder Singh Mongia said, ‘’The disparity remains in Mohali and Punjab. The government announced Rs10 and Rs5 rate cuts but in effect it is much less. Farmers, industry and petrol dealers are the worst sufferers. The revised rates will encourage smuggling of petrol and diesel in Punjab.’’Dealers in Mohali said the anomaly in petrol had been corrected to some extent but it still existed in the case of diesel. In Mohali, diesel is priced at Rs85.38 per litre whereas it is available for Rs78.80 (Rs6.68 less) in Una (HP) and Rs80.32 (Rs5.06 less) in Jammu and Kashmir. The dealers say the price variation may lead to smuggling of fuel from these places. After the price revision, diesel is cheaper in Mohali than neighbouring Haryana by Rs1.13 but the dealers said this too would not be long as Haryana was yet to revise its VAT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-cut-petrol-still-costliest-in-mohali-335436
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 Covid cases, no fatality in Chandigarh||The city on Sunday reported two cases of Covid-19. There was no death due to the virus. Four patients were cured of the disease. — TNS9 found infected in Mohali districtMohali: Nine persons were found positive, while four recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. There are now 33 active cases. The toll stands at 1,069. — TNSNo new Covid case in PanchkulaPanchkula: No coronavirus case was reported from the district on Sunday, keeping the overall tally unchanged at 30,775. The toll remained at 379. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-covid-cases-no-fatality-in-chandigarh-335435
08-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19 vaccination in Chandigarh lowest since March||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7Covid-19 vaccination this week has been the lowest since March in Chandigarh, with just 14,105 doses being administered to beneficiaries between October 30 and November 5.Between October 23 and October 29, 23,946 doses were administered to beneficiaries. The city has registered a 69.7 per cent decline the in vaccination from the previous week.At 12,911 doses, the Covid vaccination rate was the lowest between March 27 and April 2. The rate increased since then and had peaked at 72,741 doses during the August 14-20 period.The second phase of vaccination has been slow in Chandigarh as only 66 per cent of the target population has availed of the second dose. Recently, the UT Administration had appealed to the public, whose second dose was overdue, to come forward for vaccination.During a recent review, it was observed that the second dose was overdue in 75,526 cases in Chandigarh.In these cases, the first dose of Covishield had been administered more than 16 weeks ago but the second dose was still pending.Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary, said: “All citizens are requested to take both doses of the vaccine and also ensure that their friends or known persons are also fully vaccinated.”“Considering that the festival season is going on and there are possibilities of the spread of the virus, we should get the vaccination at the earliest. However, people should ensure that they receive the second dose of the same vaccine which they had got earlier,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-vaccination-in-chandigarh-lowest-since-march-335434
