09-11-2021||---||CM Charanjit Channi lays foundation stone of 350-bed hospital in Mohali||Mohali, November 9Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi laid the foundation stone of a 350-bed hospital here on Tuesday.Channi named it Sahibzada Ajit Singh Civil Hospital on the request of former health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.Rs 10 crore was sanctioned by Channi for a new auditorium in Mohali.He announced that property rights would be given to beneficiaries in Mohali within two months under the Basera Scheme.Rs 7 crore has also been announced for the synthetic track stadium in Sector 78. He said soon relaxations would be announced for 5-marla houses.Banda Singh Bahadur road near Chappar Chiri will be widened within two months.Saneta dispensary will be upgraded to a primary health centre, while the Gharuan primary health centre will be upgraded to a community health centre with seven doctors.He also assured that he would try to operationalise the Mohali bus stand soon.Balbir Singh Sidhu is like my brother: ChanniOn a lighter note, Channi said Balbir Singh Sidhu is like his brother. ''His love as well as opposition is very intense. I have seen both at close quarters,'' he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cm-charanjit-channi-lays-foundation-stone-of-350-bed-hospital-in-mohali-335959
09-11-2021||---||‘0001’ fetches Rs 11.20 lakh in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8The vehicle registration number ‘0001’ in the new CH01CG series fetched the highest bidding price of Rs11.20 lakh during an e-auction of fancy numbers conducted by the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) here today.Another number, ‘CH01-CG-0005’, received the second-highest bidding price of Rs5.03 lakh. It was followed by ‘CH01-CF-0009’, which was auctioned for Rs5.02 lakh. Considered to be lucky, the registration number 0007 was auctioned for Rs4.63 lakh, 0003 for Rs4.41 lakh, 0002 for Rs2.80 lakh, 9999 for Rs2.66 lakh, 0006 for Rs2.36 lakh, 7777 for Rs2.30 lakh and 0004 for Rs2.27 lakh. Meanwhile, 0008 sold for Rs2.01 lakh and 0010 for Rs1.06 lakh.The RLA earned a total revenue of Rs1,43,84,000 from the e-auction of fancy numbers of the new series, CH01-CG, held today, along with the re-auction of leftover numbers of the previous series — CH01CF, CH01CE, CH01CD, CH01CC, CH01CB, CH01CA, CH01BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS.Pradhuman Singh, in-charge, RLA, said the total revenue from the auction of new series and the leftover numbers of previous series this time had been the highest so far. The RLA had earned the revenue of Rs1,10,66,000 from the e-auction of fancy numbers of the CH01-CF series and the leftover previous series and Rs1,15,72,000 from the e-auction of special numbers of the CH01-CE series and the re-auction of leftover numbers of the previous series.The successful bidders will be required to get their vehicles registered as well as deposit the bidding amount within one month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10 per cent as well as interest at the rate of 10 per cent on the balance amount will be charged till the date of payment.Only owners who had purchased the vehicles on a Chandigarh address were allowed to participate in the e-auction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/0001-fetches-rs-11-20-lakh-in-chandigarh-335717
09-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||In Rana’s ward number 14, sewer line, road work not complete yet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Ward number 14, represented by BJP councillor Kanwarjeet Singh Rana, the youngest elected member in the MC House, saw some new projects, but Rana could not fulfil the promise of completing the new sewer pipeline work at Burail village and building a new road in Sector 45-A.CouncillorspeakThe sewer line work will be completed in two-three months. There is a coordination issue between the Public Health and the Building & Road wings of the MC. The Sector 45-A road issue falls in the UT’s jurisdiction, but I have taken it up several times. —  Kanwarjeet Singh RanaKanwarjeet Singh Rana, Councillor from ward number 14Area: Sector 45, BurailPromises: Laying new sewer, water pipeline, building road in Sector 45-AResult: Partly doneWard development fund: Almost all utilisedAchievementsA new and upgraded sewer pipeline in Burail is one of the most-needed basic amenities in the wake of increasing population. Though the work started in different parts in a phased manner, it is yet to be completed even as Rana’s five-year term is nearing an end. People have been facing inconvenience due to dug-up inner streets for long due to the slow pace of work.Jagtar Singh, president, Residents Welfare Association, Burail, told Chandigarh Tribune, “Earlier, during the Congress regime and now under the BJP tenure, our inner street issues have not been resolved. Some areas have been dug up for laying a sewer pipeline for a year. Residents here are facing huge inconvenience in moving around. Besides, there are no street lights and paver blocks have been laid improperly.”Burail resident Ravinder Smayal said, “The whole of Burail has been dug up and it’s a problem for residents to walk or use vehicles. Other than this, there are electricity wires and cables hanging around. The equipment in the open-air gym at Sector 45 has started breaking.”The long-pending demand of Sector 45-A residents to have an alternative road to avoid jams on the motor market road has remained on paper even after five years.Sanjiv Bansal, president of the Residents Welfare Association, Sector 45-A, said, “Due to chaos and traffic jams on the motor market road adjoining a residential area, we have been pitching for an alternative road, but in a vain. Earlier, there used to be a road, but it became a part of two parks. I have raised the issue with the Chief Architect as well as the area councillor, but no respite has been provided to the residents.”Bansal said demands such as CNG pipeline and maintenance of parks also remained unfulfilled. Meanwhile, Sector 45-C residents said the number of stray dogs had risen and nothing had been done to check the menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-ranas-ward-number-14-sewer-line-road-work-not-complete-yet-335720
09-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Fed up with parties, VOHS to field Shukla as Ind from Ward No. 35||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Having tried and tested political parties, the Voice of Housing Societies (VOHS), comprising members from Sector 48 to 51, has unanimously decided to field MN Shukla, convener, as an Independent candidate from ward number 35 for the coming Municipal Corporation poll.A social activistMN Shukla, who has done MA, MEd and a diploma in painting, is a social activist. He has been taking up the issues of flat owners of housing societies of Sector 48-51 under the banner of VOHS for a long time. The senior citizen, a yoga instructor, retired as a teacher.Sector 48, 49, 50 and 63 fall in ward number 35. “At a meeting of the president, secretaries and other functionaries, the decision to field MN Shukla, a resident of Labour Bureau Housing Society in Sector 49-A, in the MC elections was taken. He will be fully backed by the VOHS, which came into being in 2019 to raise a voice against the “regressive” Flat Transfer Policy, 2018, and is now a household name in these sectors,” read an official statement issued by the VOHS.Representatives from Sector 63 were also present at the meeting.“The VOHS came into being because of the non-cooperative attitude of councillors of the area and the local MP. The VOHS felt that politicians, especially elected members, could not provide any relief to dwellers of housing societies, be it in the matter of stamp duty, unearned increase, non-issue of completion certificate or the steep hike in the water tariff. They turned a blind eye to the dwellers’ issues. Thus, the VOHS has decided to have its own councillor from the area, who will be truly representing the cause of the people,” added the members.On his poll prospects, Shukla (73) told Chandigarh Tribune, “Political parties have regressive policies and have squeezed us. People feel that the elected representatives of the area have failed to protect the interests of dwellers.”Led by Shukla, members of these societies, who were protesting outside MP Kirron Kher’s residence in Sector 7 over their pending demands, were detained by the police in September 2019. Most of them were senior citizens and were kept in the lock-up at the Sector 26 police station, but were released later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-fed-up-with-parties-vohs-to-field-shukla-as-ind-from-ward-no-35-335723
09-11-2021||---||15-yr-old dies of dengue in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 8A 15-year-old boy of Salempur Nagal has succumbed to dengue, a Health Department official said today. The deceased has been identified as Shivaang Thaman, who was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali. He died on November 5.‘Take fluids aplenty’Goat milk, kiwi fruit or coconut water do not help in increasing platelets in any way. The patient should take maximum amount of fluids such as water, juice and lemon water. — Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Mohali Civil SurgeonFifty-eight new cases of dengue were confirmed today, while 104 samples have been collected for suspected dengue.The dengue case count in the district has reached 3,293. In the past five days, 440 cases have been reported. Last month, 2,260 cases of dengue were reported from various hospitals in the district. With one death accounted today, the toll has reached 33 in the district.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said 13 teams were regularly checking coolers, fridge trays, pots, empty tires, boxes and other containers in the district. She said a survey-cum-awareness campaign was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-yr-old-dies-of-dengue-in-mohali-335725
09-11-2021||---||For PEC, it’s been a wonderful 100-yr journey||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Sixteen students of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) received a package of Rs46 lakh (CTC) per annum, despite the Covid-induced recession (since July 2021), said the Director, Dr Baldev Setia, on the eve of PEC’s centenary day.“Sixty companies visited the campus and over 450 students got offers. As many as 314 students were chosen for paid internships and 132 were selected under pre-placement offers in different companies (a rise of 32 per cent). Sixteen students got job offers from Microsoft and the CTC is attractive,” said Setia. He recalled the efforts of past principals and directors. In 2019-20, the institute recorded a 28 per cent increase in job offers during the pandemic. Internship programmes saw a 13 per cent rise on a YoY basis in internship offers in 2020-21, which stands at 314.“I must congratulate all stakeholders. There’s always scope for improvement. Besides improving our infrastructure, we are making a lot of changes. The dip in NIRF rankings is a major cause for concern. A central research facility will be established in the 100th year for which Rs100 crore has been earmarked. The institute has started a faculty appraisal programme through an external peer review committee,” he said.He said a regular post of Registrar had been advertised. “As far as infrastructure is concerned, hostels for students have been refurbished and plans are afoot to build new guest houses and residential facilities for the faculty. Renovation of the auditorium, which has heritage value, is also on the cards.The centenary year will see 654 students do BTech, 160 students MTech and 27 students PhD.Meanwhile, a 10-foot balloon hoisting and a cake-cutting ceremony will be held to mark 100 years of the establishment of PEC. Dharam Pal, UT Adviser, Rajendra Gupta, Chairman of the Board of Governors, and SS Gill, Technical Education Secretary, will be the guests of honour. On November 16, President Ram Nath Kovind is scheduled to visit the campus. “The President has confirmed his visit to PEC,” said a source.What you need to know about PECKovind visit on Nov 16A 10-foot balloon hoisting and a cake-cutting ceremony will be held to mark 100 years of PEC. Dharam Pal, UT Adviser, Rajendra Gupta, Chairman of the Board of Governors, and SS Gill, Technical Education Secretary, will be the guests of honour. On November 16, President Ram Nath Kovind is scheduled to visit the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-pec-its-been-a-wonderful-100-yr-journey-335727
09-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Admn set to complete ICCC by January||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8For effective surveillance of traffic in the city, the UT Administration is all set to complete the Integrated Control and Command Centre (ICCC) by January next year.After the ICCC becomes operational, nearly 300 CCTV cameras installed at different junctions in the city will catch traffic violators live. A total of 2,000 cameras will go live at 287 junctions in the city in a phased manner.As of now, these cameras are being used for data collection on a trial basis and challans will be issued after the completion of the project.Under the project, being undertaken by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), about 80 per cent of the total cameras have been installed and 300 are already live at various locations, including Tribune Chowk, Centra Mall, Faidan barrier, Transport light point and the Sector 20 gurdwara light point. “We have planned to complete the ICCC by January next year,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.The hi-tech cameras are being installed for real-time surveillance of traffic junctions and other important buildings in the city such as waterworks, parks, government hospitals, community centres, parking locations and schools at around 287 locations.The cameras will catch traffic violations, including jumping the red light, overspeeding, driving without seat belt/face mask, zebra crossing parking and talking on the phone while driving. However, these cameras will not challan vehicles like ambulances. The cameras will record all traffic violations and then, the police can issue a challan. The surveillance on traffic will be made possible with the Adaptive Traffic Control System (ATCS) which has been set up at 40 junctions with the heaviest traffic volume.Apart from the ATCS, the ICCC will also have CCTV surveillance, Integrated Traffic Management System (ITMS), e-challan system, public address system (PAS) and the dynamic messaging system (DMS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-set-to-complete-iccc-by-january-335729
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Four found infected with Covid in Chandigarh||3 new Covid cases surface in Mohali Mohali: Three new Covid-19 cases were detected on Monday, while six patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, two were reported from Mohali (urban) and one from Gharuan. Of the 68,849 positive cases reported so far, 67,750 patients have recovered. — TNSTwo fresh cases surface in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded two fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,777. The toll remained at 379. While 30,391 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, seven cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-found-infected-with-covid-in-chandigarh-335731
09-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh: After 2 yrs, Sector 23 all-weather swimming pool to open for public||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8The UT Sports Department will soon re-open the all-weather swimming pool at Sector 23 for the general public.The pool is likely to be thrown open to the public later this month after a gap of almost two years.“The pool is almost ready and the swimming area has already been covered. Water temperature will be put at par with normal body temperature before opening it for users,” said a highly placed source.Earlier, the pool was opened for professional swimmers. However, with various swimming tournaments getting over, the pool was closed for time being. It will now be re-opened for professional swimmers as well.“Along with professional swimmers, the pool will be opened for the general public, who have been waiting to practice at the venue for two years now. This (Sector 23) is the single pool in Chandigarh, under the Sports Department, which functions in winters too. So, we can expect a good rush,” said the source.All the seven swimming pools under the UT Sports Department witness a huge rush in summers. However, this year, all pools remained shut for the general public due to the Covid pandemic.There has been a huge demand to open the pools for recreational groups.“Since the UT Administration has opened up everything, they should also open pools for the general public. The recreational group is usually represented by people above 18 years and the majority have already been vaccinated. We are ready to follow all Covid related protocols. However, the department should take a final call on this,” said Prabhnoor, a local swimmer.Anita, a swimming enthusiast, said: “The Administration has allowed private pools to function, but has restricted entry of general public at their own centres. It will be a welcome step, if the recreational time is allotted for the general public. It will also help the department generate some revenue.”Earlier in October, the department had opened state-run football, hockey and cricket academies for trainees above the age of 10 years. Previous to that, all other coaching centres were opened for the trainees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-after-2-yrs-sector-23-all-weather-swimming-pool-to-open-for-public-335732
09-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Shooter Abhishek Verma to get Arjuna Award||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8In a proud moment for the region, Tokyo Olympics shooter Abhishek Verma will be conferred with the Arjuna Award on November 13.He will receive the award from President Ram Nath Kovind during a specially organised function at Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi.Abhishek, who is the son of Justice Ashok Kumar Verma of Punjab & Haryana High Court, is currently competing in the President’s Cup shooting championship in Wroclaw, Poland. He won a bronze medal in the men’s air pistol event with a score of 580 points.Abhishek, who represented the country in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and finished 17th in the men’s 10m air pistol event after leading the qualifying event, will be awarded for his performance at the international and national level.Though he started his shooting career at the age of 27, Abhishek has been able to make an impression in the shooting world with his grit and determination to succeed at the highest level.Abhishek, who currently represents Haryana, is ranked third in the world (as of March 1, 2020).He shot to limelight after winning the gold medal in the 10m pistol event at the 2019 Beijing ISSF World Cup where he surpassed 2008 Olympic champion Pang Wei and also humbled Oleh Omelchuck – the former world file holder in the 10m air pistol event.Earlier, Abhishek had won his first international silver medal in the 10m air pistol event in the Changwon World Championships in 2018.At the Asian Games, held in the same year, Abhishek won a bronze.He also pocketed the bronze medal at the Delhi ISSF World Cup held in March this year.The Haryana marksman is being pegged as the biggest medal hope for the Indian shooting team in future World Championships, Asian Games and the 2024 Paris Olympics.Known for his calm demeanour, consistency and determination, the 31-year-old had decided to be his own coach and end up having a small indoor shooting facility at his Chandigarh-based residence.He is the only shooter among 35 sportspersons to get the Arjuna Award this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shooter-abhishek-verma-to-get-arjuna-award-335733
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rock Zone, Leisure Zone in final||Rock Zone will take on Leisure Zone in the UTCA U-16 Multi-Day Tournament final.Earlier, a fine spell of bowling by Ankush (3/44) and Yuvraj (2/16) helped Rock Zone bowl out Plaza Zone for 236 runs on the second and final day of their matchGully cricketChandigarh Police DGP Praveer Ranjan on Monday announced to conduct ‘gully cricket’ in collaboration with the UTCA. Apart from UTCA’s registered players, the tournament will witness participation of children and youth from all Sectors and villages of Chandigarh. The tournament will be a 10-day affair.Chasing Rock Zone’s total of 305, Plaza Zone failed to put on a sizeable partnership even as Ranvijay (47) and Paras (42) made decent contributions with the bat.In another match, Rose Zone beat Sukhna Zone on the basis of 113-run lead.Chasing Sukhna Zone’s total of 116, Rose Zone rode on Abhimanyu’s 73-run knock to score 229. Ashmeet made 40, while Neeraj scored 35 runs.Sameer took three wickets for Sukhna Zone, while Abhishek and Mukul got two wickets each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rock-zone-leisure-zone-in-final-335736
09-11-2021||---||Panchkula boy Ishan moves into quarterfinals||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 8Local lad Ishan ousted Faridabad’s Atiksh Malkoti 21-14 21-12 to reach the boys’ U-16 quarterfinals in the ongoing Haryana State Junior Badminton Championship at Tau Devi Lal Stadium here today.Manraj Singh from Faridabad eased into the last-eight with a convincing 21-10 21-16 win over Rohtak’s Ankit Malik. Dadri’s Ishan Rohilla beat Raghav Narwal 22-20 21-18, while Karnal’s Jaskirat Singh Batra edged out Vansh Sindhu 21-15 21-19.Aumkaran Sharma of Gurugram registered a 21-16 21-10 win over Royal Tongar. Panipat’s Rahul Lohan overcame Randeep 21-9 15-21 21-13 and Aaryan Sapiah prevailed 21-16 15-21 21-19 over Chirag Saini. Sonepat’s Gagan thrashed Sunny Nehra 21-7 21-8.In the boys’ U-19 per-quarterfinals, Raghav of Gurugram drubbed Harsh Anand Deshwal 21-9 21-10.Earlier, in qualifying rounds, Ansh Tirdia thrashed Buland 21-9 21-12, while Aumkaran Sharma trounced Tushar 21-3 21-8. Gagan outplayed Rahul Lohan 21-7 21-16. Manav Chaudhary beat Anshul Budhwar 21-18 17-21 21-11.In the girls’ U-17 doubles qualifiers, Komal and Kritika knocked out Lavanya and Neetee Choudhary 21-8 21-9.Suhaani and Vidushi Jaidka defeated Khushi and Palak 21-9 21-6, while Nidhi and Parul thrashed Bhumi and Vanshika Lathwal 21-3 21-6. Anchal and Sunaina drubbed Garvita and Nandini 21-8 21-5.Anmol Kharb and Ridhma Raturi registered a 21-0 21-5 win over Aaradhya and Divya. Tanya and Vinita came from behind to beat Nishu Malik and Tamanna Reddu 18-21 21-16 21-17, while Garima Kundu and Vedika Dahiya outplayed Riza and Ronak 21-11 21-7.In the girls’ doubles U-19 category, Ishika and Khushi defeated Sakshi and Simar Bedi 21-8 21-12, while Chanchal Yadav and Kritika thrashed Tanya and Vinita 21-14 21-16.Himanshi Dingra and Ruchi Chahal from Panchkula advanced to the next round with a 21-7 21-7 win over Garvita and Nandini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-boy-ishan-moves-into-quarterfinals-335737
09-11-2021||---||Jai, Madhav win gold||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Jai Dogra clocked 34:14.07s to win gold medal in the boys’ sub-junior 20km race in the Chandigarh State Road Cycling Championship here today.Himmat Singh (34:45.57s) and Akshit (35:20.84s) claimed second and third positions respectively.The championship is being organised by the Chandigarh Amateur Cycling Association.In the 40km men’s junior (9 laps) contest, Madhav Dutta (1:22:39s) finished on top. He was followed by Jaskirat Singh (1:22:43s) in second place, while Dushyant Beniwal (1:22:44s) bagged the third position.Pravishi Sadyal (1:12:38s) claimed the gold medal in the 32km (7 laps) women’s junior event.In the 80km (18laps) men’s elite contest, Mukul Raj clocked 2:27:47s to clinch the gold medal. Paras (2:27:47s) pocketed the silver, while Gaurav Chauhan (2:27:48s) returned with the bronze medal.Manan Kundal (2:21:51s) topped the podium in the 80km men’s U-23 competition. Pranav Mohindra (2:25:23s) and Vikram Seth (2:31:20s) finished second and third, respectively.In the 40km women’s elite event, Rupali Khurana (1:33:04s) bagged the gold medal, while Vineeta Kumari (1:33:17s) brought home the silver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jai-madhav-win-gold-335739
09-11-2021||---||Farm activists ‘locked’ inside Chandigarh gurdwara, not allowed to protest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8A group of protesters alleged that they were locked up inside a gurdwara in Sector 38 by the Chandigarh Police here today and not allowed to protest.Even as we were locked inside, they asked us to hide our flags, a symbol of protest. This is pathetic. Why are we being stripped of our right to dissent? Is this a democracy? I don’t think so. — Harpreet Kaur, One of the protestersThe activists protesting against the farm laws had arrived at Sector 38 to agitate against the BJP leaders, MP Kirron Kher and Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, who were invited to inaugurate Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila Bhawan.Harpreet Kaur, one of the protesters and resident of Sector 37, said: “About six police persons locked us inside Sector 38 gurdwara, as we had arrived to stage a peaceful protest against the farm laws.”“Even as we were locked inside, they asked us to hide our flags, a symbol of protest. This is pathetic. Why are we being stripped of our right to dissent? Is this a democracy? I don’t think so. We were locked here at 4 pm and they allowed us to leave around 6:45 pm,” claimed Harpreet.Harvinder Singh, a resident of Daddu Majra, alleged that the police personnel removed three anti-farm law flags from his car and talked to him in objectionable language.“I was going for some personal work and had just reached Sector 37-38 roundabout when the police stopped my car and removed all three flags. These three flags were a symbol of protest against the three farm laws,” said Harvinder.“I have videos and audio recordings of constables who used cuss words while talking to me. I wasn’t even going for the protest, but then the flags are my way of showing dissent. How can they stop me and why? I’m not harming anyone. It’s just a show of my beliefs,” he said.Meanwhile, the police were not available for a comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-locked-inside-chandigarh-gurdwara-not-allowed-to-protest-335740
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh boys suffer yet another loss||City boys faced fourth consecutive defeat in the ongoing Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy as they suffered a 42-run loss against Saurashtra at Lahli, near Rohtak, today.Batting first, Saurashtra made 209 for four in the allotted 20 overs, with opener AV Vasavada (72) and wicketkeeper-batsman Sheldon Jackson (70) hitting a half-century each.Bhagmender Lather took two wickets for Chandigarh.Needing to score 10.5 runs per over for victory, Chandigarh could only manage 167 for six in 20 overs.Arjit Singh (44) and Gaurav Puri (35) made useful contributions to the chase but could not help Chandigarh cross the finish line.Chandigarh will play its last league match against Uttarakhand tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-boys-suffer-yet-another-loss-335743
09-11-2021||Panchkula||Manan propels CL Champs to 54-run victory||A quick-fire 82 by Manan Arora helped CL Champs Cricket Academy beat TDL Cricket Academy, Panchkula, by 54 runs in Grecobe Cup match here today.In the second match, S Tinku Cricket Academy registered a seven-wicket win over Sunrise Cricket Academy, Zirakpur.Batting first, CL Champs rode on Arora’s knock to make 170 for five in 25 overs.Rakshit Kaushik claimed two wickets for TDL Academy.In reply, TDL Academy could only manage 116 for seven in 25 overs. Rakshit Jain (48) was the top scorer for the side.Ranveer Arora claimed two wickets for CL Champs.Meanwhile, S Tinku Academy chased the 140-run target set by Sunrise Academy in just 16.1 overs. — TNSU-16 c’ship from Nov 14Chandigarh Cricket Association, affiliated with Haryana Cricket Association, will organise the 1st Kewal Kumar Nagrath Memorial U-16 Cricket Tournament from November 14 in Chandigarh and Barwala. Six teams – Karnal, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Panchkula, Chandigarh and Kurukshetra – will compete in the invitational tournament. The teams will be divided into two pools. Top teams from each pool will qualify for the Haryana U-16 inter-district cricket tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manan-propels-cl-champs-to-54-run-victory-335744
09-11-2021||---||LWCC log win||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Livewire Coaching Centre Chandigarh (LWCC) defeated Godrej India Ltd, Mohali, by 119 runs in a Cancer Awareness Day T20 Cricket Tournament match.Batting first, LWCC scored 177 for two in 20 overs, with Harvinder Nain (37), Ankush Arora (35), Dr Luthra (42) and Alok Bhardwaj (40) making useful contributions to the total.Sukhvir Singh claimed both the wickets to fall in the LWCC innings.In reply, Godrej XI were bowled out for 59 runs. Vishal (24) and Sudhir (14) were the only batters to score in double digits.Alok Bhardwaj took three wickets, while Pankaj and Shubham bagged two wickets each for LWCC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lwcc-log-win-335745
09-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh: Court declines CBI request for adjourning Sippy murder case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Inderjeet Singh, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Chandigarh, rejected the request of the investigating agency to adjourn the Sippy murder case on the grounds that further investigation is pending. The 2015 murderIn the order, the court observed that the grounds for seeking adjournment were totally unjustified because an untraced report had already been filed by the agency.The court stated, “After filing of the untraced report, the investigating agency is at liberty to investigate and collect new evidence at its own level but the same is not an embargo upon the power of the court to accept or reject the untraced report already filed by the investigating agency.”The court further stated that as far as the order dated December 14, 2020, passed by predecessor court was concerned, the CBI was directed to file a fresh report as per the investigation. The direction was only with respect to the polygraph test of suspects Simrandeep Singh Sandhu and Karampal Singh, but both the suspects had already withdrawn their consent to go through the test.The court made the observation after investigating officer RL Yadav made a written request for an adjournment in the case stating that further investigation in the case was on and some time was required to conclude it.The case was fixed for filing a protest petition by aggrieved persons, Deepinder Kaur and Jasmanpreet Singh Sidhu, on the untraced report filed by the CBI.Deepinder Kaur also requested for an adjournment of at least one month due to a death in the family. She needed time so as to go through the record and to file a protest petition. The court declined her request also. The court stated that the request was totally unjustified as sufficient time had already been granted to them to file a protest petition.The court has now fixed November 18 as the next date in the case for the purpose of filing point-wise and specific protest petition, if any, and an alternative for consideration on the untraced report filed by the CBI.The CBI had filed the untraced report in December last year. However, the CBI had mentioned that the investigation was being kept open and requested for directions under Section 173 (8) of the CrPC to continue further investigation.The family members of advocate Sukhmanpreet Singh Sidhu, alias Sippy, have opposed the untraced report filed by the CBI.Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate and national shooter Sukhmanpreet Singh Sidhu was murdered on September, 20, 2015. Neither the police nor the CBI has been able to nail the killers. Raising questions over the CBI’s untraced report, Sippy’s brother said there was ample evidence against the suspect in the case. After Sippy’s murder, the police had registered a case against unknown person. When the police could not solve the case, it was transferred to the CBI in 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-declines-cbi-request-for-adjourning-sippy-murder-case-335746
09-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit opens auditorium at  Sector 38 Mahila Bhawan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit inaugurated an auditorium at Rani Lakshmi Bai Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38 here today.Purohit congratulated the MC for creating a highly innovative, thoughtful and modern auditorium, “which is going to be the hub of socio-cultural activities in future”.Addressing the gathering virtually, MP Kirron Kher said women shouldered critical responsibilities even in India’s struggle for freedom. The history of Indian freedom struggle would be incomplete without mentioning the contributions by women.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said the structure of the auditorium building spread on 1.3 acre was constructed in 2015. Now, the furnishing work was carried out with state-of-art facilities to make it functional, he added.Earlier, former Mayor and area councillor Arun Sood welcomed all the guests. He said the main aim of opening the auditorium was to promote cultural and traditional activities, particularly in southern sectors of the city.Cultural programmes were organised on the occasion. UT Adviser Dharam Pal, MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra were also present at the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-opens-auditorium-at-sector-38-mahila-bhawan-335747
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Three-day defence financial management course begins in Chandigarh||A three-day defence financial management course (DFMC) being organised by the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (Western Command), Chandigarh, and Financial Planning (FP) Cell of Headquarters Western Command, Chandimandir, began here today.In his inaugural address, Lt Gen Devendra Sharma, Chief of Staff, Western Command, emphasised the importance of better financial management by participating officers. He said the Defence Accounts Department had area expertise and hoped that all participating officers would benefit from specialised faculty on various issues of financial management in the Ministry of Defence.DR Negi, Principal Controller of Defence Accounts, highlighted the importance and need of this DFMC in view of the huge delegation of financial powers to Army units and formations. The main purpose of this course, he said, was to create awareness about latest financial management concepts, procurement procedures and process to ensure smooth and prompt action by all concerned in the larger interest of the organisation.The course, coordinated by Panveer Saini, Joint Controller of Defence Accounts and Colonel Gagandeep of the FP Cell, was attended virtually by approximately 100 Army officers posted in different units and formations under the jurisdiction of Western Command. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-day-defence-financial-management-course-begins-in-chandigarh-335749
09-11-2021||---||Cops question PU Prof in wife’s murder case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8The UT police today questioned Prof Bharat Bhushan Goyal in the murder case of his wife.Sources said Goyal, a professor at the University Business School (UBS), was questioned for several hours at the Sector 11 police station.The victim, Seema Goyal, was found dead with her hands and legs tied at their house on the university campus on November 4.Her husband, who first saw the body in the bedroom, had told the police that he was on the first floor while his wife was on the ground floor of their house at night. Their daughter was not present at home.The victim was taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 by her husband where she was declared brought dead. The police were then informed about the incident.The preliminary post-mortem examination report had suggested strangulation as the cause of death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-question-pu-prof-in-wifes-murder-case-335751
09-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Congress secy joins AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Former secretary of the city Congress Prem Lata, along with her associates, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today.During a programme at the AAP office in Sector 39, Chandigarh affairs in-charge of the party and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh welcomed Prem Lata and her supporters in the party. Lata was actively working in the Congress for the past 15 years.City AAP co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra, convener Prem Garg, election campaign committee chairman Chandermukhi Sharma and general secretary Vijay Pal Singh were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-secy-joins-aap-335752
09-11-2021||---||Lawyer among two remove BJP flag from Panchkula rotary, booked||Panchkula, November 8Two youths were booked for removing BJP flags from the Dolphin Chowk at Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) here on Sunday.The duo has been identified as Yuvraj Singh and Ankit Gupta, both 26 years of age. While Yuvraj is a private contractor, Ankit is an advocate at the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Acting on a complaint filed by Vijendra Singh, SHO, Traffic (City), a case under Sections 186 (voluntary obstruction of public servant in discharge of his public functions), 283 (danger, obstruction or injury to any person in public way) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC was registered against them.The complainant stated, “Around noon on Sunday, he was deployed on VIP duty in the area when PCR cops informed him that two persons were blocking a road. I got off my car to speak to them. They questioned me who had put BJP flags on the roundabout. I told them it’s a civic matter and should be raised with the Municipal Corporation. Meanwhile, one of them stepped up on the roundabout and pulled out a BJP flag. When I asked him to get aside, he threatened me and prevented me from performing my duties.”The duo has denied the charges, saying the FIR was “misleading and false”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lawyer-among-two-remove-bjp-flag-from-panchkula-rotary-booked-335753
09-11-2021||---||Youth shot at outside Mohali mall, 2 nailed||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 8A Patran resident received a gunshot injury in his right thigh when a youth fired at him in the parking lot of a multiplex in Sector 66 here on Sunday night.The victim has been identified as Vikramjit Singh, 25, who had come to watch a late night show at the multiplex.The suspects have been identified as Phase 3B-1 resident Jasmer Singh, Sector 91 resident Ravinderpal Singh and Malerkotla resident Khushbir Singh. Jasmer and Ravinderpal have been arrested while Khushbir managed to flee the spot.A case was registered against the suspects under Sections 307, 323, 341, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at the Phase XI police station. The suspects were produced in court, which sent them to three-day police remand.In his statement to the police, the complainant, Vikramjit Singh, stated that the suspects had an argument with him during the show. When he came out of the multiplex around 1:20 am on Monday, the trio started arguing with him again in the parking lot. One of them shot him in his left leg and fled the spot.DSP City-2 Sukhjeet Singh Virk said, “Jasmer fired upon the victim on his right thigh. He has been arrested and the weapon, a licensed revolver, has been seized.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-shot-at-outside-mohali-mall-2-nailed-335754
09-11-2021||Mohali||Anganwadi workers protest in Kharar||The Anganwadi Employees Union, Punjab, today protested against the Congress-led state government and tried to gherao the residence of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi in Kharar.The protesters raised slogans against the government and demanded that their long-pending demands be fulfilled immediately.They demanded that the pre-primary classes should be returned to the anganwadi centres. Anganwadi centres functioning under the welfare council should be immediately taken back and the vacant posts of anganwadi worker and helper for the past five years should be filled immediately. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anganwadi-workers-protest-in-kharar-335756
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fraud accused denied bail||A local court has dismissed the bail application of Devinder Singh Gill who was arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Chandigarh Police last month in cases of immigration fraud.Gill was arrested from the District Courts Complex in Sector 43 while he was about to enter a CBI court in connection with a 2011 corruption case.Advocate Varinder Singh, representing around 128 complainants, opposed the bail application of the accused citing serious nature of the charges. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraud-accused-denied-bail-335757
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab & Haryana, UP Bar councils ink pact||The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh and the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana today signed an MoU to exchange information, invitations and holding joint seminars, etc.Both Bar councils have decided to share their functionality, policies, processes and vision to better serve the legal fraternity of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and UP. The MOU was signed in the presence of Minderjeet Yadav, Chairman, Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, and Shirish Kumar Mehrotra, Chairman, Bar Council of UP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-up-bar-councils-ink-pact-335758
09-11-2021||Chandigarh||Four booked for stabbing Mauli Jagran resident||Safai sewaks Seek job confirmationZirakpur: Members of the Safai Sewak Union of the Zirakpur Municipal Council today met Executive Officer Girish Verma and expressed their resentment over a delay in the confirmation of jobs to janitors and others. Union president Pradeep Sood handed over a memorandum in this regard to the MC head Udayvir Singh Dhillon. TNSBanned pesticide seized from shopZirakpur: The Agriculture Department raided a pesticides shop on the Patiala road here on Monday and seized banned and expired pesticides. The matter was brought into the notice of the department by a farmer from Isapur village in Dera Bassi. Forty litres of banned pesticide was recovered from the shop. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-booked-for-stabbing-mauli-jagran-resident-335760
