10-11-2021||Chandigarh||CA booked for embezzlement||Gold bangle stolen in Sec 51Chandigarh: A Sector 51 resident, Navdeep Singh Gill, has alleged that Gaurav, a resident of Faidan, stole a gold bangle while polishing a wardrobe at his house. TNS Legal services camp heldChandigarh: On the occasion of National Legal Services Day, the State Legal Services Authority, UT, organised a legal services camp for women at the Community Centre, Vikas Nagar, on Monday. The program was a part of "Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign" started under the "Bharat ka Amrit Mahatosav" celebrations. Justice Ritu Bahri, Judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court and Executive Chairperson of State Legal Services Authority, UT, Chandigarh, interacted with the staff and public present there. Gurbir Singh, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, was also present. The camp saw participation by around 3,000 persons. Aadhaar cards, voter cards, labour cards were made or correction carried out at the camp. TNSKaila elected CII vice-chairmanChandigarh: Rajiv Kaila, Director of Kaila Engineering Pvt Ltd, has been elected vice-chairman of the Chandigarh chapter of the CII. He is a second-generation entrepreneur and joined the family business in 1988. Kaila holds a graduate degree in commerce from Commerce College, University of Rajasthan, and had completed his schooling from St Xavier's, Jaipur. The election had to take place due to the sudden demise of incumbent vice-chairman Deepak Kansal on October 8. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ca-booked-for-embezzlement-336303
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh beat  Uttarakhand||Skipper Manan Vohra’s 74-run contribution against Uttarakhand helped the city lads to register a six-wicket win in the last match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Tournament at Gurugram.Vohra won the toss and put Uttarakhand to bat. Jagjit Singh Sandhu managed the first success by dismissing Tanush Gusai (7) in the 4th over. Thereafter, S Arora and captain Kunal Chandela raised a 78-run partnership. S Arora (68) and Saurabh Rawat (14), meanwhile, remained unbeaten and helped the side to achieve 161/5 in 20 overs.Chandigarh got off to a brisk start with their openers Vohra and Sarul Kanwar raising a 67-run partnership. Vohra (74) with Ankit Kaushik (20) helped the side to achieve the win. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-beat-uttarakhand-336302
10-11-2021||---||Haryana's Anjali wins judo gold||Mohali, November 9Haryana’s Anjali defeated Payal of Madhya Pradesh to win women’s U-40 kg gold medal on the opening day of National Cadet and Sub-Junior Judo Championship at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. In the men’s U-50 kg category, Sagar’s mix of aggressive play helped him to win gold by defeating Lucky. Silambarasan of Tamil Nadu and Kumar Nitin of Uttar Pradesh will fight in the bronze medal match.As many as 460 players from all 28 states and nine union territories of the country will be participating in the five-day championship.Speaking after inaugurating the event, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said his government was committed to developing sports culture in Punjab, to eventually restore the glory of the state at national and international levels. He also announced an ultra-modern indoor judo stadium to be constructed in Punjab, and also announced Rs20 lakh as grant to the Punjab Judo Association for promotion of sports in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryanas-anjali-wins-judo-gold-336301
10-11-2021||---||Jeev Milkha Singh to make a comeback at greens after one year||Chandigarh, November 9After a gap of almost one year and losing his parents, Jeev Milkha Singh will be back in action at Chandigarh Golf Course during the TAKE Sports and TATA Steel Professional Golf Tour of India’s (PGTI) Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational Tournament from November 11 to 14.The main event will be preceded by the Pro-Am event on November 10.The tournament had been jointly launched by TAKE Sports and TATA Steel PGTI in 2018 as a gesture to honour Indian golfing great Jeev Milkha Singh. The 4th edition of the tournament will offer a handsome cash prize of Rs 1.5 crore. The field will feature 129 participants, including 126 professionals and three amateurs.“I am making a comeback after almost one year. This will be my first tournament after losing my parents and before starting my senior tournament series. After this, I will be playing two tournaments in Thailand and hopefully some events in Middle East and Monaco. March 2022 onwards, I will be making an overall comeback with senior tours and many other events. I just wish, Covid restrictions don’t hurt my plans,” said Jeev.When asked about the break he took after losing his father and iconic athlete Milkha Singh and his mother Nirmal Milkha Singh, Jeev said he was still trying to overcome emotions. “We went to my mother’s sister house in Liverpool. She is the only one alive from my maternal family. There’s no one in my paternal family members, so it was a bit emotional moment. Every Diwali, we used to sit together for prayers. However, this year we were alone. The room (where Milkha couple used to live) still takes me back to memoires. It’s not easy, but golf is the only way I can make them proud,” said Jeev, who is planning to travel with a full-time physiotherapist ahead in tours.Event dedicated to MilkhaThis year’s Pro-Am event has been named as Milkha Singh Pro-Am Day, a tribute to the Legend. The field for the tournament this year will feature event host Jeev Milkha Singh along with India’s international stars such as Gaganjeet Bhullar, SSP Chawrasia, Shiv Kapur, Jyoti Randhawa and Rashid Khan. The presence of defending champion Karandeep Kochhar and former champions Ajeetesh Sandhu (2019) and Chikkarangappa (2018), also adds to the strength of the field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jeev-milkha-singh-to-make-a-comeback-at-greens-after-one-year-336300
10-11-2021||Zirakpur||2 held in theft case, 31-tola gold recovered||The police have arrested two suspects, including a woman, in connection with a theft at a housing society in Zirakpur and recovered 31-tola gold from them. The suspects have been identified as a native of Surat, Satinderpal Singh, alias Sahib; and Simranpreet Kaur, a native of Muktsar. Both were residing in Badal Colony.The police recovered a scooter, a hammer and an iron blade used in the crime. The complainant, Neeraj Saharan of Royal Estate, stated that he locked his house in the society on October 27 and left for Ganganagar. On October 31, his neighbours informed him that the back door of his house was open. Lockers were broken and gold ornaments were missing from the cupboards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-in-theft-case-31-tola-gold-recovered-336299
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Youth whose pistol was used in firing outside Chandigarh nighclub nailed||A Ferozepur resident, whose pistol was allegedly used to open fire outside a nightclub in Sector 26 last month, has been arrested by the UT police. The suspect, identified as Partap (25), was not present at the spot.The police said Partap’s pistol was used in the crime by Deepu. “We have recovered the pistol and added Section 212 (harbouring offender) of the IPC to the case,” said a police official.In the incident that happened on October 30, Simarpreet of Ambala, was injured.Four occupants of an i20 car had an argument with occupants of an Alto over “wrong parking” near Bargain Booze.The victim, along with his cousin, was leaving after having dinner. The victim started tying the laces of his shoes by keeping his feet on the bonnet of the i20 car. The suspects thought that the victim was accompanying the youths riding the Alto car following which they entered into an argument with him. One of the suspects pulled out a gun and fired two shots, one of which hit the victim on his left leg. All the suspects had managed to escape from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-whose-pistol-was-used-in-firing-outside-chandigarh-nighclub-nailed-336298
10-11-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Five booked for robbing eunuch||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-five-booked-for-robbing-eunuch-336297
10-11-2021||---||Parking equipment burnt, stolen,  claims paid-parking contractor in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 9A paid-parking contractor of the Sector 14 market has alleged that two persons stole and burnt parking equipment and barricades on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.In his complaint to the police, Lal Chand, a resident of Sector 25, stated that the suspects had entered into an argument with a staff member, Sita Ram, after he asked them to pay fee for parking a four-wheeler.“Following the altercation, the suspects threatened the parking employee that they would teach him a lesson and they won’t be able to charge anyone tomorrow,” he said.The complainant added that the masked suspects were also caught on CCTV cameras while taking away parking equipment.A case has been registered in this connection at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parking-equipment-burnt-stolen-claims-paid-parking-contractor-in-panchkula-336296
10-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Youth Cong protests price rise||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9The city Youth Congress today kickstarted its campaign against the BJP-led Central Government over price rise.The campaign was led by HS Lucky, general secretary and chief spokesperson of the city Congress. He was accompanied by Sunil Sharma, Richi Bhargava and Satyavir Aloriya, co- incharges of the city Youth Congress, and Manoj Lubana, president.Congress activists gathered in front of a petrol pump in Sector 7 and went to government quarters and the sector market to distribute pamphlets highlighting inflation and difference in the prices of commodities during the Congress and BJP tenures.Lucky said the BJP government was fleecing people as prices of all essential commodities increased manifold. The prices of petrol and diesel were increased by almost Rs40 in the past one year while the relief given was only Rs5 and Rs10, respectively, which was too little, too late, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-youth-cong-protests-price-rise-336295
10-11-2021||---||Law students have bright future: Kiren Rijiju||Chandigarh, November 9“Speedy Justice for the common man is the objective in celebrating Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav,” said Kiren Rijiju, Minister of Law and Justice, in an online address during a programme organised jointly by the Faculty of Laws, University Institute of Legal Studies, Panjab University Regional Centre, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Ludhiana, and Hoshiarpur, to celebrate “Bharat ki Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” and Constitutional Day.The minister said India was a developing country and youngsters should come forward as mediators since necessary steps were being taken to make our nation a global centre of arbitration and mediation. He requested the participants to take a pledge to make a robust legal system in the country. He said the future of students pursuing law was bright as many opportunities were coming.Prof Raj Kumar, Vice Chancellor, Panjab University, spoke about the journey of PU from Lahore and how it had remained committed to its objective of producing billions of minds for the service of nation. Dr Devinder Singh, Chairman, Department of Laws; and Dr Rajinder Kaur, Chairperson, University Institute of Legal Studies, spoke about their departments. Prof HS Bains, Director, PURC, Hoshiarpur, proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/law-students-have-bright-future-kiren-rijiju-336294
10-11-2021||---||PEC celebrates 100th Foundation Day||Chandigarh, November 9With the completion of 100 years, since its inception in 1921, Punjab Engineering College (PEC) celebrated its 100th Foundation Day today.Also read: For PEC, it’s been a wonderful 100-yr journeyThe chief guests were Dharam Pal, Adviser to the UT Administrator; Rajendra Gupta, Chairman of Board of Governors; and SS Gill, Technical Education Secretary.The event was attended by the faculty, staff and student representatives. The dignitaries spoke about PEC and its role in shaping technical education throughout history. Dharam Pal mentioned the strong influence of PEC alumni serving at highly acclaimed positions across the world and drew examples from Kalpana Chawla, Professor Satish Dhawan and Vandi Verma just to name a few.The Director of PEC, Dr Baldev Setia, said this event was a kick-starter to a plethora of events lined up for the year, beginning with the centenary year celebrations on November 16 in which the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, would also take part.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-celebrates-100th-foundation-day-336293
10-11-2021||Mohali||11 test +ve for Covid-19 in Mohali||5 infected in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported five cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Five patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNSNo fresh case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded no fresh case of coronavirus on Tuesday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,777. With no death in the past 24 hours, the toll also remained at 379. While 30,392 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, six cases are still active. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-mohali-336292
10-11-2021||Mohali||75 new dengue cases in Mohali||As many as 75 confirmed cases of dengue fever were reported from the district today.In the past five days, 416 persons tested positive for the vector-borne disease, while 737 have been taken ill this month alone. As many as 2,260 dengue cases were reported last month.The number of dengue cases in the district has reached 3,368. The disease has claimed 33 lives in the district this year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-336265
10-11-2021||Panchkula||Rs25-cr road works on Panchkula MC House meet agenda||An agenda for the allocation of Rs25 crore for construction of new roads and recarpeting of existing roads in the MC limits will come up in the next General House meeting of the local Municipal Corporation scheduled to take place on November 12 at Kisan Bhawan in Sector 14.The civic body has been facing flak for poor condition of roads in the city.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal will preside over the meeting, which will be attended by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria, councillors and civic body officials.Issues like construction of a ‘nandishala’ on six to eight acres at Kot village to deal with increase in the stray cattle population, building an MC rest house, a coffee house and a lake near proposed Education City in Chandimandir will also be taken up at the meeting.An increase in allowances of councillors from Rs10,000 to Rs15,000 per month is also a part of the 21-point agenda to be presented in the MC House meeting. A resolution to charge Rs10,000 as rent from Vita booths, which have been allotted the site on MC land, will also be discussed at the meeting.Other agenda items include introduction of e-bike facility, increasing MC fee on ‘kisan mandi’ organised in different sectors, renovation of dilapidated community centre in Sector 19, shifting of dairies to Sukhdarshanpur village, construction of a community centre in the Chandimandir area, naming of all community centres under the MC after martyrs, construction of residential houses for the Mayor and the MC Commissioner, tender for display of advertisements in the MC limits, construction of multi-level parking in different sectors and development of group housing societies at Kot Billa and Jaswantgarh, which will be preferably allotted to MC and councillors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs25-cr-road-works-on-panchkula-mc-house-meet-agenda-336264
10-11-2021||---||Punjab CM lays stone of 350-bed Civil Hospital in Mohali||Mohali, November 9Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi laid the foundation stone of the building of 350-bed Civil Hospital in Sector 66, Mohali, which would be named Sahibzada Ajit Singh Civil Hospital, Mohali.CM Channi said the Rs 40-crore building would provide 24-hour emergency services, besides OPDs and wards for all specialties, seven modular operation theatres, separate mother and child wing, four-bed dialysis unit, blood bank with component and platelet facility, mortuary, dispensary with free medicine, homeopathic and ayurveda departments, physiotherapy services, staff residences and three-storied multi-level parking.The Chief Minister also sanctioned Rs 10 crore for an auditorium in Mohali. He also announced plans to construct 25,000 houses for the EWS across the state. He said ‘sanads’ conferring proprietary rights were being provided under the Basera scheme throughout the state. The Chief Minister announced to relax conditions for booth owners to construct a second storey. He also announced Rs 10 crore for holistic development of the city, Rs 7 crore for laying of synthetic track at the Sports Stadium in Sector 78 here, dispensaries of Saneta and Gharaun be upgraded as PHC and CHC respectively and bus stand for the city.In the end, the CM appealed to the electorate to vote for Congress in the upcoming Assembly elections. Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni who also holds the charge of the Health Department, said the Mohali medical college would have 500 beds and admission to it would start soon with 250 seats.On a lighter note, CM Channi said former state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was like his elder brother. “His love as well as opposition is very intense. I have seen them both at close quarters,” said Channi.Other announcements||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-lays-stone-of-350-bed-civil-hospital-in-mohali-336263
10-11-2021||---||CHB invites e-bids for sale of 113 commercial, 46 residential units||Chandigarh, November 9The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) had invited e-bids for the sale of 159 commercial and residential properties from November 10.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the e-tenders for 113 commercial and 27 residential properties on a leasehold basis and 19 residential units on a freehold basis could be submitted till December 27 up to 10 am and the bids would be opened the same day.He said stickers had been pasted at each of the unit for better identification and site offices had been provided at different locations to facilitate inspection by prospective bidders. The location of each of the unit was also available on Google Maps, while the address of the site offices and contact details were available on the official website www.chbonline.in.He said the residential units on a freehold basis could be inspected every Saturday from 10 am to 5 pm, residential units on a leasehold basis on every Wednesday and commercial units on a leasehold basis on every Friday.After reducing the reserve price of its vacant commercial and residential properties on a leasehold basis by 20 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, the CHB had invited e-bids for the sale of 191 vacant units — 132 commercial and 31 residential units on a leasehold basis and 28 residential units on a freehold basis — in September this year, but the CHB could sell 19 commercial and four residential units on a leasehold basis and nine residential units on a freehold basis to the highest bidders in the auction held on October 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-invites-e-bids-for-sale-of-113-commercial-46-residential-units-336262
10-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||President likely to open aviary near Sukhna Lake on Nov 16||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9President Ram Nath Kovind is likely to inaugurate the much-awaited aviary at Nagar Van (city forest) near Sukhna Lake on November 16. Later, the aviary will be opened for general public.The President will be in the city to take part in the centenary celebrations of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) on November 16.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said efforts were being made to include the inauguration of the aviary in the President’s programme on November 16.Set up on over four acres by the UT Forest and Wildlife Department, the aviary will house 1,470 exotic birds from 46 species.The aviary will have separate enclosures for aquatic and terrestrial birds. The height of the enclosures has been designed keeping in mind the flight of the birds. Apart from free flight, the birds will be provided with the best possible natural habitat for nesting and breeding, said an official.A committee constituted for the project conducted a study about the habitat, flora and water quality of the area before selecting the birds for the aviary. The aviary would be a major tourist attraction in the city and visitors would be able to see exotic birds from close, the official added. He said the aviary had been developed on the lines of Jurong Bird Park in Singapore.Spread over 100 hectares in and around the Sukhna Lake Reserved Forest area, Nagar Van has facilities like walkways, jogging trails, nature trails, shallow water bodies and sheds for visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/president-likely-to-open-aviary-near-sukhna-lake-on-nov-16-336256
10-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||AAP names six candidates for Chandigarh MC poll, withdraws citing error||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9The city Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today announced and then recalled the names of six candidates for the Municipal Corporation elections.The party declared the names through its official email account to the Press. Later, it sent another mail stating that there was some error and corrected release would be sent soon. However, no name was announced by the party till late in the evening.A party leader, on the condition of anonymity, said there are chances that a name or two among those declared today were still in the proposal stage and hence, the announcement was withdrawn.Another party leader said a senior leader of another party was expected to join tomorrow, adding that thus, they would take a call on candidates later.Sources said there was uproar in AAP after the names were announced. Some party leaders contended that those who spent a few months in the party were given tickets, and the old workers ignored. Following this, the decision was put on hold, added the sources.AAP convener Prem Garg, however, said, “It must have been sent by mistake. No list of candidates had been prepared.”Vandana Yadav (ward number 9), Sandeep Dahiya, GM, private company (ward number 12), Ramchandra Yadav, interior designer (ward number 15), Taruna Mehta (ward number 18), Amardeep Singh, advocate, (ward number 27) and Sandeep Bhardwaj (ward number 35) were earlier named as AAP candidates today.“Please do not use this release as there is some error in details of candidates....We will soon provide you with the corrected photos and press notes. Sorry for the inconvenience,” read the revised statement.Till now, no political party has officially announced the names of their candidates in the city. Though a new entrant, AAP took the lead in declaring the names only to backtrack later. The poll will be contested on 35 seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-names-six-candidates-for-chandigarh-mc-poll-withdraws-citing-error-336253
10-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court orders eviction of Trendsetters from SCO in Sector 17, Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9Member of Parliament Kirron Kher’s sister Kanwal Thakar Singh has won a legal battle against tenants with Mayank Marwaha, Rent Controller, Chandigarh, ordering M/s Trendsetters, M/s Dullah House, M/s Davinder S Jaaj and Co., Chartered Accountants, and others to be evicted from the tenanted premises, SCO No. 18 in Sector 17 here.The Rent Controller has directed the tenants to hand over the tenanted premises within a period of one month from the date of order failing which the petitioner will be at liberty to approach the court to take the vacant possession of the tenanted premises, in accordance with law.Kanwal Thakar Singh, a resident of House Number 65, Sector 8-A, Chandigarh, has filed a rent petition under Section 13-B of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949, as extended to the Union Territory, Chandigarh, for the ejectment of the tenants from the first floor, ground floor and mezzanine floor of shop-cum-office number 18, Sector 17-E, Chandigarh.In the petition, Kanwal said the SCO was initially owned by Col Thakar Singh, son of Capt Dyal Singh; Diljit Kaur, wife of Col Thakar Singh; and Amardeep Singh, son of Col Thakar Singh, all residents of House No. 65, Sector 8-A, Chandigarh. Subsequently, Diljit Kaur and Col Thakar Singh transferred one-third share and one-sixth share respectively (a total of 50% share) of the SCO in favour of the petitioner and her sister namely Kirron Kher, i.e. 25% each, in the SCO through registered transfer deeds on September 21, 2007.Subsequently, the Estate Officer, UT, Chandigarh, mutated the said 50% share in respect of the SCO in favour of the petitioner and her sister Kirron Kher on October 4, 2007, and therefore, the petitioner is one of the owners and landlord of the SCO.She said her husband migrated to the US after acquiring a degree in engineering from Panjab University in 1977 and had worked with IBM for more than 25 years. After her husband’s retirement, she and her husband have decided to settle in Chandigarh permanently where the petitioner also owns a substantial share in House No. 65, Sector 8-A, Chandigarh. The petitioner and her husband have decided to settle in Chandigarh and to set up a business for sale of computer systems, as well as run a computer software development and training centre on the ground floor and mezzanine floor.She said she was a gold medallist in MA History from Panjab University and was a sports woman of international repute. Before her marriage, she had represented India in international events and played badminton in the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games, and is an Arjuna Award holder.She stated that she had also decided to set up a health centre-cum-gymnasium-cum-spa on the entire first, second and third floors of the SCO with the latest equipment and training techniques so as to create a sense of good health, well-being and healthy stress-free living among youngsters.The counsel for the respondents argued that the need of the petitioner couldn’t be termed as bona fide since she had not examined her husband for whom she was seeking eviction.But the Rent Controller found no merit in the arguments and said this argument of the counsel for the respondents did not inspire the confidence of this court. The Rent Controller said the petitioner had successfully established her bona fide personal necessity and her status as an NRI. In view of this, the respondents are ordered to be evicted from the tenanted premises.Petitioner plans health centre at SCOThe petitioner, Kanwal Thakar Singh, stated that she had decided to set up a health centre-cum-gymnasium-cum-spa on the entire first, second and third floors of the SCO with the latest equipment and training techniques so as to create a sense of good health, well-being and healthy stress-free living among youngsters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-orders-eviction-of-trendsetters-from-sco-in-sector-17-chandigarh-336241
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman duped of gold jewellery||Two fraudsters, including a woman, allegedly duped a 72-year-old woman of her jewellery in Sector 49.Complainant Sarla Kumari Angra, a resident of Sector 49, was returning from a temple on November 6 when a man, aged around 35, approached her near the Pushpak society on the pretext of asking for an address.Soon, a woman, who seemed to be around 60, approached the victim. The fraudsters engaged the victim in a conversation and convinced her to remove her gold jewellery.She reported that the suspects wrapped her jewellery in a piece of cloth and asked her to open the cloth only after reaching home. The victim, on opening the cloth, found that it contained iron bangles.She said they took her gold jewellery, including bangles, a ring, a chain, a diamond pendant and earrings.She approached the police on November 8 following which a case was registered at the Sector 49 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-woman-duped-of-gold-jewellery-336233
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Vinay Pratap Singh to be new Chandigarh DC||Vinay Pratap Singh will be the new Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Chandigarh. A Haryana-cadre IAS officer of the 2011 batch, he is currently serving as the DC of Panchkula.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India, today approved the proposal of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for an inter-cadre deputation of IAS officer Vinay Pratap Singh from the Haryana cadre to the AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segment) for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier.The Haryana Government had sent a panel of three IAS officers —Vinay Pratap Singh, Prabhjot Singh and Mukul Kumar — to the UT for the post of the DC, which is reserved for a Haryana-cadre IAS officer.The UT Administrator had recommended the name of Vinay Pratap Singh to the MHA for the post of DC.The three-year inter-cadre deputation of incumbent DC Mandip Singh Brar ended on October 31. The Administration had sought a three-month extension for Brar. However, the MHA had directed the UT Administration not to relieve Brar till further orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vinay-pratap-singh-to-be-new-chandigarh-dc-336230
10-11-2021||---||Padma Shri for Dr Digambar Behera||Mohali, November 9Tricity-based respiratory medicine specialist Dr Digambar Behera was conferred the Padma Shri by President Ram Nath Kovind for his commendable contribution to the field of medicine at a civil investiture ceremony held at Rashtrapati Bhawan on November 8.He is currently the Director, Pulmonary Medicine, at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.Dr Behera also served as the Dean (Research) and Head of the Department of Pulmonary Medicine at the PGI and Director of the National Institute of TB and Respiratory Diseases for five years. He has a clinical experience of over 40 years.Hailing from Odisha, Dr Behera did his graduation from SCB Medical College, Utkal University, in 1978. He then joined the Department of Medicine at the PGI as a junior resident in 1978 and continued his stint till April this year. He completed his MD from the PGI in 1980 and Diplomate of National Board of Examination in Medicine and Respiratory Medicine in 1982 and 1983, respectively. He joined the Department of Pulmonary Medicine as a faculty member in 1984 where he was elevated to the post of Professor in 2000.Dr Behera is a pioneer in lung cancer chemotherapy and the founder president, Indian Society for the Study of Lung Cancer. Currently, he is the president of the Indian Chest Society and chairman of the National Task Force for National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme. He has over 500 publications to his name and has presented more than 580 papers in national and international conferences. He has authored and co-authored nine books, including Text Book on Pulmonary Medicine, Text Book on Respiratory Medicine, Advances in Respiratory Medicine, Bronchial Asthma, Tuberculosis and Spirometry. He is also the recipient of 29 national and seven international awards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/padma-shri-for-dr-digambar-behera-336226
10-11-2021||Naina Mishra||218 dengue cases in Chandigarh this month, tally reaches 1,107||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9The city has recorded 218 cases of dengue this month, taking the tally to 1,107 this year. A total of three patients died of the disease.While daily cases have started to show a decrease from 40 to over 20 now, city residents are still facing a shortage of platelet kits in the market.Varun, a city resident, had put up a request on the social media for purchasing platelets kits. According to him, no platelet kits were available with local chemists. Many people whose family members are suffering from dengue are putting up requests on the social media regarding platelets kits.The outbreak of dengue this year has been attributed to the DENV-2 strain, which is more virulent and can induce mortality and high fever in patients. Another reason behind the surge is delayed monsoon due to which maximum cases cropped up in October. The dengue mosquito cannot breed as the temperature falls and hence relief is expected once there is a dip in the temperature.This year, the UT Health Department issued maximum challans and show-cause notices to city residents and institutions for violating dengue norms by not keeping their surroundings clean and giving mosquitoes more space for breeding. A total of 474 challans, 9,703 notices and 335 show-cause notices were issued this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/218-dengue-cases-in-chandigarh-this-month-tally-reaches-1-107-336224
