11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Minor girl commits suicide||One held for murder bidChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 23-year-old youth in an attempt-to-murder case. Complainant Chanderbhan, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, alleged that Mohit, Rohit, Kala Ram Lotu and others stabbed his friend Rakesh at Ram Darbar on November 8. The victim, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32. The police registered a case at the Sector 31 police station. Later, Mohit, alias Tota, was arrested. TNSElderly hurt in road accidentChandigarh: An 89-year-old man suffered injuries after the auto he was riding overturned near the Sector 20/21 light point. Complainant Proshotam Das, a resident of Sector 18, reported that he hired an auto, which overturned leaving him injured. The police have registered a case against an unknown auto driver at Sector 19 police station. TNSOne held for stealing tilesZirakpur: The police arrested an employee of a tile shop in a theft case near the UT barrier here on Wednesday. The suspect has been identified as Naveen, a resident of Baltana. He has been remanded in police custody. On a complaint of tile shop owner Ashok Kumar Bansal, a case under Section 381 of the IPC was registered at the Zirakpur police station. The complainant stated that Naveen was seen uploading tiles in a car around 10:30 pm on November 2. TNSRowing trials to be held on Nov 14Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Rowing Association will organise trials for selecting junior team on November 14 at the Rowing Centre Lake Sports Complex from 9 am. The selected team will participate in the 41st Junior National Rowing Championship to be held at Pune from December 8 to 12. Those born on or after January 1, 2003, will be eligible to participate in the trials. The participants must adhere to strict Covid norms. TNSKho kho trials on November 13Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Kho Kho Association will organise trials to select boys and girls to participate in the 31st Sub-Junior National Kho Kho Championship to be held in Una, Himachal Pradesh, from November 27 to December 1. The trials will be held on November 13 at the Panjab University Grounds, Sector 14, at 3 pm. Players born on or after December 2, 2007, will be eligible to participate in the trials. TNSPanjab varsity VC visits museumsChandigarh: Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar visited museums of various departments, including Gandhi Bhawan, Ancient History, Fine Arts, Anthropology, Zoology and Geology. During his visit, he met the chairpersons and the staff. TNSPanjab university declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University declared the results of Master of Science (mathematics) second semester, BA LLB (Hons) (five-year integrated course) seventh semester and Bachelor of Arts (second semester) examinations. TNSElections of PU Associations heldChandigarh: A total of 70.07 per cent votes were polled today in the elections of the Panjab University 'C' Class Staff Association. Of the registered 538 votes, 377 votes were polled. Meanwhile, 872 votes were polled in the Panjab University Staff Association (PUSA) elections. As many as 590 votes were cast at Administration Block (ground floor). 239 votes at Administration Block (second floor), 20 votes at Hoshiarpur, 17 votes in Ludhiana and six votes were cast at Muktsar Sahib. TNSPencak Silat State C'shipChandigarh: The Chandigarh Pencak Silat Association will organise the State Sub-junior, Junior, Senior and Masters Pencak Silat Championship at Dev Samaj College for Women, Sector 45, from November 19 to 21. Players born on or after April 1, 2007, and April 1, 2004, will be eligible to participate in the sub-junior and junior categories, respectively. Interested players can confirm their entries with the organisers before November 17. TNSSekhri appointed tech directorChandigarh: Mahesh Sekhri, general secretary, Chandigarh Carrom Association, has been nominated technical director for the Inter-Institutional National Carrom Championship 2021-22. The championship is scheduled to be held at Pudduchery from November 18 to 21. The 26th All-India Federation Cup Carrom Tournament is scheduled to be held at Varanasi from December 25 to 28. Besides technical assignments, Sekhri has the honour of completing several international assignments in various capacities. TNSState Yoga team selectedChandigarh: The Chandigarh Yogasana Sports Association selected the state team for the National Yogasana Sports Championship 2021-22 to be held from November 11 to 13 at KIIT University, Patia, Bhubaneswar (Odisha). A team of eight members has been selected, including, Tanisha (GGMSSS-18), Payal Verma (GMSSS-Karsan), Simran (GGDSD College-32), Komal (GGMSSS-20) and Kamini (GMSSS-Mani Majra Town). And officials are Paranmjeet Morya (team manager), Minakshi Thakur (team coach) and Rohit Ghawri (national jury panelist from Chandigarh). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-girl-commits-suicide-336715
11-11-2021||Mohali||Tamanna moves into tennis semis||Tamanna Walia outplayed top seed Punjab’s Shrawasti Kundilya 6-2 6-4 to reach the girls U-14 quarterfinals of the ongoing Roots-AITA CS (7) U-14 National Ranking Championship.Second seed Akshita Vashist also reached the semifinals by defeating Ajenika Puri 7-5 6-1. Agampreet Kaur defeated Reet Arora 6-2 6-4 and Saravnoor Kaur managed to defeat Sachleen Kaur 7-6(5) 4-6 6-4 in other quarterfinals. In the boys’ U-14 category, Ranvir Singh of Haryana defeated Armaan Walia of Punjab 6-2 7-5 to make his way into the semis.In the girls’ U-16 doubles quarterfinals, Ekam Kaur/Akshita Vashisht beat Shrawasti Kundilya/Vrinda Verma 6-2 6-4. Priyanshi Katial/Saravnoor Kaur outplayed Mokshika Yadav/Vanshika Yadav 6-1 6-3, Meher Sharma/Arzoo Thakkar beat Ira Chadha/Suhani Bhasin 6-4 7-6(6) and Ajenika Puri/Tamanna Walia beat Reet Arora/Paavni Panwar 3-6 6-4(10-8). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tamanna-moves-into-tennis-semis-336714
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: NSS special camp at Government College of Education||Awareness campChandigarh: The Sri Sukhmani College of Law organised an awareness camp on free legal services and women empowerment on the campus. Baljinder Singh, CJM-cum-secretary district legal services authority inaugurated the camp. TNSSeminar heldChandigarh: The Post Graduate Department of Commerce and Management of GGDSD College, Sector 32, organised a seminar titled “Actuarial Sciences as a Career Option”. TNSAyurvedic congressChandigarh: The All-India Ayurvedic Congress, New Delhi, will organise “Ayurved Parv” at Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, here, from November 12 to 14. TNSMoU signedChandigarh: A Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Dr Sanjiv Kalia, Registrar, Desh Bhagat University, and Dr SN Murthy, Director (CCRAS-Patiala) Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences, New Delhi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-nss-special-camp-at-government-college-of-education-336713
11-11-2021||---||Expedite revision of voter lists, says Rupnagar Divisional Commissioner||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 10In view of the forthcoming Assembly elections and following the directions of the Election Commission of India, Manvesh Singh Sidhu, Electoral Roll Observer-cum-Divisional Commissioner, Rupnagar, held a review meeting at the District Administrative Complex to review the revision of voter lists, here on Wednesday.He also reviewed the matters related to revenue cases in the district. Mohali Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said in today’s meeting, the Divisional Commissioner-cum-Electoral Roll Observer directed the electoral registration officers to expedite the revision of voter lists in the urban and rural areas. Sidhu also reviewed the revenue cases of the district.He directed the revenue officers to expedite the disposal of all pending cases of registries and mutations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expedite-revision-of-voter-lists-says-rupnagar-divisional-commissioner-336712
11-11-2021||---||Bharat, Unnati emerge badminton champions||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 10Gurugram’s Bharat Raghav returned from a game down to defeat Rohtak’s Raman in the boys’ U-19 final on the concluding day of the Haryana State Junior Badminton Championship at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3 here today.Raghav logged (16-21, 21-11 and 21-14) win over his rivals. Rohtak’s Unnati Hooda also faced a tough fight from Panchkula’s Devika Sihag before registering (21-18, 16-21 and 21-16) win in the girls’ U-19 title clash.In the boys’ U-17 final, Manraj Singh of Faridabad defeated Sonipat’s Gagan (21-14 and 21-13), while Unnati won the girls’ U-17 final as Muskan Sangwan (3-1) conceded the match.In the mixed doubles’ U-19 final, Pankaj/Ridhi Kaur defeated Anshul Budhwar/Chitwan Khatri (21-16 and 21-14), whereas the team of Palak Arora/Unnati won the girls’ U-17 doubles’ final by defeating Muskan Sangwan/Sheena (21-10 and 21-11).In the girls’ U-19 doubles’ final, Palak Arora/Unnati defeated Devika/Ridhi Kaur (21-18, 22-24 and 21-19) and Aman Sindhu/Anshul Budhwar ousted Aryan Hooda/Pankaj (19-21, 21-19 and 21-19) in the boys’ U-19 doubles final.In the U-17 mixed doubles’ final, Aaryan Sapiah/Jiya Rawat defeated Sunny Nehra/Muskan Sangwan (21-16, 18-21 and 21-12). Randeep/Sunny Nehra won the boys’ U-17 doubles’ final by defeating Ishan Rohilla/Mohit (21-17 and 21-12).Earlier, in the girls’ U-19 semis, Unnati defeated Jiya Rawat (21-10 and 21-7) and Devika ousted Aafreen (21-15 and 21-10). In the girls’ U-17 semis, Unnati defeated Anmol Kharb (21-19 and 21-11) and Muskan defeated Jiya Rawat (23-21, 7-21 and 21-11).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-unnati-emerge-badminton-champions-336711
11-11-2021||Mohali||National meet: Delhi judokas bag six gold||Judokas from Delhi bagged six gold medals, while Haryana won four gold, three silver and one bronze medal in the National Cadet and Sub-Junior Judo Championship, organised by the Punjab Judo Association at Chandigarh University, Gharuan.The Punjab team won one gold and two silver medals. Sagar Anurag of Delhi bagged the gold medal by defeating Lucky of Haryana in the U-50-kg final. Nitin Kumar won the bronze medal. In U-55 kg, Haryana’s Jatin won gold medal by defeating Uttarakhand’s Pramod Bisht. Chhattisgarh’s Himanshu won a bronze medal.Siddharth Rawat of Uttarakhand bagged the gold medal in the U-60 kg by defeating Emmanuel Lalchhandma of Mizoram in the final. Rohit Majgul of Gujarat won the bronze medal. Tanish Balhara of Delhi won the 66-kg weight category, while Manipur’s Bishal K claimed the silver medal and Akash of Rajasthan won bronze.Manipur’s Laishran Max bagged the gold medal by defeating Punjab’s Chirag Sharma. Chhattisgarh’s Fardeen won the bronze medal in the U-73kg weight category. In U-81 kg, Manipur’s Saeetal N, Rajat Singh Chib of Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana’s Ravi claimed top three positions, respectively.In U-90 kg, Anil defeated Rakesh Gill and Prakhar Kumar won the bronze medal. In the Above 90-kg weight category, Haryana’s Manvinder grabbed the gold medal and Delhi’s Yash Vijayran claimed silver. Maharashtra’s Aditya Parab won the bronze medal.In the women’s cadet championship, Anjali of Haryana bagged the gold medal by defeating Payal Patil of Madhya Pradesh in the final of the U-40 kg. Anjali of Uttar Pradesh won the bronze medal. In the U-44 kg weight category, Maharashtra’s Shraddha Chopade won gold medal by defeating Delhi’s Jaanvi Yadav. Gujarat’s Ankita Naghera won bronze medal.In U-48 kg, Delhi’s Tanu Mann, Haryana’s Anu and Manipur’s Naloti Th won first three positions, respectively. In the U-52 kg category, Delhi’s Tanishtha won gold by defeating Haryana’s Ashu Devi. Madhya Pradesh’s Bhumika won the bronze medal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-meet-delhi-judokas-bag-six-gold-336710
11-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Parents allege favouritism in archery trials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10Parents of local archers alleged that the Chandigarh Archery Association (CAA) is re-conducting trials, meant for selecting local teams for nationals, in order to give an opportunity to an archer from a neighbouring state.Contradicting the allegations, the local association maintains that the archer has taken a no-objection certificate (NoC) from the previous state and the approval of the Archery Association of India (AAI). In addition, the CAA can call archers for trials as many times as it wishes under its authority.As per rules, an archer has to apply to both states for getting NoC with regard to reliever/adoption with a valid and justified reason. The responsibility of getting NoC from both states and submitting it to the AAI should be completed as of April 1.“We are not against any player, but we fail to understand the reason behind conducting re-trials. Our children won’t mind appearing for trials at any given day, but the authorities should not accept new entries. Only registered archers, during the previous trials, should be considered for re-trials. If someone comes after this second phase of trials, will the association entertain him or her?” questioned a parent.“We have the right to call trials till the time we find a well-balanced team. The archer (in question) has taken NoC from the AAI and other state as well. The trials will be open for all and those who perform better will go ahead to represent the city in the nationals,” said Amarinder Singh Bazaz, president of the CAA.Asked if the trials were re-called to adjust any archer in the team, Bazaz denied the allegations. “We have to recall the trials anyway, because rain had disturbed the previous ones,” said Bazaz. “I want to say the trials will be open for all and everyone will have an opportunity to perform and get selected,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-allege-favouritism-in-archery-trials-336709
11-11-2021||---||Rock Zone beat Leisure Zone to clinch trophy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10Nikhil’s pace attack helped Rock Zone to bundle out Leisure Zone for 173 runs and secure 151-run win in the U-16 Multi-Day Cricket Tournament for the 1st Balramji Dass Tandon Memorial Cricket Trophy, played at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium today.On the second day of the final match, Rock Zone declared their innings at 324/8. In reply, Leisure Zone scored 173 runs with a dismal start. They were 15 for three on the board at the very first session of the day. Ishan Gaba remained unbeaten for 83 off 133 balls, with the help of 13 boundaries. He was ably supported by Saavig Garg (22). Nikhil (4/26) was the pick of the bowlers while Vardaan (2/14) and Vivek (2/33) took two wickets each for the bowling side.Raghav Verma of Rock Zone was awarded the man of the match for his unbeaten 134 runs. Verma was also adjudged best batsman of the tournament while Hrithik Sandhu was named the best bowler. Nikhil was the best all-rounder of the tournament. Haryana Sports Minister and Hockey Olympian Sandeep Singh, along with UT Home Secretary Nitin Yadav, honoured the players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rock-zone-beat-leisure-zone-to-clinch-trophy-336708
11-11-2021||---||Third edition of Panchkula Dog Show on Sunday||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 10The 3rd edition of Panchkula Dog Show will be held opposite Hotel Holiday Inn, Sector 3, here on Sunday. The event is being organised by Royal Kennel Club in collaboration with Animal Pet Hospital, Sector 3, here.The curtain raiser of the event was held today at the Chandigarh Press Club which also witnessed the presence of a few top dogs.Sikander Singh, general secretary, Royal Kennel Club, Panchkula, who himself is a breeder, said, “For any queries related to entries, one can call up at +91- 9915268876, visit our Facebook page — Vom Carnivous Rottweiler or e-mail at carnivous351@gmail.com. On the spot, the entry will be taken till 9.30 am.”The other highlights of the event include a street dog-adoption project, awareness camps, anti-rabies and free vaccine camp and a programme where tips on how to raise pets will be given.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/third-edition-of-panchkula-dog-show-on-sunday-336707
11-11-2021||---||Ward in-charge: AAP releases six names for Chandigarh MC elections||Chandigarh, November 10The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today released its first list of six ward in-charge for the municipal elections to be held in December.These six persons were yesterday “inadvertently” declared party candidates. In the second mail, the party had clarified that it was an error.“We will see their work and performance in the respective wards for the next few days. Following which, a decision will be taken,” said a party leader.The MLA from Delhi and Chandigarh affairs in charge, Jarnail Singh, announced the list today. He said soon the other names would also be released.Vandana Yadav has been appointed in charge of Ward Number 9, Sandeep Dahiya of Ward Number 12, Ramchandra Yadav of Ward Number 15, Taruna Mehta of Ward Number 18, Amardeep Singh of Ward Number 27 and Sandeep Bhardwaj of Ward Number 35.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ward-in-charge-aap-releases-six-names-for-chandigarh-mc-elections-336706
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh Pro-Am Day: Top honours for Kshitij’s team||Delhi-based professional Kshitij Naveed Kaul and his team won the top honours at Milkha Singh Pro-Am Day, a tribute to the Legend, the Pro-Am event of the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational Tournament.Kaul’s team won the Pro-Am event with a total score of 55.5. It comprised of amateurs Padamjit Sandhu, Saurabh Mangat and Bandy Singh. Kolkata-based professional Viraj Madappa and his team finished first runners-up with a score of 55.7. It comprised of amateurs B Chandra Sekhar, Mukesh Sharma and Sachin Bansal.Local lad Karandeep Kochhar’s team finished second runners-up with a score of 56. Kochhar’s team comprised of amateurs Dalip Kang, Balvinder Singh Mattu and K Raghav Bhandari. The prize for the closest to the pin on hole no. 8 was won by Varun Rao, whose shot landed four feet and six inches from the pin.The prize for the Incredible India closest to the pin on hole no. 11 was won by Col Ajaytaj, whose shot landed five feet and six inches from the hole. The prize for the straightest drive on hole no. 5 was won by Pauline Singh, whose shot landed one foot and two inches from the centre of the fairway.Aman Bhaika won the prize for the straightest drive on hole no. 13. His shot landed one inch from the centre of the fairway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singh-pro-am-day-top-honours-for-kshitijs-team-336705
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House to take call on solar power plant||General House of the MC will take a call on okaying a solar power plant generating Rs1.38 crore worth of electricity annually at its meeting scheduled for November 12.It will be built at the Sector 39 water works by the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST).The revenue generated from the plant will be shared between the UT Administration and the corporation in a 70:30 ratio. The 2MWp floating SPV power plant will generate 28 lakh units per annum and would be set up under the CAPEX mode. The society will bear the expenses on its installation, said the agenda report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-to-take-call-on-solar-power-plant-336704
11-11-2021||---||Don’t support MN Shukla’s candidature for Chandigarh MC poll: Societies||Chandigarh, November 10Opposing the decision of the Voice of Housing Societies (VOHS) to field its convener, MN Shukla, as a candidate for the MC poll, allegedly projecting him a representative of the southern sectors, office-bearers of several societies said they did not support him.They said it was being projected that all societies of the southern sectors were under the VOHS and they supported the candidature of Shukla from the Labour Bureau Society, Sector 49, but it was not the case at all.“This association is a group of a few unsatisfied BJP persons. This organisation is misusing the name of societies for their petty political interests, while presidents and other office-bearers of different societies are against the VOHS,” alleged Rajesh Thakur, president, JBS Society, Sector 48.Through a press statement, JJ Singh, president, Mayur Vihar Society, Sector 48, said, “To project and promote Shukla as a unanimously chosen representative of all housing societies is wrong.”“We will decide who to vote only after the names of all candidates are out. And no way, he is our representative,” said Thakur.GS Musafir, secretary, Rajdhani Cooperative House Building Society, Number 1, Sector 49, claimed, “He has affiliation with one party. Why does not he seek ticket from that party? During elections, he arranged events for BJP MP Kirron Kher here. What is his interest in fighting independently? He has the support of a few individuals only.”While talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Shukla said, “We have challenged the established political parties, now such accusations will happen. I reiterate no party supported our cause. We are neutral and will take forward our fight.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-support-mn-shuklas-candidature-for-chandigarh-mc-poll-societies-336702
11-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid effect: EWS admissions lowest in 3 years in Chandigarh schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10Economically Weaker Section (EWS) admissions have been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic with 2021-22 session witnessing the lowest number of admissions in the past few years.In 2019-20, there were 730 total seats in 56 unaided schools, of which 44 seats were left vacant. The pandemic hit the city in March 2019 and schools were shut across Chandigarh as a consequence of the pandemic. During the 2020-21 session, 820 seats were reserved for EWS students in the private schools but 66 seats remained vacant.In the current session, 61 schools were able to reserve comparatively a lesser number of seats than the previous years. Against 662 seats reserved for the EWS category in 2021-22 session, 99 seats still remained vacant in the private schools.Under Section 12(1) (c) of the Right to Education (RTE) Act, the private schools are required to reserve 25% seats for children belonging to Economically Weaker Sections (EWS)/Disadvantaged Groups (DG) and provide free and compulsory elementary education till its completion.Nitin Goyal, from the Chandigarh Parents Association, said, “Schools were closed during the Covid-19 pandemic and EWS parents are usually unaware of the online procedure. Some may have migrated to their native places and remained under the impression that schools are closed and admission is halted. I would request the administration to invite fresh applications for the current session and not convert the vacant seats into general category.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-effect-ews-admissions-lowest-in-3-years-in-chandigarh-schools-336696
11-11-2021||---||Hit-&-run victim dies in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 10A cyclist injured in a hit-and-run accident earlier this month succumbed to his injuries. The police are now looking for a white Hyundai car that was seen speeding after hitting two cycles on which three persons were riding.Complainant Hari Lal of Zirakpur had reported that he, along with Shiv Murat, a resident of Mauli Jagran, was returning home on a cycle on November 2 when a speeding car hit their cycle and one another cycle near a petrol pump in Mani Majra. A PCR vehicle took all three injured persons to a hospital.A case against an unknown car driver was registered at the Mani Majra police station.Shiv succumbed to his injuries on November 7. The police said the CCTV footage of the area was being scrutinised. Meanwhile, the police are also collecting information from service centres and mechanics in the city about Hyundai vehicles repaired after November 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-run-victim-dies-in-chandigarh-336693
11-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Panchkula woman acquitted of cheating, forgery charges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10A local court has acquitted a Panchkula woman of cheating and forgery charges while terming the probe by the police as shoddy. The UT police had registered the case against the woman, Soma Rani, on a complaint of the PGI, Chandigarh.As per the complaint, the woman prepared false medical records by forging documents and used these as genuine documents to get her husband, Hakam Rai, released on parole from a jail on the grounds of her illness and caused wrongful loss to the PGI.On the basis of the complaint, the FIR was registered against the woman on August 27, 2011, for the offence punishable under Sections 420, 468 and 471 of the IPC at the Sector 3 police station, Chandigarh. The accused was arrested. After the completion of investigation, a challan was presented in the court against the accused.After finding a prima facie case under Sections 420, 468 and 471 of the IPC, the court framed charges against the accused to which she did not plead guilty and claimed trial.While the prosecution claimed that the woman prepared fake medical reports, counsel for the accused Naveen Upadhyay argued that she was falsely implicated in the case.Statements of the accused under Section 313 CrPC were also recorded wherein she pleaded herself to be innocent and claimed that she had been falsely implicated in the case.After hearing the arguments, Chetesh Gupta, Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Chandigarh, said the prosecution failed to prove charges against the accused beyond reasonable doubt.The court said the perusal of the medical certificate revealed that the certificate had been issued by a senior resident of the Department of Urology. However, he was neither made a witness in the present case nor he was ever investigated.Further, perusal of the reports reveals that mere photocopies of the report had been placed on the file and originals were never produced before the court. A careful scrutiny reveals that the report had been signed but no effort had been made by the investigating agency to inquire as to who had signed the alleged false report. Moreover, the report and the false medical opinion do not pertain to any one department of the PGI, but to various departments i.e. Urology, Cardiology, Endocrinology, Emergency and pre-anaesthesia clinics. It is beyond contemplation that a patient can procure false reports and medical opinions without the involvement of employees of the department concerned.Further, the petition filed on behalf of the husband of the accused before the Punjab and High Court for parole reveals that it is the husband of the accused who filed an affidavit before the Punjab and Haryana High Court along with the medical reports and record of the accused in order to justify the grounds for parole. Merely because the husband of the accused was the beneficiary of the alleged offence, she cannot be fastened with the liability. Thus, the prosecution has miserably failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused.“Before parting, it is relevant to note that the present complaint was registered on the basis of the initiative of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, but the investigating agency proceeded in such a shoddy manner that it created a quagmire out of the matter resulting into failure of justice as neither the role of a doctor nor Hakam Rai was ever investigated into. Thus, in view of the aforesaid discussion, the prosecution has failed to prove the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt and she is acquitted of the allegations levelled against her,” the judge said in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-woman-acquitted-of-cheating-forgery-charges-336690
11-11-2021||---||Cotton worth lakhs reduced to ashes in Dera Bassi mill fire||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, November 10A fire broke out at a spinning mill on the Barwala road here this evening, reducing a huge quantity of cotton lying in the open to ashes.Fire officials said sacks containing old and new cotton caught fire near the spinning mill possibly due to bursting of firecrackers in the area.Fire tenders were rushed to the spot from Dera Bassi to control the blaze. Fire officials were controlling the blaze at the spot till the filing of report.Eyewitnesses said no loss of life was reported. However, cotton worth lakhs kept near the Chandigarh Spinning Mill was gutted. Sacks were kept in the open and away from the main plant, which averted loss to the machinery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cotton-worth-lakhs-reduced-to-ashes-in-dera-bassi-mill-fire-336688
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees two fresh cases of Covid-19, no death||The city on Wednesday reported two cases of Covid-19. There was no death due to the virus, while six patients were cured of the disease. — TNS4 more test positive in Mohali districtMohali: Four new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district while three patients recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. Among the new cases, three were from Mohali and one from Dera Bassi. — TNS3 cases reported from PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded three fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,780. The toll remained at 379. While 30,394 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, seven cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.74 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-two-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-no-death-336684
11-11-2021||---||Snatcher targets woman on train at Chandigarh railway station||Chandigarh, November 10A man entered a train when it was leaving the Chandigarh railway station, snatched a woman’s purse containing Rs1.10 lakh and valuables, and escaped by jumping off the locomotive last evening, it has been alleged by a resident of Kalka.As the speed of the train was slow, the snatcher, who also attacked the woman, did not get injured while jumping off. The woman was travelling from Kalka to Jammu with her husband and seven other members of her family when the alleged incident took place.A neighbour and relative of the family, Varinder Sharma, told Chandigarh Tribune, “My neighbours, a total of nine family members — three men, three women and three children — were travelling from Kalka to Jammu on a train for a wedding function. On the way, at the Chandigarh station, platform number 4, where the train (Kalka-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Special - 04535) stops for about 15 minutes, my neighbours Charu and Amit Sukheja were looted of valuables worth Rs1,10,000 and house keys. An unknown person snatched the woman’s purse containing these items. They informed me about it in the morning through a phone call.”Varinder said his neighbours called him from a BSNL connection as their phones were not working in Jammu. “They told me that the man came inside the train as it started leaving the station, snatched the woman’s purse and jumped off the moving train. In the process, he even hit the woman and her arms got bruised, they said. This happened between 7.30 pm and 7.40 pm when the train stopped at the station. They tried to pull the chain, but the train did not stop. The chain, probably, wasn’t working. Then, they informed the TTE, who sounded the division apparently,” he said.Today, Varinder visited the city station to intimate the GRP about the incident and spoke to SHO Raj Kumar. “He showed me the CCTV footage, but the cameras on platform number 4 weren’t working. They are waiting for the victims to come and file a complaint. They will return to Kalka on Tuesday,” he said.GRP SHO Raj Kumar said, “We have not received any complaint about the incident in writing. A relative came to the station and I wasn’t there at that time, so I spoke to him on the phone. He was shown the CCTV footage, but it was of no help. We will start a probe once a complaint is filed by the victims in writing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatcher-targets-woman-on-train-at-chandigarh-railway-station-336682
11-11-2021||---||Two held for attacking youth at Chandigarh nightclub||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10Almost a month after a 27-year-old youth was attacked at a nightclub in Sector 7, the UT police have nabbed two suspects. The suspects, identified as Arjun Thakur and Mohit, were nabbed from the Prankster club in Sector 26 last night.Complainant Tarun Doomra, a resident of Zirakpur, had gone for a party at a club, Grapho, on the intervening night of September 12 and 13 where a few youths, including Mohit, Ashish Setia, Lala and Arjun Thakur, started abusing him.The police said Mohit hit the victim with a glass on his left eye, leaving him injured. The victim was admitted to the PGI. The police had registered a case at the Sector 26 police station.The police said Arjun was earlier booked in a case regarding a firing incident reported during a birthday bash of BJP leader Sahdev Salaria at the F Bar restaurant in Sector 26 in November 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-attacking-youth-at-chandigarh-nightclub-336680
11-11-2021||---||Raja Warring’s midnight inspection at Zirakpur, six buses impounded||Zirakpur, November 10Punjab Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring laid a midnight naka near the McDonald’s light point on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway in Zirakpur to inspect bus permits and other documents of private luxury buses. He was accompanied by officials of the Transport Department.Also read: SIT to probe collusion between govt officials & transport mafia: Raja WarringWarring today said it was learnt that the operators of private buses were evading taxes and causing a loss of crores or rupees to the department. Based on the information, they impounded six buses for evading tax and other violations.Regarding inconvenience caused to passengers, the drivers were instructed to drop the passengers at their destination after which the buses were impounded.Zirakpur bus stop lying defunctResidents said the Zirakpur bus stop near Paras Downtown was lying defunct for years now. It had become a parking lot. Passengers travelling to and fro from the city have to board local and long-route busses on the busy highway.Officials said the bus operators were picking passengers randomly midway on the route, ignoring the rules. It is necessary to get approval of each route separately and also to pay tax, which was not being done in the present case. During the minister’s inspection, the passengers had to wait and face inconvenience, for which Warring apologised to them.Warring told the passengers that before boarding a bus they could check the documents of the bus to see if it had the permit of the department concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raja-warrings-midnight-inspection-at-zirakpur-six-buses-impounded-336679
11-11-2021||Amit Sharma||People apprehensive about getting challaned while giving way to ambulance at red light||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10When an emergency vehicle, including an ambulance, approaches another vehicle, the driver is supposed to move out of the path as soon as possible. However, if traffic is halted at a traffic junction, are motorists still supposed to cross the zebra crossing or eventually the red light to make way for an approaching ambulance? Lack of clarity on the protocol among people leads to confusion as everyone is apprehensive that crossing or giving way at a red light can get them challaned.Ambulances from neighbouring states can be seen zipping through city roads towards hospitals, including the PGI and the GMCH, Sector 32 and the GMSH, Sector 16. Many motorists encounter a situation when they are waiting at a light point for the signal to turn green and in the meantime an ambulance approaches from behind.Vishal, a resident of Sector 38, claims that every time he is in such a situation, he waits for other drivers to react as it is often seen that traffic cops standing ahead of the junction and unaware of the situation stop the vehicle for jumping the red light. “Stopping in the middle of a traffic junction is not appropriate following which one crosses the red light,” he said.UT SSP (Traffic) Manisha Choudhary said mostly challans for jumping the red light are issued on the basis of violation captured through handheld cameras allotted to the field staff. “However, if there is any such instance of giving way to an ambulance and crossing the zebra or red light while doing so, we take it into consideration,” the SSP said.Another city resident said with new CCTV cameras installed everywhere, motorists were confused whether moving the vehicle ahead of the zebra crossing and also crossing the red light just to make way for an ambulance could get them challaned. “There is always an apprehension that the violation, irrespective of the reason behind it, will get caught in a CCTV camera leading to a TVIS challan,” the resident added.The SSP clarified that challans based on CCTV cameras installed under the Smart City project would capture such violations automatically once the project goes live; however, there was a provision for authentication of each and every violation captured. “We will keep it in mind before issuing a challan whether a vehicle has given way to an ambulance or any other emergency vehicle,” she added.Balbir Jaswal, a resident of Sector 15, said the traffic police should educate people on the protocol and give clear directions to be followed in such a situation.SSP clears the airUT SSP (Traffic) Manisha Choudhary said mostly challans for jumping the red light are issued on the basis of violation captured through handheld cameras allotted to the field staff. “However, if there is any such instance of giving way to an ambulance and crossing the zebra or red light while doing so, we take it into consideration,” the SSP said.What do the rules sayAs per Section 194E of the MV Act, 1988, (Amended in 2019), whoever while driving a motor vehicle fails to draw to the side of the road on the approach of a fire service vehicle or an ambulance or any other emergency vehicle, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with a fine of Rs10,000 or both.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-apprehensive-about-getting-challaned-while-giving-way-to-ambulance-at-red-light-336677
11-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Raj Bala’s ward encroachers’ paradise||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10Councillor and former Mayor Raj Bala Malik’s ward number 2 has become a street vendors and encroachers’ paradise.Other than having the largest registered vending site at Sector 15 in the city, a large number of unregistered vendors are also occupying different areas in local markets. Many shopkeepers have encroached upon verandahs or footpaths.This troubles local residents as well as visitors to the market. People hardly find space to move around. In the evening, the situation goes from bad to worse when a large number of vendors swarm Patel Market and booth markets.People do not find space to park their vehicles. In the event of a fire or other exigency, the situation can go out of control. During the five-year term of the local councillor, the situation has been deteriorating. “The MC first allocated sites to vendors near a residential area creating a nuisance here. The open area was earlier for parking purposes, but now people park vehicles on roads. Other than this, a large number of vendors also sit in the market area. There is huge encroachment, which causes inconvenience to residents. Besides, roads are not in a good condition and sanitation is also an issue,” lamented HS Jagdev, joint secretary, Residents Welfare Society, Sector 15.Echoing similar views, VK Jain, former secretary, Residents Welfare Association, said, “Waste collection is a big problem. After vehicles were introduced for collecting waste, the charges have doubled from Rs100 to Rs200. There is no development in the ward. Vendors are a big issue here. At the Sector 15 allocated site, the vendors leave their goods at night. Even in the market area wherever you go, you find a rehri or vendors sitting on pathways, footpaths, verandahs outside shops or parking lots. Nothing has been done in this regard.”Raj Bala’s ward comprises Sector 12, 14, 15 and Khuda Lahora Colony.Sector 12 and 14 house the PGI, the PU and PEC, which have their internal arrangements, while Khuda Lahora Colony is a big residential area, but for five years, no work regarding sewer and storm water has been started here.This is despite the fact that Khuda Lahora Colony is always in the news during the rainy season as water enters houses.However, at the fag end of councillor’s tenure, the work on both issues has started.Rajendra Singh, a local resident, who has been raising this issue, told Chandigarh Tribune, “The sewer and storm water pipeline-laying work has started and residents are hoping for a big relief before the next monsoon arrives.”Raj Bala Malik, councillor from ward number 2Area: Sector 12, 14, 15 and Khuda Lahora ColonyPromises: Overall development of the wardResult: Partly keptAchievements claimedCouncillorspeakI am not in favour of illegal vendors. The MC has been challaning violators. At Khuda Lahora Colony, the work started late as some arrangements had to be made before carrying out the main job of laying pipelines. — Raj Bala Malik||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-raj-balas-ward-encroachers-paradise-336672
11-11-2021||---||2 deaths, 69 dengue cases in Mohali||Mohali, November 10Two suspected dengue deaths were reported by the Health Department today. One of the deceased was a 65-year-old man from Phase 7, who died on October 26, and the other a 45-year-old woman from Phase 10, who died on November 3. Both patients were admitted to private hospitals in Mohali.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “The suspected deaths are not of today. These were reported late by the respective hospitals.”Sixty-nine confirmed cases of dengue were reported from the district today. As many as 207 samples of suspected dengue were sent for tests today. In the past five days, 386 new cases have been reported, while 806 persons have been afflicted by the fever this month alone. As many as 2,260 dengue cases were reported last month. The dengue count in the district has reached the 3,437-mark. Thirty-five persons have succumbed to the disease so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-69-dengue-cases-in-mohali-336670
11-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Land pooling policy for Chandigarh villages on cards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10The UT Administration plans to implement a land pooling policy in a village on a pilot basis. The Administration is preparing the policy to utilise vacant land in the city. Initially, the policy will be introduced in a UT village for the development of available land.After the success of the pilot project, the land pooling policy would be implemented in other villages, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Facing a shortage of large chunks of vacant land, the Administration is also considering giving resettlement option to owners of commercial and residential properties in the villages, he said, adding that broad contours of the land pooling policy were discussed at a meeting with officials of different departments here today.Directing the officials to prepare a step-wise process of the policy, Dharam Pal said, “The situation is far more complicated in Chandigarh as large chunks of vacant land are not available and we cannot do anything in the green area as per the Chandigarh Master Plan-2031.”“As the development has to be restricted to certain areas being used for commercial and residential purposes, resettlement options can be given to people under the land pooling policy, he said, adding that things were entirely different in Chandigarh as compared to neighbouring districts of Panchkula and Mohali where large tracks of land were available.Recently, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit had asked the Administration to utilise available vacant land in the city.The UT Administration has also roped in Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Human Settlement to formulate a land aggregation and pooling policy to help the UT utilise surplus land for development works in the city.A consultant of the Indian Institute for Human Settlement had already presented a draft policy for aggregation of land for villages and peri urban areas in Chandigarh, after studying best practices of this area in Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra. On the issue of the Lal Dora extension, the Administration has decided to mark it using the LIDIR technology. Pilot projectAfter the success of the pilot project, the land pooling policy would be implemented in other villages, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Submit details of land, depts toldThe Administration had asked different departments to submit details of available and encroached land. The authorities are mulling a number of land pooling models for the development of villages and peripheral areas. One of the models being considered is giving land development rights instead of land rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/land-pooling-policy-for-chandigarh-villages-on-cards-336668
