12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Blood donation camp organised by AG Haryana Blood Donors’ Society||2 arrested with 200-gm opiumMohali: The police have nabbed two persons with 200 gm of opium in the Handesra area of Lalru in the district. They have been identified as Rajinder Singh, a resident of Ward No. 11, Zirakpur, and Raju Singh, a resident of Lohgarh. The police were carrying out routine patrolling on the Ambala-Naraingarh road at Handesra village. The two suspects were coming in a car and tried to return after seeing the police. The police stopped the car and recovered 100 gm of opium each from the two. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the two at the Lalru police station. TNS Man held for vehicle theftsChandigarh: A 32-year-old man has been arrested for vehicle thefts. The suspect has been identified as Amir Khan of Sector 29. DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh said the suspect was nabbed from the Industrial Area, Phase I, while riding a stolen Activa scooter bearing a fake number. The scooter was stolen in 2019. The police said the suspect’s interrogation led to the recovery of two more scooters, which were stolen from the city last month. The police have also recovered a stolen mobile phone and a purse containing documents. TNSCricket trials on November 13 & 14Mohali: The Mohali Cricket Association (MCA) will hold trials to select district’s U-14 team on November 13 at 9:30 am at the C-Ground, PCA Stadium. The players selected will play practice matches among themselves. Players born on September 1 or after 2008 will be eligible to participate. Likewise, trials for selecting girls of all age groups will be held on November 14 at 9:30 am at the C-Ground, Mohali. The teams will take part in the Inter District Tournament in 2022 to be organised by the Punjab Cricket Association. Players born, residing and studying continuously for one year prior to the year of the tournament in Mohali district are eligible for trials. TNSCandle March for pay scalesChandigarh: A candle march was held on Thursday under the banner of PFUCTO in support of demands to implement the seventh UGC pay scales and withdrawal of the decision of delinking teachers’ grades from the UGC pay scales. Dr Mritunjay Kumar, PUTA president, appealed to Punjab Chief Minister to take a notice of the long struggle of teachers and help them get their dues through his personal intervention. TNSNat’l Education Day observedChandigarh: To commemorate the National Education Day, Society for Promotion of Science of Science and Technology in India (SPSTI), along with Chandigarh chapters of the National Academy of Sciences India (NASI), the INSA and the INYAS, in association with Punjab Engineering College (PEC) and support from the Haryana State Council for Science, Innovation and Technology and the DST organised the third lecture of the series “Institution building and nurturing initiatives in Independent India” to commemorate Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. Prof Ved Prakash, former chairman, UGC, spoken on “Maulana Azad: A sanguine man with visionary ideas”. The lecture also coincides with the the PEC centenary. The session was attended by 122 participants on zoom and Facebook. TNSConference on CIMS-2021 beginsChandigarh: A three-day international conference on industrial and manufacturing systems (CIMS-2021) was inaugurated at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) here on Thursday. Rajender Gupta, chairman, BoG, PEC, Chandigarh, and chairman, Trident Group, was the chief guest at the inaugural ceremony. Prof HS Shan from IIT Roorkee, Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, NIT, Hamirpur, and Prof RK Garg, Director, NITJ, were the guests of honours on the occasion. The CIMS-2021 is being jointly organised by the Production and Industrial Engineering Department, PEC, and Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, in association with Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, and Indira Gandhi Technological University for Women, Delhi. The three-day conference with more than 300 academic deliberations would discuss innovative solutions to problems and challenges faced by industries. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/blood-donation-camp-organised-by-ag-haryana-blood-donors-society-337110
12-11-2021||Mohali||Tennis final: Ranvir to face Hridhay||Top seed Ranvir Singh of Haryana faced a tough resistance from Ranvir Singh Pannu before registering a 7-6(5) 1-6 6-4 win to storm into the boys’ U-14 final in the ongoing Roots-Aita CS(7) U-14 National Ranking Championship. In the second semis, second seed Hridhay registered a comeback 3-6 6-3 7-6(4) win over third seed Advit Tiwari to set-up the title clash with Ranvir.In the girls’ U-14 semis, Punjab’s Tamanna Walia ousted Agampreet Kaur 6-3 6-3, while Saravnoor Kaur blanked second seed Akshita Vashist 6-2 6-2. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tennis-final-ranvir-to-face-hridhay-337098
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||UTCA beat HPCA 2-1 in friendly match series||City lads logged a 2-1 win in a three-match friendly series against the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) at Una, ahead of men’s U-25 ODI Tournament scheduled at Bangalore, later this month.In the first match played on November 6, Himachal won the match by two wickets. However, Chandigarh won the second match by three wickets, followed by another comfortable seven-wicket win in the third match. In this series, Mohammad Arslan Khan scored 192 runs, including a century. Promoted from U-19, Surya Narayan showed his consistency by scoring two half-centuries in three matches. Amit Shukla also took eight wickets. The team will leave for Bangalore on Friday. — TNS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/utca-beat-hpca-2-1-in-friendly-match-series-337096
12-11-2021||---||Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana, Chhattisgarh judokas win one gold each||Mohali, November 11Judokas from Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana and Chhattisgarh won one gold medal each in the ongoing National Cadet and Sub-Junior Judo Championship 2021-22, being organised by the Punjab Judo Association, under the aegis of the Judo Federation of Indian at Chandigarh University, Gharuan today.In the men’s category, Vedanta Mudholkar of Maharashtra won gold medal by defeating Deepak of Delhi. SM Sameer of Kerala won bronze in the Under-30 kg weight category. In the Under-35 kg weight category, Sahilof Pune won gold by defeating Pandrik of Delhi and Ankit of Rajasthan won bronze.Amongst women, Hembati of Chhattisgarh won gold medal in the Under-28 weight category while Vaibhavi of Maharashtra got silver and Simranjit Kaur of Punjab got bronze. In the Under-32 kg category, Haryana’s Vanshika won gold medal by defeating Nikita and Madhya Pradesh’s Aamreen won bronze.In the Under-36 kg weight category, Soumya Rani of Andhra Pradesh won gold medal, Japnam Kaur of Chandigarh won silver and Kaifi of Haryana won bronze.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-maharashtra-haryana-chhattisgarh-judokas-win-one-gold-each-337095
12-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Two meat shops in soup for keeping birds in filthy condition in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11Jaspreet Singh Minhas, Judicial Magistrate (First Class), has imposed a fine on two shops selling meat after finding them guilty of ill-treating birds.Dharminder Kumar Dogra, field inspector, Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Sector 38, Chandigarh, filed complainants against Ishan of Ambala Fish Centre, Sector 21-C, Chandigarh, and Pardeep Kumar of Simla Meat Fish and Broiler Shop, Sector 21-C, Chandigarh, under Section 34 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.As per the prosecution, the accused were caught while keeping birds in a pathetic condition during checking in March, 2021.There was no sufficient place in cages in which birds were kept, said Dogra. No water/feed was available in cages and birds were kept in an unhygienic condition, Dogra added. The accused were warned many times regarding this, but no improvement was seen, said Dogra.Accordingly, the complaint was filed against accused for cruelty punishable under Section 11 Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, Dogra added.Finding a prima facie case against the accused notices of accusation have been served upon accused, to which both pleaded guilty and did not claim trial.Court says, “In view of the fact that the accused have voluntarily pleaded guilty, they are held guilty for the commission of offence punishable under Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The accused are convicted accordingly.”After taking into consideration the antecedents of the convicts and the nature of offence, court imposed fine of Rs50 on each of them as prescribed under the law.SPCA files 25 more cases in courtThe Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), Chandigarh, has filed cases against at least 25 shops dealing in chicken and poultry in the city for ill treating birds. Dhaminder Kumar Dogra, field inspector, the SPCA, said chickens were confined into enclosures, which had no sufficient space for them. Chickens starved for space to the extent that they could not even spread their wings or turn around, he added. They were kept in the open under the scorching heat with no water and food, he said. The cramped confines result in hens lying on their own waste, which was not cleaned, he added. Such conditions caused discomfort, pain and suffering, which was a punishable offence, he said. Different courts served notices to shops for filing reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-meat-shops-in-soup-for-keeping-birds-in-filthy-condition-in-chandigarh-337094
12-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Hockey: 2 Chandigarh lads selected for Jr World Cup squad||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11Two trainees of the Chandigarh Hockey Academy’s Khelo India batch have been selected in the 18-member Indian Junior Men’s Hockey Team, who will defend the title at the much-awaited FIH Odisha Hockey Men’s Junior World Cup Bhubaneswar 2021.The event is slated to begin on November 24 will witness 16 top teams from across the globe vie for the honours, which was previously won by India in 2016.Defender Sanjay has been appointed vice-captain of the national squad and striker Maninder Singh has been included in the squad.Both lads were inducted in the Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA) in 2011. Since then they have been part of the institution under UT Sports Department’s coach Gurminder Singh. Both players have represented the city in many nationals and also in the School Asian Games (2017). Maninder was also adjudged best scorer for the School Asian Games. Sanjay captained this side. They were again called to represent the nation in the Youth Olympics Games, Argentina (2018). The team has won a silver medal in this championship. They again paired to represent the nation in the Sultan of Johor Cup in Malaysia twice in 2018 and 2019.“Both players have played a number of nationals, including the Nehru Gold Cup and Khelo India Games for Chandigarh. They were part of many gold winning teams. Since day one, they have shown dedication towards learning hockey. They have proved that dedication is a key to success. I am happy over their selection and confident that they will prove their worth in the tournament,” said Gurminder Singh.“They have been the backbone of our squad in many tourneys. While Sanjay is a calm defender, Maninder is totally opposite and likes to play aggressive hockey. Both players possess skill work and have a long way to go in their hockey career,” Gurminder added.The Indian junior men’s team will see Vivek Sagar Prasad, who was part of India’s historic Olympic bronze medal feat, captaining the squad while Sanjay, who was part of the India U-18 team that won silver at the Youth Olympic Games 2018 in Buenos Aires, will be his deputy.“To choose the best 18 players to represent their country is one of the hardest things to do in sport. Each of these guys have put their everything into trying to make this team for the last 12 to 18 months. Through Covid, through sanctions and lockdowns, sacrifices have been made,” said Indian team’s chief coach Graham Reid.“We have chosen a group of 20 players, a team of 18 and two alternate players, who we believe gives us the best chance of defending our title as Junior World Cup Champions. It is a well-balanced side with a lot of flexibility and flare. The key to these guys performing on the big stage will be to trust in each other in their preparation,” Reid added.“Five players of Hockey Chandigarh, including Sanjay, Maninder Singh, Sukhman, Diljeet Singh and Amandeep, were in the national camp out of which two have been selected. It’s a proud moment for us,” said Anil Vohra, general secretary, Hockey Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-2-chandigarh-lads-selected-for-jr-world-cup-squad-337093
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kapur, Chadha off to flying start, share round one lead||Six-time international winner Shiv Kapur and local lad Abhijit Singh Chadha got off to flying starts with splendid rounds of 8-under 64 to share the first round lead at the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021, by TAKE Sports, at the Chandigarh Golf Club today.While Dubai-based Kapur had a bogey-free day, two-time PGTI winner Chadha, playing at his home course, fired an eagle, seven birdies and a bogey. Delhi’s Rashid Khan produced an impressive error-free 7-under 65 to be placed third.The 39-year-old Kapur, who has had a few starts on the European Tour this year, picked up his first birdie of the day on the fifth hole and didn’t look back thereafter as he collected seven more birdies, including two on the 16th and 17th.Interestingly, he had enjoyed a similar start at the 2018 edition of the event when he had shot a first round of 65 to be the joint leader. “I was solid all the way round. I didn’t birdie two of the short par-5s and left a couple of putts out there, but overall it was a clean card with no bogeys. I had my fair share of putts. I hit lots of fairways and all 18 greens in regulation. However, it’s a long way to go and I will try and build from here,” said Kapur.He further said, “Jeev is like an older brother to me. So, I always try my best to play this event. The event means a lot to Jeev after passing of his parents earlier this year.”The 30-year-old Abhijit Singh Chadha, who began his round from the 10th tee on Thursday, recorded a 64 courtesy his hot putter. After sinking his first birdie on the 13th, the tall and lanky Chadha added an eagle, six more birdies and a bogey to his card. He sank a 45-footer on the fifth and a 30-feet putt on the seventh. “The two 30-feet plus putts were the highlight of the round. It’s been a slow season for me, but I’ve worked a lot on my putting and things are coming together now. Playing in home conditions also always helps,” said Chadha.Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, the seasoned Gaurav Ghei of Delhi, Kshitij Naveed Kaul, another Delhi-based player and Gurugram’s Tapy Ghai were all in tied fourth having shot scores of 67. Aadil Bedi was the third Chandigarh player in the top-10 as he struck a 68 to be tied eighth.Among the marquee names in the field, Jyoti Randhawa, SSP Chawrasia, Udayan Mane and former champion Ajeetesh Sandhu of Chandigarh carded 69s to be tied 12th while Gaganjeet Bhullar and former champion Chikkarangappa were a further shot back in tied 26th place.Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar, the defending champion and the PGTI Order of Merit leader, shot a 72 to be tied 50th. Tournament host Jeev Milkha Singh, who had good friends and fellow Chandigarh professionals Amritinder Singh and Gurbaaz Mann as his playing partners, returned a 75 to be placed tied 89th.“I was surprised that I turned at even-par despite being so rusty. I managed myself well off the tee and kept it in play. On the front-nine I made three bogeys from the centre of the fairway so that was a little disappointing and just showed that my iron-play was patchy today. I’m looking forward to a better second round,” said Jeev. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kapur-chadha-off-to-flying-start-share-round-one-lead-337079
12-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Legal Awareness Week begins with blood donation in Fatehgarh Sahib district||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) started Legal Awareness Week by organising a blood donation camp at Chunni Kalan village in collaboration with Nehru Yuva Kendra. Nirbhow Singh Gill, chairman, DLSA-cum-District and Sessions Judge, Fatehgarh Sahib, inaugurated the camp.He apprised residents about various legal aid schemes and how these could be availed. He called upon people to take benefit of Lok Adalats to settle their issues amicably.Arun Gupta, member secretary, Punjab Legal Services Authority, also briefed participants about various schemes initiated by the DLSA.Similarly, the Juvenile Justice Board of the district conducted a workshop in Fatehgarh Sahib and motivated juveniles to improve their educational qualifications by joining skill development centres. Juveniles were informed about various trades/programmes, which they could join. Besides, a free medical check-up camp for the elderly was organised at the Old Age Home and a tree-plantation drive launched at Khamano and Amloh subdivisions in the district.Manpreet Kaur, secretary, DLSA-cum-CJM, Fatehgarh Sahib, said legal awareness programmes, legal aid camps, seminars and workshops were being conducted all over the district to commemorate ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/legal-awareness-week-begins-with-blood-donation-in-fatehgarh-sahib-district-337078
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University extends admission date||PU 2nd counselling on Nov 15 & 16Chandigarh: Panjab University (PU) has decided to hold second counselling on November 15 and 16 for aspirants, who have applied within prescribed dates and are eligible for counselling for admission to BEd courses at colleges in Chandigarh. Vacant seats in BEd (General), BEd (Intellectual disability at GRIID, Sector 31) and BEd (Yoga) in UT colleges have been displayed on the admission website https://chandigarhbed.puchd.ac.in. TNSPU teacher gets appreciation letterChandigarh: Dr Ali Abbas, coordinator, Department of Urdu, Panjab University (PU), has received an appreciation letter from the Maharashtra Government for translating an age old inscription, which was in a depleted condition in Hindi/Marathi for the benefit of the coming generation. TNSSession dwells on SensitisationChandigarh: The Central Placement Cell and Panjab University Swami Sarvanand Giri Regional Centre (PUSSGRC) conducted a sensitisation session on Thursday through online mode for students. More than 450 students attended the session. Rajeev Dang, placement coordinator, PUSSGRC, welcomed dignitaries and alumni speakers on the occasion. TNSEmployees honouredChandigarh: To encourage the ongoing pursuit of excellence, Aryans Group of Colleges honoured top 40 performers with appreciation awards for their commitment to student achievement and contributions in their respective fields. TNSSession on digital de-clutteringChandigarh: MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised an online awareness session titled “Digital de-cluttering of computer/laptop”. The session addressed the present age need to be aware about tenets of cleaning computers/laptops in order to ensure their long life and smooth running. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-extends-admission-date-337074
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Parking contractor fined for overcharging in Chandigarh||An MC team today penalised the contractor of a parking site in front of Kiran Cinema in Sector 22-D with Rs7,500 for overcharging.A law student, Arshdeep, had sent a complaint on MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra's WhatsApp number that on the eve of Diwali, a parking attendant near Kiran Cinema issued a slip of Rs30 instead of the parking fee of Rs12. The MC Commissioner immediately ordered factual details of the incident. The inquiry team of the MC found the contractor violated the norms.On the order of MC Commissioner, the team issued a challan to the parking contractor for violating the norms for the fourth occasion. A fine of Rs7,500 was imposed for overcharging. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parking-contractor-fined-for-overcharging-in-chandigarh-337068
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh financier arrested for Rs 5-crore fraud||A financier has been arrested for duping a Gurugram resident of Rs 5 crore.In his complaint to the police, Atulya Sharma had reported that Ram Lal Chaudhary of Sector 46, the suspect, lured him into investing money during 2015 and 2016.The complainant further stated that he arranged the money by selling his house situated in Mumbai, taking loans from banks, selling personal jewellery and using savings of his life.He paid Rs 5 crore in installments from July 2015 to January 2016. Atulya alleged that after taking the money, Chaudhary started avoiding him.The police said a special investigation team was constituted for a thorough probe the case and Chaudhary’s involvement in other criminal activities.A case was registered at the Sector 31 police station today and he was arrested.There were other complaints in which Chaudhary had taken money from persons to get them relief from the judiciary, the police stated. — TNSCriminal pastRam Lal Chaudhary was booked in eight cases in the past, including a murder case of a model in Chandigarh in 2014. He was also booked by the Panchkula police in an NDPS Act case in 2005. A case of cheating was registered against him at the Sohana police station, Mohali, in 2008. He was also booked for rash driving at the Mani Majra police station in 2008. A case of attempt to murder was registered against him in 2000 at the Sector 39 police station. He also had a theft case registered against him in Delhi this year.Was accused in 2002 rape-on-wheels caseRam Lal Chaudhary was one of the accused in the rape-on-wheels case registered under Sections 328, 376, 389, 115, 117 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 34 police station in 2002. The case involved former UT Home Secretary NK Jain too. Ram Lal and all other accused were acquitted in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-financier-arrested-for-rs-5-crore-fraud-337067
12-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Slow vax drive: Chandigarh Health Department seeks details of govt staff yet to take jab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11In the wake of slow vaccination, the UT Health Department has sought details of all government employees who have not been vaccinated.In a letter to the administrative secretaries and heads of departments, boards, corporation and institutions of the UT, Health Secretary Yashpal Garg stated that many employees (regular, deputation, contractual or outsource basis) had not yet taken both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. “As per the orders of the UT Administration, entry in the offices is allowed either to persons who have got a Covid jab or carrying negative RTPCR report of the last 72 hours,” he stated.Garg asked all secretaries and heads of departments to review the status of vaccination of their employees. “A list of such employees who are yet to be vaccinated (either first dose or second dose) need to be provided to the Director, Health Services, within three days, so that vaccination camps can be organised in their respective office complexes,” he stated.He said employees would be allowed to bring their family members also during the camp for vaccination. “The lists will also facilitate for implementation of the directions of the UT Administration about regulation of entries in the offices for un-vaccinated officers/officials in view of a threat of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.The vaccination in the city in the previous week had been the lowest since March as only 14,105 doses were administered from October 30 to November 5.Around 23,946 doses were administered between October 23 and October 29. There has been a decline by 69.7 per cent from the previous week.From March 27 and April 2, the Covid vaccination rate was lowest at 12,911 doses. The rate increased since then and had peaked at 72,741 doses from August 14 to August 20.The pace of second vaccination has been slow in the UT as only 66 percent of the target population has got the second dose.During the recent review of Covid vaccination, it was observed that the second dose was overdue in 75,526 cases in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/slow-vax-drive-chandigarh-health-department-seeks-details-of-govt-staff-yet-to-take-jab-337066
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Mayor opens green belt at Sector 49||Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma inaugurated a green belt at Sector 49-C and D here today in the presence of MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra.Spread over 1.75 acre, the green belt has been developed at a cost of Rs59 lakh by landscaping, grassing, planting of decorative plants, flowering shrubs, creating footpath and installing high-mast lights.After inaugurating the green belt, the Mayor and the Commissioner held “Nigam Aapke Dwar” programme at the community centre in Sector 50.The Mayor asked MC officials concerned to monitor the allotted developmental works in ward number 13 and maintain a daily report. He said it was the prime duty of the corporation to provide ease of living to the city residents. He directed the engineers of the B&R wing to recarpet the V-4 roads on priority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-opens-green-belt-at-sector-49-337065
12-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: AAP holding survey in city to assess probable candidates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11Before finalising its candidates for the MC elections, the city unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is getting an extensive survey done by a team of professionals.According to sources in the party, the team members are ascertaining strengths and weakness of sitting councillors and of their own probable candidates. For this, two members each for 35 wards have been engaged. The survey, which started a few days ago, will go on for the next few days.There is a questionnaire of around 30-40 points. In each ward, over 500 people are being surveyed to gauge the ground reality before the elections. “Is your councillor accessible? What are the problems in the ward? These types of questions are part of the questionnaire,” said a party man preferring anonymity.“The team is finding out the strengths and weaknesses of the area councillor and how popular two or three AAP’s probables in each ward are,” said a party leader.The team will later submit its report to the party high command and it will be one of the main bases for zeroing in on the candidates.At present, there are mainly three party powerhouses in the city – convener Prem Garg, election campaign committee chairman Chander Mukhi Sharma and party co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra. It is expected that they would suggest their own respective favourites. Thus, a survey by an independent team is being carried out.Sources said a similar survey was done by the party before the last Delhi Assembly elections and another such exercise was being carried out in parts of the poll-bound Punjab as well.Party going Delhi assembly poll waySources said a similar survey was done by the party before the last Delhi Assembly elections and another such exercise was being carried out in parts of the poll-bound Punjab as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-aap-holding-survey-in-city-to-assess-probable-candidates-337059
12-11-2021||---||Panchkula advisory panel mulls development agenda||Panchkula, November 11For effective implementation of a seven-point agenda, a meeting of the Panchkula development advisory committee was held under the chairmanship of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today.“To make the city free of encroachments, slums, stray cattle, stray dogs, drugs, pollution and plastic with public support, discussions were held at length in the committee meeting at a hotel in Sector 5,” said a press release.Gupta said generous grants were being given by the state government for the overall development of the city. “A huge amount is also being spent on beautification and maintenance,” he said.Gupta informed that gaushalas had been built in Rihod and Sukhdarshanpur villages to make city free of stray cattle. “Around 1,000 head of stray cattle picked up from roads and streets have been kept in these gaushalas. On similar grounds, a nandishala will also be built on eight acres at Kot village,” the MLA added.Gupta said they had received suggestions to restart dog hostel to address the problem of stray dogs.To make the city encroachment-free, the MLA said vending zones had been built in five sectors. “The process to issue licence to vegetable vendors has also begun. It will ensure regulated entry of rehris in sector areas,” he said, adding that instructions had been issued to the police to act against encroachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-advisory-panel-mulls-development-agenda-337045
12-11-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula waste collection system in a mess||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 11The garbage collection system of the city is in a mess. Heaps of waste can be seen lying uncleared in various sectors, mainly due to irregular clearance.As a result, local residents are forced to deal with unhygienic conditions amid rising number of dengue cases and other diseases.The Municipal Corporation also needs to increase surveillance to put an end to the practice of dumping waste in unauthorised sites, say residents.Longstanding issues between private garbage waste collectors and the civic body also hurts effective garbage management from time to time, they add.Private waste collectors are not just irregular but often increase the monthly charges for door-to-door collection, residents complain, adding that despite several requests for improvement, the situation remains unchanged.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said they were taking a stock of the situation to ensure implementation of effective garbage disposal in the city.Goyal said it was necessary for the civic body to implement the door-to-door waste collection system to ensure that “secondary” garbage spots did not come up, which not only emanated foul smell but also acted as an eyesore.Citing the example of a neighbouring district, he said they would soon float a tender for the implementation of the door-to-door waste collection system. “We can start it from one sector as a pilot project,” he said.Asked about the issue of the civic body with private waste collectors, he said they were ready to give the contract to them if they emerged as one group.Last year, the private waste collectors had staged a massive protest and given up waste collection for days after the MC decided to hand over the door-to-door waste collection project to a Gurugram-based company. Subsequently, the MC had to call off the implementation of the project.After continuous complaints from residents, the issue of proper waste management will be discussed during a General House meeting of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation on November 12.The Jhuriwala dumping ground, where all untreated garbage is being dumped, has also been at the heart of the garbage problem of the city in the absence of a proper waste management plant.From the Punjab and Haryana High Court to the National Green Tribunal, residents living nearby have approached every authority against the “illegal act” to set up a dumping ground near a residential area and wildlife sanctuary.“We wish to turn all garbage dumped at Jhuriwala into fertiliser on a regular basis by setting up a solid waste management plant,” the Mayor said.SK Nayar, president, Citizens Welfare Association, said, “The garbage collection situation is grim in all sectors, with private waste collectors acting in an arbitrary manner. First, they are not regular with garbage collection. They didn’t turn up the day after Diwali and on November 7 too. Besides, they raise the monthly charges often. I request the MC to streamline the waste management system.”On illegal dumping of garbage, SK Gupta, a local resident, said, “The MC should put up warning boards at all unauthorised garbage dumps, indicating that heavy fine will be imposed on the violators for throwing their household garbage illegally in the open.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-waste-collection-system-in-a-mess-337044
12-11-2021||---||Water supply to be affected in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 11Due to repair work, the water supply timings will be affected in some sectors on Friday.The morning supply will be at full pressure from 3.30 am to 9 am in all sectors. In the evening, there will be no water supply from 6 pm to 8 pm in Sector 44 to 47 (C&D), Sector 48 to 56 and Sector 61 & 63. In the remaining sectors, the water suplly will be at low pressure from 6 pm to 8 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-affected-in-chandigarh-337043
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports three new Covid cases||The city reported three new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 65,376. The UT now has 23 active cases. In the past 24 hours, two more patients were cured of the disease. The number of recovered patients has reached 64,533. TNSOne succumbs, 7 infected in MohaliMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1070. The 55-year-old man, a resident of Banur, was admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital, where he died on Thursday. Meanwhile, seven fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced till Thursday evening taking the tally to 68,871, while two patients recovered from the virus. TNSThree fresh cases surface in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported three fresh coronavirus cases for the second consecutive day on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,783. The toll remained at 379. While 30,394 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 10 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-three-new-covid-cases-337042
12-11-2021||---||Dengue claims another life in Mohali district||Mohali, November 11One more person died of suspected dengue during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 36 in the district.Meanwhile, 64 fresh cases of dengue surfaced in the district, taking the count to 3,501. A total of 161 samples were collected of which 64 were confirmed. A total of 870 positive cases of dengue have surfaced this month. Of these, 333 surfaced during the past five days. Five deaths were reported during this period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-claims-another-life-in-mohali-district-337041
12-11-2021||---||Chandigarh: On parole, rape convict violates minor||Chandigarh, November 11A 28-year-old rape convict, who was out on parole, has been arrested by the Chandigarh Police for raping a 15-year-old girl.The suspect has been identified as Kunal, alias Kallu, a resident of Shanti Nagar, Mani Majra. The victim’s mother complained to the police that her elder daughter had left home on November 10 without intimating anyone. On enquiry, she came to know that her daughter had been lured by Kunal on the pretext of marriage.The police were informed following which a case under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC was registered at the Mani Majra police station.Acting swiftly, a team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO, Mani Majra police station, nabbed the suspect within five hours and recovered the kidnapped girl.Later, the victim’s medical examination was conducted and her statement recovered after which Section 376 (3) of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act were added to the case.The police said earlier also, a case of rape with a minor was registered against the accused in 2017 and he was convicted in 2018 and sentenced to 20-year imprisonment.The police said the convict was out on parole since June 23, 2021. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-on-parole-rape-convict-violates-minor-337040
12-11-2021||---||AAP ‘B team’ of Congress, says BJP||Chandigarh, November 11BJP national secretary and municipal election in-charge Vinod Tawde today alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was the ‘B team’ of the Congress. The party had people joining it from the Congress, he said.Addressing a press conference, Tawde alleged that the Congress wanted to buy voters iin the city and give the ticket to big builders and moneylenders, but the votes of the people of Chandigarh could not be bought at any cost. “Their plans to buy the faith of city residents on the basis of money will not succeed,” he added. Election co-incharge and Rajya Sabha MP Indu Bala Goswami and city BJP president Arun Sood, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and other leaders of the party were accompanying Tawde.The BJP poll incharge said the process of electoral preparations had been started. For these elections, an 85-member election steering committee was constituted under the leadership of Sood, MP Kirron Kher, former MP Satya Pal Jain and former city BJP president Sanjay Tandon.Tawde said the BJP would ask for votes on the basis of the works done during the last five years and its future plans.He said the BJP slogan for this election was ‘Chalo Chalen Modi Ke Saath’.The manifesto of the party will be prepared in the form of a citizen’s charter, which will be based on public participation and suggestions. Speaking about the candidate-selection process, Tawde said all divisions of the BJP would prepare a list of persons willing to contest the election and send it to the district team. After an analysis, contenders would be shortlisted and their list would be sent to the election committee. Tickets would be finalised by the election committee.Tawde said the participation of MP Kirron Kher would be there during the election and she would keep in touch online.The opposition was completely scattered, he said while adding that there would be no grand alliance. “Our party is ready to deal with all situations,” he said.In the recent Haryana byelections, there was an increase in the BJP votes. There was no effect of the farmers’ agitation. “It is not a movement of farmers but of farmers’ organisations,” he said, while adding that the government would take steps to discuss the pertinent issues of farmers.“The people of Chandigarh have full faith in Modi ji. With this confidence, the BJP will register a 100 per cent victory in the MC elections,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-b-team-of-congress-says-bjp-337039
12-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Litter, dung bane of ward 5 residents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, november 11The Swachh Bharat Abhiyan may have entered its second leg, but it seems to have had little impact on Congress councillor Sheela Devi’s ward number 5, comprising Dhanas and Sector 25, where littering of dung and waste is the norm.Dhanas Milk Colony residents say cattle are allowed to be reared in their area and people often dump the dung in a park or inner streets of the residential area. It makes it tough for people residing there.Avtar Singh, president, Residents Welfare Association, Milk Colony, Dhanas, said, “Buffalo dung is being dumped on roads and in the park. Paver blocks were laid here, but these are of no use as people have kept dung there. You can imagine our plight. We requested the councillor to challan the violators, but she has neither got the area cleared of the waste nor initiated any action against those littering the public area.” “No work of cleanliness was done though she had promised to get the dung cleared and also to provide a clean environment,” he added.BJP leader Virender Tamta, a resident of a Sector 25 colony, said, “The sewer system remains blocked. MC vehicles come once in two-three days. By that time, the situation becomes unbearable. Sometimes, we get drinking water mixed with sewage. People are suffering from diseases, but the councillor is nowhere to be seen. Residents here do not even know where she lives, leave alone approaching her.”“In five years, the dilapidated community centre in our area could not be renovated. Slums are on the rise. It is risky here as stabbing incidents are common. The whole area has garbage dumped at different points and there is no cleanliness,” he added.The councillor has been rarely heard speaking during House meetings to raise issues of the ward. However, she said “my work speaks for itself”.She won on a seat reserved for a woman candidate. And this time also, her ward has been reserved for a woman candidate.Sheela Devi, councillor from ward 5Area: Dhanas, Sector 25Promises: Road recarpeting, water pipeline and other worksResult: Partly doneAchievements claimedCouncillorspeakWe are going to provide pits to milkmen. This will address the problem of littered dung. In Sector 25, some people throw waste here and there; they should put waste in bins. The sewer issue will be resolved soon. — Sheela Devi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-litter-dung-bane-of-ward-5-residents-337038
12-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||5 eco-friendly buses arrive in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11The wait to ride environment-friendly buses will end soon as the first fleet of five electric buses reached the city today.Pradhuman Singh, Director, Transport, said six electric buses had been delivered so far and another six would arrive tomorrow. All remaining buses would be delivered by December 15, he added.UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit will flag off the first fleet of electric buses for the general public on November 13. In order to reduce air and noise pollution and dependence on fossil fuels, the UT Administration has decided to replace diesel buses with electric buses.In September last year, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme. The UT had floated tenders for the procurement of 40 buses in the first phase.Three companies had submitted bids to run 40 electric buses. However, the lowest bidder, Ashok Leyland, was awarded the contract to run the environment-friendly buses for a period of 10 years on the basis of km scheme. The fare collection will be done by the authority.On August 11, former UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore flagged off the first electric bus –Proto bus— from the Raj Bhawan to run on a trial basis for nearly 20 days. During the trial, the bus operated on the PGI-Mani Majra route.After a one-month trial run of the first electric bus, the UT Transport Department had asked the manufacturing company to make some technical changes in the bus. The company had assured to make the required modifications and supplied the remaining buses with the changes.Meanwhile, the process for procurement of another 40 electric buses has been started. An official said after getting approval from the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, the UT had decided to invite bids for the second batch of 40 electric buses by the end of this month. After being charged, the bus will be able to cover a distance of nearly 130 km and it will take nearly two to two and a half hours to fully charge the bus.Equipped with...||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-eco-friendly-buses-arrive-in-chandigarh-337036
12-11-2021||---||4 ram SUV into bike, fire gunshot at youth in Mohali||Mohali, November 11In a miraculous escape, a youth, who had come to the Madanpur chowk to drop his friend, escaped unhurt after unidentified assailants fired a gunshot at him here this evening.Four suspects, who were in a white Tata Safari SUV, first rammed their vehicle into a motorcycle being driven by the victim, Rohit, a resident of Balongi village. They later fired a gunshot at him. However, Rohit and his friend, who fell on the ground, ran in different directions and took shelter in nearby houses to save their lives.The suspects later sent a voice message on Rohit’s mobile phone asking him how he felt about the trailer. They abused and threatened him.After receiving information, a police team, led by the SHO, reached the spot and started an investigation into the matter. The police recovered an empty shell of a round from the spot.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said preliminary investigation revealed that there was old enmity between Rohit and the suspects. He said they were trying to get the CCTV footage of the spot to identify the suspects. A case has been registered on Rohit’s statement.In his statement to the police, Rohit said he had come out of his house to buy medicines for his mother. He went to Madanpur around 4 pm to drop his friend Jaswinder. A white Tata Safari SUV, which was already there, rammed into his motorcycle. When he went near the SUV, four persons came out of the vehicle. One of the suspects was holding a pistol, while another one was carrying a sword. He ran from there. One of the suspects fired a gunshot at him. The victim, who escaped unhurt, took shelter in a house at Madanpur village. He asked his mother Ragini to come to the Madanpur chowk where the police also arrived. He told the police that the suspects were from Badmajra village. He earlier had a verbal spat with one of the suspects.Rohit’s mother Ragini said her son was working in the Verka factory. He left the job due to an enmity with one of the suspects. She was planning to send him to some other place. She was ready to seek forgiveness from the suspects, who were “planning to kill her son over a minor issue”.Voice messageThe suspects sent a voice message on victim Rohit’s mobile asking him how he felt about the trailer. They abused and threatened him.Empty shell recoveredAfter receiving information, a police team, led by the SHO, reached the spot and started investigations into the matter. The police recovered an empty shell of a round from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-ram-suv-into-bike-fire-gunshot-at-youth-in-mohali-337022
