13-11-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Infant found near hospital||Bomb hoax at railway stationsChandigarh: The Railway Police Force and the GRP stepped up vigil at Chandigarh railway station on Friday evening. An official said they checked the luggage of passengers in view of a bomb blast threat at Chandigarh, Ambala and two or three more stations. He added there was not much evidence and the checking was called off later on. TNS3-yr-old girl falls into drain, diesAmbala: A three-year-old girl died after falling into a drain at Singhawala village here on Friday. The deceased was identified as Karina, daughter of a migrant labourer. As per information, the girl went outside her house alone. Later, some children spotted her body into the drain. Her family members later came to know about the incident. The police reached the spot and shifted the body to the hospital for postmortem examination. It is being suspected that the girl might have fallen into the drain while playing. Suresh Kumar, SHO, Ambala Sadar police station, said: “The victim’s family don’t suspect any foul play behind the incident.” TNSMan held for vehicle theftsMohali: The police have arrested Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Phase 11, here, and recovered three stolen two-wheelers from his possession. A case under Section 379 of the IPC was registered against the suspect on November 9. TNSFree LN4 hand distribution campChandigarh: A free LN4 hand distribution and training camp, “Ek Haath Aasha Ka”, organised by Rotary Club Chandigarh Central in association with Rotary Club of Poona Downtown was inaugurated at Chandigarh University here on Friday. A total of 1,532 artificial hands will be donated at the camp, which will continue till November 14. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-infant-found-near-hospital-337532
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Golf meet: Shiv, Rashid tied at top in halfway stage||Shiv Kapur and Rashid Khan were tied at the top at the halfway stage of Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021 at the Chandigarh Golf Club today.While Dubai-based Shiv (64-68) went bogey-free for the second day in succession with a 4-under 68, Delhi-based Rashid (65-67) brought in a card of five-under 67 featuring seven birdies and two bogeys as both players enjoyed the joint second round lead at 12-under 132.Chandigarh’s Aadil Bedi (68-65) shot the day’s best score of 7-under 65 to move up five spots to third place at 11-under 133. The cut came down at even-par 144. Sixty professionals and two amateurs made the cut.Tournament host Jeev Milkha Singh (75-72) missed the cut despite a steady even-par 72 in round two. He totalled 3-over 147 for the week.Shiv Kapur, who admitted to being rusty at the start of the week having not played a tournament for about a month, seemed to have shaken off the rust as he maintained his position as the joint leader for the second straight day.The six-time international winner, Kapur, who began his round from the 10th, had a scrappy start as he made pars on the first six holes. Shiv then found the hole from a range of seven to eight feet for his three consecutive birdies from the 16th through the 18th.On the front-nine, Kapur was steady with eight pars and a lone birdie on the sixth where he sank his longest putt of the day, a 15-footer.Two-time Asian Tour winner Rashid Khan jumped from overnight third to tied first. Rashid was 1-under through the front-nine and then pushed ahead with a four-under on the back-nine. Khan attributed his low score to his good course management.Aadil Bedi’s 65 brought him into contention. Bedi, who has just recovered from a wrist injury which kept him out of action from three PGTI events in September, sank a 40-footer for birdie on the 15th and converted four more birdies from a range of 10 to 15 feet. Bedi has been confirmed to play in two $1- million prize money Asian Tour matches in Thailand.Chandigarh’s Abhijit Singh Chadha slipped from the overnight joint lead to tied fifth at nine-under 135 following his second round of 71.Gaurav Ghei of Delhi was also tied for fifth as a result of his 68.Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (69) was the third Chandigarh player in the top-10. He was tied seventh at eight-under 136. Udayan Mane (68) is tied ninth at seven-under 137.Former champion Ajeetesh Sandhu of Chandigarh was tied 11th at 5-under 139 while Chikkarangappa was a further shot back in tied 15th. SSP Chawrasia lies tied 18th at 3-under 141.Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar (70), the defending champion and PGTI Order of Merit leader, is placed tied 21st at two-under 142 along with Jyoti Randhawa.Gaganjeet Bhullar was in tied 34th place at one-under 143. The two amateurs to make the cut are Aryan Roopa Anand of Bengaluru who is tied 34th at one-under 143 and US-based Varun Chopra who is tied 51st at even-par 144. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golf-meet-shiv-rashid-tied-at-top-in-halfway-stage-337529
13-11-2021||Panchkula||Covid: No new case in Panchkula||Three cases in MohaliMohali: Three fresh cases of Covid were reported from the district during the past 24 hours. No new fatality took place in the district till Friday evening while one patient was cured of the disease. — TNSTwo more infected in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Friday reported two cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the infection. Two patients were cured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-no-new-case-in-panchkula-337516
13-11-2021||Panchkula||Dengue stings  16 in Panchkula||Sixteen fresh cases of dengue were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 784.No death due to the vector-borne disease was reported from the district on Friday. In Panchkula, 784 cases of dengue have been reported so far.Civil Surgeon Mukta Kumar said 99 patients had been admitted to private hospitals while 81 were admitted to the General Hospital in Sector 6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-stings-16-in-panchkula-337515
13-11-2021||---||Foot-&-mouth disease: Chandigarh launches 2nd round of vax drive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12The second round of the foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) vaccination campaign was launched under the National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP) by the Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries at Sarangpur village today.Launching the vaccination campaign, Manish Kumar Lohan, Director, Animal Husbandry, said the aim of the programme was to control the FMD by 2025 with scheduled vaccination and its eventual eradication by 2030.“This will increase domestic production and ultimately lead to an increase in export of milk and livestock products,” he said, adding that the disease was among the most serious diseases of animals in terms of economic impact and was globally recognised as a priority disease for control and eradication.Dr Kanwarjit Bhangoo, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, said the vaccination campaign would be completed in a month. “In this door-to-door campaign, vaccination of all large and small animals shall be done free of cost under the Covid guidelines,” he said. For the purpose of identification and record of vaccinated animals, all animals in Chandigarh had been tagged and livestock farmers had been issued a “Pashu Aadhaar” number, he said.Over 50 livestock farmers from villages in Chandigarh participated in the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foot-mouth-disease-chandigarh-launches-2nd-round-of-vax-drive-337514
13-11-2021||---||Chandigarh unit of ED detains real estate group MD at IGI Airport||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 12A team of Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials from Chandigarh has detained the chairman and managing director of the real estate group, IREO, at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport here in connection with a money laundering probe against him.Officials concerned said today that Goyal was stopped by the immigration authorities at the airport yesterday on the basis of a lookout circular, which was issued by the ED sometime back. Goyal was supposed to take a flight to the US when his name was flagged, they added.The officials said Goyal was questioned at the airport and detained under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the investigators of the Chandigarh unit of the ED.The businessman is being probed in relation with a money laundering case linked to the alleged diversion of estimated $ 77 million of home buyers’ funds, investments and shareholdings to some offshore entities, the officials said, adding that his name also figured in the ‘Pandora Papers’ global leak of offshore funds.Goyal and his legal team had, however, earlier denied any illegalities on their part and said no funds were diverted abroad in violation of laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-unit-of-ed-detains-real-estate-group-md-at-igi-airport-337513
13-11-2021||Mohali||Mohali MC forms 5-member panel to speed up works||Concerned over slow pace of development works in the city, the Mohali Municipal Corporation today constituted a five-member committee of officials to speed up development works in the MC area.This was disclosed by Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu after holding a review meeting on the development works in the city with contractors and officials of the corporation. He said the committee included two XENs Rajbir Singh and Sunil Sharma, SDO Akshay Kumar, JE Sandeep and draftsman Deepak.The Mayor asked the contractors to start the work on time and finish it on time as well as give priority to quality. Negligence would not be tolerated during the working hours and no compromise would be made with the quality. He said the process of disqualification of contractors violating the rules could also be initiated. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and Commissioner Kamal Garg were present.The Mayor also instructed the officers to inspect works and carry out sampling for quality check. He said in case of non-compliance, action would be taken against responsible officials. Commissioner Kamal Garg assured the Mayor that the work would be started on time and the quality would also be checked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-forms-5-member-panel-to-speed-up-works-337512
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will solve issues of Purvanchal people living in Chandigarh: Minister||Every section has contributed to the making of the City Beautiful, but the role of people coming from Purvanchal, who have to leave their city, village and family, is the most important, said Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai. Nityanand took part in a public meeting organised by the Purvanchal cell of the BJP at Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, today.State BJP president Arun Sood, state general secretary Ramveer Bhatti, state secretary Amit Rana were also presentThe minister said, “The Home Minister and the Prime Minister have sent me in the service of you people by making me the minister in charge of all Union Territories, including Chandigarh. Just as you have made Chandigarh, so will Nityananda make you. He invited the people of Purvanchal living in Chandigarh to Ayodhya for the inauguration of the Ram temple.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-solve-issues-of-purvanchal-people-living-in-chandigarh-minister-337511
13-11-2021||---||Minister reviews flagship programmes in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 12Awaiting decisions since long, the UT Administration today took up pending issues with Nityanand Rai, Minister of State for Home, during a meeting here today.All department-wise issues pending with the Government of India were taken up with the Union Minister, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. The Minister had assured to hold a review meeting on all issues, he said.On allowing further need-based changes, he said the Minister was informed that a committee had been constituted and the recommendation of the committee would be examined and considered.He further reminded the Minister that the issue of conversion of leasehold property to freehold was pending with the Ministry of Home Affairs. The issue of lal dora would be taken care of in a land pooling policy under preparation, he said, adding that directions had also been issued to the MC Commissioner to review the allocation of sites to vendors in the city.Earlier, the Union Minister convened a meeting with UT Adviser Dharam Pal and other senior officers of the Chandigarh Administration to review the progress made under various Centrally-sponsored schemes and other flagship programmes under implementation in the city.The Minister was apprised about the status of iconic projects such as Air Force Heritage Centre, Heritage Conservation, Green City, Clean City, and Smart City. All major achievements of departments were also tabled by officials. The Administration also shared the progress report of the flagship schemes implemented in Chandigarh.The Union Minister expressed satisfaction and complimented the effective implementation of government schemes in the UT. He said Chandigarh must be at the top position among all UTs in achieving sustainable development goals.Traders call on ministerA delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal today called on Nityanand Rai to take up the issue of pending VAT assessment cases with huge penalties and interest prior to 2016-17 in spite of amnesty schemes announced by the Punjab Government recently followed by reliefs announced by Haryana and Himachal Pradesh governments.Employees raise housing scheme issueA 21-member delegation of the UT Employees Housing Welfare Society, Chandigarh, met Nityanand Rai, Union Minister of State for Home, today. The delegation members submitted their demand letter to the minister. The delegation, led by Balwinder Singh and Dr Dharmendra, sought directions for the construction of flats under the rates given in the brochure of the UT Employees Housing Scheme and not as per the letter dated October 5, 2012.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-reviews-flagship-programmes-in-chandigarh-337510
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||AAP leader Jarnail Singh hits back at BJP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Chandigarh affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh has hit back at the BJP saying that after the defeat in the byelections held in Himachal Pradesh and other states, the BJP is also fearing defeat in the municipal elections to be held in Chandigarh.On the statement of the BJP that “the Congress is a B party of AAP”, Jarnail Singh gave the example of Goa and Madhya Pradesh and said the BJP should tell the leaders, who joined the BJP after leaving the Congress in both these states, are part of which team. Many leaders, including Satish Kainth, Poonam Sharma, Raj Bala Malik, Gurpreet Happy and Vijay Rana, have joined the BJP after quitting the Congress in Chandigarh. What is their cadre? Why did Satish Kainth leave the BJP and join the Congress? he asked.The AAP MLA said unlike the BJP, AAP did not do horse-trading. His party does politics of public issues, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-leader-jarnail-singh-hits-back-at-bjp-337509
13-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh court holds 4 guilty, acquits one in Sec 40 murder case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12Dr Rajneesh, Additional District Judge, Chandigarh, has held four accused guilty in a two-year-old broad daylight murder of a youth in the Sector 40 market here.The court held Rajat Tiwari, Harpreet Singh, alias Laddi, Ritwick Bhardwaj and Talak, alias DC, guilty. It acquitted another accused Chetan. The court will pronounce the quantum of the sentence on November 15.The police registered a case against the accused after Amit Katoch (27) was murdered in the Sector 40 mini market on June 28, 2019.The accused were arrested on a complaint of Sumit Katoch, brother of Amit Katoch, a resident of Sunny Enclave, Kharar.In the complaint, Sumit said he got a call from Amit’s friend from the PGI around 12.30 pm on June 28, stating that Rajat Tiwari, along with three more accomplices, allegedly injured his brother using swords and knife in the Sector 40-A market where the victim went to meet his friends for some work.The police had registered the case against the accused under Sections 302, 147, 148, 149 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 39 police station.Sumit alleged that a quarrel took place between his brother and one of the accused, Rajat Tiwari, a few months ago. Due to this, his brother was attacked.Amarjit Singh Gujral, counsel for Chetan Singh, said he was acquitted after no evidence was found against him. Gujral said Chatan was falsely implicated in the case and one of the eyewitnesses also failed to identify the accused in the CCTV footage during the examination. The prosecution has based the case against the accused mostly on the CCTV footage procured from the shop where the incident took place. The accused were allegedly seen in footage giving repeated knife blows to Amit Katoch.After stabbing Amit, the accused were seen leaving the shop, while Amit was seen leaving the shop injured. Blood was seen spilled on the floor tiles inside near the shelf of the shop and the passage in front of the shop, through which Amit went out.The police took the DVR (CCTV footage) from the shop after the incident. It was played at the Sector 39 police station on June 28, 2019, where the complainant identified and disclosed the particulars of accused Rajat Tiwari, Ritwick Bhardwaj, Tilak, alias DC, and Harpreet, alias Laddi, as seen in the footage, to an Inspector in his presence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-holds-4-guilty-acquits-one-in-sec-40-murder-case-337508
13-11-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Cong, JJP councillors create ruckus at Panchkula MC House meet||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 12A ruckus was witnessed during a House meeting of the Municipal Corporation held today as councillors of the Congress and the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) argued as well as scuffled with BJP councillors, besides tearing the copies of the agenda.As soon as the meeting started, Congress councillor Salim Khan did not allow the discussion to be held on the agenda. All Congress councillors got up and started shouting in front of Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, and MP Ratanlal Kataria, who was presiding over the meeting.Salim said he was not asked with regard to the agenda. Jannayak Janata Party councillor Sushil Kumar Garg started arguing with Deputy Municipal Commissioner Deepak Sura over the paid parking system introduced in Sector 20.When Congress councillors Pankaj Kumar, Usha Rani, Sandeep Sohi, Salim Khan and Sushil Garg did not move away and continued to create a ruckus, BJP councillors got up and asked the Opposition councillors to allow the meeting to continue.Meanwhile, there was a scuffle as well as a fierce debate among the councillors of both sides. Seeing the deteriorating atmosphere, the Mayor called off the meeting after passing all 27 agenda items presented in the House.Goyal said the attitude of the Congress councillors at today’s meeting was very condemnable as they had crossed the limit. They misbehaved with women councillors and municipal officials. Congress coucillors are trying to obstruct the ongoing development works in the city by disrupting the meeting.Councillors Rakesh Valmiki and Sonu Birla objected to the sector-wise proposed rent imposed on street vendors in the city. The MC then passed a resolution of charging Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 as rent from non-motorised and motorised rehris, respectively, besides giving permission only to 10 rehris in each sector.Sector 15 councillor Jai Kaushik raised the issue of floating an additional tender for the construction of a community centre in Sector 15, after which a proposal of setting up a separate tender of Rs 2.15 crore was passed by the House. Similarly, for the development of a street market in Sector 19, permission was given to increase the expenditure from Rs 1.40 crore to Rs 1.85 crore.In Ward No. 16, a proposal of Rs 2.35 crore was passed for the construction of a road from the upper outpost to the lower outpost. The Mayor said the corporation fee for Kisan Mandis held in sectors had also been increased from Rs 30-50 per phari to Rs 100 per phari. He said the corporation had also decided to set up a gaushala and Bharat Mata Mandir on 6-8 acre land in Kot village to rid the city of stray cattle menace.Key proposals passed at meeting||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-jjp-councillors-create-ruckus-at-panchkula-mc-house-meet-337507
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop thrashes AAP member?||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-thrashes-aap-member-337505
13-11-2021||Mohali||Dengue claims life in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-claims-life-in-mohali-337504
13-11-2021||---||Programme on legal awareness in Panchkula||Panchkula, November 12Joint efforts of public agencies and NGOs can bring a visible change in society towards women rights. With the help of education, legal awareness and active community participation, a woman can be empowered enough to raise her voice against any misconduct, discrimination, injustice and inequality.These views were expressed by Justice Augustine George Masih, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, Haryana State Legal Services Authority, during a legal awareness programme held under the aegis of the National Legal Services Authority in Panchkula.Parmod Goyal, District and Sessions Judge, and Member Secretary, HALSA; and Dr Kavita Kamboj, Joint Member Secretary, HALSA, were also present.Justice Augustine George Masih also launched two audio jingles on the Victim Compensation Scheme and the Rights of Senior Citizens in order to create awareness among the public about their legal rights and benefits and how they can approach the legal services authorities for resolving their legal issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/programme-on-legal-awareness-in-panchkula-337502
13-11-2021||Chandigarh||Divyangs, elderly of Chandigarh urged to avail of benefits at camp||The Department of Social Welfare is organising a mega camp for persons with disabilities and senior citizens from November 10 to November 17 at Aasha Kiran, Sector 46.During the camp, registration is being done for various schemes such as UDID card, e-Shram card, voter ID card and welfare schemes.From November 10 to 12, an assessment of Divyangjans (persons with disabilities) and senior citizens for free distribution of aids and appliances and other assistive devices was carried out in association with the Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of IndiaAll persons with disabilities and senior citizens have been requested to visit the mega camp to avail of the benefits under various services/ schemes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/divyangs-elderly-of-chandigarh-urged-to-avail-of-benefits-at-camp-337496
13-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC House declines relief to two parking contractors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12The local Municipal Corporation (MC) is going to issue about Rs3.62-crore revised notices to the two paid-parking lot contractors after the General House today decided not to give exemption in licence fee to the two agencies managing the 98 parking spaces in the city.According to MC Additional Commissioner SK Jain, a Rs1.20-crore notice will be served on the Zone 1 contractor and Rs2.42-crore notice will be issued to the Zone 2 contractor. It is the pending licence fee of the past few months, up to October 31.It will be a 15-day notice asking the firms to clear their fee dues. In case of default, they will be served a reminder or final notice. If they still failed to pay, they will be bound to surrender the paid-parking lots.Citing losses, the two firms had sought fee exemption on account of lockdown during the second wave of Covid, few “non-feasible” parking lots and free parking extended to all MC employees. The Zone 1 contractor sought a fee exemption of Rs1.02 crore and the Zone 2 contractor Rs98.64 lakh.However, both BJP and Congress councillors did not favour it during the House meeting today.Councillor Davesh Moudgil said, “There are numerous violations in the parking lots and fee exemption is not required. If they are saying they will move court, let them go. Why should we let the public money go to them?”Supporting him, Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “The companies cannot threaten us in the form of surrendering the parking lot or going to court.” Senior Deputy Mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and councillors Shakti Prakash Devshali and Satish Kainth also spoke against the fee exemption agenda.Meanwhile, a spokesperson of a parking agency told Chandigarh Tribune, “We are yet to recover from the losses and will again ask the MC to reconsider our request.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-declines-relief-to-two-parking-contractors-337495
13-11-2021||Naina Mishra||At 67%, Chandigarh 7th in second dose coverage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12With inoculation of 67 per cent target population with the second dose of the Covid vaccine, the UT is placed seventh position in the country in full vaccination coverage.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has expressed concern over people not taking the second jab, which has resulted in slowing down of the vaccination pace. In Chandigarh, there are 63,000 beneficiaries who have missed their second dose even as the required 84-day interval between the two doses has completed.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, said, “As the daily count of new cases of Covid-19 has slowed down, vaccine complacency is setting in. People have skipped their second dose as they do not feel the need to stay immunised anymore. We have been tracing them through the contact number they had provided at the time of receiving the first dose, but they couldn’t be contacted.Now, we are going to trace their addresses through Aadhaar numbers.”The UT Health Department has also started “Har Ghar Dastak” campaign for house-to-house Covid vaccination of those who are yet to take a dose and those whose second dose is overdue.Since March, Covid-19 vaccination in the city was the lowest between October 30 and November 5, as only 14,105 doses were administered during this period. Around 23,946 doses were administered between October 23 and October 29. There was a decline of 69.7 per cent from the previous week.In order to increase the vaccination pace, the UT Administration has given three-day time to its government employees to get their second dose in time. A health camp will be organised for the employees and their family members to encourage them to take the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-67-chandigarh-7th-in-second-dose-coverage-337489
13-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Trader associations can run parking lots for free in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12The inner market parking lots in the city, which are unmanned at present, will now be run by interested market welfare associations free of cost.This was approved by the MC General House at a meeting today. The House decided that visitors, as is the practice at present, will not have to pay any charges in these parking spaces. Trader associations may run the parking lots without any charges to be paid to or taken from the MC.Nominated councillor and Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Charanjiv Singh raised the issue. He said nominal charges for visitors should be there at the markets. However, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma did not favour it saying different charges in paid parking lots and inner market lots may create confusion, and if traders charged them, the corporation would also have to take fee from these associations.After the House meeting, MC Additional Commissioner SK Jain told Chandigarh Tribune, “We have around 20-25 trader bodies which have already shown interest in running the parking spaces without any charges. We will share the House-approved MoU with all bodies and whosever wants to take it, may do so.”There are around 80 such trader associations and it is yet to be seen how many of these come forward after the final nod.At present, when people are charged Rs12 and Rs6 for the first four hours for parking four-wheelers and two-wheelers, respectively, by the MC-hired agencies at 89 paid parking lots, there are two market bodies that have set the right example.The Sector 22 and 19 trader bodies are successfully running the lots without any charges. Interestingly, the MC has never received any complaint from visitors these lots, while there plenty of complaints have been received from the paid parking lots.Other agenda approved||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trader-associations-can-run-parking-lots-for-free-in-chandigarh-337483
