14-11-2021||Panchkula||HAWWA holds awareness event||Under the Orange World Campaign of the United Nations, a programme on “Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace” was organised by the Haryana Army Wives Welfare Association (HAWWA) at the ITBP complex here today.An ITBP spokesman said the programme was organised to create awareness among women on abolishing crime against women. Mamta Rawat, vice-president, HAWWA, ITBP force, was the chief guest while Renu Mathur, a women rights activist, and Anju Deshwal, chief patron of HAWWA, were special guests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hawwa-holds-awareness-event-337753
14-11-2021||---||Prof JS Thakur is PGI faculty association head||Chandigarh, November 13New office-bearers of the faculty association have been elected unanimously at the PGI.The office-bearers for the year 2021-22 include Prof JS Thakur, Department of Community Medicine and SPH, as president; Prof Sameer Aggarwal, Department of Orthopaedics, as vice-president; Prof PVM Lakshmi, Department of Community Medicine and SPH, as general secretary; and Dr Arpit Gupta, Associate Professor, Department of Oral Health Sciences, as joint secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prof-js-thakur-is-pgi-faculty-association-head-337754
14-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMSH-16 to digitise patient records||Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 is soon going to adopt e-hospital model wherein patient records will be digitalised and they will be able to get their reports on their smartphones.The move would reduce unnecessary footfall at the hospital. It aimed at catering to patients through digital medium rather than focusing on paper work, said Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, UT.Another initiative being undertaken by the hospital was “doctor to specialists” approach wherein specialist services are provided for medicine, general surgery, skin, psychiatry, eye, ortho, and paediatrics specialities. Doctors at health and wellness centres contact the specialists for consultation required for patients. As many as 132 teleconsultation have been provided through this model so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gmsh-16-to-digitise-patient-records-337755
14-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Cricket Association log win||Chandigarh, November 13Led by brilliant bowling performance from medium pacer Harnoor Singh (5/21) and leg spinner Sohil (4/30), Chandigarh Cricket Association (CCA) defeated Ambala Cricket Association (ACA) by 10 wickets during the Inter-Academy Cricket Tournament for U-16 at the GMSSS-19 grounds today.Batting first, ACA were bowled out for 157 in 39.5 overs. Shivam (54) and Mohit (42) were the main scorers for the ACA. Harnoor and Sohil combined well to put ACA on the back foot.In reply, CCA achieved the target in 11.4 overs with the help of Jevesh (69*) and Arjun (67*).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricket-association-log-win-337756
14-11-2021||---||Eight city judokas win medals||Chandigarh, November 13Eight city judokas won four bronze and four silver medals in the Cadet & Sub-Junior National Judo Championship 2021-22 organised by the Judo Federation of India at Chandigarh University, Mohali.Cadets Sapna (40 kg) of Kajheri school, Himanshu (55 kg) of GMHS-34 and Fardeen (73 kg) of GMSSS-37 won bronze medals. Japnam Kaur (36 kg) of GNPS-6, Angel Kaur (40 kg) of GMSSS-20 and Vivek Kurmar (40 kg) of GHS, Kajheri, won silver medals in the sub-junior category. Divanshi Miglani (+57 kg) of Sacred Heart won the bronze and Aakil (55 kg) of GHS, Dadu Majra, won the silver medal.The seventh ranking player of the championship in 66-kg category, Nitin Kumar, has also been selected along with the above first three medal winners to participate in the Khelo India Youth Games 2021-22 scheduled to be held in Panchkula in February next year.The judokas are from Chandigarh Sports Department Coaching Centre, Sector 34, and most of them are from underprivileged backgrounds. They are coached by Vivek Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-city-judokas-win-medals-337757
14-11-2021||---||Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational: Shiv Kapur has the edge going into final round||Chandigarh, November 13It was a packed leaderboard with multiple contenders in the fray even as Shiv Kapur enjoyed a slender one-shot advantage at 17-under 199 at the end of the penultimate round of the Rs 1.5-crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational being played at the Chandigarh Golf Club.The Dubai-based Kapur (64-68-67) built on his solid previous rounds with a determined five-under 67 on Saturday to be the leader for the third day running.Chandigarh lad Aadil Bedi (68-65-67) kept local hopes alive as he went error-free for the second straight day during his 67 to move up one spot to second position at 16-under 200.Delhi’s Rashid Khan (65-67-69) slipped out of the overnight joint lead and dropped to third place at 15-under 201 following his 69.Delhi’s Kshitij Naveed Kaul (69) occupied fourth place at 13-under 203.Gurugram-based Dhruv Sheoran carded the day’s best score of an 8-under 64 to climb 10 places to tied fifth at 12-under 204. Udayan Mane (67) was also tied for fifth along with Sheoran.The 39-year-old Kapur made four birdies on the first eight holes, which included three conversions from a range of 10 to 25 feet.Shiv, who was bogey-free through his first 44 holes of the tournament, then hit a rough patch dropping three bogeys in exchange for a lone birdie between the ninth and 12th holes. He missed a couple of par putts on that stretch, including a two-footer on the 12th.Kapur rallied with three birdies thereafter as his accurate wedge shots set up short birdie putts on the 13th, 16th and 17th that gave him the sole lead for the first time this week.Shiv said: “I had a fantastic start and didn’t put a foot wrong till the eighth. Thereafter, I had a bad stretch where I didn’t really hit any bad shots but just made one or two mental errors and maybe had one bad break here or there. I went error-free for two days but made my mistakes in bunches today. However, I’m proud that I bounced back from there with some birdies at the end to put myself in contention once again”.“Heading into round four, I’ll look to continue doing what I’ve done since the start of the event. The focus will be on keeping it in play, giving myself opportunities and making those crucial putts to keep the momentum going,” said Shiv.Among Aadil Bedi’s five birdies, the ones that stood out were his 40-feet conversion on the ninth and his chip-in from the bunker on the 13th. Bedi has so far dropped just one double-bogey in the tournament and there are no bogeys on his card.Rashid Khan made gains with two birdies on the first 10 holes followed by an eagle on the 13th. He conceded a bogey on the 16th, but came back with a superb recovery from the trees to salvage a par on the 17th and keep himself in contention.There were three other Chandigarh professionals in the top-10 as Yuvraj Singh Sandhu and Abhijit Singh Chadha were tied seventh at 11-under 205, while Karandeep Kochhar climbed 12 spots to tied ninth at 9-under 207 after his round of 65.Ajeetesh Sandhu and SSP Chawrasia were both in tied 11th at 8-under 208, while Jyoti Randhawa was another three shots back in tied 18th. Chikkarangappa was tied 23rd at 4-under 212. Gaganjeet Bhullar was tied 34th at 2-under 214.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-shiv-kapur-has-the-edge-going-into-final-round-337758
14-11-2021||Panchkula||Covid: 2 fresh cases in Panchkula||4 more test +ve in MohaliMohali: Four fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,878. Meanwhile, no new fatality took place in the district till Saturday evening. Among the fresh cases, one each was reported from Kharar and Kurali, while two cases were from Mohali. — TNSTwo more infected in cityChandigarh: The city on Saturday reported two cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. One patient was discharged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-2-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-337759
14-11-2021||---||Mohali MLA inaugurates Rs 40L works at Phase 5 park||Mohali, November 13Former Health Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu inaugurated development works worth Rs40 lakh at a park in the Industrial Area, Phase 5, here, today.Balbir Singh Sidhu said footpaths would be rebuilt, three sheds would be set up and new lights would be installed at the park. New benches would also be set up here. Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and councilors Jagdish Singh Jagga and Ravinder Singh were also present on the occasion.Balbir Singh Sidhu said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had assured him that no stone would be left unturned for the development of the Mohali constituency.The Mayor said development works were being carried out in every nook and corner of Mohali under the leadership of MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu.Facilities to come upFormer Health Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said footpaths would be rebuilt, three sheds would be set up and new lights would be installed at the park. New benches would also be set up here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mla-inaugurates-rs-40l-works-at-phase-5-park-337760
14-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Land acquisition: Punjab and Haryana High Court seeks explanation from judicial officer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 13The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought explanation from a judicial officer in an execution matter pertaining to land acquisition in Patiala district. Justice Rajbir Sehrawat has asked the then presiding officer of an executing court to file his explanation before the High Court on partial satisfaction of a decree.Justice Sehrawat was hearing a petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents by Shavinder Kaur through her legal representatives. Issuing a notice of motion to the respondents after hearing counsel Karan Gupta for the petitioner, Justice Sehrawat asked the officer to explain “as to how and for what reason he choose to pass the order qua partial satisfaction of the decree and requiring the petitioner to file fresh execution despite the fact that the parties to the decree were already present before the executing court”. Justice Sehrawat also fixed February 24 as the next date for hearing in the matter.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petitioners’ land, along with several other villagers, in Patiala district was acquired. After several rounds of litigation, the compensation was enhanced up to the High Court level. But special leave petition filed by the landowners and the state was dismissed by the Supreme Court.The petitioners, in the meantime, preferred an execution application before a Patiala court seeking disbursement of compensation amount in light of the High Court decision in regular first appeal and letters patent appeal.The executing court, vide order dated May 20, 2017, disposed of the execution application being partly satisfied after partial payment of compensation. The petitioners, thereafter, preferred an application “seeking restoration of the execution already consigned to the records”. But the presiding officer, vide impugned order dated August 5, dismissed the application preferred by the petitioners seeking restoration of the execution application.“The impugned order dated August 5 passed by the Additional District Judge, Patiala, vide which an application preferred by the petitioners for restoration of the execution application has been dismissed, is illegal arbitrary and perverse and, thus, deserves to be set aside,” Gupta argued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/land-acquisition-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-seeks-explanation-from-judicial-officer-337761
14-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh's JW Marriott hotel directed to refund Rs 1-lakh booking amount||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 13While directing the authorities to refund the booking amount of Rs1 lakh, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT of Chandigarh, has asked JW Marriott hotel in Sector 35 here to pay a compensation of Rs15,000 for causing inconvenience and harassment to a resident of Mohali.The commission has also directed the hotel to pay Rs7,000 to the complainant as litigation costs.Vijay Kumar Kalra, a resident of Mohali, in a complaint filed through counsel Gaurav Bhardwaj, said he approached the hotel for arranging a wedding reception on October 9, 2019, and paid Rs1,00,000 vide receipt dated March 21, 2019, as advance.He said later he received an email from the hotel informing that the event had been cancelled and the money forfeited. Kalra said he had not given any such instructions for the cancellation and requested for refund of the amount vide an email dated June 14, 2019, as still 117 days were left for the function. However, the hotel declined his request vide an email dated June 15, 2019. Alleging that the acts amount to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on the part of the hotel, he filed the complaint.The hotel management denied the allegations and claimed that the booking was cancelled on a request of the complainant’s wife. The amount of Rs1,00,000 was forfeited by the hotel strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions of the catering agreement.After hearing the arguments, the commission, comprising Rajan Dewan, president, and Suresh Kumar Sardana, a member, said the complainant had paid Rs1,00,000 to the hotel out of his hard-earned money and they couldn’t be allowed to gulp it without providing any services to him which was totally unethical. The hotel wants itself to be in a win-win situation anyways, even at the expense of the complainant and such like gullible consumers and its approach simply is “Heads I win, tails you lose”, which has to be deprecated.The commission said no doubt the hotel had alleged business loss caused to it due to alleged cancellation of the event, but in such a scenario it was incumbent upon it, being the custodian of the record, to have produced some credible evidence pertaining to the bookings of the relevant period to show that the space booked by the complainant remained vacant. However, nothing of the sort has been placed on record by the hotel.On the contrary, the complainant has specifically mentioned that the hotel had allotted the date and time to some other customer and a birthday party was organised on October 9, 2019, and, therefore, the hotel had not suffered any loss. In such circumstances, we are of the view that instead of raising ifs and buts, the hotel should have refunded the entire amount, but it failed to do so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-jw-marriott-hotel-directed-to-refund-rs-1-lakh-booking-amount-337762
14-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC  ELECTIONS: Community centre, ‘janj ghar’ upgrade fail to see light of day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 13Promise of building a community centre in Sector 24 and upgrading a “janj ghar” in Sector 23 could not be fulfilled during the five-year term of Ward Number 4 councillor Sunita Dhawan.The area has no community centre and it has been a long-standing demand of the local residents. In the absence of an upgraded “janj ghar” in the ward, residents have to go to other areas to host events.CouncillorspeakThe Sector 24 community centre is in the pipeline and work will start in 2022. While the MC House has passed Rs2.80 crore for the upgrade of Sector 23 ‘janj ghar’, construction work will start soon. Sunita DhawanRakesh Kanojia, president, Social Welfare Association, said: “Despite the promise, neither the community centre nor ‘janj ghar’ was built here. Even as funds were sanctioned under MPLAD for constructing public toilets at the Ganesh rehri market, no unit could be built.”Daulat Sharma from Sector 24, who also has a shop here, said, “The maintenance of parks is a concern here. Though poles were erected at several places a long time ago, lights have not been installed yet. Tile work has not been carried out.” Broken tracks and damaged swings at parks in Sector 24 have not been repaired for a long time.At Sector 36, which also falls in her ward, residents complained about some long-standing issues not getting resolved.Aditya Vikram said, “The councillor has been utterly ineffective. Compost pits were haphazardly set up at Dalia Garden. The 30-metre road at the back of Alliance Francaise has not been recarpeted.”“Dengue cases are on the rise, but there is no improvement in sanitary conditions. The waste dump at the back of MCM DAV College has not been removed till now. The choe alongside Fragrance Garden has remained uncleaned in five years,” he added.The BJP councillor said: “For building a public convenience at the Sector 24 Ganesh rehri market, there were permission issues. Thus, we built one in the adjoining green belt. As far as the N-choe issue in Sector 36 is concerned, people throw waste there. We get it cleaned. We are thinking of getting a wall build alongside by the UT Administration.”On ill-maintained green belts in Sector 24, she said, “I asked RWAs to take the maintenance of parks in their hands and the MC will pay, but no one showed interest. The MC has several issues of its own, including staff shortage”Sunita Dhawan, Councillor from Ward Number 4Area: Sector 23, 24, 36Promises: Building a community centre in Sector 24, upgrading the Sector 23 ‘janjh ghar’Result: Not fulfilledAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-community-centre-janj-ghar-upgrade-fail-to-see-light-of-day-337763
14-11-2021||Mohali||Dengue: 34 new cases in Mohali||As many as 34 persons tested positive for dengue during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,592. There was no new death due to the vector-borne disease.The district had reported 344 cases and two dengue deaths in September and 2,260 cases and 29 deaths till October 31. A total of 105 samples of suspected dengue fever patients were taken and 34 of these were found positive for the disease. A total of 961 cases have surfaced this month, including 299 in the past five days, with six deaths. — TNS8 cases in PanchkulaEight fresh cases of dengue were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally this year to 792. No new death due to the disease was reported. In Panchkula, 792 cases have been reported so far. Civil Surgeon Mukta Kumar said 85 dengue patients had been admitted to private hospitals while 84 patients were admitted to the General Hospital. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-34-new-cases-in-mohali-337764
14-11-2021||---||Paid parking in markets of Sector 20, 14 wrong: OP Sihag||Panchkula, November 13The Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) today asked the Municipal Corporation to stop the paid parking system in the markets of Sector 14 and 20 here with immediate effect.OP Sihag and Bhag Singh Damdama, district president (urban) and (rural), respectively, while addressing the media, said the pad parking system in these two sectors had been wrongly started and set up under a political conspiracy. They said Sector 20 had been included in the Municipal Corporation for maintenance four years ago and the market of Sector 14 was yet to be fully developed.Sihag said no specific proposal regarding the implementation of the paid parking system by the Municipal Corporation in the market of the above sectors was passed in the House. He said the decision in this regard should have been taken after presenting the agenda for proper discussion.He said a paid parking lot was usually set up in a large and fully developed market where people from all over the city or adjoining areas and the nearby states came for shopping. There was nothing like this in the markets of Sector 20 and Sector 14 where only the local residents come for shopping.He alleged said one of the firms was ready to give Rs40 lakh more than the amount quoted by the firm (Contractor Lalchand) which had been given the contract. He said the JJP would file a complaint in this regard to the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paid-parking-in-markets-of-sector-20-14-wrong-op-sihag-337765
14-11-2021||---||Stone laid for Mani Majra 24x7 water supply project||Chandigarh, November 13Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today laid the foundation stone of the 24x7 water supply project in Mani Majra in a virtual presence of local MP Kirron Kher.Purohit said the residents of Mani Majra would highly benefit from the project as continuous supply would provide better water quality and pressure enough to fill tanks up to third storey, which would also decrease the cost of pumping water to upper floors.The Administrator asked officials concerned of the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation (MC) to speed up the work and complete the project in the stipulated time frame.The MP said in 2014, she had raised a concern over an additional water supply line from the Bhakra main line in the parliament and after crossing many hurdles, the UT got the additional water supply line. She said with this pilot project started in Mani Majra, residents would have their long-pending demand fulfilled.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said the project would involve new water works with 4 million gallons of additional storage, 13,700 smart meters, 20 km of new supply lines and automated monitoring of system.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the 24x7 water supply project was being carried out in Mani Majra at a cost of Rs162 crore, including the cost of operation and maintenance for 15 years, and the work was expected to be completed by August 2023.Area councillor Jagtar Singh Jagga said the project would upgrade the supply and quality of water in Mani Majra.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stone-laid-for-mani-majra-24x7-water-supply-project-337766
14-11-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur minor girl molested||Two held with 100-gm heroinMohali: The police arrested two persons with 100 grams of heroin and recovered a car from them near the Airport road on Friday. The suspects have been identified as Virender Singh, alias Vicky, and Jatinder Kumar, both residents of Shimla. They have been booked under the NDPS Act at the Kharar police station. The police said the duo used to supply heroin to their customers in Mohali and Kharar areas. The suspects, who were drug addicts, were involved in drug trafficking since long. They used to sell heroin at exorbitant rates. TNSCong files plaint against KanganaChandigarh: The Chandigarh Youth Congress on Saturday filed a police complaint against actress Kangana Ranaut under Sections 124-A, 504, 505 of the IPC for sedition and Section 13 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, for unlawful activity as defined in Section 2(o). Congress leaders said Kangana, at an event on November 10, spoke about India and its fight for independence. She said India got “real freedom in 2014”. She said the country’s Independence in 1947 was “bheek”. Manoj Lubana, City Youth Congress president, said: “Her remarks amounted to ‘treason’ and the government should take back the Padma Shri bestowed on her recently as she insulted the country’s independence movement.” TNSHry Speaker launches bookChandigarh: “Romancing Life”, a collection of the writings of VK Kapoor, IPS (retd), was launched by Gian Chand Gupta, Haryana Speaker, and Dr Sumita Misra, IAS, Additional Chief Secretary, Haryana, at Chandigarh Press Club on Saturday. A galaxy of dignitaries, including General Bhopinder Singh, Justice RK Nehru, Justice Jasbir Singh and former DGP Parminder Singh, were present at the book launch. The author said he led his life with joy in his heart and with romance for life as his paramount approach. His writings had appeared over the years in leading English dailies of the region. His wit and wisdom had been acclaimed by readers. Several instances from his career, including those from sensitive assignments that he held in the Intelligence Bureau, have found their way into the book. TNS120 get jabbed at Covid vax campPatiala: The NCC Air Wing of Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, organised a Covid vaccination camp at Gurdwara Nanak Darbar, Urban Estate. Around 120 doses were administered at the camp. District immunisation officer Dr Venu Goyal and assistant civil surgeon Dr Vikas Goyal, Group Captain Rajesh Sharma and district nodal officer Sveep oversaw its functioning. TNSMinister opens lawyers’ complexPatiala: Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra inaugurated a renovated and upgraded Mahatma Gandhi Lawyers’ Complex at District Courts here on Saturday. The minister said advocates were playing proactive role in maintaining brotherhood in the society besides helping poor people get justice. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-minor-girl-molested-337767
14-11-2021||---||Woman dies in Morni mishap||Panchkula, November 13A woman was killed and five persons were severely injured when a pick-up van fell into a deep gorge near Makhani village on the Morni-Neemwala road late last night.The deceased has been identified as Promila Devi (40), a resident of Gavahi village in Morni block. Mohan Singh and Ramesh Kumar were referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. Their conditions was stated to be serious.Mohan Singh, Ramesh Singh, Sunita, Kunta, Kamla and Promila Devi, all residents of Gavahi village, were returning from Nalaghat village after participating in a birthday party. When the vehicle reached near Makhani village, the driver lost control over the vehicle and it rolled down the 100-foot-deep gorge. The police reached the spot and the injured were rushed to Civil Hospital, Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-dies-in-morni-mishap-337768
14-11-2021||---||Resident of Mullanpur shot dead by friend over money||Chandigarh, November 13A resident of the Mullanpur area was shot dead by his friend over money near Daria this evening. Three shots were fired at the victim, identified as Jaspreet, a resident of Parol village, near Mullanpur.The police said the suspect, Jaspreet Sharma, owed about Rs9 lakh to the victim. The victim, along with his friend, today met Sharma in Sector 28. Sharma asked the victim to get in his car and both drove towards Industrial Area, while the victim’s friend followed them in his car.The police said the duo had an argument over the money, following which the victim slapped Sharma. The situation turned ugly and Sharma fired at the victim near the Garcha light point, near railway station. He fired three shots, two hit the victim in the chest and one in the back.Sharma sped away after shooting his friend. The victim’s friend rushed him to the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra, where the doctors declared him brought dead.Though sources said the suspect drove to the Industrial Area police station and surrendered before the cops, the police claimed he was arrested near the police station.Sharma reportedly told the police that the victim was trying to take away his car following which he shot him.DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh said the suspect, who is into the business of sale and purchase of second hand cars, stated that he had taken some time from the victim to return the money but the latter kept on pressurring him.The victim visited Sharma’s house in Sector 19 earlier this week also, said a policeman. The police have registered a murder case against the suspect at the Industrial Area police station and launched investigation. Sharma will be produced before the duty magistrate on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/resident-of-mullanpur-shot-dead-by-friend-over-money-337769
14-11-2021||---||11 electric buses flagged off in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 13After a long wait, city residents will now be able to travel in non-polluting electric buses. UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today flagged off 11 electric buses on commercial operations.“The necessity of the replacement of diesel buses with electrical ones is to limit the reliance on diesel fuel and to lay stress on environment-friendly transportation for Chandigarh,” stated the Administrator. Fully electric buses emit zero tailpipe emissions. To avoid Delhi-like situation in Chandigarh, people should switch over to electric vehicles, as vehicle emission was a major cause of air pollution, he said.“The Chandigarh Administration intends to replace all local buses with the electric one in a phased manner under the Green City theme,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal, adding that the entire fleet of 40 electric buses would be put on commercial operations by the end of December this year.Buses put on express routeKeeping in view a minimum travel time for commuters, the UT Transport Department has come up with express routes for electric buses. These buses will ply on express route 551E- ISBT43 to PGI with limited stops at ISBT 17, Sector 16 Hospital and New PGI OPD.Further, diesel buses by the decreasing detention count are being deputed on two express routes — L1E- ISBT-17 to Kharar via ISBT-Mohali and SU4E- PGI-ISBT17-Railway Station-ISBT Panchkula. These routes will be operated with 10-20 minutes frequency. As and when electric buses would arrive, these express routes — L1E and SU4E — will have electric buses.The Ministry of Heavy Industries, Government of India, has sanctioned 80 electric buses to Chandigarh under FAME India Scheme, Phase-II. For the second lot of 40 electric buses, e-tender has been invited and these will be put on commercial operations in coming financial year, added the Adviser.Vehicle develops snagOne of the 11 electric buses developed some technical snag and stopped on the road opposite the Sector 17 bus stand. This led to a traffic jam. An official of the Transport Department stated that the technical snag was fixed within a short time and the bus resumed its onward journey.Key features||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-electric-buses-flagged-off-in-chandigarh-337770
