15-11-2021||---||President Kovind to grace PEC centenary celebrations in Chandigarh on Tuesday||New Delhi, November 15President Ram Nath Kovind will be in Punjab and Haryana on November 16 and 17 and will grace the centenary year celebrations of the Punjab Engineering College in Chandigarh on Tuesday.On November 17, the President will visit Sui village in Bhiwani district of Haryana which is being developed as ‘Adarsh Gram’ by Mahadevi Parameshwaridas Jindal Charitable Trust and will inaugurate public facilities there, a Rashtrapati Bhavan release said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/president-kovind-to-grace-pec-centenary-celebrations-in-chandigarh-on-tuesday-338419
15-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Higher education conclave in Chandigarh from Thursday||Chandigarh, November 14The first edition of the Higher Education Conclave (HEC), a three-day event under the aegis of Silver Fern will be held at Hyatt Regency, Chandigarh from November 18-20, 2021. ‘Decoding future in the times of change’ will be the theme of the event.CEO of Silver Fern, Almasto Kapoor said, “We are looking forward to the participation of delegates from 40 universities of India & the world like OP Jindal University, King's College London, York University Canada, University of Arizona among others. There will also be the presence of five universities in the top 100 QS world rankings and 14 plus schools. An event of this magnitude will help grow the education industry holistically.”Silver Fern has been guiding the students desirous to get international education for the past 12 years. Their team of experts has successfully assisted nearly 15,000 students. Each participant is assured of answers to all the questions regarding overseas education, specially related to the participating colleges and universities, added Kapoor.COO and Partner, Silver Fern, Shivam Garg, said, “Laced with all the big guns, this event will also witness the participation of, one of South Asia’s biggest online platforms for education - Vedantu as the partner of the event. The event will offer a perceptible opportunity to interact with 40 global colleges and universities at one place. There are a host of reasons to attend this event; one of them is the chance to get upto 100% scholarship opportunities from leading public universities globally. Fraser Valley, India and University of the Fraser Valley, Canada are offering transfer programs to foreign lands and these will also be part of the conclave.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/higher-education-conclave-in-chandigarh-from-thursday-338404
15-11-2021||Tribune New Service||Chandigarh MC Elections: Ward 10 welfare panel to field own candidate||Chandigarh, November 14Ward No. 10 Welfare Committee today decided to field its own candidate in the coming MC poll. A meeting in this regard was held at Sidh Baba Amarnath Mahaveer Shiv Mandir, Sector 29-C.The welfare committee formed a 101-member election committee for campaigning. It will be responsible for organising public meetings, rallies, etc, and to provide masks and sanitisers to every person attending these meetings free of cost.The committee unanimously took a decision that it would be supporting its own candidate and was determined to win the municipal corporation election from Ward No. 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-ward-10-welfare-panel-to-field-own-candidate-338240
15-11-2021||---||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi inaugurates virtual hospital||Mohali, November 14Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi inaugurated a virtual hospital, Gini Health, a digital healthcare facility.Commending Sarvjeet Singh Virk, founder of Finvasia, and Gurjot Singh Narwal, CEO of Gini Health, for their innovative customised healthcare solutions, the Chief Minister said the technology had made remote monitoring of health parameters possible to bring about lasting lifestyle changes to prevent and minimise the risk for patient through timely identification of disease patterns.Dr Anil Bhansali, director of Gini Health and a renowned endocrinologist who retired from the PGI, informed Channi that technological revolution had enabled us to monitor patient’s lifestyle and activities remotely with the help of devices that provide effective insight in diagnosing the problem to help us taking remedial measures.Channi was apprised of a mobile technology that transfers real-time data of blood glucose from a device fitted in the arm to the mobile phone through NFC technology so that one can decide his food intake accordingly. A similar device was also installed at the biceps of the Chief Minister on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-inaugurates-virtual-hospital-338239
15-11-2021||---||Students spread awareness on voter enrolment in Mohali||Mohali, November 14In order to spread awareness among people regarding enrolment as a voter and casting the ballot, students of Electoral Awareness Club and Voter Card Committee of Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh (Shaurya Chakra) Government College, Mohali, participated in a district-level rally on Sunday.Young and energetic student volunteers under the guidance of Principal Dr Jatinder Kaur held placards with slogans “vote banao vi atey vote pao vi’ (get enrolled as a voter and cast your vote).Komal Mittal, Additional Deputy Commissioner-cum-Additional District Electoral Officer, flagged off the rally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-spread-awareness-on-voter-enrolment-in-mohali-338238
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Over 14K take NDA, CDS exams in Chandigarh||Over 14,000 defence aspirants attempted NDA and CDS examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), at various centres here today.The UPSC conducts CDS (Combined Defence Services) examination for graduates and NDA (National Defence Academy) exam for undergraduates looking to join defence forces as an officer.Navdeep Singh, an NDA aspirant who appeared at the GMSS-10 centre, said: “I found mathematics slightly exhaustive and lengthy.”Shivam, a CDS aspirant who appeared at the Sector 8 centre, said: “Though I found English and GS on moderate note, mathematics needed speed to finish out within time.”Mentor Kunal Singh said: “This is for the first time that girls have been given an opportunity to appear for the NDA exam for a limited number of seats. With an increase in the number of overall aspirants as well as charm for NDA as a career, several engineering aspirants are appearing for NDA, which definitely makes an impact on cut-off.”“While NDA maths paper was conceptual yet moderate for candidates who prepared for engineering entrance, it was slightly tough and lengthy for average students. General studies paper, including English section, was on scoring and conventional side for a majority of the NDA aspirant,” Kunal said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-14k-take-nda-cds-exams-in-chandigarh-338236
15-11-2021||---||1,340 get prosthetic hands at camp||Chandigarh, November 14The Rotary Club Chandigarh Central in association with Chandigarh University, Gharuan, organised a prosthetic organ distribution camp. As many as 1,340 needy persons were given LN-4 type prosthetic hands free of cost.As many as 304 students from the National Service Scheme wing of the university took on various responsibilities from medical check-up to fitment of organs at the camp, which was organised under the banner “Ek Haath Aasha Ka” on the university campus.A team of 20 doctors from various parts of the country provided services at the camp. Besides fitting limbs, the beneficiaries were given comprehensive training on the usage of prosthetic arms.Ashish Midha, president of the Rotary Club Chandigarh Central, said this was the first-of-its-kind and first-at-its-scale prosthetic hands distribution camp organised in the entire north India.“People with disabilities from states such as Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and even Maharashtra were provided with LN-4 type prosthetic hands free of cost. We fitted prosthetic hands to as many as 1,340 people at the camp. Around 400 people will be provided custom-made extenders in the next such camp, which we are hoping to organise early next year,” Midha said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-340-get-prosthetic-hands-at-camp-338235
15-11-2021||---||Two Chandigarh AAP leaders rejoin Congress||Chandigarh, November 14President of Chandigarh Mahila Aam Aadmi Party Wing Anita Sharma and general secretary Kamlesh Chaudhary today left AAP and rejoined the Congress.They had recently left the Congress to join AAP.Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla welcomed Anita and Kamlesh on their return to the Congress.While addressing media persons, Chawla said, “This is the home of a daughter. If a daughter gets angry with her parents, she has every right to come back to her father. Today, a daughter has come back to her parents’ house.”Anita said there was no such thing as discipline and organisation in AAP. The Congress was the only organisation in the world where women had full freedom to work and got respect, she added.She said in AAP, there is a race going on among the four people to show themselves as superior.The four leaders are fighting with each other to get ticket for their associates.Anita and Kamlesh said, “It has been two months since we joined the AAP. We were forced to speak against Pawan Kumar Bansal and against the senior leaders of the Congress, which was their only agenda. It was not acceptable to us at all.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-aap-leaders-rejoin-congress-338233
15-11-2021||---||Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational: Shiv Kapur prevails over Rashid in playoff to claim golf title||Chandigarh, November 14Shiv Kapur prevailed over Rashid Khan in a playoff in the Rs1.5-crore Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational to register his first-ever win at a PGTI event. The tournament was decided in a playoff for the fourth year in succession.The Dubai-based Kapur (64-68-67-70), who originally hails from Delhi, and Khan (65-67-69-68), another Delhi golfer, were in a deadlock at 19-under 269 at the top of the leaderboard after regulation play having shot final rounds of 70 and 68, respectively, at the Chandigarh Golf Club. Udayan Mane (69-68-67-67) took third place at 17-under 271 after returning a second straight 67.Kapur came up with a brilliant second shot from the rough to make a two-putt for par on the playoff hole (18th hole) even as two-time Asian Tour winner Rashid Khan hit his second shot into the water, which effectively ended his challenge.Earlier in the day, 39-year-old Kapur, overnight leader by one shot, struggled with his hitting and as a result, dropped three bogeys on the front-nine with just one birdie in exchange. A monster 50-feet birdie conversion on the 11th seemed to be the defining moment of the day for him.Thereafter, Kapur kept landing it within six feet to pick up birdies on the 13th, 16th and 17th. He missed a four-footer for birdie and outright victory on the 18th, but came back stronger in the playoff to lift the title and take home the winning cheque worth Rs24,24,750.Kapur said: “It was not my prettiest round of golf. I had no rhythm and was all over the place to begin with. The first bit of good luck I had was with the long putt on the 11th. That’s when I told my caddie that this is like the fourth quarter of a basketball game and we can get back. I then had a good back nine and am proud of the way I came back and won despite not having my A- game. I was pretty happy with the way I played the last three holes. Heading into the playoff, one doesn’t have much time to think. You have to go for broke as it’s like a match play situation. I hit my driver a bit left in the rough. I knew I had to make a birdie there, so I went for the flag and ended up hitting a great second shot. It has to be one of my special wins, as it’s my first on the PGTI.”“There could be no better preparation for the upcoming Asian Tour events as I put myself in contention, felt the pressure coming down the stretch and then closed out a win. The season’s just begun for me. All effort in practice and at the gym is paying off,” said Kapur, who last won at the Chandigarh Golf Club as a 15-year-old junior golfer.Rashid Khan, who was two shots off the lead at the start of the day, went steady on the front-nine with two birdies and a bogey before emerging as a hot contender for the title with a much better back-nine that saw him make three birdies. Khan sank a 30-feet birdie putt on the 17th. He made par on the 18th but found the water with his second shot on the playoff hole where he had a bad lie.Khan had earlier lost out in a marathon playoff to local lad Ajeetesh Sandhu in the 2019 edition of the event. Khan took home a prize money cheque worth Rs16,74,750.Chandigarh’s Aadil Bedi, who was overnight second and one off the lead, closed the week in fourth after his final round of 72 took his tally to 16-under 272.The four Chandigarh golfers, other than Aadil, who finished inside the top-10 were Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (tied sixth at 12-under 276), Abhijit Singh Chadha (eighth at 11-under 277), Ajeetesh Sandhu and Karandeep Kochhar (both tied 10th at nine-under 279). Kochhar continues as the PGTI Order of Merit leader with season’s earnings of Rs49,59,880.Gaganjeet Bhullar shot the day’s best score of 66 to finish tied 13th at 8-under 280, SSP Chawrasia and Chikkarangappa were both tied 16th at 7-under 281, while Jyoti Randhawa was tied 33rd at three-under 285.US-based Varun Chopra won the trophy for the best performing amateur as he closed the week in tied 26th at four-under 284.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-shiv-kapur-prevails-over-rashid-in-playoff-to-claim-golf-title-338232
15-11-2021||---||Homage paid to 1971 war martyrs at Chandimandir||Chandigarh, November 14Veterans from the 48th Regular Course of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, who had been commissioned as officers just prior to the commencement of the 1971 Indo-Pak war, today paid homage to martyrs to mark the golden jubilee of the war.The veterans and their family members paid floral tributes at the Veer Smriti war memorial in Chandimandir as a ceremonial guard reversed arms and buglers sounded the last post.Members of the course, also known as the “Baptized by Battle” course had been commissioned on November 14, 1971, about three weeks ahead of the scheduled commissioning in December because of the requirement of officers in the looming war.Lt Gen SR Ghosh, former General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, who was the last among officers who participated in the 1971 war to retire from service, said despite early commissioning, the course members were all prepared mentally and physically to go to the war and were quite excited about it.The 1971 war, he said, was the most important war that India had fought as it liberated a new country and Bangladesh was born because of India’s action. Besides good successes on the Western Front, the Indian Army took over 93,000 Pakistani prisoners of war, which was unparalleled.Recalling his first days in uniform, Col LJS Gill (retd) said he had been commissioned into 2 Para and on joining his unit in Calcutta, he learnt that the battalion was preparing an important airborne operation. He did not have that required 18-day probation required by a new officer on joining a parachute unit, but insisted on going into battle with his unit.The airborne operation, which dropped paratroopers over Tangail in the eastern theatre, was one of the trump cards of thewar, he said. His unit captured a vital bridge north of Tangail, and was later among the first units to enter Dacca.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/homage-paid-to-1971-war-martyrs-at-chandimandir-338231
15-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib district police redress 149 complaints||The district police organised a special complaint-resolution camp to amicably redress the complaints related to domestic and matrimonial disputes pending for the past many months. The camp was inaugurated by SSP Sandeep Goel. Officials, led by Madhvi Sharma, DSP, CAWS. Fatehgarh Sahib conducted the camp.The SSP said while reviewing crime files, he noticed many complaints regarding domestic and matrimonial disputes lying pending. He directed the DSP, CAWS, to organise a special camp and call all parties at the Police Lines to resolve their issues amicably. He said it yielded good results. Madhvi said counselling sessions were held and services of experts taken for the resolution of disputes. As many as 149 complaints were resolved on the spot.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-district-police-redress-149-complaints-338229
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Olympian Randhawa’s biography unveiled||The sporting life of the legendary first Arjuna Awardee athlete Gurbachan Singh Randhawa, who made the country shine like a star in the international athletics arena, would forever be a beacon of inspiration for other Indian players till eternity. These views were expressed by Sports, Higher Education and Linguistics Minister Pargat Singh while dedicating his biography, “Uddna Baaz”, penned by Navdeep Singh Gill, to people here today.Pargat said the very fact that Randhawa made it to the Olympic finals, was adjudged Best Athlete in the Asian Games and achieved four national records within two days speaks volumes about the peerless prowess of the iconic athlete.“Punjabis can create history but can’t preserve it. In order to change this, it has been decided to write a series of biographies of our sporting icons and beginning has been made from Gurbachan Singh Randhawa,” Pargat added.Born on June 6, 1939 at Nangli village in Amritsar district, Randhawa was the flag bearer of the Indian contingent in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics where he bagged fifth position in the 110-metre hurdles event. He won a gold medal in the 1962 Jakarta Asiad in Decathlon, besides the title of the best athlete. He was bestowed the Arjuna Award in 1961 and Padma Shri in 2005. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/olympian-randhawas-biography-unveiled-338228
15-11-2021||Not a diwali tradition||Open house: How to encourage residents to celebrate an environment-friendly Diwali?||Why is everybody freaked about bursting crackers once a year during Diwali and not caring about industrial and vehicular pollution, which is major cause of environment deterioration? We say bursting crackers is a tradition on Diwali. You are ill-informed. Diwali is a festival of lights (diyas, candles and electric lights) and not crackers (sound and air pollution). We are also down playing pollution it creates. Every other person complains about smog that engulfs cities after Diwali. Are you sure that by banning crackers on Diwali pollution will reduce? To stop people from bursting crackers they must be apprised that it is not even a ritual of Diwali. If a small kid has fun while burning crackers then let him do so because the focus is on 0.07% pollution this practice creates.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhPromote eco-friendly celebrationsPeople will burst crackers if these are available in markets. The Administration should ban sale of crackers, which create pollution in the tricity and encourage sale of green crackers. People cannot be deprived of festivities, but eco-friendly celebrations with green crackers can certainly be promoted.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhGuidelines just an eyewashThe guidelines issued by the Administration seem to be an eye wash. To make efforts worthwhile, first and foremost, minimise the issue of licences for manufacturing crackers. Again, there should be restriction on licences for selling crackers. No crackers, which make loud noise or smoke, should be manufactured. Orders must be issued well in advance and not one week before Diwali when crackers are already up for sale. Ban on firecrackers should be strictly implemented by involving RWAs.BS Dhillon, MohaliPrefer Community celebrationsAvoid bursting firecrackers on Diwali. Rather spend the evening while listening to music and dancing, playing games, and having special dinner. Communities/societies can oraganise Diwali celebrations. Community celebrations give more pleasure than individual celebrations. We have to save environment and mother Earth. Bursting of firecrackers not only causes pollution, but is also detrimental to the health of the elderly, children and animals. Many people suffer from pollution-related ailments during the festive season. Buy only eco-friendly crackersVijay Malia, ChandigarhEncourage people to save environmentThe people have completely ignored the ban imposed on crackers by the SC. The half-hearted approach of the Administration to implement the ban on bursting of crackers during Diwali has further reduced fear among masses. Hardly anyone has been implicated for the lapses till date. The ill-effects of bursting crackers must be highlighted to make people aware. Ban production and sale of environment polluting crackers. Allow production of only green crackers. The religious angle given to bursting of crackers must also be taken care through awareness campaigns. Nothing can be achieved by polluting environment. People should be encouraged to spend money on saving environment rather than polluting it in the name of faiths.Wg Cdr (Dr) JS Minhas (retd), MohaliUse LED lights for decorationChildren must be educated to celebrate Diwali with green crackers in order to save the environment. At the same time, the authorities must ban sale of crackers, which pollute environment and create health problem for seniors. LED lights can be used for decoration during celebrations.Col TBS Bedi retd), MohaliTwo-hour window flouted with impunityLike every year, this year too tricity residents burst crackers with impunity. They flouted two hours window from 8 pm to 10 pm for bursting crackers. The deafening noise of the fireworks could well be heard even after the midnight. The point is symbolic bursting of crackers is fine, but the problem arises when this madness continues for unlimited period. As responsible citizens it’s our duty to save our deteriorating environment. Otherwise, the day is not far when face masks and gas cylinders will become a permanent part of our lives.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurPut a cap on production of firecrackersResidents should be motivated to limit bursting of firecrackers.The government should cap production of firecrackers. Residents should be motivated not to burst firecrackers. People can complete the Diwali ritual by bursting one or two firecrackers. It will keep environment pollution within limits.MR Bhateja, NayagaonBan was imposed half-heartedlyNot been able to enforce ban on crackers during Diwali night speaks about reluctance or helplessness of the Administration in the tricity. The ban was scoffed at by young zealots. The Mohali Administration officially allowed bursting of crackers for two hours. As there was no one to stop them they continued bursting crackers till past midnight. This caused noise and air pollution everywhere in the tricity. A city like Chandigarh has a good chunk of well-educated population, which fails to realise the harm that such boisterous act causes to everyone. An awareness campaign must be started by the authorities concerned before festive season with punitive action for offenders so as to have some sobering result on the ground.SC Luthra, ChandigarhEducate kids about harms of crackersThe authorities should work in coordination by imposing complete ban on crackers in the tricity. This year, Mohali residents had permission to burst crackers for two hours while there was a complete ban on crackers in Chandigarh. Educational institutions should educate children about harms of bursting crackers like poor air quality, respiratory problems and suffering burns through demonstrations, lectures and practical. The government has to curb the sale of crackers by imposing complete ban and punish violators.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliNo fine imposed on violatorsEvery year the government make rules, but always ends up with their poor implementation. No fine is imposed on people, who flout ban on crackers. People should celebrate green Diwali by lighting earthen lamps. There should be check on the sale of crackers. Besides, the manufacture of crackers should be limited.Avinash goyal, ChandigarhA wakeup call for admn, residentsThe worsening air quality index (AQI) of the tricity after Diwali every year must act as a wakeup call for the administration and residents. Focus should be on celebrating an eco-friendly Diwali. The administration should completely ban the sale and bursting of fireworks. Instead of bursting crackers, residents can make rangolis, traditional home-made lanterns, paint earthen lamps and spend some quality time with their families. Bursting of crackers is an environmental issue and not religious or political.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhNot easy to change people’s mindsetDiwali is a festival of lights and sound. As per centuries old tradition, its celebrations do not end without bursting crackers. Old habits die hard. It is not easy to change the mindset of the people. Even fines are imposed, but there is hardly any physical checking to implement ban on crackers. Only awareness and efforts of the civil society or NGOs can help change the mindset of people towards bursting crackers. Political and religious leaders must not justify bursting of crackers. There are other options to celebrate Diwali with flowers or electric crackers without affecting us or the environment.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhHow to implement cracker ban?The best way to tackle flouting of ban on crackers is to keep a strict vigil on violators. Some people only understand the language of penalty or punishment. Strict action should be taken against those, who violate ban. Only green crackers should be allowed. Illegal sale of crackers must be stopped in the tricity. Real question is how the Administration should implement cracker ban as it remains only on paper.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaSay yes to life, no to crackersThe Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change should launch a campaign to create awareness among various stakeholders about harms of crackers and encourage people to combat air and sound pollution. The smoke and loud noise of crackers disturb environment balance. Moreover, crackers cause immense distress among birds and animals. Schools and colleges must sensitise students about harmful effects of crackers.Anita Tandon, KhararBan goes up in smokeJust before Diwali, concerns about air pollution aggravating Covid infections had led to various states imposing restrictions on firecrackers. Unfortunately, all such restrictions were widely flouted and air quality plummeted to ‘severe’ levels at several places post Diwali. If curbs fail at the point of sale, then the police and other authorities have an unwieldy task of preventing cracker bursting. Highhandedness hardly helps in wooing public. Indians, who insist on bursting crackers, are comparable to those in the US, who resist masks by quoting free choice and even theological reasons. Only collective action can safeguard public health and clean air.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliViolators must be imprisonedThe Administration should make people aware about harms of bursting crackers and encourage them to celebrate green Diwali. Those, who violate cracker ban, should be punished with fine and imprisonment. The sale of crackers should be prohibited. Green Diwali is necessary if people want good air and ozone layer and balanced ecosystem.Adish Sood, AmlohLack of willpower to enforce banWhen the government does not have the willpower to implement cracker ban then why blame people? Most people bought crackers before Diwali. The fact is that government does not want manufacturers, businessmen and shopkeepers to suffer. So, it gives them chance to sell crackers as they help all political parties during election. If the government is serious about pollution, the sale of crackers should be banned from Dasehra onwards.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhDon’t rob children of all the funIt’s unfair on the part of the Administration to impose complete ban on crackers to reduce pollution. It’s an ongoing and persisting problem. As civilised citizens we need to identify causes of pollution. They can contribute to efforts for reducing air pollution by car pooling, walking, observing no car days, minimum use of AC and let children enjoy Diwali. Please don’t rob them of this fun.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaEducate residents, penalise violatorsChandigarh is a city of educated persons. Still, cracker ban in not implemented 100 per cent in the UT. This aim can only be achieved by educating people and strictly banning the sale of crackers. Crackers are not manufactured in the tricity. These are brought from other states. Strict checking and penalising those, who violate ban, can give positive results and encourage people to celebrate green Diwali.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhLaunch online complaint facilityNo doubt ban on bursting crackers on Diwali was total failure in the tricity. The Administration did not take action against violators resulting in the poor AQI level. To check this menace the Administration must rope in councillors and the police personnel. Advertisements and announcements cannot bring desired results. Violators should be penalised and imprisoned for 24 hours. Online complaint facility should be launched for reporting cracker ban violation. Identity of the complainant should be kept secret.AK Jindal, PatialaStrict enforcement of ban can helpEducated society is not able to differentiate between right and wrong. The Administration warned the public about harms of bursting crackers on the environment. It even imposed ban on firecrackers during the festival season. The public response towards ban shows that only rule with a rod of iron can bring the desired results.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliCommitment towards green concernsDespite repeated campaigns, Diwali always sees countless cracker bursting. One needs to think about environment and rising air pollution. Firecrackers release toxic gases that are harmful for all living beings. The high-level noise generated by crackers causes immense suffering among birds and animals. Besides, crackers are dreaded by the sick. Sadly, few realise that firecrackers are mostly made by young children. Since the substances handled are extremely toxic many child labourers fall sick. Anti-cracker campaigns ahead of Diwali go up in smoke. Children can be made aware of advantages of the cracker ban in schools. Parents should provide children colourful candles and diyas. Social workers can enact skits and dramas and distribute handbills to highlight harms of bursting crackers. Rather than setting legal provisions, it’s time to make personal commitment to protect environment by celebrating green Diwali.Dr Shruti K Chawla, Chandigarhadmn should adopt tough measuresThe cracker ban went up in smoke on Diwali. Next is the auspicious occasion of Gurpurab when residents will burst crackers. Actually, the Administration has to adopt tough measures to handle the situation. At the same time citizens should follow decisions (cracker ban) for maintaining good air quality. If we want to get rid of the menace the Union Government should ban production of crackers. Otherwise, people will continue to burst crackers.SK Khosla, ChandigarhAllow Rwas to take responsibilityA strict vigil should be kept in the tricity to implement cracker ban thoroughly. Housing societies and complexes should be given strict instructions not to allow bursting of crackers. The RWAs should be given responsibility of preventing bursting of crackers in their locality. The authorities should give licences to certain shopkeepers for selling only green crackers. A portal can be launched for reporting unauthorised sale of crackers or violation of ban. People should be sensitised towards harmful effects of crackers.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhCitizens’ duty to protect environmentThe UT Administration had banned crackers during this festival season. It’s everyone’s guess how effective was the enforcement of this ban. The police and other government agencies were again unsuccessful in implementing the cracker ban on Diwali night. No one is against celebration of any festival. As responsible citizens we have a duty to protect the environment. Traders hoard crackers well in advance and sell these at exorbitant prices just before Dasehra and Diwali. This can happen only with the collusion of authorities concerned. It’s time to shift to green crackers.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhExemplary punishment to violatorsDespite ban, some people burst high intensity crackers this Diwali. The Administration should involve resident welfare associations to crack down on those, who burst crackers and polluted city’s environment. The violators must be given exemplary punishment irrespective of their social status in order to deter others from violating ban.Sqn Ldr Manjit Johar (retd), UTQUESTIONThe Municipal Corporation (MC), Chandigarh, has allowed market welfare associations to operate inner market parking lots free of cost. What steps should associations take to smoothly run unmanned parkings in the UT?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-how-to-encourage-residents-to-celebrate-an-environment-friendly-diwali-338224
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Consultant booked in Chandigarh||Car stolen from parking lotChandigarh: A mini-SUV (Venue) was reportedly stolen from the parking lot in Sector 22. The complainant, Sunny Abrol, a resident of Kharar, reported that his car, along with a laptop and documents, was stolen from near a hotel. The police have registered a case at the Sector 17 police station. TNSMan found dead on railway tracksChandigarh: The body of a man was found on the railway tracks near the Industrial Area, Phase 2, about 4.5 km from the railway station, on Sunday morning. The body was sent to the mortuary, Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula. Raj Kumar, SHO, GRP, Chandigarh Railway Station said: “The man, aged between 30 and 35, had two tattoos, the symbol of ‘Om’ and a trishool, on his right hand.” TNS150 take part in walkathonMohali: The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Mohali, organised a walkathon to make people aware of free legal services. Around 150 persons from different walks of life took part in the walkathon. It began from Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Sohana, and culminated at the District Courts Complex, Mohali. A walkathon was also organised in the Dera Bassi and Kharar sub-divisions. TNSCM Channi to open hospital on Nov 19Mohali: The Rayat Bahra Group is starting a 350-bed Bahra Super Specialty Hospital on the Chandigarh-Ropar highway. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi will formally inaugurate the hospital on November 19. The Chief Minister would be accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, chairman of the Rayat Bahra Group and promoter of the hospital, said the idea behind setting up the super-specialty hospital, equipped with cutting-edge technology, was to provide world-class healthcare facilities to the people of the region. All types of medical and surgical emergencies would be handled by qualified and competent doctors at the hospital. He said the hospital would have 100 beds in the first phase. TNSLions Club team installedChandigarh: Installation ceremony of Lions Club Chandigarh Nightingale was held on Sunday. MJF Lion Lalit Behl installed the team in a dignified manner. MJF Lion Nakesh Garg District Governor was the chief guest. Lion Anita Mahajan was installed as the president. Dry ration, soap and biscuits were donated among the needy people on the occasion. Twelve ceiling fans for a school and dresses for the wedding of underprivileged girls were also given. TNSUT to host IndiaSkills 2021 competitionChandigarh: The National Skill Development Corporation, a public private partnership (PPP) under the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), announced that Chandigarh will host IndiaSkills 2021 Northern Regional Competition from November 15 to 18, gathering more than 450 participants from eight states and union territories. The young participants, aged between 19 and 24 years, will compete in over 45 skills, including painting and decorating, mobile robotics, patisserie and confectionery, health and social care, automobile technology, plumbing and heating, beauty therapy, cyber security, welding, among others. TNSCity college celebrates Ayurved ParvChandigarh: All-India Ayurvedic Congress, New Delhi, celebrated Ayurved Parv, sponsored by the Ministry of AYUSH, at Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46-B, from November 12 to 14. The event was inaugurated by Governor of Punjab-cum-UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit and Dr Raj Kumar Verka, Minister of Medical Education and Research, Punjab. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consultant-booked-in-chandigarh-338135
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old stabbed to death by neighbour in Sector 32, Chandigarh||An 18-year-old youth was allegedly stabbed to death by his neighbour over the sale of a motorcycle at Sector 32 this evening. The victim, identified as Nikhil of a colony in Sector 32, was stabbed by 20-year-old Abhi.The police said Nikhil had sold his motorcycle to the suspect. The suspect had failed to make the full payment to the victim and the latter had refused to give the documents of the two-wheeler to the suspect.They had an argument following which the suspect stabbed the victim. Abhi fled the spot after stabbing Nikhil. He was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where the doctors declared him brought dead.The police have registered a murder case at the Sector 34 police station and started investigation. The police said raids were being conducted to nab the suspect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-year-old-stabbed-to-death-by-neighbour-in-sector-32-chandigarh-338137
15-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: Damaged light pole boxes, waste dumps bane of residents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 14Garbage dumps, ill-maintained public conveniences and open light pole junction boxes in green belts are among the civic issues troubling the residents of Ward Number 9 which is represented by councillor Gurbax Rawat.CouncillorspeakWe are making people aware about not throwing waste at non-designated sites. We are now installing electricity poles on which junction boxes will be placed at a good height. We will get covers fixed on all boxes. Gurbax RawatDuring a visit to parks in Sector 40, it was found some junction boxes of light poles were open while the others were either missing or broken. Wires hanging out of these boxes put children and animals at the risk of electrocution. Around three years ago, a small child had died as he accidentally touched an open junction box in Mani Majra.Chairman, Progressive Residents Welfare Association, Sector 40-D, VN Sharma said, “The lighting system in parks is in poor shape. Junction boxes of light poles are broken. It’s risky for children to play in parks. Also, lights have not been put on all poles erected a long time ago. We have raised the issue with the authorities, but to no avail. Sanitation is another big issue. Waste dumps are everywhere and nobody comes to remove garbage.”Sanjiv Grover, senior vice-president, Sector 40-B, said, “Due to these broken junction boxes, children and animals are always at the risk of getting electrocuted.”He also said, “Sanitation has been a neglected issue in the ward for the past four and a half years, but the councillor has now started working on it, just before the elections. Public toilets are in a bad condition. Besides, garbage dumps and blocked road gullies can be spotted in ward areas. The parks are also not maintained.”Joginder Singh Ghuman, senior vice-president, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 39, flagged the issue of stray dogs. “There are countless stray dogs and it is a nuisance. Despite sterilisation claims, puppies are seen everywhere. No solution could be found to this in five years. There are also no CCTV cameras in our sector.”With regard to open junction boxes,Gurbax said, “Theft of junction boxes is a challenge before the MC in all wards. We are now installing electric poles on which junction boxes will be placed at a good height. We will get covers installed on all open boxes. As far as toilets are concerned, their maintenance is with the Resident/Market Welfare Associations. They face the problem of late payment of maintenance charges from the Municipal Corporation. We are getting it resolved.”Councillor Gurbax Rawat, who works in an IT firm, has been vocal in raising issues at Chandigarh MC House meetings.One of the only five Congress councillors, Gurbax Rawat won from this ward, a reserved seat for women, in 2016. This time it is a general ward and she plans to contest from here only. She has started door-to-door visits in the ward.Gurbax Rawat: Congress councillor from Ward Number 9Area: Sectors 39 and 40Promises: Improving civic issuesResult: Partly doneAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-damaged-light-pole-boxes-waste-dumps-bane-of-residents-338136
15-11-2021||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh police plan cyber desks at all stations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 14With a steep rise in cybercrime cases, the Chandigarh police have decided to set up cyber desks at all police stations to lessen the burden on Cyber Crime Investigation Cell (CCIC), which is finding it difficult to focus on special cases.The order issued by UT DGP Praveer Ranjan states that in today’s information age, a police station must also be empowered to deal with cybercrime matters to overcome the burden of the CCIC, which is unable to focus on special cases.Several categories of cybercrime have been defined which will be dealt by the police stations.The order states that the officer in-charge of the police station will have to set up a cyber desk from within the staff allocated to the police station and will consist of a Sub-Inspector (SI) or an ASI, a Head Constable and two constables, including a computer operator.The cyber desks can take help from the CCIC in respect of email accounts, social media accounts etc. The CCIC will be taking the information required from the authority concerned and provide it to the police station.Meanwhile, complaints received on the NCRP portal, those coming under police station heads, will be forwarded to the respective police station by the DSP, CCIC, while the rest of the complaints will be dealt with by the CCIC.The CCIC will also conduct training sessions for the staff put on cyber desk duty.Cases to be dealt with by desksRise in cybercrimeThere has been a steep rise in cybercrime in the past few years.In 2017, 2,242 complaints were received by the police. The number rose to 3,167 in 2018 and 4,793 in 2019. Close to 6,300 complaints of cybercrime were received last year, while a total of 3,306 complaints were filed till July 18 this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-plan-cyber-desks-at-all-stations-338138
15-11-2021||---||Dengue stings 39 more in Mohali district||Mohali, November 14The district on Sunday reported 39 fresh cases of dengue, taking the total number of cases this year to 3,631. There was no fresh fatality due to the vector-borne disease.A total of 144 samples of suspected dengue fever patients were taken and 39 of these tested positive for dengue.In Mohali, 344 cases and two deaths surfaced in September whereas 2,260 cases with 29 deaths were reported till October 31. A total of 1,000 cases have surfaced this month and 263 of these were reported in the past five days. The disease has claimed six lives in the district this month.14 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: Fourteen fresh cases of dengue were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 806. No death due to the disease was reported from across the district on Sunday. Civil Surgeon Mukta Kumar said 86 patients were admitted to private hospitals while 50 patients were being treated at the government hospitals in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-stings-39-more-in-mohali-district-338140
15-11-2021||Chandigarh||Four test positive for Covid in Chandigarh||Three new cases in MohaliMohali: Three fresh cases of Covid were reported during the past 24 hours, taking the total tally to 68,881 in the district. Meanwhile, no new fatality was reported while one patient was cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one came from Mohali and two from Kharar. No case was reported from Dhakoli, Dera Bassi, Gharuan, Boothgarh, Lalru, Banur and Kurali. As of now, the district tally stands at 68,881 and recoveries 67,756. There are 55 active cases with 1,070 deaths in the district. TNSTwo fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: Two new cases of Covid surfaced in the past 24 hours, taking the number to 30,787 in the district. A 46-year-old woman of Sector 21 and a 56-year-old woman of Amravati Enclave tested positive for the virus. There was no fresh fatality on Sunday. 30,396 patients have recovered from the disease. There are 12 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-338139
15-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid testing falls by 33% in 3 weeks in City Beautiful||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 14The Covid-19 testing in the city has dipped by 33 per cent since the week ending October 23. As many as 11,831 tests were conducted from October 17 to October 23 while 10,972 persons were tested for the virus in the week ending October 30.OfficialspeakThe number at the GMSH is consistent. We are conducting 900-1,000 tests daily. The overall testing decreases when other health institutions do not conduct adequate number of tests. — Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, UT There was a sharp fall in the Covid-19 tests to 7,394 in the week ending November 6. This week, the figure stood at 7,919. In September, the UT Health Department had ordered that all patients attending OPDs at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will have to undergo the Covid-19 test. The sharp fall in Covid testing is attributed to hospitals not conducting enough tests in OPDs.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, said, “When the cases were on the rise during the second wave of Covid, testing was also increased. Now, we are testing patients visiting the GMSH for surgery and those coming to Emergency. Our number is consistent and we are conducting 900-1,000 tests daily. However, the overall testing decreases when the other health institutions do not conduct adequate number of tests.” Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said he was going to check whether the health institutions were conducting tests of patients visiting OPDs.Dr Naveen Pandey, Administrative Head of Emergency and OPD, PGI, said it was not possible to conduct the Covid test on all patients visiting OPDs as the daily footfall is 8,000-9,000. He informed that the hospital conducted random tests to check the positivity rate. The overall test positivity rate in the city is 8 per cent, while the positivity in the past seven days stood at 0.27 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-testing-falls-by-33-in-3-weeks-in-city-beautiful-338141
15-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation puts erring parking contractors on notice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 14Acting tough against contractors for non-payment of dues, the Municipal Corporation today wrote to two paid parking agencies to clear their licence fee dues to the tune of Rs4.48 crore in a week or face termination of the contract of managing 89 paid parking lots.“You are directed to deposit the licence fee within a week positively, failing which your contract will be terminated, you will be blacklisted, your security amount (over Rs1.50 crore each) will be forfeited and the pending amount recovered as per the due course of law, or the office will take any other action against you as deemed fit,” read an order issued by MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra.“You have been informed many times through e-mail/telephonic call/WhatsApp regarding the outstanding amount. Further, you were given a notice on October 19 to pay the calculated amount up to October and reminder dated November 10 to pay... But, you have not deposited the full pending amount. The General House of the corporation has rejected your request for remission in licence fee due to Covid-19 and for free parking to MC employees,” the order stated.The Zone 1 contractor, Patna-based Ram Sundar Prasad Singh, and the Zone 2 contractor, Delhi-based agency Pashchatya Entertainment Pvt Ltd, have been asked to pay Rs1.67 crore and Rs 2.88 crore calculated till November 12, respectively. The action came two days after the House rejected their plea of exemption in the licence fee.Citing losses, the two firms had sought fee exemption on account of lockdown during the second wave of Covid, a few “non-feasible” parking lots and free parking extended to all MC employees.The Zone 1 contractor had sought a fee exemption of Rs1.02 crore and the Zone 2 contractor had sought Rs98.64-lakh exemption. However, councillors of both the BJP and the Congress had not favoured it during the House meeting.When spoken to a representative of one of the parking agencies, he said they were yet to take a call.In an earlier request to the officials, they had said if the fee exemption was not extended to them, they would not be able to run the parking lots. It is likely they might move the court or again request the MC to reconsider their remission plea.The parking of 89 spaces in the two zones was allotted to the two forms on January 23 last year for three years, which was extendable for up to five years.The previous parking lot company and the MC also had issues regarding the implementation of smart features and licence fee payment. The matter later reached the court, following which the contract was terminated.Fact fileReason: The two had sought exemption in licence fee citing the Covid pandemic and free parking extended to the MC staff||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-puts-erring-parking-contractors-on-notice-338142
