16-11-2021||Chandigarh||First Lady Savita Kovind inaugurates Bird Park||First Lady of India Savita Kovind inaugurated the Chandigarh Bird Park in a ceremony held on Monday.Chandigarh’s Department of Forest and Wildlife has developed the park on 6.5 acres of land at Nagar Van behind Sukhna Lake for exotic birds commonly bred in India to help create awareness about bird conservation.Boasting 550 exotic birds of 48 species, the aviary offers space for birds to fly around freely and nest in their natural habitat while also allowing visitors to view them, a press release said.Birds you can find at the parkDebendra Dalai, UT Chandigarh’s Chief Conservator of Forests & Chief Wildlife Warden, said that park has two enclosures that measure 200x150 feet and are 58-foot high and two walk-through aviaries. It is believed to be the tallest aviary for the exotic birds in India, a press release said.The park boasts of a cafeteria and a souvenir shop.When can you visit?The park opens to the public on November 17.How much do you pay?Rs 30 for children between 5 and 12 yearsRs 50 for people over 12 years of ageRs 100 for clicking pictures with birds||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-lady-savita-kovind-inaugurates-bird-park-338936
16-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Mohali witnesses uptick in Covid-19 cases after Diwali||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15Covid-19 cases shot up by 145 per cent in Mohali district in just 10 days after Diwali, according to a trend analysis of cases recorded before and after the festival.The data suggests that the seven-month contraction of the Covid outbreak in the district maybe bottoming out. Experts have warned that vaccination pace needs to be picked up in the district and Covid-appropriate behaviour followed.From only 22 cases witnessed from October 26 to November 4, the number rose to 54 between November 5 and 15 in Mohali district this year.A similar trend of rise in cases was seen last year also after Diwali in the district. A total of 1,199 cases were recorded 10 days after Diwali against 855 cases recorded in a span of 10 days before Diwali. There was a rise in Covid-19 cases by 40 per cent last year.Even though the cases have increased, deaths remain low in Mohali. One patient succumbed to the disease. The positivity rate increased to 0.6 per cent from 0.2 per cent.However, Chandigarh did not report any rise in the cases after Diwali this year. Against 33 cases logged before the festival, only 27 cases surfaced in 10 days after Diwali. In Panchkula also, only 14 cases have been recorded after November 4. Around 13 cases were recorded before the festival.Dr KK Talwar, former Director, PGI, who has also served as Health Adviser to the Punjab Government, said, “The next two weeks will be very crucial for the surge as Delhi has already started witnessing a rise in Covid cases. Punjab needs to be aggressive in vaccination and it is only a matter of time when we will find out how long the vaccination lasts. With booster dose not available, we should take all precautions. The festive celebrations and gatherings are the reason behind the surge.”Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur, Mohali Civil Surgeon, said, “The cases in the district rose because of the family members who came from other places and tested positive here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-witnesses-uptick-in-covid-19-cases-after-diwali-338638
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||5 more test positive for Covid in Chandigarh||The city on Monday reported five cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Two patients got the better of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS2 more infected in Mohali districtMohali: Two fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,883. Meanwhile, no fresh death was reported till Monday evening. Among the fresh cases, one each was from Dhakoli and Gharuan. As of now, the district tally stands at 68,883. Of this, 67,757 patients have been cured. There are 56 active cases in the district. With no fresh fatality, the toll stands at 1,070. TNSOnly one fresh case in PanchkulaPanchkula: Only one fresh Covid-19 case was reported from the district on Monday, taking the tally to 30,788. With no new death, the toll remained at 379. While 30,396 people have recovered from the disease so far, 13 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-338639
16-11-2021||Panchkula||No let-up in dengue cases at Panchkula||There seems to be no let-up in dengue in the district with an average of 16 cases reported each day during the past week. Today, 18 new dengue patients were reported in the district. A total of 241 dengue patients have been reported so far this month despite a fall in the temperature.While October witnessed a maximum of 491 cases, September saw 81 cases. Just 11 cases were reported till the end of August. Overall, 824 dengue cases have been recorded across the district so far, the highest in the past four years.The Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Dr Mukta Kumar, said the number of cases was on the decline with a fall in the temperature. “The weekly average has come down as well as patient admissions to hospitals,” the CMO added.She expected that it will further go down by the end of this month.She insisted that anti-dengue activities, in coordination with the Municipal Corporation, were underway across the district to stem the spread of the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-let-up-in-dengue-cases-at-panchkula-338640
16-11-2021||Mohali||Dengue stings 47 more in Mohali||The district reported 47 fresh cases of dengue during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,678. However, no death has been reported.A total of 3,678 positive cases have been reported from the district in the past two months. As many as 344 cases and two deaths surfaced in September, whereas 2,260 cases and 29 deaths were reported till October 31.A total of 169 samples were taken and 47 of these tested positive for the disease. A total of 1,047 dengue cases have surfaced this month and 245 of these were reported in the past five days. Six fatalities took place this month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-stings-47-more-in-mohali-338641
16-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||First Lady to inaugurate Bird Park near Sukhna Lake, Chandigarh, today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15Selfie enthusiasts can now take pictures with exotic birds. With the inauguration of Chandigarh Bird Park tomorrow, visitors will have a chance to get themselves clicked with ‘tamed’ birds for Rs 100.“A large number of ‘tamed’ birds of three species - African grey parrot, white-eyed conure and blue gold macaw - will be available for selfie aficionados at the aviary,” said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT.Savita Kovind, wife of President Ram Nath Kovind, would inaugurate the much-awaited Bird Park at Nagar Van (city forest) near Sukhna Lake here tomorrow. After the inauguration, the aviary will be opened for the general public from Wednesday onwards, said Dalai.Set up on over four acres by the UT Forest and Wildlife Department, the Bird Park in the initial phase will house nearly 550 exotic birds of 48 species. The aviary would have separate enclosures for aquatic and terrestrial birds. The height of the enclosures had been designed keeping in mind the flight of the birds, he said, adding that apart from free flight, the birds would be provided with the best possible natural habitat for nesting and breeding.A committee constituted for the project conducted a study about the habitat, flora and water quality of the area before selecting the birds for the aviary, he said.He said the aviary had been developed on the lines of Jurong Bird Park in Singapore. Spread over 100 hectares in and around the Sukhna Lake Reserved Forest area, Nagar Van has facilities such as walkways, jogging trails, nature trails, shallow water bodies and sheds for visitors.550 exotic birds of 48 speciesSet up on over four acres by the UT Forest and Wildlife Department, the Bird Park in the initial phase will house nearly 550 exotic birds of 48 species.How much you have to payRs 30 Children in age group of 5-12 yearsRs 50 Above 12 years of ageRs 100 Clicking pictures with birds||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-lady-to-inaugurate-bird-park-near-sukhna-lake-chandigarh-today-338642
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||1,272 cops for President Ram Nath Kovind’s Chandigarh visit||In view of President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Chandigarh, 1,272 police personnel will be deployed to maintain law and order in the city. Besides, 218 Home Guards volunteers will also be deployed. The police said 18 GOs, 38 inspectors, 361 non-gazetted officers and 855 other police personnel will be deployed in the city on November 16 and 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-272-cops-for-president-ram-nath-kovinds-chandigarh-visit-338643
16-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Recarpeting work incomplete in Chandigarh's Ward No. 16||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15Road recarpeting work could not be completed and garbage dumps remained where they were during the five-year term of Ward Number 16 councillor Rajesh Kumar Gupta Bittu. The recarpeting work in the ward, comprising Sectors 20 and 33, started quite late due to a shortage of funds with the MC.Dr OP Verma, president, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 20, said, “People dump waste here and there. The garbage bin kept near Adarsh Model School is always overflowing. No effort has been made to remove the waste dump near house number 2670. While it is claimed that the city is open defecation free, vendors answer nature’s call in the open in Sectors 20-C and D.”CouncillorspeakI have been regularly getting garbage removed from dumping sites. Sometimes, it takes two-four days to clear horticulture waste. We urge people not to dump waste in the open. Recarpeting has been completed in most areas. —Councillor Rajesh Kumar Gupta BittuHe said, “Inner roads are in a deplorable condition. The authorities concerned adopt a pick-and-choose policy while building toe walls in parks. Two years ago, light poles were erected in parks, but they are still without light fittings.”Residents of Sector 33 also face similar issues. Jagdish Singh Sarpal, president, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 33, said, “A ground in Sector 33-B has become a temporary dumping ground. It causes foul smell in the adjoining area. Despite complaints by residents, it has not been removed yet. Roads have also not been recarpeted for a long time. No attention is paid towards the poor condition of government houses. It is a low-lying area and faces flood-like situation during monsoon.” Sector 33 also has the Terraced Garden where the annual Chrysanthemum Flower Show is held. “During rain, the newly built underpass remains waterlogged,” said Sarpal.“The fountain, which used to be the main feature of the garden, has been non-functional for a long time,” said Jagdeep Mahajan, head of Sector 32-33 Residents Welfare Association.Bittu, who deals in second-hand cars, is a third-time councillor from this ward. This year, the ward has been reserved for a woman candidate. He may try to field a woman family member or contest from some other ward. The BJP leader said, “Whatever the party says, he will go by that.”With regard to Terraced Garden, he said, “All four shops there have now been rented out. Waterlogging in the underpass will not be a problem in the next monsoon as the related work has been allocated.”Rajesh Kumar Gupta Bittu: BJP councillor from Ward Number 16Area: Sectors 20 and 33Promises: Improving civic amenitiesResult: Partly doneAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/recarpeting-work-incomplete-in-chandigarhs-ward-no-16-338644
16-11-2021||---||Panchkula fuel stations go on strike, motorists harried||Panchkula, November 15Motorists were a harried lot across the city today as fuel pump owners went on a 24-hour strike on a call given by the All-Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association and the Petroleum Dealers Welfare Association of Haryana to protest the Centre’s move to reduce value-added tax (VAT) on fuel prices.People could get petrol and diesel only at a few filling stations, including a Bharat Petroleum filling station in Sector 2, where long queues of vehicles were witnessed.Desperate motorists rushed to petrol pumps in the border areas of neighbouring Chandigarh and Mohali.Ram Lal (40), a construction contractor, said he first went to a petrol pump in Sector 5 and then in Sector 9 for refilling the tank of his two-wheeler. However, both filling stations were closed. He had no other option but to visit Chandigarh to refill the tank of his vehicle.The recent reduction in excise duty on fuel prices had brought some respite to consumers, but petrol pump owners have claimed huge losses and demanded compensation for it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-fuel-stations-go-on-strike-motorists-harried-338645
16-11-2021||---||Zirakpur: 6 held for betting during T20 World Cup final||Zirakpur, November 15The police have arrested six persons involved in betting during the recently concluded T20 World Cup from a flat in a housing society of Zirakpur and recovered one laptop, 22 mobile phones from them.The suspects have been identified as Dharamvir (40), Manoj Kumar (33), Raj Kumar (46), Rajiv (25), Vishal Kumar (38), all residents of Sirsa, and Sunil Kumar (38) of Mansa. They were been booked under sections 420 of the IPC and the Gambling Act at the Zirakpur police station on November 14.The police got information that the suspects were “cheating gullible people and earning a huge amount of money by betting during the T20 World Cup final between Australia and New Zealand on Sunday”.During interrogation, it was revealed that the suspects had been involved in betting for a long time and used to operate in Punjab, Haryana and other states.Suspect Dharamvir Singh was running a betting racket from his flat. With the money earned from it, he was running a finance business. He had also purchased a flat at a housing society in Zirakpur. The suspects have been remanded in police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-6-held-for-betting-during-t20-world-cup-final-338646
16-11-2021||---||Youth rams car into gate of girls’ hostel in Chandigarh, nabbed||Chandigarh, November 15A youth was arrested by the UT police for ramming his car into the gate of a girls’ hostel here last night.The police said the suspect had been identified as Dilpreet, a resident of Bathinda.Source said the suspect came to meet his friend at the girls’ hostel. However, the security guard told him that the meeting timings were over. The youth then brought his car and rammed it into the hostel gate. The security guard caught the suspect and informed the police about the incident.The police have registered a case against the suspect at the Sector 11 police station and arrested him. He was today produced in a court, which sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-rams-car-into-gate-of-girls-hostel-in-chandigarh-nabbed-338647
16-11-2021||---||Man, son held for Chandigarh teen’s murder||Chandigarh, November 15A day after an 18-year-old youth was stabbed to death, the police arrested Anil and his son Abhay, alias Abhi. Both were produced before the court that sent them to two-day police remand.The victim, Nikhil, a resident of Sector 32, had sold his motorcycle to Abhay. Abhay had failed to make the full payment to the victim and the latter had refused to hand over the documents of the two-wheeler. On Sunday, Nikhil and Abhay had an argument which led to a fight. The police said Abhay’s father was also involved in the fight. The victim was stabbed once.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-son-held-for-chandigarh-teens-murder-338648
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Four get life term for youth’s murder||A local court has awarded life term to four persons in a two-year-old broad daylight murder of a youth at the Sector 40 market in Chandigarh. The court has given the life term to accused Rajat Tiwari, Harpreet Singh, alias Laddi, Ritwick Bhardwaj and Talak, alias DC, while another accused Chetan has been acquitted. The court also imposed a fine of Rs25, 000 on each convict.The police had registered case against the accused after 27-year- old youth Amit Katoch was killed at the Sector 40 Mini Market on June 28, 2019. The accused were arrested on the complaint of Sumit Katoch, brother of deceased Amit Katoch, a resident of Sunny Enclave, Kharar. The police had registered case against the accused under Sections 302, 147, 148, 149 and 34, IPC, at the Sector 39 police station, Chandigarh. Sumit had alleged that a quarrel took place between his brother Amit and accused Rajat Tiwari a few months ago. Due to this his brother was attacked by the accused, Sumit added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-get-life-term-for-youths-murder-338649
16-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh court seeks status report on complaint filed against Salman Khan, sister & others||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, November 15A local court has issued notices to the Chandigarh Police for submitting status report on the complaint of a Mani Majra-based businessman Arun Gupta, which was filed against actor Salman Khan, his sister Alvira Khan and others. The notice has been issued for December 15.Arun Gupta filed complaint through counsel Rajwinder Singh Rajput under Section 156 (3) of the CrPc for demanding that the court issued directions to the Chandigarh Police for registration of an FIR against them for alleged cheating and fraud.In the plea filed before the court, Arun Gupta alleged that the Chandigarh Police was not taking action on his complaint filed against Style Quotient Jewellery Private Limited, Parsad Bindu Madhav, Santosh Srivastava, Being Human Foundation, Actor Salman Khan and his sister Alvira Khan.Gupta said he had opened a showroom of “Being Human Jewellery” at the Mani Majra NAC. As per the agreement with Style Quotient Private Limited, Mumbai, which had partnered with Being Human, Gupta was to display the company’s jewellery at his showroom with its assistance. Gupta alleged that Being Human was a trust owned and set up by the actor. Gupta claimed that he was told that Salman would be promoting his showroom on the reality show Big Boss and was assured that the actor would inaugurate the premises. He spent Rs50 lakh on renovation of the showroom and another Rs1 crore on buying stock, Gupta added. But instead of Salman, his brother-in-law Ayush Sharma came for the inauguration in November 2018 and the showroom from where he was asked to collect the stock had been lying locked since February 2020, said Gupta. Due to this he suffered huge financial losses, Gupta added.The actor and Style Quotient Private Limited CEO, along with other officials, defrauded him and he filed a written complaint before the Economic Offences Wing of the Chandigarh Police on April, 12, 2021, for the registration of an FIR for cheating, said Gupta.He alleged that though he filed complaint months ago, but the police failed to act and nothing happened, Gupta added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-seeks-status-report-on-complaint-filed-against-salman-khan-sister-others-338650
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Special tag’ to go from trains on 17 Chandigarh routes||Trains plying on 17 routes to and from the Chandigarh railway station will not have the “special tag”, which had been introduced during the first Covid-19 lockdown, shows the latest notification issued by the Central Government.As far as the price is concerned, fares will be charged as per the existing guidelines.According to a railway notification dated November 13, 66 pairs of trains under the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways will be regularised. Out of this, 17 will ply over the Chandigarh railway station.“It has now been decided that MSPC and HSP trains will be included in the working time table - 2021,” the notification states.At present, 35 pairs of ‘special’ trains are running over the city station. An official said: “All trains were being run as special trains during the Covid and their numbers were changed. Now, as and when CRIS (Centre for Railway Information Systems) updates the number of the train to its original one, which it had before Covid lockdown, the train will be running as a regular train.”The notification clearly mentions that the ticket fares will be charged “as applicable for the concerned classes of travel and type of train as per the extant guidelines”.A Railway spokesperson said: “There is no update on the train ticket rates so far and whatever the change, bookings done in advance will not be refunded.” Of the many trains, Jan Shatabdi, which was operating under train numbers 02057 and 02058, will soon run as train numbers 12057 and 12058. New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi trains will also run as regular trains, along with Unchahar Express, Hemkunt Express, Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi and Amritsar Lucknow Express, among others.“At the moment, ticket fares are low of trains on which food is served directly to passengers. This may change once we revert to the old system and the price of food is added,” the official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-tag-to-go-from-trains-on-17-chandigarh-routes-338651
16-11-2021||---||ITBP Bhanu training centre celebrates 60th Raising Day||Chandigarh, November 15The 60th Raising Day of Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) Basic Training Centre at Bhanu near here was commemorated today with several events being organised to mark the occasion.A ceremonial parade was held, which was reviewed by ITBP Inspector General PS Papta, who also presented medals and commendation certificates to several personnel for their performance in operational areas, including Ladakh and anti-naxal operations.A fete was also organsied in which various competitions such as drawing, fancy dress, rangoli, musical chairs for women and children, tug-of-war and slow cycling for men were held.A dog show by ITBP K-9s capped the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/itbp-bhanu-training-centre-celebrates-60th-raising-day-338652
16-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Mayor lays foundation stone of Sector 52 Community Centre work||Chandigarh, November 15Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today laid the foundation stone of finishing work of the Community Centre, Sector 52, here today in the presence of Commissioner Anindita Mitra and area councillor Chanderwati Shukla.Spread over 2.13 acres, the finishing works of the Community Centre include construction of hall for gathering of 500 persons, bridal room, dormitory, caretaker office, Sampark Centre on the ground floor, gym/indoor games, library hall, meeting room and office hall on the first floor, besides providing parking facility for nearly 210 cars at an estimated cost of Rs3.30 crore.The Mayor also laid foundation stone of providing parking 80mm thick paver blocks over four inch thick vet mixed macadam and six inch thick GSB along green belt, Kajehri village, and Sector 52, Chandigarh, having area of 2,241 square metre at an estimated cost of Rs31.48 lakh.After laying the foundation stone for both works, the Mayor and senior officials, along with area councillor, held “Nigam aapke dwar” programme at the Civil Dispensary, Sector 52.The Mayor assured local residents for better basic amenities and infrastructure in the area. With the provision of Community Centre local residents need not go far from their houses for organising social functions, the Mayor added.Earlier, parking of vehicles along the green belt at Kajheri village was a big problem, the Mayor said while adding now with proper parking space, local residents could park their vehicles with ease here.The Mayor also inaugurated open air gym at a park in Sector 22-B and laid foundation stone of toilet block at Nehru Park, Sector 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-lays-foundation-stone-of-sector-52-community-centre-work-338653
16-11-2021||---||AAP announces 2nd list of ward in-charge||Chandigarh, November 15The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) city unit has released the second list of ward in-charge for the upcoming Municipal Corporation (MC) elections.Party sources said these in-charges would be announced as candidates later on. “They have been given time to work in their respective wards before the finalisation of names for the MC polls. However, minor changes regarding candidates could be made later,” the sources added.Seven new names have been added to the list. The AAP city affairs in-charge and the MLA from Delhi, Jarnail Singh, announced these names here on Monday.According to list, Satish Kumar has been made in-charge for Ward No. 7, Omkar Singh Aulakh (Sunny) of Ward No. 11 , Rajesh Chaudhary of Ward No. 20, Jasbir Singh Ladi of Ward No. 21, Anju Katial of Ward No. 22, Prem Lata of Ward No. 23 and Vikram Pundir of Ward No. 30.While expressing gratitude to AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal the newly appointed ward in-charges assured that they would sincerely fulfil responsibility assigned to them by the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-announces-2nd-list-of-ward-in-charge-338654
16-11-2021||---||Mayor, Commissioner visit dumping, gaushala construction sites in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 15City Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and Commissioner, Municipal Corporation (MC), Chandigarh, Anindita Mitra, today visited dumping ground at Dadu Majra and construction site of the gaushala at Raipur Kalan. They were accompanied by senior officials concerned of the MC. The Mayor and Commissioner reviewed the work progress at both sites. The contractor was instructed to speed up work at dumping ground. They also visited sanitary landfill site where commissioner instructed contractor to finish construction of the boundary wall soon.The Mayor and Commissioner took round of the gaushala construction site and ABC Centre. The commissioner told engineers concerned to complete the project within stipulated time frame.The work of three sheds, including healthy cow shed, heifer shed and pregnant cow shed, to accommodate nearly 1,000 cows has been completed except laying brick on edge flooring and roof sheeting.The works of water supply and laying sewerage has been completed in existing sheds, except sump and storm work. The conduit pipe is yet to be laid in existing sheds and wiring work has to be completed at Phase I of the gaushala.The commissioner asked the chief engineer to complete the balance work at Phase I, including provision for electrical services, horticulture, pellet making machine and construction of veterinary hospital, sick animal shed, fodder shed, toilet blocks and labour huts.She further asked officials to prepare plans for developing Phase II of the gaushala having 6.82 acre plot area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mayor-commissioner-visit-dumping-gaushala-construction-sites-in-chandigarh-338657
16-11-2021||---||MHA tells Haryana to relieve Panchkula DC Vinay Pratap Singh for new stint as Chandigarh DC||Chandigarh, November 15The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has directed the Haryana Government to immediately relieve IAS officer Vinay Pratap Singh to enable him take up his new assignment as the Deputy Commissioner (DC) of Chandigarh.Recently, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India, approved the proposal of the MHA for inter-cadre deputation of Vinay Pratap from Haryana cadre to AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segment) for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier.Vinay Pratap, a Haryana cadre IAS officer of 2011-batch, is currently serving as the DC in the neighbouring district of Panchkula.The MHA also directed the UT Adviser to intimate the date of joining of Vinay Pratap to the Ministry. On joining of Vinay Pratap as the DC of Chandigarh, the present incumbent Mandip Singh Brar, a 2005-batch IAS officer of Haryana cadre, would be relieved from the post.The Haryana Government had sent a panel of three IAS officers, including Vinay Pratap Singh, Prabhjot Singh and Mukul Kumar, to the UT for the post of the DC, which is reserved for a Haryana-cadre IAS officer.The UT Administrator had recommended the name of Vinay Pratap Singh to the MHA for the post of DC.However, the three-year inter-cadre deputation of preset DC Brar had ended on October 31 this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mha-tells-haryana-to-relieve-panchkula-dc-vinay-pratap-singh-for-new-stint-as-chandigarh-dc-338659
16-11-2021||---||Sky Rock Housing Society directed to pay Rs1-lakh compensation to Mohali resident||Mohali, November 15The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed Navjit Singh, proprietor of Sky Rock Housing Society, to pay a compensation of Rs1 lakh to a Mohali resident for failing to give her possession of plot.Commission president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma further ordered Navjit (the opposite party), who is presently confined in Maximum Security Jail, Nabha, to refund Rs10.70 lakh, along with 12 per cent interest, from the date of receiving the amount till actual refund.Mohali resident Najma in her complaint to the commission had stated that she had approached the opposite party for purchasing 200 sqyards plot in Sky Rock City Welfare Society, Banur Road, Mohali. She paid Rs5,000 as initial amount in order to book a plot. The rate of the plot was settled at Rs4,000 per sqyard, which in total comes to Rs8 lakh, along other charges. Najma paid Rs10.70 lakh to the opposite party on different dates. She was given assurance that the plot would be given to her soon, but nothing was done by the opposite party in this regard.Najma was not even allowed to meet Navjit despite her best efforts as she wanted refund of her amount. Later, Najma came to know that she was cheated by the opposite party by making her sign various documents in a fraudulent manner.Alleging deficiency in service on part of the opposite party Najma sought refund of Rs10.70 lakh, along with interest and compensation of Rs50,000 for harassment and mental agony.In reply, the opposite party averred that the complainant failed to establish her locus in the nature of consumer to institute the present complaint. They termed her complaint as false and frivolous. Surprisingly, the reply was signed by Ajay Singh and not by Navjit Singh. Even affidavit submitted in support of the reply was neither signed by Navjit nor attested by anybody.The commission further observed that cleverly the reply was not been signed by anybody on behalf of the opposite party and even Navjit Singh’s affidavit had no signatures and was not attested by anybody. This further showed the mala fide intention of the builder/opposite party, the commission stated.Navjit Singh is lodged in jail in connection with various cases. There is not even one case in which he refunded the amount. So, he was convicted and sentenced by the Consumer Commission to undergo imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sky-rock-housing-society-directed-to-pay-rs1-lakh-compensation-to-mohali-resident-338671
16-11-2021||Mohali||Mohali MC launches Rs 24L development works at Kumbra village||The Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) on Monday started a series of development works, including laying paver blocks in streets of Kumbra village, at the cost of Rs24 lakh.Speaking on the occasion Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said the MC was continuously carrying out development works without any discrimination in the city. Development works at Kumbra village were an example of this, Mayor added.Since he had assumed the office one after another development works were being carried out in Mohali, said Mayor. Development could be seen in every nook and corner of Mohali, Mayor added.Opposition councillors, who were alleging discrimination in their wards, themselves say development works were going on in their wards, said Mayor.He did not want to be a part of any narrow minded politics as the constituency MLA and former Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had given instructions that development works would be expedited in Mohali and there would be no shortage of funds, Mayor added.Mohali residents had voted for Congress candidates and sent them to the MC House by a landslide victory, said Sidhu. He was making all efforts to fulfill responsibility given to him by Mohali residents, Mayor added. All remaining works at Kumbra village would be completed on priority basis and city-like facilities would be provided to villagers, said Mayor.Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, councillor Kamalpreet Singh Bunny, Kulwinder Singh, Surjit Singh, Avtar Singh, and Jagdish Singh were among those present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-launches-rs-24l-development-works-at-kumbra-village-338677
16-11-2021||Mohali||Municipal Corporation panel inspects  works in Mohali||A committee constituted by the Municipal Corporation today inspected undergoing development works in various parts of the city.The inspection was carried out by five-member committee headed by Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi on the instructions of Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu. Commissioner Kamal Garg, SE Sanjay Kanwar, XEN Rajbir Singh and Sunil Kumar and other officials were present on the occasion.After inspecting works Somal and Bedi directed contractors to remove deficiencies and complete development works in time. They clarified that these works should be completed within stipulated time otherwise action may be taken against contractors.They further said action would also be initiated against contractors, who did not start work on time after the work order was issued. They also asked officials to continuously monitor and inspect work being done and collect samples so that these could be completed in a transparent manner and the quality was not be compromised in any way. Garg also asked officials to report any shortcomings found in works so that action could be taken. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-corporation-panel-inspects-works-in-mohali-338678
16-11-2021||Mohali||Mohali: Monkey menace irks Phase 3B-2 residents||Residents of Phase 3B-2 are facing a lot of monkey menace these days. Residents are in the state of shock and fear as monkeys roam freely in streets and damage their property. They complained that employees of the Forest Department were not answering their phone calls.Navneet Sharma, a resident of Phase 3B-2, rued, “Residents have tried to contact the Forest Department and other officials concerned, but all their efforts have proved futile. No one answers their phone call in the office.”Residents said the Municipal Corporation should tackle the menace as monkeys were damaging property in the residential areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-monkey-menace-irks-phase-3b-2-residents-338695
16-11-2021||Mohali||Cricket: Punjab eves beat Maharashtra to reach semifinals||The Punjab State Women’s Senior One Day team beat Maharashtra by five wickets to enter the semifinals of the Women’s Senior One Day Trophy 2021-22 in Bengaluru today.Batting first, Maharashtra scored 120 runs for the loss of nine wickets in 33 overs. MR Marge scored 38 runs. For Punjab, Kanika Ahuja took five wickets for 23 runs and Neelam Bisht scalped two wickets for 19 runs. In reply, Punjab achieved the target (122 runs) for the loss of five wickets in 29.3 overs. Skipper Taniya Bhatia scored unbeaten 39 runs and Neelam Bisht made unbeaten 36 runs . Punjab will play their semifinal on November 18. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-punjab-eves-beat-maharashtra-to-reach-semifinals-338708
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Theft at ITBP officer’s house||No headway in ‘murder’ caseDera Bassi: A day after the body of a liquor vend employee was found under mysterious circumstances in Hasanpur village near Lalru, the police are yet to make any headway in the murder case. Devi Sharan Yadav, 55, of Pratapgarh (UP), was found dead at the liquor vend around 11 am on Sunday with injury marks on his neck. The police suspect it to be a case of murder. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-itbp-officers-house-338709
