17-11-2021||---||PEC should mentor varsities: President Ram Nath Kovind||Chandigarh, November 16President Ram Nath Kovind, in his address during the Punjab Engineering College centenary year celebrations, said that institutes like PEC and its alumni should act as mentors and collaborate with other universities of the country.Also read: For PEC, it’s been a wonderful 100-yr journeyWhen Punjab Engineering College shifted from Roorkee to Chandigarh“PEC has students from all parts of the country, making it a perfect example of unity in diversity. If an institute can be the unifying factor for such a large set of students, I am sure mentorship from you all can definitely be the unifying factor for our country too,” said President Kovind.The college, a deemed university now, has a rich legacy. Its roots go back to December 9, 1921, when its foundation was laid as Mughalpura Technical College at Lahore by Sir Edward Douglas MacLagan.From the humble beginning, with only 50 students, PEC has evolved into a vibrant knowledge centre at Chandigarh, where hundreds of students get professional learning in different disciplines.Talking about a prestigious alumnus of PEC, Dr Satish Dhawan, a Padma Vibhushan recipient, the President emphasised his contributions towards the aerospace field in India. Commending the calibre of PEC, the President talked about the first batch of 17 aeronautical engineers in the IAF given by PEC.He also talked about another PEC alumnus, Kalpana Chawla, who has been an inspiration for so many people around the world. Mentioning the Centre of Excellence in PEC, he talked about the establishment of the Kalpana Chawla Chair of Geospatial Technology (KCC GT) and Siemens-Centre of Excellence.The President inaugurated the newly constructed Centenary Hall to mark this milestone day. He also inaugurated the newly set up Semiconductor Research Centre (Clean Lab) under the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering. The Lab will help researchers, MTech and PhD students prepare and experiment applications, help in the development and manufacturing of microprocessors, phone chips and sensors.The President also laid the foundation stone of a students’ hostel on the campus.PEC role in Covid timesThe President commended PEC for helping during the challenging times of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Students of PEC built robots that could go into isolation wards and deliver food, medicine and other supplies to patients. That was a wonderful illustration of innovation in the service of society. Two patent applications have also been filed from this institute on Covid-related research. Organising a blood donation camp by the students at the time of shortage of blood at the PGI, Chandigarh, is worthy of appreciation. The PEC alumni stood together in the Covid times. When they came to know about the loss of income of some parents, they joined hands and made donations worth more than Rs1 crore for the students in need. Let us all applaud the efforts of those who worked to achieve it.”‘College realising goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat’The President commended PEC for continuous collaborations with other prestigious institutions like the IITs, PGI and ISRO. “Such steps are helpful towards realising the goal of excellence in application-oriented research. Such industry-institute interface will also help in realising the goal of an Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-should-mentor-varsities-president-ram-nath-kovind-339180
17-11-2021||Amarjot Kaur||When Punjab Engineering College shifted from Roorkee to Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16In 1953, when Punjab Engineering College (PEC) shifted from Roorkee to Chandigarh, GR Kalra, former chief engineer of the Punjab Irrigation Department, was pursuing his third year at the institute.Also read: PEC should mentor varsities: President Ram Nath KovindFor PEC, it’s been a wonderful 100-yr journey A witness to the historic transition, 89-year-old Kalra’s overwhelming tribute to his alma mater is the one that starts with the Partition. “We had moved from Pakistan to India and were battling financial blows. While I wanted to work and support my family, my parents wanted me to study. Such was the reputation of PEC that my mother sold her jewellery to fund my education there,” he says. “I had topped in BA with mathemetics (Hons.) at the Doaba College, Jalandhar, and was awarded a scholarship of Rs 30 or Rs 50 too. I wanted to fund my own education, but the scholarship money wasn’t sufficient to study at PEC,” he remembers. Those days, he says, the tuition fee at the college was Rs 25 and the mess fee Rs 100. “In 1951, I had enrolled at DAV College in Jalandhar for a masters course in maths but I shifted to PEC a couple months later, after my mother coaxed me to study there,” he shares.“In Roorkee, PEC shared its campus with Thomson College of Civil Engineering (now IIT-Roorkee). Then PEC had only about 120 students, most of them were studying civil engineering. In our batch, there were 40 students, 20 in civil engineering and 10 each in mechanical and electrical engineering. There were only three courses of engineering back then,” he says.Among the first PEC batch to shift to Chandigarh, Kalra says it was a delight to move about in the city. “We had only one hostel then. It was called the Shivalik Hostel. There was a cubicle for each student. In Roorkee, two students had to share one room. There, we would not go for outing, but in Chandigarh we did. I remember going to Mountview Hotel,” He recalls.Among many of his batchmates, Kalra fondly remembers SS Virdi, former chief engineer-cum-secretary; IK Sanan, former chief engineer, Public Health; and KM Sharan, former member of the railway board. “The discipline at the college and its selection process was such that only the brightest minds got through. Everyone in our batch was well-placed. In fact, most of us didn’t go for training in the fourth year and instead landed jobs at Central Water and Power Commission in Delhi. That was our training. I only hope PEC is made an IIT too. It only deserves that status,” he signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/when-punjab-engineering-college-shifted-from-roorkee-to-chandigarh-339183
17-11-2021||---||Savita Kovind opens Chandigarh Bird Park near Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, November 16Savita Kovind, First Lady of India, inaugurated the Chandigarh Bird Park in the presence of Pushpa Devi Purohit, wife of UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit.The Department of Forest and Wildlife, UT, has developed the park at Nagar Van behind Sukhna Lake for creating awareness among public about bird conservation. These aviaries have been created for the exotic birds which are commonly bred in India.The department has planned the enclosure in such a way that the birds, apart from having a free flight and nesting in the natural habitat, will stay at the aviary and visitors will be able to walk past them.The park’s lush green spaces are covered by terrestrial plants, ferns, shrubs, bushes, aquatic plants, trees and creepers to provide every bird with an environment that is perfectly suited to its unique needs. Herbs, shrubs and trees have been planted to suit the birds’ natural habitat.Savita Kovind visited the entire park and appreciated the efforts made by the Forest Department. She shared that the bird park would help to draw the attention of amateur bird watchers, environmentalists and ornithologists to this planned urban city where visitors could enjoy the nature amidst the winged friends. The facility so created with commitment and professionalism will definitely go a long way in the history, she added.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said the Forest Department had established the bird park over 6.5 acres behind Sukhna Lake which had been developed by providing ample space for each and every bird. It has 58-foot flying height and nearly 200x150 feet of ground area each for terrestrial birds and aquatic birds. The facility has got two small aviaries and two walk through aviaries.In order to avoid crowding inside the aviary, visitors can visit the park in different time slots from November 17 onwards.The event was also attended by Dharam Pal, Adviser to the Administrator; Nitin Kumar Yadav, Secretary (Environment & Forests); Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner; Nitika Pawar, Director (Tourism); Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests; Jaswinder Kaur, MD, CITCO, and other officers of the Chandigarh Administration.Main attractionsThe park has African love birds, budgerigars, white swan, black swan, wood duck, golden pheasant, yellow golden pheasant, green wing macaw, sun conures, African grey parrot, finches and melanistic pheasant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/savita-kovind-opens-chandigarh-bird-park-near-sukhna-lake-339184
17-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||No end to dirty, low-pressure water supply in Sec 44||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The long-standing issue of water supply, dirty as well as at low pressure, in parts of Sector 44 could not be fixed during the five-year tenure of ward number 15 councillor Ravinder Kaur Gujral.During summer, residents in some parts of this sector get water supply at low pressure and in the beginning, the water is often dirty. Residents also complained of drinking water getting mixed with sewage.Dr Anish Garg, president, Residents’ Welfare Federation (RWF), Sector 44, said, “Water supply remained low. We even get water mixed with sewage in MIG flats. Despite complaints, the authorities have failed to address the issue.” He said inner parks were not maintained and roads not recarpeted. “People park their vehicles in parks. A community parking should have been opened. The existing parks can be spared for old people so that they could walk in green spaces and don’t have to go a distance. There is a major issue of a company digging a green pocket to lay a gas pipeline, parking its rehris/vehicles and dumping material for the purpose,” he lamented. RWF secretaries Anil Dutta and Mukesh Goyal said stray dogs were a big issue here and the civic body’s sterilisation drive seemed to have no impact.Another problem in the inner areas of Sector 35 is the non-repaired roads. Dr Jagpal Singh, president of Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), Sector 35, said, “Roads here have not been recarpeted for many years. It is a big issue.” NS Malhi, former president of House Owners’ Welfare Association, commented, “During four and a half years, they kept blaming shortage of funds and Covid. They have become active now before elections and are doing works. It is all eyewash.”“We pay cow cess for ‘gau mata’ in our water bills, but stray cattle still roam around, causing troubles to one and all. Road recarpeting is not being done. Only selective patchwork is being carried out,” he added.However, Mohinder Singh Bhalla, the current president of the association, said the councillor got various development works completed and was accessible.Ravinder Kaur Gujral: Congress councillor from ward number 15Area: Sector 34, 35, 44Promises: Building community centre, e-Sampark, road recarpeting, resolving water issueResult: Partly keptAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-end-to-dirty-low-pressure-water-supply-in-sec-44-339185
17-11-2021||---||Chandigarh MC elections: BJP to come up with vision document||Chandigarh, November 16The city BJP will prepare a vision document or ‘Sankalp Patra’ for the MC elections with the participation of the general public. On the basis of their feedback, a roadmap will be prepared for the next five years, stated city BJP chief Arun Sood at a press conference here today.Sood said “Aapka Chandigarh, Aapka Sujha” would be the biggest public participation campaign of the city. Under the campaign, city residents would be asked to share their suggestions/aspirations with the BJP. Based on these, the BJP would prepare a vision document, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-bjp-to-come-up-with-vision-document-339186
17-11-2021||Amit Sharma||Lapses by police officers led to destruction of evidence: CBI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Lapses on the part of UT police officers led to the destruction of evidence in the murder case of Sukhmanpreet Singh Sidhu, alias Sippy Sidhu. This has been stated by the CBI in its “untraced” report submitted earlier to the CBI special court.The CBI has stated, “Certain lapses have been found on the part of Inspector Poonam Dilawari, then SHO of the Sector 26 police station, and Guriqbal Singh Sidhu, then ASP, in the destruction of evidence”.The investigating agency has further stated that, for lapses at initial stages of investigation (which seriously handicapped the progress of investigation), RDA (regular disciplinary action) for major penalty against Poonam Dilawari and Guriqbal Singh Sidhu is recommended.Sources in the CBI said the report recommending action against police officers was also sent to the UT Police Department. Sippy, a national-level shooter and advocate, was shot dead on September 20, 2015, at a park in Sector 27. A .12-bore gun was used in the crime and four bullets were fired from it. A case of murder was registered at the Sector 26 police station. In January 2016, the case was transferred to the CBI.Sippy’s brother Jippy Sidhu said they would file a protest petition against CBI’s “untraced” report and demand action against the officers.“The main evidence in the case was related to the CCTV footage of area near the spot which was not completely provided to the CBI by the UT police,” said Jippy.The CBI special court had earlier this month rejected the request of the investigating agency to adjourn the Sippy murder case on the grounds that further investigation is pending. The court had observed that the grounds for seeking adjournment were totally unjustified because an untraced report had already been filed by the agency. The case will come up for hearing on November 18||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lapses-by-police-officers-led-to-destruction-of-evidence-cbi-339201
17-11-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Registration of pet dogs now must in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 16The local Municipal Corporation has made registration of pet dogs mandatory and decided to charge Rs5,000 from the owner if the animal is impounded as a stray.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said daily feed charges to be recovered from pet dog owners would be Rs500. He said if the dog was repeatedly strayed, the penalty would be doubled and the owners would have to pay Rs10,000 to get their dogs released. Similarly, failure to control dangerous pet dogs could result in a fine of Rs2,000 over and above the fine for pet found roaming around, he added.Jeeti Sidhu said the MC started registration of pet dogs today. He said the one-time registration fee for pet dogs was Rs100. The annual fee too was Rs100. He said the first token was obtained by councillor Kamalpreet Singh Bunny by registering his pet dog. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg were present on the occasion of issuing of token to the councillor.The Mayor said people not registering their pet dogs would have to pay Rs100 for a delay of one month, Rs200 for two months and five times the renewal fee in case the delay was more than two months.Also, before registration, the dog must be vaccinated and a fitness certificate must be obtained from a veterinary doctor, which had to be submitted online. Registration can be done online at http://petlicense.gov.in/pet-license/citizen-form.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registration-of-pet-dogs-now-must-in-mohali-339202
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||One new Covid case in Chandigarh||The city on Tuesday reported one case of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. One patients was cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS2 test +ve in MohaliMohali: Two persons have been found infected with Covid during the past 24 hours. No fresh fatality was reported from the district while eight patients were cured of the disease on Tuesday. TNSNo case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Tuesday reported no new case of Covid or fatality due to the disease. Meanwhile, one patient got the better of the deadly virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-new-covid-case-in-chandigarh-339203
17-11-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court seeks explanation from trial court||Chandigarh, November 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought explanation from a trial court on non-compliance of an order to expedite trial in a case pending before it. The direction by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition filed by Amit Malik against the State of Punjab.Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, counsel Arnav Sood on the petitioner’s behalf referred to an order dated February 16, vide which the earlier application by petitioner Amit Malik was dismissed. But the trial court was directed to conclude the trial expeditiously in compliance with the earlier order dated February 26, 2020, vide which six-month time was given.Justice Sangwan asserted a perusal of the order showed that a direction was also given to the trial court to forfeit immediately the bail/surety bonds of the accused, who were on bail, if they failed to appear before the trial court. This was to be done as if their bail application had been dismissed by this court.Justice Sangwan added the counsel for the petitioner had also referred to various orders passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Mohali, to submit that the accused, who are on bail, were not appearing. Despite the fact, only notice was issued. Non-bailable warrants had, in fact, not been issued.“The trial court is directed to submit an explanation as to why the order dated February 16 is not being complied with in order to expedite the trial,” the Justice Sangwan asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-seeks-explanation-from-trial-court-339204
17-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh court frames charges against 4 in firing incident at GMCH-32||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Jaibir Singh, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, has framed charges against four accused Kamalpreet Singh, Bhavjit Singh, Dilpreet Singh and Baljeet Singh, alias Baljit Choudhary, in a two-year-old firing incident that took place opposite the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh.The charges have been framed against the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 147, 148, 149 and 307 of the IPC.The police had registered an FIR in the case on a complaint of Jagtar Singh, a resident of Punjab, who alleged that five persons attacked him and opened fire at him when he was standing in front of the GMCH-32 on January 10, 2020.Jagtar said he, along with his friend Sameer Bhat, came to visit his friend Lovepreet Singh, who was admitted to the hospital. He, along with Bhat, was standing near the emergency when four to five men attacked them shouting that Bhat would be eliminated. Before fleeing, the accused opened fire at him. He hid behind his car while a passerby, identified as Gurdyal Singh of Himachal Pradesh, received a bullet injury in the arm and was admitted to the GMCH-32.Jagtar said Bhat had a standoff with some persons over a TikTok video. The police had registered a case under Sections 147, 148, 149 and 307 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Sector 34 police station. During the course of investigation, three used cartridges and a car with five bullet marks were seized from the spot.“After going through the report under Section 173 of the CrPC and its accompanied documents, a prima facie case punishable under Sections 147, 148, 149 and 307 of the IPC is made out against the accused. In view of the observations of the Supreme Court expressed in case titled as Omwati v/s State (Delhi) Administration, the detailed circumstances showing existence of prima facie case against the accused for the offences in question are not required to be set out while framing charge. They have pleaded not guilty to the charge and claimed trial,” said the court in the order.The court has fixed December 6 as the next date of hearing to examine prosecution witnesses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-frames-charges-against-4-in-firing-incident-at-gmch-32-339205
17-11-2021||---||Licence fee: Paid parking contractors to move Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, November 16Paid parking contractors on Tuesday said they would move the Punjab and Haryana High Court regarding the licence fee payment issue with the Municipal Corporation.Two days ago, the civic body had asked the two agencies to clear their licence fee dues to the tune of about Rs4.48 crore in a week or face termination of the contract of managing 89 paid-parking lots. Gurnam Singh, who is managing zone 1 parking lots, “We are going to the court. We will talk to the other agency and will jointly file a case.” Zone 2 contractor also confirmed to move court. Citing losses, the two firms had sought fee exemption on account of lockdown during the second wave of Covid, a few “non-feasible” parking lots and free parking extended to all MC employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/licence-fee-paid-parking-contractors-to-move-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-339206
17-11-2021||---||Jobless ETT teachers try to gherao Punjab CM Channi’s house||Mohali, November 16Hundreds of unemployed ETT teachers, who tried to enter Chandigarh to gherao the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, were stopped by the UT police at the Mohali-Chandigarh border today.Holding a state-level protest, unemployed ETT teachers gathered at the Dasehra ground near Amb Sahib Gurdwara in the city. They have been protesting for the past 27 days at Desumajra village where five teachers, including a girl, were holding fast unto death atop an overhead water tank.Sandeep Sama, senior vice-president of the Unemployed ETT Teachers’ Union, said the protesting youth were hoping that Channi’s behaviour towards them would not be as that of the former Punjab CM, Capt Amarinder Singh, and he would solve their problems on a priority.He rued that Channi and others did not even give them time to listen to their demands. He said recruitment of 2,364 ETT teachers could be done by sending the file to the AG, Punjab, but no initiative was being taken by government. The issue was being deliberately delayed and no concrete steps were being taken by the AG, Punjab, to get the stay removed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jobless-ett-teachers-try-to-gherao-punjab-cm-channis-house-339207
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mani Majra resident fined for bursting crackers on Diwali eve||A local court has imposed a fine of Rs 500 on a Mani Majra resident, Ram Bharose, for bursting crackers on the eve of Diwali, violating the orders issued by the Chandigarh Administration. As per the prosecution, the accused was found bursting crackers on the eve of Diwali, despite being prohibited by the District Magistrate vide order dated October 12, 2021, around 9 pm in the Shastri Nagar area, Mani Majra.Hence, an offence punishable under Section 188 of the IPC was made out against him and an FIR was registered and the accused was arrested.On the completion of the investigation, a challan was presented against the accused. Finding a prima facie case, a notice of accusation under Section 188 of the IPC was served upon the accused to which he pleaded guilty and did not claim trial.TPS Randhawa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, in the order said since the accused had pleaded guilty with free consent and voluntarily, he was held guilty under Section 188 of the IPC.“Considering the nature of offence, I am of the opinion that ends of justice shall be met if the convict is ordered to pay a fine of Rs500 under Section 188 of the IPC. In default of payment of fine, he shall undergo simple imprisonment for seven days,” said the judge in the order. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-resident-fined-for-bursting-crackers-on-diwali-eve-339208
17-11-2021||Panchkula||Notice to Panchkula contractor||Indian media going through after-effects of Covid: ScribeChandigarh: Over the past 20 years, big industrial houses have acquired media outlets, which have influenced news and monopolised distribution channels, said veteran journalist Shekhar Gupta. He was speaking at the fourth edition of Prem Bhatia Memorial Lecture on National Press Day at SD College here today. On the present scenario in the media, Gupta said: “The Indian media is going through the after-effects of Covid. It’s also suffering from long-term effects of the economic slowdown. The media has been polarised.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notice-to-panchkula-contractor-339209
17-11-2021||Chandigarh||New Chandigarh DC Vinay Pratap Singh to take charge today||Girl violated in Dera BassiDera Bassi: The police have registered a rape case against an unknown person for violating a 10-year-old girl near a village here on Monday evening. On a complaint of the victim’s mother, a rape case has been registered against an unknown person under Section 376 of the IPC and the POCSO Act at the Dera Bassi police station. According to the statement of the victim’s mother, the couple (girl’s parents) left for work in the morning. The girl was found unconscious in the forest area near the house by some women, who had gone there to pick wood. TNS12 dengue cases in Mohali districtMohali: A total of 12 persons tested positive for dengue in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,690. However, no death was reported from the district till Tuesday evening. TNSSix taken ill in PanchkulaPanchkula: Six fresh cases of dengue were reported from Panchkula district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 830. No death due to the disease was reported from the district. TNSCooperative Week celebratedDera Bassi: 68th Cooperative Week was celebrated at Primary Cooperative Agricultural Development Bank (PADB), Dera Bassi, on Tuesday. Abhitesh Singh Sandhu, Deputy Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Mohali, presided over the function. Addressing the gathering of farmers and employees of the Cooperative Department, he highlighted the role of the cooperative sector in the progress of Punjab. Paramjit Singh Khetal, manager, PADB, Dera Bassi, highlighted the glorious past of the cooperative movement in Punjab and the important role played by PADBs in the green, white and blue revolution of Punjab. TNS‘COPD second largest killer’Chandigarh: Early screening can identify Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) before it could result in major loss of lung functioning. Most cases of COPD are caused by inhaling pollutants that include smoking (cigarettes, pipes, cigars, etc.) and second-hand smoke, while fumes, chemicals and dust found in many work environments are also some contributing factors. This was stated by a team of doctors from Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula, while sharing facts and myths regarding the disease. “COPD is the second largest killer after heart problems and cancer and India has become the ‘COPD capital of world’. COPD can develop for years without noticeable shortness of breath,” said Dr Sunny Virdi, consultant, Pulmonology. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-chandigarh-dc-vinay-pratap-singh-to-take-charge-today-339210
