18-11-2021||---||Two more Chandigarh police subdivisions created||Chandigarh, November 17The UT Administration has created two new police subdivisions taking the number of subdivisions to five. The two new subdivisions will be called South-West and North-East. These will have a DSP/ASP as a supervisory officer.With two additional supervisory officers, the residents can expect better policing in the city. The jurisdictions of 16 police stations, which earlier were divided into three subdivisions, namely Central, South and East, will now be divided into five subdivisions. The orders were issued today by UT Home Secretary Nitin Kumar Yadav.As per the orders, police stations of Sector 36, 39 and Maloya will be under South-West sub-division, while those of Sector 31, 34 and 49 will be under South sub-division.Similarly, the police stations of Mani Majra, IT Park and Mauli Jagran would fall under the jurisdiction of North-East subdivision, while those of Sector 26, 19 and Industrial Area would be under East sub-division.The police stations that fall under Central sub-division remain the same. The police stations of Sector 17, 11, 3 and Sarangpur falls under this subdivision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-chandigarh-police-subdivisions-created-339689
18-11-2021||---||19 Chandigarh Police inspectors transferred||Chandigarh, November 17Nineteen police inspectors, including nine SHOs, were today transferred by the UT Police Department.Ram Rattan, who was posted as Sector 17 SHO, has been transferred as Industrial Area SHO and Om Parkash has been shifted from Maloya to Sector 17. Jaspal Singh, who was in security wing, has been posted as Maloya SHO.Rohit Kumar, who was Mauli Jagran SHO, has been posted as Sarangpur SHO. Meanwhile, Jaiveer Singh Rana, who was in EOW, has been posted as Mauli Jagran SHO. Industrial Area SHO Harmanjit Singh has been transferred to the traffic wing, Narinder Patial, who was posted as Sector 31 SHO, has been transferred to District Crime Cell, while Ranjit Singh, who was in traffic wing, has been posted as the Sector 31 SHO.Maninder Singh, who was posted as Sector 36 SHO, has been transferred to the security wing and Jaspal Singh, who was in traffic, has been posted as Sector 36 SHO.Sector 39 SHO Rakesh Kumar has been transferred to the traffic wing and Ashok Kumar, at present with Crime Branch, has been posted as Sector 39 SHO.Rajeev Kumar, who was in charge of PO and Summon Staff Cell, has been transferred to Crime Branch.Sector 49 SHO Surinder Kumar has been transferred to the traffic wing. Jai Parkash, who was posted at the Sector 37 police station, has been posted as Sector 49 SHO.Malkiat Singh, who was posted as Sector 19 SHO, has been transferred to the Police Lines. Inspector Mini has been transferred from RTC to the Sector 19 police station as SHO.Devinder Singh, in charge of Cyber Crime Investigation Cell (CCIC), has been posted as Sector 34 SHO and Hari Om Sharma, who was with CCIC, has been made its in-charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-chandigarh-police-inspectors-transferred-339693
18-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Day 1: Over 900 visit Chandigarh Bird Park to see exotic birds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17On the first day of opening, more than 900 people visited the Chandigarh Bird Park today. Savita Kovind, wife of President Ram Nath Kovind, inaugurated the park yesterday and it was thrown open to the general public today.The Bird Park received an overwhelming response, as more than 900 visitors were witnessed on the first day, said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT. He said the visitors included nearly 300 children. Entry on the first day was free, he said, and children in the age group of 6 to 12 would have to pay the entry fee Rs 30, while Rs 50 would be collected from persons above 12 years of age.The Department of Forest and Wildlife, UT, has established the Bird Park on 6.5 acres at Nagar Van behind Sukhna Lake. The facility has got two small aviaries and two walk-through ones. The structure surrounds thousands of plants of varying canopies, which give an ideal habitat, food and shelter for these birds so that they can freely fly and breed.Dr Amandeep Kaur, a local resident who came to see the birds with her two sons, said her sons were delighted to see so many exotic birds at one place. She said it was a good initiative of the UT Administration as the aviary would not only bring people close to birds and nature, but it would also generate revenue for the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-1-over-900-visit-chandigarh-bird-park-to-see-exotic-birds-339696
18-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Garbage dumps common sight, parks ill-maintained in Chandigarh's ward 21||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17Residents of ward number 21 complained of ill-maintained parks and garbage dump at different points even as councillor Gurpreet Singh Dhillon claimed to have fulfilled all promises mentioned in his 2016 poll manifesto.The ward comprises Sectors 32 and 46. Some garbage dump points like one behind the Sector 46 market and a ‘sehaj safai kendra’ (SSK) outside SD College, Sector 32, always overflowed in the five years of Dhillon’s term.Jagdeep Mahajan, president of Joint Residents Welfare Association, Sector 32-33, said, “Neighbourhood parks are in a bad shape. Swings and tracks are broken in many parks. The condition of the one in Sector 32-A is the worst. A fountain set up in a Sector 32-D green belt, in front of SD College, has been lying defunct. It’s wastage of money.”“Besides, dumping of garbage at a non-designated site near Saupin’s School is an eyesore and causes foul smell. Despite complaints, the waste always remains scattered around the SSK and it spills on to the road. It’s a problem not only for residents but also for students who have to bear with the sight of an unhygienic site.”Garbage is a problem being faced by residents of Sector 46 too. Rajinder Garg, president of Residents Welfare Association, Sector 46, lamented, “Our biggest problem is garbage yards at different points. When we complain to the sanitation company’s staff to clear it, they claim they have responsibility of cleaning the 5-ft area from roads. The councillor has been ineffective in getting such spots cleared.”“As far as parks are concerned, swings are broken and open-air gyms not maintained. We wonder at the quality of the equipment. At the time when dengue cases were rising, no fogging was done in our sector,” added Garg.Residents also raised the issue of poor sanitation at the Sector 46 ground on the following day of ‘apni mandi’. “I have written to the authorities to organise mandi only on Friday. On Wednesday, ‘apni mandi’ should be held in Sector 32. Otherwise, sanitation issues would remain despite cleaning of the area,” said Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, the councillor.However, his promise of setting up a Sampark centre is still in the pipeline. “It has been approved by the UT Administration and land has been earmarked near the ‘Bijli Ghar’. The work was delayed due to Covid and will start soon,” he said.He said, “Maintenance of parks is not an issue. We are getting the open-air gym equipment repaired from the company that had set it up. We have a maintenance contract with them.”About the councillorGurpreet Singh Dhillon is a first-time councillor. Under the new ward delimitation to be effective from the upcoming elections, the ward has Sectors 46 and 45. Dhillon plans to contest from the same ward only. He has been one of the most vocal councillors during MC House meetings.Gurpreet Singh Dhillon: BJP councillor from ward no. 21 Area: Sectors 32 and 46Ward development fund:Almost all utilisedPromises: New projects and maintenance of the wardResult: Partly keptAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-dumps-common-sight-parks-ill-maintained-in-chandigarhs-ward-21-339708
18-11-2021||---||Chandigarh’s present population not taken into account, HC told||Chandigarh, November 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court was today told that the present population of Chandigarh was not considered while determining the wards for the reserved category in the forthcoming Municipal Corporation elections.The plea, heard by a Division Bench today, will come up for further hearing on Thursday. The UT Administration has been asked to file an affidavit and report of a tehsildar in the matter.The submission was made by Prem Pal, a resident of Dhanas Housing Complex, in an application filed through senior counsel Gaurav Chopra with advocate Anurag Chopra. He was seeking directions for being impleaded as a party to the ongoing proceedings initiated by Shiv Kumar against the Chief Electoral Officer and other respondents.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Karamjit Singh, Gaurav and Anurag Chopra submitted that the applicant was aggrieved by a notification whereby his place of rehabilitation was excluded from being a reserved ward for the Schedule Caste category. He added that the population as of today was not considered while “determining the selection of ward towards the reserved category”.The Bench was also told that the minutes of meeting dated December 4, 2020, on the delimitation of wards duly laid emphasis on the fact that the latest population data based in the electoral roll would be taken into account for reference for the areas where population dynamics had considerably changed due to the shifting of colonies, which was not reflected in the census data.It was added that the petition before the Bench had been preferred seeking issuance of directions for setting aside the order dated October 19 issued by the UT State Election Commissioner on reservation of wards for Schedule Caste and women candidates for the election of councillors. Directions were also sought to reconsider the reservation of wards after excluding the population of the colonies not existing presently or which had been demolished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-present-population-not-taken-into-account-hc-told-339716
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farm activists launch campaign against BJP in 23 villages of Chandigarh||In the run-up to the MC elections, the Pendu Sangharsh Committee, Chandigarh, a citizens’ group, has launched a campaign against the BJP in 23 villages of the UT as per the guidelines of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha. Gurpreet Singh Somal, general secretary of the committee, said the campaign was started from Khuda Jassu village.Committee’s central executives Baba Sadhu Singh, Baba Gurdial Singh, Joginder Singh Burail, Joga Singh Kajheri, Sharanjit Singh, Amrik Singh, Harbans Singh, Gurminder Singh and Amanjot Singh, along with the youth of the village, appealed to the people to vote for any party except the BJP in the coming elections.Somal said, “The committee does not promote or support any particular party. People are free to cast their vote to any person or party. Committee members went door to door and distributed leaflets in the villages of Lahora, Khuda Jassu and Sarangpur.”The members of the committee told the people that the BJP government was passing deadly policies on a daily basis and it was going to be a year since the farmers had been sitting at the borders of Delhi but the government had not agreed to meet farmers’ demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-launch-campaign-against-bjp-in-23-villages-of-chandigarh-339717
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit inaugurates govt primary school at Dhanas||UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit inaugurated a new government primary school at Dhanas here today. The inauguration was virtually joined by local MP Kirron Kher.The school, spread over 1.33 acres, has a multi-storeyed building consisting of 19 classrooms, separate toilets for boys and girls, a head room, a staff room and a computer room. The school will provide education to around 800 students mainly belonging to the migrant population of periphery area.The Administrator said the school would provide quality education to students of the Dhanas area. The Education Department would ensure that the students must get admission to higher classes after passing Class V from this school. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-inaugurates-govt-primary-school-at-dhanas-339718
18-11-2021||---||Chandigarh: High Court puts Sec 31 SHO on notice||Chandigarh, November 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put the Station House Officer (SHO) of the Sector 31 police station Narinder Patyal on notice on a petition alleging contempt of court filed by a local builder. Taking up the matter, Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu also fixed December 20 as the next date of hearing in the matter.The notice came on the petition filed by Ram Lal Chaudhary through counsel Navkiran Singh. Appearing before Justice Sidhu’s Bench, he stated that Chaudhary was picked up by the police illegally in violation of the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in the case of “Arnesh Kumar versus State of Bihar”.Elaborating, Navkiran Singh contended that the judgment made it clear that a notice under Section 41-A of the CrPC was mandatory for offences where the punishment was up to seven years. He added that the petitioner was being “falsely implicated in a false case of cheating” under Section 420 of the IPC, for which the punishment was up to seven years. As such, the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in Arnesh Kumar’s case were applicable to the present matter.Navkiran Singh added the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in the “Lalita Kumari versus State of UP” had also been violated in the case as the matter pertained to commercial/monetary transactions for which preliminary inquiry was required to have been conducted. Besides this, there was an undue delay of five years in lodging the complaint, which was unjustified and unreasoned. “Without any inquiry or any notice, the petitioner has been straight away picked up from his office even prior to the registration of the FIR and has been illegally detained and, hence, respondents in this way have violated the guidelines of the Supreme Court,” added Navkiran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-high-court-puts-sec-31-sho-on-notice-339719
18-11-2021||---||Minor reshuffle in Chandigarh Administration||Chandigarh, November 17Consequent upon the joining of IAS officer Hargunjit Kaur and HCS officer Rajiv Prashad in Chandigarh, the UT Administrator effected a minor reshuffle.According to an order issued here today, Hargunjit Kaur, Punjab cadre IAS officer of 2013 batch, has joined the Chandigarh Administration as Special Secretary, Finance. She was holding the charge of Managing Director, Punjab State Cooperative Bank, Punjab Government. She has also been given the charge of Secretary, Industries and Animal Husbandry and Fisheries; Director, Treasury and Accounts, Planning and Statistics and Local Audit Department; Special Secretary, House Allotment Committee; Director-cum-Special Secretary, Tourism; and Agriculture Census Commissioner. Previously, she had also worked in the Chandigarh Administration from 2007-2011 as Land Acquisition Officer and Assistant Estate Officer.Who gets whatNitika Pawar, IAS officer, has been given the charge of Secretary, House Allotment Committee, in addition to her existing charges.Meanwhile, Rajiv Prashad has been posted as Director, Industries, Joint Commissioner and Secretary, Municipal Corporation, and Director, Rural Development and Panchayats. Earlier, he was posted as Joint Commissioner, Gurugram.Before joining the Haryana Civil Services, he remained Assistant/Deputy Advocate General and Additional Advocate General in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Jagjit Singh, PCS officer, Controller, Printing and Stationery, has been assigned the charges of Director, Higher Education in addition to his existing charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-reshuffle-in-chandigarh-administration-339720
18-11-2021||---||Spare time for fitness: Fauja Singh||Chandigarh, November 17Old yet active, Fauja Singh, a British Sikh supercentenarian and retired marathon runner of Punjabi descent, spread a word of fitness for all youngsters on the sidelines of an event here today.“The youngsters should know the importance of fitness, especially in this busy lifestyle. I have managed to survive and walk on my feet in this old age, due to my love for fitness,” said Fauja.Though he took retirement from competitive running, he maintained that he still made sure to walk as much as he can every day. “I take ample rest to recover my body. Having good diet is another area to concentrate on,” he said.Major DP Singh, a Kargil war veteran, India’s first blade runner and Asia’s first disabled solo skydiver, appreciated Fauja’s dedication toward fitness. “He is a live example of what a human body is capable of doing. He is a motivation to all youngsters,” said Major DP Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spare-time-for-fitness-fauja-singh-339721
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Super Sikh Run’ in Chandigarh on Nov 21||The first edition of Super Sikh Run will be held on November 21 in Chandigarh. The event will be organised by Hero Electric. The run is designed to inspire the spirit of running a marathon among participants and pay homage to athletic legends Milkha Singh and Man Kaur, said the organisers. The run will be flagged off from the Chandigarh Club and will be held in various categories, including 21 km, 11 km and 5 km.The announcement was made today in the presence of former veteran runner Fauja Singh and Major DP Singh, India’s first blade runner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/super-sikh-run-in-chandigarh-on-nov-21-339722
18-11-2021||Panchkula||Waiter attacked with knife, robbed of mobile in Panchkula||A waiter at a local restaurant was attacked with a knife and robbed of his wallet and a mobile phone by three masked men near the Sector 17/18 roundabout in the wee hours of Tuesday.The victim, Suman Karki, a native of Nepal who works at the Hot Feast restaurant in Sector 16, was walking back to his present residence in Mani Majra along with his fellow worker after duty hours when the incident occurred.‘’Around 50 metre from the roundabout, three men on a motorcycle parked their vehicle along the road. Two of them approached us with knives in their hands and blocked our way. Soon, they threatened us to give whatever we have with us.“When we both resisted, one of them attacked my left thigh with the blade and the other took away the mobile phone and wallet from my pocket. Meanwhile, my fellow worker, Rakesh Adhikari, managed to run away from the spot,’’ he told the police, adding that they were also carrying a pistolAfter committing the crime, the suspects fled the scene on their motorcycle towards Sector 8.The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. A case was registered at the Sector 14 police station under section 392 (punishment for robbery) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waiter-attacked-with-knife-robbed-of-mobile-in-panchkula-339723
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Now, financier booked for Rs 6-crore fraud||The UT police have registered another cheating case against financier Ram Lal Chaudhary for duping a retired District Revenue Officer of Rs6 crore.Sources said the complainant had reported that Chaudhary had assured him of helping him in a Vigilance inquiry going on against him.The complainant paid Rs6 crore to the suspect in instalments. However, he later realised that he had been duped. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. Chaudhary was earlier this month booked for duping a Gurugram resident of Rs5 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-now-financier-booked-for-rs-6-crore-fraud-339724
18-11-2021||---||Dera Bassi: Tenant, shop owner injured in clash||Dera Bassi, November 17A dispute between a shop owner and his tenant in the main market here turned bloody on Tuesday night.Both were injured and admitted to the Civil Hospital.Raminder Singh alleged that shop owner Taranjit Singh and his accomplices attacked him with swords and injured him.The police said action had been initiated after recording the statements of the injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-tenant-shop-owner-injured-in-clash-339725
18-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Woman told to return to husband without delay||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17A local court has directed a woman to join the company of her husband at her matrimonial house without further delay.The man, a resident of Maloya Colony, Chandigarh, approached the court through counsel Arun Vohra after his repeated requests were turned down by his wife to live with him.Vohra argued before the court that his client’s marriage with the respondent was solemnised as per the Hindu rites and ceremonies at Bhramari Devi Jan Kalyan Sanstha, Mansa Devi market, Panchkula, in 2016. It was a love marriage and no dowry articles were exchanged. There was imminent threat from the side of respondent’s parents and as such a protection petition was filed before the District Judge, Chandigarh, and it was allowed on November 26, 2016.Initially, family members of the respondent did not accept the marriage. However, with the passage of time, they accepted the marriage and started visiting each other. The respondent became pregnant and she was provided medical support by the petitioner.Vohra argued that the woman went to the residence of her sister in Mohali without the consent of the petitioner and he was told that she had gone to her parental home at Himachal Pradesh.The petitioner asked her wife to join the matrimonial home. However, the woman said she would join after some time, but she did not return despite repeated calls. He apprehended that the respondent had aborted three months’ pregnancy under the influence of her family members. He said the respondent had withdrawn from the company of the petitioner since May 7, 2017, without any reasonable cause and flatly refused to join his company.The petitioner is ready and willing to stay with the respondent. He made a prayer to the court to pass a decree of restitution of conjugal rights in favour of the petitioner and against the respondent. The court issued notices to the respondent, but none appeared on her behalf. Consequently, the respondent has proceeded against ex-parte vide order dated October 12, 2017.After hearing the arguments and examination of the witnesses, Dr Aman Inder Singh, Additional Civil Judge (Senior Division), said it was clearly established that the marriage between the petitioner and the respondent was solemnized on November 23, 2016 as per the Hindu rites. However, the respondent had withdrawn from the society of the petitioner without any reasonable cause since May 7, 2017. In view of this, the respondent is directed to join the petitioner at the matrimonial house forthwith.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-told-to-return-to-husband-without-delay-339726
18-11-2021||---||Taxi driver robbed of car at gunpoint in Barwala||Panchkula, November 17Three unidentified persons robbed a taxi driver of his car at gunpoint in broad daylight in Barwala here yesterday.The victim, identified as Krishan Kumar (35), a native of Bhiwani district in Haryana and currently residing at a rented accommodation in Chandigarh, told the police that he picked three passengers for Barwala from outside the Ambala Cantonment railway station in his car around 3 pm on Tuesday afternoon. Kumar sought Rs700 for the ride which they had agreed to pay.“When I stopped my car to drop them near Barwala bus stand, they asked me to drop them at Sultanpur village. On the way near the Sultanpur underpass, one of the men pointed a pistol at my head. Another person threatened me with a blade. They forced me to get out of the vehicle and also tried to snatch my phone. They later drove away in my car, which also contained documents,” he wrote in his complaint.A case under Section 25 of the Arms Act and Sections 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Chandimandir police station.The investigating officer, Assistant Sub-Inspector Jagdish Kumar, said: “We are trying to trace the car. It seems the suspects avoided highways and main roads to evade CCTV cameras at key locations. Efforts are on to trace them and we will nab all suspects soon”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/taxi-driver-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint-in-barwala-339727
18-11-2021||Mohali||Five held with 80,000 intoxicant pills, heroin in Kurali||The police have arrested five persons and seized over 80,000 intoxicant pills and heroin from their possession in separate cases near Kurali.The suspects have been identified as Hardiyal Singh and Gaurav Kumar, residents of Kurali. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Kurali City police station. As many as 55,000 tablets were seized from a godown in Kurali.In another case, the police seized 29,900 intoxicating tramadol tablets from Gurpreet Singh and his accomplice at a naka laid on a flyover in Kurali yesterday.In yet another case, a Kurali resident, Santpreet Singh, was arrested with 75 grams of heroin and a car was seized from him near the Singhpura-Kurali bypass today. A case has been registered against him at the Sadar Kurali police station.The suspects were sent to police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-held-with-80-000-intoxicant-pills-heroin-in-kurali-339728
18-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Police Dept transfers DSPs, ASPs||Chandigarh, November 17The UT Police Department today transferred seven DSPs. Two ASPs were also transferred and a DANIPS cadre DSP, who joined the UT police on deputation, was given a posting.As per the orders, DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh has been posted as DSP, Security, and Special Officer to DGP. Amrao Singh, at present posted as DSP, Women and Child Support Unit (W&CSU), has been transferred as DCHG.Sita Devi who was DSP, Training, has been posted as DSP, W&CSU.Devinder Sharma, who was posted as DSP, Security, has now been posted as DSP, District Crime Cell.DANIPS cadre DSP Jasbir Singh has been posted as DSP, Security, Headquarter and Operation Cell.Uday Pal, at present posted as DSP, Security, has been posted as DSP, East.Mridul, ASP, Operations, has been posted as ASP, South West. Sukhwinder Pal Singh, DSP (Traffic), has now been posted as DSP, North East.The ASP, South, Shruti Arora, and DSP, Central, Charanjit Singh were transferred and given the same postings again.Postings in new subdivisionsMridul, who was posted as ASP, Operations, has been posted as ASP, South West. Sukhwinder Pal Singh, at present DSP, Traffic, has been posted as DSP, North East.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-dept-transfers-dsps-asps-339729
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Divyangs, senior citizens  to get assistive devices in Chandigarh||As many as 223 persons with disabilities (PwDs) and senior citizens will get aids and appliances as per their disability and requirements.The Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development organised a mega camp for persons with disabilities (PwDs) and senior citizens from November 10 to 17 in association with Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO) and other departments of the UT Administration at Aasha Kiran, Sector 46, here.During the camp, registration was done for various services such as UDID card, e-Shram card, voter ID card and applications for welfare schemes for persons with disabilities and senior citizens were also available.For the first three days, the assessment camp was organised in association with ALIMCO in order to assess Divyangs (PwDs) and senior citizens for free distribution of aids. Appliances, including artificial limbs, motorised tricycles, wheelchairs, smart canes, smart phones, daisy players and Braille kits, were available for Divyangs and denture, spectacles and sticks for senior citizens. During these three days, 360 persons (Divyangs and senior citizens) were registered and assessed by a team of experts from the Government of India. Out of total assessed registrations, 223 were found eligible as per the government norms and will be allocated assistive aids and appliances as per their disability and requirements.During the camp, 944 people were registered for different services in total. The allocated aids and appliances will be distributed among identified Divyangs and senior citizens in January next year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/divyangs-senior-citizens-to-get-assistive-devices-in-chandigarh-339730
18-11-2021||---||Mystery shrouds couple’s death at Khuda Ali Sher||Chandigarh, November 17A couple was found dead under mysterious circumstances at their house in Khuda Ali Sher on Wednesday night.The police said preliminary investigation points towards suicide. However, the actual cause of death will be ascertained only after autopsy. They have been identified as Gurjinder and his wife Bhupinder Kaur. Sources said that Gurjinder was a CISF jawan.The sources said the couple’s relatives were calling them since evening but they were not picking up the phone. The relatives reached their house and found them lying unconscious on the floor.The police were informed. The couple was rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16, where the doctors declared them brought dead.The police initiated inquest proceedings at the Sector 11 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mystery-shrouds-couples-death-at-khuda-ali-sher-339731
18-11-2021||---||Shooter Abhishek gets Arjuna Award||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17Tokyo Olympics shooter Abhishek Verma, who won a bronze medal in the men’s air pistol event in the recently concluded President’s Cup Shooting Championship in Wroclaw, Poland, has been conferred with the Arjuna Award.Abhishek, who won the feat by scoring 580 points in Poland, was awarded the honour by President Ram Nath Kovind, during a function at Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, in the presence of his father Justice Ashok Kumar Verma.Abhishek represented the country in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and finished 17th in the men’s 10m air pistol event after leading the qualifying event. Abhishek represents Haryana and is ranked third in the world (as of March 1, 2020).He shot into limelight after winning a gold medal in the 10m pistol event in the 2019 Beijing ISSF World Cup where he surpassed 2008 Olympic champion Pang Wei and also humbled Oleh Omelchuck, the former world file holder in the 10m air pistol event. The featTokyo Olympics shooter Abhishek Verma, who won the feat by scoring 580 points in Poland, was awarded the honour by President Ram Nath Kovind during a function at Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi, in the presence of his father Justice Ashok Kumar Verma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shooter-abhishek-gets-arjuna-award-339732
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Cricket Academy lift U-13 title||Chandigarh Cricket Academy defeated IVCA, Dera Bassi, by six wickets to win the U-13 Cricket Tournament.Batting first, IVCA lads posted 135/4 in 30 overs with the help of Gursimran Singh (40), Karan (39) and Rizu (18). Markanday Panchal, Ankan Latka, Daksh Kashyap and Rithwik Sood claimed one wicket each for the bowling side.In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy posted 136/4 in 28.3 overs. Shivraj Shekhon scored unbeaten 62 runs for the winning side. Ranvir Ahuja (25) and Markanday Panchal (17) were the other main scorers for the side.Rizu Shrivastava claimed two wickets, while Karan and Ranvir Arora claimed one wicket each for the bowling side.Shivraj S Shekhon (best batsman), Meet Dahiya (best bowler), Shubham Verma (best wicketkeeper), Rithwik Sood (best all-rounder) and Anmol Khera (best fielder) were also awarded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricket-academy-lift-u-13-title-339733
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Anshul hogs the limelight on Day 1||Ahmedabad’s Anshul Patel hogged the limelight with a sizzling first round of 9-under 63 to lead by three shots at the 21st edition of the Indian Oil SERVO Masters Golf Championship.Shravan Desai, another Ahmedabad-based professional, was tied second at 6-under 66 in the Rs60-lakh event. Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (66) too took a share of second place on Day 1.As many as 18 players out of a total of 117 could not finish their first round on Wednesday. They will come back and resume their round at 6 am tomorrow. Left-handed rookie Patel, currently ranked 74th in the PGTI Order of Merit and fighting for a spot in the top-60 to retain his card for next year, played some great wedge shots on the back-nine that helped him set up four of his five birdies before the turn. He also had a 20-feet conversion on the 16th and a bogey on the 17th.Desai, another rookie like Patel, shot an error-free 66 in his very first competitive round at the Digboi Golf Links. Desai, currently 68th in the PGTI’s money list, is also vying for a spot in the top-60 to retain his PGTI card. Sandhu produced eight birdies and two bogeys during his 66.Gurugram’s Shivendra Singh Sisodia, former champion Harendra Gupta of Chandigarh and Panchkula’s Angad Cheema were in tied fourth having shot scores of 67.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anshul-hogs-the-limelight-on-day-1-339734
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashvi bags bronze in fencing meet||Local fencer Kashvi Garg, a student of Carmel Convent School, brought laurels by winning a bronze medal in the Saheed Bhagat Singh Khelo India Open (U-17) Fencing Competition, which concluded at the Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (NIS), Patiala.She won the medal in the epee event by defeating Aveeshi of Delhi (15-12). Prachi Lohan of Haryana defeated Govind Noor Kaur of Punjab to claim the gold medal. Ananya Sharma of Haryana claimed the joint bronze medal. The tournament was organised and conducted by the Punjab Fencing Association. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kashvi-bags-bronze-in-fencing-meet-339737
18-11-2021||---||Jaskamal Kaur advances in Chandigarh State Badminton Championship||Chandigarh, November 17Jaskamal Kaur, a trainee of the Sector 38 Sports Complex, defeated Harsimar Kaur 21-10 and 21-5 to advance further in the girl’s U-15 category on the opening day of the Chandigarh State Badminton Championship today.Another trainee Aujasvi Dhaneshwer also marched ahead by defeating Shafali Batra 21-2 and 21-0, while Manisha got the better of Nandini 21-8 and 21-9. Raissa Bhanot also recorded an easy 21-16 and 21-12 win over Samriddhi Shastri, Glory Katoch defeated Vrinda Bali 21-13 and 21-13. Amulya outplayed Navdeep Kaur 21-14 and 21-7.In the boys’ U-13 category, Navdeep defeated Viraj Singh 21-6 and 21-7 and Rishit Tayal ousted Kabir Dardana 21-6 and 21-8. Ishit Rehal marched ahead by defeating Garv Vashit 21-10 and 21-8, Manhar Jinta outplayed Vansh Sood 21-10 and 21-10, Aaruv Dhull defeated Ravish Puniya 21-14 and 21-9 and Harsh Gautam ousted Gagandeep Singh 23-21 and 21-15. Himanshu recorded an easy 21-7 and 21-6 win over Shreeyansh Garg, Udaiveer Singh Shergill defeated Divyash Gulati 21-18 and 21-18, Tushya outplayed Aryavir Paul 21-10 and 22-20 and Bhavin Garg beat Ronak Dshwal 21-9 and 21-14.ResultsGirls’ U-15: Ishveen bt Ayushi Sharma 21-3 and 21-5, Gyaanda Sharma bt Purvidhee 21-16 and 21-13, Rakshita Pahwa bt Vaanya Rao 21-6 and 21-6, Tanishka Nandal bt Pranshi Jyoti 21-2 and 21-0, Avishi Sood bt Ashvi Bharadwaj 21-13 and 21-11Boys’ U-13: Aarush Sharma bt Taran Hooda 21-13 and 21-14, Viraj bt Agamvir Singh 21-19 and 21-10, Arnav bt Rishabh Bazard 21-6 and 21-1, Nimit Pal bt Astuj Sabherwal 21-5 and 21-5, Aayan Jagdev bt Kushal 21-4 and 21-8Boys’ U-15: Rishit Singla bt Aayan Jagdev 21-8 and 21-18, Aaaditya Gautam bt Suryansh Mishra 21-15 and 21-18, Rana Rudra Pratap Singh bt Chaitanya 21-12 and 21-11, Dakshmeet Singh bt Mukul Hooda 27-25 and 21-15, Bhuvnesh Kumar bt Divyansh Dewali 21-16, 16-21 and 21-18||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jaskamal-kaur-advances-in-chandigarh-state-badminton-championship-339739
18-11-2021||Chandigarh||Abhishek guides NG Pooja Cricket Academy to victory||NG Pooja Cricket Academy registered a six-wicket win over Champion Cricket Academy in the U-13 Saupin’s Gold Cup.Batting first, Champion Cricket Academy posted 195 runs before getting all-out in 38.3 overs. Ishpreet Singh (53), Adhiraj (27) and Gursharan Preet (21) contributed towards the team’s total. Sumit Thakur claimed three wickets for the bowling side.In reply, NG Pooja Sports Academy lads scored 196/4 in 31 overs with Abhishek Dhiman hitting 96 runs. Ishpreet claimed two wickets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abhishek-guides-ng-pooja-cricket-academy-to-victory-339743
18-11-2021||Mohali||23 fresh dengue cases in Mohali||One Covid case in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Wednesday reported one case of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. Two patients were cured of the disease. TNS8 test +ve in MohaliMohali: As many as eight persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday. Eight patients got the better of the disease in the past 24 hours. With no fresh death, the toll stands at 1,070. TNSNo case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported no new case of Covid, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,788. With no fresh fatality, the toll also remained at 379. TNSPU exams from December 20Chandigarh: Panjab University will hold practical examinations from December 20 for odd semesters. "Panjab University informs the public in general and the students in particular that practical examinations for postgraduate classes (odd semester) will commence from December 20 to 24," stated in a release. Earlier, the exams were scheduled from December 21 to 24. TNSAdmission: Last date extendedChandigarh: The last date for admission to the University School of Open Learning (USOL), Panjab University, for the session 2021-22 has been extended till November 30 (except for BEd, MBA Executive and Advance Diploma in Guidance and Counselling Semester-I). TNSProgramme concludesChandigarh: An awareness and training programme on National Cyber Crime Security organised by the Chandigarh Police in collaboration with INFOSEC Consortium concluded at Tagore Theatre, Sector 18. UT DGP Praveer Ranjan shared his insight with students about the importance of cyber swachhata/cyber crime. A total of 600 students of schools and colleges took part in the function. The winners of hackhathon-2021, drawing and painting competition were awarded. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-fresh-dengue-cases-in-mohali-339746
