20-11-2021||Mohali||Punjab CM inaugurates Bahra Super Specialty Hospital||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi inaugurated a 350-bed Bahra Super Specialty Hospital on Friday. The Punjab Government was committed to improving healthcare facilities in the state, said Channi.He also lauded the initiative of the Rayat Bahra Group in setting up the hospital. The CM exhorted the youth to focus on their development with a disciplined schedule.Gurvinder Singh Bahra, chairman, Rayat Bahra Group, said this well-equipped hospital had all types of medical and surgical emergencies, which would be handled by qualified and competent doctors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-inaugurates-bahra-super-specialty-hospital-340442
20-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Football Association not to send team for nationals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19Patting their back for hosting the North Zone Santosh Trophy here, the Chandigarh Football Association (CFA) failed to get railway ticket reservations for the local women’s squad to participate in the 26th Hero Senior Women’s National Football Championship, scheduled to be held in Kerala from November 28.Interestingly, 32 states, including Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, confirmed their participation in the football championship. However, Chandigarh failed to confirm their entry in the championship. This has deprived local players of getting a chance to perform in nationals and take further advantages in admissions or claiming scholarships. The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has released fixtures of the tournament in Kerala.“We had planned to send the team. However, the team has not been sent particularly due to rise in number of Covid cases in Kerala and non-availability of reserved seats. We cannot force our players to travel without getting proper reservation amid unhygienic conditions,” said Vikas Sharma, senior vice-president, CFA.This is not the first time that the association failed to send a local team for nationals. In 2019, the local sub-junior girls’ did not participate in the national football championship held in Cuttack due to the same reason.Meanwhile, players said they had been kept in the dark over participation in the championship. “Every state has sent its teams to participate in championship, except Chandigarh. We were told that the CFA will conduct trials and send team. We were shocked to learn that the CFA decided not to send the team,” said a senior player.“If tournaments for men can be held, then why not for women?” said another player.Sources also confirmed that many of these players have decided to play local tournaments or nationals of other sport disciplines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-football-association-not-to-send-team-for-nationals-340443
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh fires classy 67 on penultimate day||City golfer Yuvraj Singh Sandhu shot a classy 5-under 67 in round three of the IndianOil SERVO Masters Golf 2021 to take a two-shot lead at 15-under 201 for emerging as the clear favourite for the title.Yuvraj (66-68-67), searching for his maiden win on the PGTI, came up with seven birdies and two bogeys on Friday at the Digboi Golf Links. Om Prakash Chouhan (66-70-67), who hails from Mhow in Madhya Pradesh, also shot a third round of 67 to move up two spots to second place at 13-under 203.Om Prakash Chouhan struggled with his hitting at the start of round three as he was one-over for the day till the fifth hole. Bengaluru’s M Dharma sank five birdies and a bogey during his 68 to gain two spots and be placed tied third at 11-under 205.Another contender from Chandigarh, Harendra Gupta slipped one place to join Dharma in tied third following his round of 70 featuring four birdies and two bogeys. Gurugram’s Dhruv Sheoran carded a 68 to occupy fifth place at 10-under 206. Mukesh Kumar of Mhow returned the day’s best score of 7-under 65 with eight birdies and a bogey. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-yuvraj-singh-fires-classy-67-on-penultimate-day-340444
20-11-2021||---||It’s farmers’ victory, says Chandigarh Congress||Chandigarh, November 19The city Congress today termed the announcement of repealing the three farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a victory of the farmers and a defeat of arrogance and high handedness of the BJP.Addressing a press conference, Subhash Chawla, president, Chandigarh Congress, said the Prime Minister had to bow in front of the farmers’ agitation as the BJP-led Central Government was totally wrong in making such black laws. More than 750 farmers had to sacrifice their lives in this agitation. The Prime Minister must announce a compensation of Rs1 crore for each and jobs for the kith and kin of those who lost their lives during the agitation.HS Lucky, general secretary, and chief spokesperson, Congress, said the government was forced to make this decision under public pressure as the BJP had to face defeat in the recently held Assembly elections in various states. The BJP had realised that it was fast loosing public support and people were fed up with its anti-people policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-farmers-victory-says-chandigarh-congress-340445
20-11-2021||---||AAP seeks relief for deceased farmers’ kin||Chandigarh, November 19The local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today celebrated the withdrawal of three farm laws.“After a long agitation by farmers, the Modi government has to finally withdraw the farm laws,” said AAP city president Prem Garg.After a long struggle by the farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to finally withdraw the three flawed laws brought in the name of agricultural reforms, he said.Party workers celebrated the occasion by distributing sweets. The AAP demanded from the Central Government that the families of all farmers, who had sacrificed their lives during this struggle, should be given a suitable compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-seeks-relief-for-deceased-farmers-kin-340446
20-11-2021||Mohali||PUAD Kisan Union to continue stir at Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Mohali||The PUAD Kisan Union, which has been on chain hunger strike for the past 168 days at Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan here, expressed happiness over the Central Government decision to take back the three farm laws. The union stated that they would continue the chain hunger strike till the Parliament passed an ordinance in this regard.Farmer leaders said they were not sure about the Modi government as it had made several promises to the people, but not a single promise was fulfilled during the past seven years. “Farmers are happy over winning the war, but many such wars have to be fought,” they added.Several members of the Taraksheel Society Punjab (Chandigarh), including Joga Singh, Prem Singh, Satnam Singh Dau and Bhag Singh, participated in the chain hunger strike today, they added.Meanwhile, the national delegate and the state president, All India Jatt Maha Sabha, Chandigarh, Rajinder Singh Badheri, has termed the repealing of the three agriculture laws as a “victory of the farmers”.“Due to immense sacrifices of farmers, today they have become free from pro-capitalist laws. The Central Government should compensate farmers for whatever loss of life and property they suffered during the peasant agitation,” Badheri added.Azad Group led by former Mayor Kulwant Singh while offering sweets to farmers said though announcement made by PM Modi on the three black farm laws was late, it was a right decision. He said the union government should initiate steps to fulfil other demands of farmers.BJP workers celebrate with Kisan MorchaThe BJP state executive member, Sanjeev Vashisht, congratulated protesting farmer supporters at the Phase III and V Mohali traffic light point and distributed ladoos among them on Friday. “Now, there is an atmosphere of happiness not only in the city, but in the entire country after the announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the three farm laws,” he said. He assured that the BJP government would continue to serve farmers and support them. He along with BJP mandal 1 president Anil Kumar Guddu, mandal 2 president Jaswinder Singh, mandal 3 president Rakhi Pathak, Sanjeev Joshi, Uma Kant Tiwari, former councillor Ashok Kumar Jha, Raman Sally, Navneet Sharma and Davinder Kumar Bhardwaj distributed sweets among farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puad-kisan-union-to-continue-stir-at-gurdwara-singh-shaheedan-mohali-340447
20-11-2021||Amit Bathla||Decision to repeal three farm laws: Eldest woman protester happy but still gripped with scepticism||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 19Rajwinder Kaur (75), the eldest farmer protester, who has been camping at the Chandimandir toll plaza since last November despite extreme weather conditions, is in a jubilant mood today.In one year, she had to face worst, including serious charges like rioting and criminal conspiracy, but she braved all with head up.As Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced today the repealing of farm laws, she is still gripped with scepticism about the government’s intention.“I can’t fall for his words. He says something, but does something else. We won’t leave struggle until the farm laws are repealed in Parliament,” she says.“We are just a step forward. The fight will continue,” she adds. Rajwinder Kaur was among seven farmer leaders and their 250 supporters, who were booked for “blocking highway at Chandimandir” on August 28.Karam Singh, a local leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), says she (Rajwinder Kaur) has given everything she could to the farmers’ struggle at her age when most prefer comfort.They were not ready to give up their struggle as many of their demands, including enactment of the law that would guarantee minimum support price (MSP) to farmers for their produce, were yet to be fulfilled, said Karam Singh. He further dubbed the PM as ‘jumlebaaz’.“He had also promised Rs15 lakh in bank account of every Indian. Did it happen? We have too many reason to not believe him (PM),” Karam Singh added.Meanwhile, cheerful scenes were witnessed at the Chandimandir toll plaza after the PM’s announcement, which farmers termed as their victory.At the Jaloli toll plaza in Barwala too, farmers burst into celebration, with sweets being distributed among all present on the occasion. Adding to the happiness, it coincided with the Gurpurb.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decision-to-repeal-three-farm-laws-eldest-woman-protester-happy-but-still-gripped-with-scepticism-340448
20-11-2021||Mohali||Seven dengue cases in Mohali||Resident duped of Rs1.42 lakhChandigarh: An unknown person has been booked for allegedly duping a man of Rs1.42 lakh. Complainant Balram Paul, a resident of Raipur Khurd, said the person duped him on the pretext of closing his life insurance policy and providing the maturity amount to him. The money was transferred online. The police have registered a case of cheating at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNS49-yr-old man ends his lifeChandigarh: A 49-year-old man, who was working at a retired IPS officer’s house, reportedly committed suicide in the servant quarters of the house in Sector 19 here on Friday. The victim has been identified as Rampal, a resident of Rajiv colony, Panchkula. The police were informed about the incident, who shifted the body to a mortuary at the GMSH, Sector 16. The victim’s family stated that he used to return home in the evening. However, he did not visit home for the past two days, following which they also started searching for him. TNSNine-wkt victory for city academyChandigarh: Chandigarh Cricket Academy defeated Satguru Cricket Academy, Mohali, by nine wickets in the ongoing U-13 Saupins Gold Cup Cricket Tournament. Satguru Cricket Academy lads were bundled out for 150 runs in 28.1 overs. In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy posted 151/1 in 18.5 overs. TNS85-run win for Satluj schoolPanchkula: Satluj Public School, Sector 4, defeated Sarthak School, Sector 12, by 85 runs in the Haryana Inter-District Inter-School Tournament. Batting first, Satluj Public lads scored 195/3 in 20 overs. In reply, Sarthak School scored 110 runs before getting all out in 17.4 overs. TNSKurukshetra academy winChandigarh: Kurukshetra Cricket Academy (KCA) recorded a 100-run win over Panchkula during the Inter-Academy Cricket Tournament for U-16, organised by the Chandigarh Cricket Association, affiliated to Haryana, on Friday. Batting first, KCA scored 318 runs in 40.1 overs. In reply, Panchkula lads fell short of 100 runs and scored 218 runs in 41.3 overs. TNSSoftball trials to be held todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Softball Association will organise trials to select senior and sub-junior (boys’ and girls’) teams at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, here, on November 20 from 2 pm to 5 pm. The selected teams will participate in the Senior National Championships at RDT Stadium, Annantpur, Andhra Pradesh, from December 24 to 28 and Sub-Junior National Championship at Mahemdavad, Gujarat, from December 14 to 18. TNSSleepwell’s new showroomsChandigarh: Sleepwell, a brand from Sheela Foam Limited, announced the launch of its two new showrooms in Chandigarh. The all-new revamped ‘Sleepwell World 2.0’ showrooms in Sector 20 and NAC, Mani Majra, will target the contemporary and young Indian audience. TNSChitkara varsity inaugurates E-CellChandigarh: Chitkara University inaugurated its Entrepreneurship Cell (E-Cell), “JAZBA”, under the Chitkara University Centre for Entrepreneurship Education & Development (CEED). Aryaman Verma, a 16-year old budding scientist and a crypto expert; Dr Puran Singh, Faculty and Head, IIT Mandi, Catalyst Programme; Nupur Mahajan, Director, Learning at Ingenious Faces, New Delhi; and Souniya Khurana, Founder, WYN Studios, New Delhi; interacted with students. Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, said the university had a successful record of creating some brilliant start-ups such as “Chai Nagri”, “ROBO Champs”, “SD Academia” and many more. Next month, “Hackday 2021” will be conducted where teams of students will compete against each other to create problem-solving business ideas using AI-based technologies. TNSWoman’s cellphone snatchedChandigarh: Three motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a mobile phone from a woman. The complainant reported that the suspects snatched her phone on the slip road near Botanical Garden towards Khuda Lahora on November 18. — TNSDist Crime Cell gets 24 copsChandigarh: The District Crime Cell, constituted by the UT police, got 23 police personnel, including a Sub-Inspector and seven ASIs. The transfer orders were issued by UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal on Friday. The Police Department earlier posted Devinder Sharma as the DSP and Narinder Singh as the in-charge of the cell. It will function from the Sector 24 police post building. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-dengue-cases-in-mohali-340449
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘RAW agent’ dupes Chandigarh woman of Rs 11 lakh, held||A 42-year-old man, who allegedly duped a woman of Rs 11 lakh by posing as a RAW agent, has been arrested by the cyber crime investigation cell (CCIC) of the UT police.The suspect has been identified as Nilutpal, a resident of Mathura.The CCIC had received a complaint from a resident of Sector 38 (West), who reported that she met the suspect on Facebook in 2019. They became friends and started a conversation through Whatsapp and Telegram.The suspect introduced himself as a RAW officer and told that the complainant that he was on a secret mission. He told her that he had received a bullet injury while serving the nation and was in urgent need of money.The suspect won the complainant’s trust and demanded money from her citing different reasons — for operation, to pay rent and making some payments. The complainant, in good faith, paid each time when he demanded.Later, the suspect sent a message through his friend to the complainant that he had died while performing his duty as a RAW agent and also sent photos of his body.The complainant got suspicious and made a police complaint. A case was registered at the Maloya police station.The police froze the bank account in which the victim had transferred the money. The account had Rs3 lakh.The police kept tracking the suspect and on November 18, arrested him from Mathura. A mobile phone and a SIM card were recovered from him.He was produced in a court and remanded in one-day police custody.During the investigation, the suspect revealed that he had done MSc in Computer Science from Shillong University. He did a job in Delhi for some time and when the police froze his bank account, he shifted to Mathura. Nilupal used to have chats with several girls on different social media platforms by introducing himself as a RAW agent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raw-agent-dupes-chandigarh-woman-of-rs-11-lakh-held-340450
20-11-2021||Panchkula||Dental surgeons’ recruitment: Vigilance seizes Rs 2 crore more||The Vigilance Bureau today said it had further seized Rs 2.10 crore allegedly belonging to HCS officer Anil Nagar from the residence of his associate, who had reportedly kept the money on his behalf in connection with an HPSC recruitment scam.Nagar, a Deputy Secretary in the HPSC, and two others were arrested by the bureau yesterday. The bureau also seized Rs 12 lakh, a registered land deed amounting to Rs 50 lakh and a laptop during a search at Nagar’s house.Earlier, the bureau had recovered over Rs 1 crore from the suspects in the case.“As per conditions laid down by those involved in a corruption case pertaining to an HPSC recruitment exam, a dental aspirant was to pay an amount of Rs 35-40 lakh and should not have been related to any MP/MLA/HPSC member,” the FIR registered by the state Vigilance Bureau states.The corruption case pertains to an HPSC recruitment exam for dental surgeons, in which Anil Nagar, a Deputy Secretary of the HPSC, and two others were arrested by the Vigilance Bureau last night for allegedly manipulating the marks of candidates who appeared for the recruitment examination.The FIR, filed on November 17 at the state Vigilance police station, Panchkula , details the ways allegedly used by the fraudsters in the recruitment exam. Nagar was presented in a court and remanded in four-day custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dental-surgeons-recruitment-vigilance-seizes-rs-2-crore-more-340451
20-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 4 more +ve in Chandigarh||10 cases in MohaliMohali: Ten fresh Covid cases were reported during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,905. There was no new death due to the virus. Among the new cases, one each surfaced in Gharuan, Kharar and Mohali, while seven cases were reported from Dhakoli. Of the 68,905 positive cases reported so far, 67,789 patients have been cured. There are now 46 active cases in the district. The death toll stands at 1,070. TNS4 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Friday recorded four fresh Covid cases, taking the overall tally to 30,793. The toll remained at 379. While 30,403 people have recovered from the disease so far, 11 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-4-more-ve-in-chandigarh-340452
20-11-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Farmers victorious: Gurpurb cheer for farm activists across tricity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19The morning of Gurpurb brought along a message of hope and happiness for farmers and farm activists across the tricity today when Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised to repeal the three farm laws. The protest, however, is far from over, as farmers and activists refuse to count their chickens before they hatch.Modi’s promise sparked celebrations on various chowks, toll plazas and traffic light points that had become anti-farm laws protest sites for nearly a year now. Slogans of victory and sound of dhols resounded through these sites as people congratulated each other and distributed sweets. Some even danced. Passersby blew horns in support.At Matka Chowk, Laabh Singh, in his late 80s, said, “I appreciate the promise, but till the time the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) doesn’t give a call to cancel the protest, I won’t budge.” Singh has been protesting daily from 5 am to 8 pm at the chowk since March 6.Rajwinder Gill, who was one of the first protesters at the chowk, said, “I’m still in disbelief over the laws being revoked and so happy that I’ve almost forgotten about the FIRs slapped on me during the protests for farmers’ rights. I will continue to protest till the day these bills are scrapped in Parliament.”From the Naujawan Kisan Ekta (NKE), Sarbans Parteek, who said three FIRs were filed against him during the protests, said, “I feel proud that I was booked for fighting for farmers’ rights. The protest will continue. There’s still no clarity on the MSP, compensation for those who died at the protest sites and an official notification on repealing the laws yet.”Farm activists and farmers from 23 villages in the city gathered in large numbers in the evening at Matka Chowk, apart from small jubilations throughout the day in Ram Darbar, near the airport lights and the traffic lights of Sector 46, Sector 47, Sector 30 and Sector 36 and 37.Protest at toll plazas to continueThe protest at toll plazas around Chandigarh will continue, said Narinder Singh of the BKU (Charuni) and Kamal Singh of the Sarb Sanjha Kisan Morcha from Sohana in Mohali. “There were celebrations at the Chandimandir and Jalouli toll plaza today. The protests will continue till the government assures of the MSP and revokes the laws in the Parliament session. It was promised that every Indian will get Rs15 lakh. Did we get that money yet?” said Narinder. Kamal added, “The protest at the Bhago Majra toll plaza will also continue. There were celebrations throughout the day at the traffic lights near Sohana Gurdwara, Landran, Kurali and Kharar. We distributed sweets too.”Gurpreet Singh Somal of the Pendu Sangharsh Committee said the anti-BJP campaign in city villages too would continue. “We will campaign against the BJP in villages during the MC elections till the SKM issues further orders,” he saidTributes to be paid to ‘women martyrs’On Saturday, activists of Punjab Women Collective, comprising 11 organisations, will pay tributes to women martyrs in the farmers’ struggle. The Collective is organising the first national women convention, ‘Farmers Struggle and Earth Democracy’, at Punjab Kala Bhavan, Sector 16. The speakers of the event are author-activist Vandana Shiva, activist Medha Patkar and activist Dr Navsharan Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-victorious-gurpurb-cheer-for-farm-activists-across-tricity-340453
20-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh: City-specific startup policy on the cards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19To encourage young entrepreneurs, the UT Administration is mulling over a city-specific startup policy.At present, startups in the city can register on the startup portal of the Central Government.Keeping in view the requirements of local budding entrepreneurs, the Administration was working on a new startup policy to help them set up their own ventures in the city, said a senior UT official, adding that the Industry Department had already started deliberations with different stakeholders in this regard.Meanwhile, the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC), under the aegis of the Department of Information Technology (IT), will soon launch its much-awaited co-working space to promote entrepreneurship and strengthen the startup ecosystem in Chandigarh. The state-of-the-art co-working space has been set up in the entrepreneur development building with a capacity of 68 seats at IT Park.“The co-working space has been opened up for young budding entrepreneurs who have a technology-based workable idea or innovative business plan and are looking for a state-of-the-art working space to give wings to their ideas,” said Vinod P Kavle, Secretary, IT.Two core challenges that startups or early stage companies faced were — initial cost of setting up their office and hiring best talent. The co-working space solved both these challenges as one got a plush office in the IT hub of the city that enabled the startup to attract the best talent in the tricity, he said.Kavle said, “This is the right step forward in boosting and nurturing innovation and creativity. It will further help in promoting entrepreneurship among youth and will create more job opportunities.”Nitika Pawar, Director, IT, said, “This co-working space will have all amenities which are being offered in the private market. It will be more cost-effective and will help create a community of innovators.” The online portal of co-working would act as single window system for budding entrepreneurs, she added.The idea of co-working space was conceived to create a platform for technology-based startups to identify and provide value-added services required to support a startup and strengthen the startup culture in the city and also to encourage and inspire youth to actively consider entrepreneurship as their career choice. Co-working space will cater to students and young entrepreneurs who have a workable idea which needs hatching and also for startups which dont have much capital to invest in private office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-city-specific-startup-policy-on-the-cards-340454
