21-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh City not so Beautiful||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20The City Beautiful saw a major fall in its rankings in the Swachh Survekshan-2021, the Central Government’s annual cleanliness survey to promote sanitation in urban centres under the Swachh Bharat Mission.Chandigarh dropped from last year’s eighth rank to 16th this year among cities with a population of over 10 lakh. The city had to settle for a distant 66th position among 4,320 cities which participated in the survey.This year the cities were surveyed on the basis of three categories. The well-planned green city could secure only 4277.29 points out of 6000. It got 2000.48/2400 in service-level progress (SLP), 1372.81/1800 in citizens’ voice and 900/1800 in certification. Compared to last year, the city’s total points dropped this time. It had bagged 4970/6000 in 2020.Best-performing UTHowever, Chandigarh has bagged an award for the best -performing Union Territory under the “Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge” for 2021. Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri today gave the award to Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor, at the ‘Swachh Amrit Mahotsav’ at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi. The city was also awarded the apex ODF certification of water + certification.Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO), said, “It’s the worst-ever performance of Chandigarh. This year’s dismal performance of the city is primarily due to downgrading of garbage-free cities (GFC) certification from three star to one star. It shows alarming gaps in the MC in its self-assessments. Neither is the corporation actively and objectively engaging with residents nor has it taken any proactive steps. The city’s sole solid waste to energy plant and animal incinerator plant remained non-functional. Besides, there are many garbage points in the city.” Leader of the Opposition and Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla said, “It has been 26 years since the corporation was formed, but the cleanliness has never been in such bad shape as under the BJP rule.” AAP’s Chandigarh co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra said, “I request the UT Administrator to dissolve the MC and remove the Mayor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-city-not-so-beautiful-340859
21-11-2021||Amit Bathla||81st to 99th — Panchkula downslide continues||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 20Panchkula has slipped to the 99th position in the Swachh Survekshan-2021, registering a significant fall from last year’s 81st in the category of one to 10 lakh population.After witnessing an improvement for three straight years, the city’s cleanliness rankings have been on the downslide for the past two years. From a ranking of 211 in 2017, the city rose to the 142nd rank in 2018 and further advanced to the 71st position the following year.The annual rankings by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs have also debunked the local Municipal Corporation’s tall claims of having taken effective measures to keep the city clean and rectify its chaotic garbage collection system.From irregular door-to-door collection system at the hands of private garbage waste collectors, non-effective disposal of around 125 tonnes of garbage generated in the absence of a solid waste management plant at the Jhuriwala dumping ground, these were the prominent reasons to be blamed for the city’s decline in the cleanliness rankings.For residents, the MC’s failure to set up a garbage processing plant at Jhuriwala dumping site is the biggest reason.BR Mehta, senior vice-president of the Sector 25 RWA, who has been at the forefront of opposing the Jhuriwala dumping ground in close proximity to human habitation and flora and fauna, said, “Those in power lack the willpower to resolve the issue and have no justification for illegalities they have committed by choosing the land for a dumping ground near a residential area and wildlife sanctuary.”Chandigarh Tribune had recently highlighted the issue of uncleared garbage at various spots across the city.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said there had been major criteria changes in the cleanliness survey, which led to decline in the city’s rankings.“Otherwise, a lot is being done towards the overall cleanliness of the city,”he said.Goyal, however, admitted that if two major issues — door-to-door collection to ensure segregation at source and installation of a solid waste management plant at Jhuriwala dumping ground for regular garbage disposal – were addressed, the city would fare better in the cleanliness rankings.“The General House recently passed a resolution for tenders to be invited for door-to-door collection project. The process is underway at the Urban Local Bodies Department level,” he said.Speaking on setting up a garbage disposal plant at the Jhuriwala dumping ground, the Mayor said a tender had already been floated.“Once it is set up, it will ensure we score high in next year’s cleanliness rankings,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/81st-to-99th-%E2%80%94-panchkula-downslide-continues-340865
21-11-2021||---||Mohali does a clean job, placed 81st||Mohali, November 20Mohali achieved its best Swachh Survekshan rankings by jumping from the 157th rank to 81st this year. It is next only to Patiala in the 13 cities included in the state rankings. The city with 50 MC wards and a population of 1,46,213 (2011 census) scored 3510.06 points in the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) performance among 372 cities across the country, way higher than the national average of 2072.00 and the state average of 2562.00.Zirakpur 7th in PunjabZirakpur (2893.2) was placed seventh in Punjab and 11th in the zonal rankings in the 50,000 to 1 lakh population category in the latest Swachh Survekshan rankings. Kharar (2230.6) was placed 18th in the state and 39th in the zonal rankings, while Nayagaon (1954.6) is at 21st place in the state and 59th in the zonal rankings. In the less than 25,000 population cities, Lalru (2381.2) was placed 58th in the state and 101 in the zonal rankings.Kurali shows the wayKurali bagged the first prize in the 25,000 to 50,000 population Municipal Council category in North India. The door-to-door segregation system and 26 compost pits helped the cause.Officials said the improved rankings were primarily a result of a jump in service-level progress and ODF++ certification, ensuring toilets in villages and slum areas and better solid waste management.The garbage-free city (GFC) star ratings, however, made a big dent in the overall rankings as no points have been awarded for it to Mohali. Officials said the Mohali Municipal Corporation had applied for the GFC three-star rating recently. Mohali’s best-ever Swachh Survekshan rankings were in 2018 when it was placed 109th.The Mohali Municipal Corporation spends Rs18 crore every year, roughly Rs1.5 crore per month, for cleaning, both mechanical and manual. Mayor Amarjit Sidhu said the civic body would recruit 1,000 sanitation employees, which would further strengthen the manual cleaning system. A new contract for mechanical cleaning would also to be awarded, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-does-a-clean-job-placed-81st-340867
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Five-day-old baby dies of medical negligence?||An inquiry has been marked after a five-day-old baby died at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday due to alleged medical negligence. According to family members, no doctor was available at the hospital to treat the sick child. On November 14, a woman of Sector 23, Chandigarh, gave birth to twins — a girl and a boy. The twins were underweight and were admitted tp the postnatal ward of the hospital. The baby boy was suffering from hypoglycaemia since the time of birth.‘Action to be taken, if found guilty’The inquiry report will be submitted to the DHS on Monday and strict action will be taken against the doctor, if found guilty.Rs Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, GMSH-16According to the complainant, the condition of the boy deteriorated during late evening hours on November 19. The woman complained that no doctor was available at the hospital at that time due to which the baby died.The family has now filed a complaint with the Director, Health Services, UT, and sought action against the doctor. An inquiry has been initiated and the report is to be submitted at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-day-old-baby-dies-of-medical-negligence-340869
21-11-2021||---||Chandigarh to procure 40 diesel AC buses for long routes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20The UT Transport Department, on one hand, claims to replace all diesel buses running on local routes with electric buses in the next few years, while on the other, it is hiring diesel buses for long routes. Bids invitedAn official of the department said bids had been invited for the purchase of 20 buses, while another 20 buses would be hired on the basis of km scheme for a period of 10 years. He said the eligible agencies could submit the bids by December 10 and the tenders would be opened the same day.The department has initiated the process for procurement of 40 diesel AC buses for inter-city operations.An official of the department said bids had been invited for the purchase of 20 buses, while another 20 buses would be hired on the basis of km scheme for a period of 10 years.He said the eligible agencies could submit the bids by December 10 and the tenders would be opened the same day.Meanwhile, five more electric buses have reached the city. These buses would be put into operation after a trial run of a few days, said an official of the Transport Department.On November 13, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit had flagged off 11 electric buses on commercial operations.The Ministry of Heavy Industries has sanctioned 80 electric buses for Chandigarh under the FAME India Scheme Phase-II. For first lot of 40 buses, agreement has been signed with M/s Ashok Leyland amounting to Rs154.01 crore for 10 years. The entire fleet of 40 electric buses would be put on commercial operation by end of December this year.For second lot of 40 electric buses, e-tender has been invited and will be put on commercial operations in the coming financial year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-procure-40-diesel-ac-buses-for-long-routes-340870
21-11-2021||---||Tributes paid to women martyrs of farm struggle||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20With fiery speeches on “Farmers’ Struggle and Earth Democracy”, the first national convention of the Punjab Women Collective, comprising 11 organisations, paid a befitting tribute to women martyrs in farmers’ struggle, at Punjab Kala Bhawan, Sector 16, here, today.Environmental activists Dr Vandana Shiva and Medha Patkar, along with writer-activist Dr Navsharan Kaur, were the key speakers of the event, while Devi Kumari, Jasbir Kaur Nat and Paramjit Longowal elaborated on “women leading the struggle from zero”.At the convection, Vandana Shiva, who is often referred to as “Gandhi of grain” for her activism on anti-GMO movement, while talking to The Tribune, said: “Green revolution ‘chemicalised’ Punjab. The state must do agriculture as Guru Nanak would have liked. Organic is not a luxury, it’s our duty. Half of India cannot pay for its food. So, half of India should be supported by public distribution system (PDS). It should be the national langar. The attack on the PDS by the World Bank was intense. Globalisation of agriculture and agricultural revolution don’t go together.”Stating her UN report and books on women in agriculture, Shiva said: “The politics of gender divide is closely linked with the politics and economics of poison agriculture.”Medha Patkar, who is the founder of the Narmada Bachao Aandolan in three Indian states, assured the audience that the sacrifice of those who died during the farmers’ protest will not go in vain.“Over 600 people died protesting against the three laws. But I have been able to see how the crowds came together and stood united against the laws. This protest brought people of all religions and castes together. It was at the farmers’ mahapanchayat in UP where slogans of Hindu-Muslim brotherhood were raised from one stage. It was in this movement where guru ka langar broke all social barriers and everyone ate together,” she said.Dr Navsharan Kaur, a human rights practitioner, who has written books and researched on agriculture for 10 years now, said: “The plight of women has often been ignored. One refers to farmers as ‘kisan bhaiyo, not kisan behno’. It’s important to understand that women with land and landless women face agrarian crisis differently. About 80 per cent land in Punjab is under wheat and paddy, which is fairly mechanised. Women have been replaced by machines, but at the same time, they haven’t been given any alternative employment too. The villages are often disconnected and safety is an important issue. This makes farming a tough field for women. Yet, the women kept this protest going strong. They even had a woman panchayat. We have come a long way.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tributes-paid-to-women-martyrs-of-farm-struggle-340871
21-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Firm fails to find suitable groom for woman, fined||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has directed Wedding Wish Private Limited, Sector 36-D, Chandigarh, to not only refund the entire fee to a woman dentist, but also pay a compensation of Rs5,000 for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation after the company failed to find a suitable groom for her.In a complaint filed before the commission, the woman, a dental surgeon by profession, said she approached the company seeking a marriage proposal from a suitable groom. After signing an agreement on July 10, 2017, she paid a fee of Rs30,000.She said the matchmaking company presented a rosy picture about itself and assured to give at least 12 proposals specifically matching her and her family’s requirement, but it failed to do so. Accordingly, after the end of six months, she approached the company and sought the refund.The company accepted its fault and extended the agreement. However, despite the extension of the agreement, no proper marriage proposal as per her requirement was sent. The woman again approached the company seeking refund, but it refused to do so.Alleging that the act amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on part of the company, she filed a complaint.The company, while contesting the complaint, said in the terms of the agreement, it uploaded 18 profiles as per the requirement of the complainant within time. The company also claimed that even the complainant’s father signed a satisfactory note regarding its services. As a goodwill gesture, it provided extra profiles to the complainant.Pleading that there is no deficiency in service or unfair trade practice on its part, the company prayed for the dismissal of the complaint.After hearing the arguments, the commission said the company had failed to provide profiles suitable to the needs and requirements of the complainant, which were given in advance, and thus indulged in deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.In view of this, the company was directed to refund an amount of Rs30,000 to the complainant along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum w.e.f. July 14, 2018, till realisation and pay Rs5,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs5,000 as cost of litigation, the commission said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-fails-to-find-suitable-groom-for-woman-fined-340872
21-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit flags off ambulance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today flagged off an ambulance, donated by Infosys Foundation, Arpan, from Raj Bhawan.Abhishek Goyal and Dr Sameer Goel, Centre Head, Infosys, Chandigarh and Mohali, respectively, donated the ambulance (Base Life Unit) with life-saving devices, infusion pumps, transport trolley, stretcher and portable X-ray machine to the Government Medical College & Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, to deal with the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.The Administrator shared that the efforts of Infosys Foundation would go a long way in helping the ailing humanity, including health care workers.UT Adviser Dharam Pal, who was present on the occasion, also appreciated Infosys Foundation for its humanitarian gesture during the pandemic.Yashpal Garg, Health Secretary, and Prof Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH-32, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-flags-off-ambulance-340873
21-11-2021||---||Congress pays homage to farmers||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 20Congress activists, led by Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee treasurer Rohit Jain, took out a candlelight march in Ambala City to pay homage to farmers who have lost their lives during the farm agitation, here this evening.Rohit Jain said: “Around 700 farmers have sacrificed their lives during the struggle against the farm laws. Despite different tactics adopted by the government, the farmers kept struggling peacefully. We have taken out a candlelight march to pay homage to the farmers for their sacrifice. We demand compensation and government jobs for the kin of farmers who have sacrificed their lives.”Earlier in the day, the Congressmen took out a march as part of the ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan’ of the party to mark resentment against unemployment and inflation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-pays-homage-to-farmers-340874
21-11-2021||---||2 years on, court acquits accused in POCSO case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20Swati Sehgal, Judge, Fast Track Special Court, has acquitted an accused arrested in a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) case after the complainant and the prosecutrix turned hostile during the hearings.The police have arrested the accused on the complaint of the sister of a minor girl around two years ago. The complainant alleged that the accused, who was living in their vicinity, raped her minor sister when she was alone at home. After registering a case against the accused for the offence punishable under Section 376 (3) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the police arrested the accused.After investigations, the police filed a chargesheet against the accused. The court framed charges against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.Manoj Kumar Sharma, counsel for the accused, argued that the prosecution failed to prove charges against him. The prosecutrix had not supported the case of the prosecution during the hearings.The defence counsel further argued that the prosecutrix had refused for her medical examination. Consequently, there was no medical evidence on record to prove the prosecution case.Sharma said the testimony of the complainant was hearsay as she was not eyewitness to the occurrence. Similarly, the prosecutrix turned hostile.Sharma argued that in the absence of direct and substantial evidence, benefit of doubt had to go to the accused and he might be acquitted of the charges framed against him.On the other hand, the public prosecutor said though the prosecutrix was declared hostile, reliance could be placed upon the part of her deposition in the form of court questions, which were consistent with the prosecution case.He argued that the complainant had identified the accused in the court and the prosecution had proved its case against the accused and he should be sternly punished.After hearing the arguments, the judge said the prosecutrix denied giving any statement to the police. She was declared hostile and permitted to cross-examine on behalf of the state. Even in her cross-examination, nothing could be extracted by the prosecution. In her cross-examination, the prosecutrix stuck to the stand that the accused had not done any wrongful act with her.“To prove the guilt of the accused, it was obligatory on part of the prosecution to prove the charges against the accused. The prosecutrix was the best person to prove the same by deposing in the court, but she has categorically denied the involvement of the accused in the commission of the offence. Apart from the testimony of the complainant and the prosecutrix, who have not supported the prosecution case, no other direct or substantial evidence is available on record to prove the accusation against the accused. Henceforth, all points for determination stand decided against the prosecution and in favour of the accused. As a sequel of the aforesaid observations, discussion and necessary corollary to the findings on the points for determination, it is crystal clear that the prosecution has miserably failed to discharge the requisite onus beyond the shadow of reasonable doubt. Consequently, the accused stands acquitted of the offence punishable under Section 376 (3) of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act,” says the judge in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-years-on-court-acquits-accused-in-pocso-case-340875
21-11-2021||---||Six arrested in travel fraud, gambling, illicit liquor cases||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 20The police arrested six persons in four different cases under the Immigration Act, Gambling Act and Excise Act here today.Three persons, who were impersonating as travel agents, were held in two different cases. They were duping students and others on the pretext of sending them abroad.The suspects have been identified as Neeraj Kumar, a resident of Savitry Enclave; Chandan Nagpal, a resident of AK Homes; and Sanjay Bhullar, a resident of Shanti Kunj. The suspects did not have any valid documents and were running shops in the CCC shopping complex on the VIP road clandestinely through mobile phones and social media posts.Two suspects, Robin and Nikhil, both residents of Kaithal, were held for betting from a rented flat in Zirakpur. Six mobile phones, one laptop and one LCD screen has been seized from them. A person, Aditya, was nabbed with 24 bottles of country-made illicit liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-arrested-in-travel-fraud-gambling-illicit-liquor-cases-340876
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Two Ram Darbar residents duped||A Ram Darbar resident, Narinder Singh, has been duped of Rs70,000 on the pretext of providing him a job in a bank through a Facebook account. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station.Another Ram Darbar resident, Krishan Mohan Jha, was duped of Rs9,968 on the pretext of providing him a job in an IT company through an unknown page link. A case under Sections 420 and 120B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-ram-darbar-residents-duped-340879
21-11-2021||---||Jasmeet gets past Anu, wins state badminton title||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20Jasmeet Kaur of Sector 38 Sports Complex registered a 21-18 24-22 win over Anu Priya to win the girls’ U-15 title on the penultimate day of the Chandigarh State Badminton Championship here today.Vanshika came from behind to beat Ridhima Saini in the girls’ U-13 final. Vanshika won 19-21 21-18 21-12.In the mixed doubles competition, Udayveer and Jasmine Rawat drubbed Swapnil and Mili Verma 21-15 21-17 to claim the U-19 title.Gursimrat and Vanshika defeated Kashvi Sood and Ridhima Saini 21-14 21-6 to claim the girls’ U-13 doubles title.In the boys’ doubles contest, Krishna and Rehaan trounced Divyansgh Saxena and Uday Rana 21-19 21-15 to clinch the U-15 title, while in the boys’ U-19 doubles final, Dhruv Bansal and Gurbaksh Saini thrashed Samarveer and Udayveer 21-11 21-12.Arnav and Navdeep won the boys’ U-13 doubles crown. The duo defeated Aarush Sharma and Tusya 21-15 21-10 in the final.Rijul Saini won the girls’ U-19 title. She registered a 21-13 22-20 win over Mili Verma 21-13 22-20 in the summit clash.Rehaan and Vanshika bagged the mixed doubles title in the U-13 category. They humbled Uday Rana and Jaskamal Kaur 21-18 21-15 in final.In the girls’ U-17 doubles final, Kanishka Kalia and Shagunpreet Kaur packed off Khwashish and Rakshita 21-15 21-17.In the girls’ U-15 doubles competition, Avishi Sood and Raissa Bhanot tamed Ashnoor Kaur and Jasmeet Kaur 21-16 21-16 to claim the title.Arpita Malik and Nikita rallied to beat Garima Singh and Ishita 10-21 21-18 21-17 in the women’s doubles final.In the boys’ U-13 semis, Ishit Rehal defeated Gurtaaj Singh 21-17 21-16, while Arnav dismissed Aarush Sharma 21-13 21-8.Dhruv Bansal made his way to the boys’ U-19 final by defeating Samarveer 21-18 21-13. He will now play Gurbaksh Saini for the title. Saini registered a 21-8 21-19 win over Deepinder Bawa in the last-four contest.In the boys’ U-17 semifinals, Jayan Garg drubbed Piyush Chauhan 21-18 21-9.Rijul Saini thrashed Kanishka Kalia 21-7 21-11 and Shagunpreet Kaur outplayed Jasmeet Kaur 21-19 21-17 in the girls’ U-17 semifinals.Krishna reached the boys’ U-15 final after beating Aryaman Dhull 21-15 21-18. In the final, Krishna will face Rehaan, who came from behind to beat Bhuvnesh Kumar 15-21 21-16 21-14 in the semis. SemifinalsMixed doubles: Paurush Dhawan/Arpita Malik bt Kashish Sharma/Garima Singh 18-21 21-11 21-10Boys’ U-17 doubles: Ashwin Puri/Siddharth Modi bt Atishya Saxena/Sarthak Madaan 21-18 20-22 22-20, Akul Malik/ Vaibhav Mehra bt Deepinder/ Jayan Garg 21-10 21-15Women’s singles: Rijul Saini bt Sarushi Kanwar 17-21 21-6 21-11, Garima Singh bt Arpita Malik 21-5 21-10Men’s doubles: Sahil Katlaria/ Varun bt Kashish/Sumit Sharma 21-19 21-18Men’s singles: Abhishek Saini bt Paurush Dhawan 21-6 21-11, Dhruv Bansal bt Samarveer 21-19 11-21 (retired)Boys’ U-17: Akul Malik bt Vaibhav Mehra 21-7 21-18||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jasmeet-gets-past-anu-wins-state-badminton-title-340884
21-11-2021||---||Accident victim’s family gets over Rs 50 lakh as compensation||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, November 20The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal here has directed an insurance company to pay Rs50,24,340 as compensation to the wife a two children of a man who had died in an accident in 2019.The claimants filed the petition through advocate Thakur Kartar Singh under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, seeking compensation from the driver and owner of the vehicle that was allegedly involved in the accident and the insurance company on account of the death of a person in an accident on April 22, 2019.In their petition, the claimants stated Ramjwari Sharma, a resident of Dadumajra, was coming from Yamunanagar to Chandigarh in a car. When the car reached a little short of the bus stand at Mauli village on the Yamunanagar-Panchkula road, the driver suddenly increased the speed of the car and started driving the car at a very high speed.As the speed of the car was very high, the driver lost control of the car and the car hit the divider of the road, they claimed. Sharma and the car driver received serious injuries in the accident, they said, adding that Sharma later succumbed to his injuries.The claimants said Sharma was 40 years old and was involved in wholesale and retail trade. He used to earn Rs40,000 per month, they said and sought Rs70 lakh as compensation from the respondents.The driver of the car, meanwhile, denied charges and said the accident took place due to a mechanical error of the vehicle and he was not at fault.The insurance company claimed that the driver of the car did not have the valid driving licence.After hearing the arguments, the tribunal directed the insurance company to pay Rs50,24,340 to the claimants within a period of two months, along with interest of six per cent from the date of filing the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accident-victims-family-gets-over-rs-50-lakh-as-compensation-340885
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||North Zone Santosh Trophy: Chandigarh boys to open campaign against J&K||Chandigarh will play J&K at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here on the opening day of the North Zone Santosh Trophy on November 21. Services will start their campaign against Himachal Pradesh.This is for the first time that Chandigarh Football Association (CFA) has been allotted the North Zone matches. Along with hosts Chandigarh, teams from Services, J&K, Himachal and Uttar Pradesh will vie for the top position.“We have kept the players in a safe environment. Every player has undergone the Covid test… We have also sanitised every place, including the ground. The staff and officials have also been tested for Covid,” said CFA president KP Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/north-zone-santosh-trophy-chandigarh-boys-to-open-campaign-against-jk-340887
21-11-2021||---||Chandigarh's Yuvraj wins his maiden PGTI title||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20After knocking on the door several times earlier this season, city golfer Yuvraj Singh Sandhu finally managed to push the door open as he carded a solid 8-under 64 in the final round to win his maiden title on the PGTI Tour at the Rs60-lakh IndianOil SERVO Masters Golf 2021.Sandhu’s (66-68-67-64) total of 23-under 265 set the record for the lowest winning aggregate at the Digboi Golf Links.Bengaluru’s M Dharma (69-68-68-66) finished second at 17-under 271 following his last round of 6-under 66.Sandhu, the overnight leader by two shots, came up with an eagle, eight birdies and two bogeys in the fourth round to pick up the winning cheque of Rs9,69,900 and jump five places to sixth position on the PGTI Order of Merit with season’s earnings of Rs33,69,400.The 24-year-old began the day with a bogey on the first but soon regained ground with birdies on the third, fifth and seventh. He chipped-in on the fifth.From third till the eighth hole, Dharma was breathing down Sandhu’s neck as the former sank five birdies to trail the latter by just one shot. However, a double bogey on the ninth pushed Dharma on to the back foot.Sandhu then made a crucial chip-putt birdie on the 11th to seize the momentum as he got on a hot streak making three birdies, an eagle and a birdie on the next five holes that stretched his lead to seven shots and sealed the deal for him.Sandhu produced two excellent drives – a 30-feet conversion and two 10-feet conversions – during his dream run from the 11th to the 16th.Sandhu’s bogey on the 17th didn’t change the equation as his nearest rival Dharma was a fair distance away with just three birdies on the back-nine.Sandhu’s 23-under 265 bettered the previous lowest winning total of 20-under 268 at the Digboi Golf Links achieved by Mukesh Kumar in 2002, Shankar Das in 2015 and Honey Baisoya in 2016.“I started with the same feeling as the first three days but Dharma played some phenomenal golf on the first eight holes and he gave me a tough time on the front-nine. But on the back-nine I got the reins back and took control,” said Sandhu.“I had a tricky start, so the birdie on the third was crucial to get back into the game. After the eagle on the 15th, I knew I had it in the bag but I still wanted to see how low can I go and that explained my aggressive approach till the end,” he added.Chandigarh’s Harendra Gupta (69) finished fifth at 14-under 274.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-yuvraj-wins-his-maiden-pgti-title-340888
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||CAA remembers Milkha Singh||Chandigarh Athletics Association (CAA) paid homage to late Milkha Singh on his birth anniversary, at DAV College, Sector 10, here today.Milkha, who died of post-Covid complications on June 18, was one of the most sought-after personalities of the city.Though the CAA and UT Sports Department failed to fulfil Milkha’s dream of having a synthetic track for the city athletes, the sports body today unveiled the Flying Sikh’s 30-feet long portrait.Artist Varun Tandon made Milkha's portrait with lime powder, which is usually used to mark athletics track.“It took almost a month to make this portrait. I made this portrait the same as Milkha’s iconic picture in which he is seen running,” said Tandon.The event was attended by Ravider Chaudhry, secretary general, Athletics Federation of India; Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports Department; CAA president Harjinder Singh Gill and secretary Jaspinder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/caa-remembers-milkha-singh-340889
21-11-2021||Mohali||14 new dengue cases in Mohali||Man nabbed under NDPS ActChandigarh: The police arrested a Badaun (UP) native, Chander Sekhar (20), and recovered 1-kg opium from his possession near the MC Construction & Demolition Waste Processing Plant, Phase 1, Industrial Area, here, on Friday. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. TNSOne held with stolen phoneChandigarh: The police arrested Charan Das, alias Charna (24), a resident of Kharar, and recovered a stolen mobile phone from him on Friday. Kajheri resident Sakil Mohammad reported that an unknown person stole his mobile phone from his shop at Kajheri. A case under Sections 380 and 411 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNSKhuda Ali Sher man assaultedChandigarh: Sikander, a resident of Khuda Ali Sher, alleged that Azad, Deepak and Kaku beat him with sticks and stones near his house on Friday. The complainant, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the GMSH-16. A case under Sections 323 and 326 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSCell phone snatchedChandigarh: Three unknown persons snatched a mobile phone from a Jagatpura resident, Ashok Kumar Verma, near the road dividing Sector 25 and 38 here on Friday. A case under Sections 379-A and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSCash, earrings stolen from carChandigarh: Miscreants stole Rs8,000 and a pair of gold earring from a car of Nayagaon resident Manpreet Singh by breaking its windowpane while it was parked near Gurdwara Sahib in Sector 8 here on Friday. A case has been registered. TNSGold chain,ring snatchedChandigarh: An unidentified person took away a gold chain, a gold ring and a silver ring from a Sector 28 resident at gunpoint near Mango Garden, Phase 1, Industrial area, here, on November 18. A case has been registered. TNSDistrict-level Kala UtsavPanchkula: The district-level Kala Utsav 2021 was held at GSSS, Sector 7, here. First position-holder students from the four blocks of the district from Classes 9 to 12 showcased their talent in music, dance and fine arts activities. Component in-charge Anu Sharma said this year, the Kala Utsav had been organised through online mode due to Covid protocols. So, the performances of students were collected in the form of recordings. Winners from the block level have been judged at the district level. Now, the performances of the district-level winners will be sent for state-level competition to be held at Kurukshetra. TNS‘Missing’ posters of Kharar MLAKharar: Punjab BJP leader Vineet Joshi on Saturday put up missing posters of Kanwar Sandhu, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Kharar. He questioned AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Mann that five years ago he used to campaign against other MLAs by singing song “Tere Yaar Nu Labban Nu Firde Ae, Par Labda Kithe Ae” during the election campaign, but now his own party MLA had been missing from Kharar for the past five years. TNS GGSCW cagers winChandigarh: Guru Gobind Singh College for Women (GGSCW), Sector 26, defeated Chandigarh Basketball Club 51-35 in a Senior State Basketball Championship match on Saturday. Aanchal scored 15 points, while and Liza earned five points for the winners. Prachi (13 points) and Kiranjit (12 points) were the top performers for Chandigarh Basketball Club. In another match, Khalsa Club overcame GNPS Club 71-70. Princi (18 points) and Samiksha (14 points) scored maximum points for Khalsa Club. Ridhi managed 13 points for GNPS. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-340919
