22-11-2021||---||Polls to Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to be held on December 24||Chandigarh, November 22The elections to Chandigarh Municipal Corporation will be held on December 24. The State Election Commission on Monday announced this.The counting of votes will be held on December 27. According to Election Commissioner SK Srivastav, the electoral process is to be completed by December 30. The nominations will be filed from November 27 to December 4. December 9 is the withdrawal date.There are 6.3 lakh voters. Of them, 3.3 lakh are male and 2.99 lakh female. Besides, there are 17 third-gender votes.Polling booths have been increased from 474 to 694. “Special arrangement will be made for Covid patients. They will be able to vote in the last one hour of voting,” said Srivastav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/polls-to-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-be-held-on-december-24-341464
22-11-2021||---||Roots-AITA Championship: Top seed Param Pratap Singh registers comeback win||Mohali, November 21Top seed Param Pratap Singh came from one set down to defeat Punjab’s Jashandeep Singh in the boys’ U-18 final qualifying round match on the opening day of the Roots-AITA CS7 U-18 National Ranking Championship.Pratap lost the first set (5-7), but bounced back with a (6-1 and 6-0) win. Second seed Harmanjeet Singh of Punjab also marched ahead by defeating Chandigarh’s Janish Tamak (6-3 and 6-4). Punjab’sGurbaaz Singh defeated Himachal Pradesh’s Anmol Sharma (6-0 and 6-0), while Trishubh was awarded a walkover against Jasraj Singh.Tanveer Singh recorded a (6-3 and 6-3) win over Hridey Malhotra and Jujhar Singh defeated Aditya Bhatnagar (6-0 and 6-0) in the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roots-aita-championship-top-seed-param-pratap-singh-registers-comeback-win-341158
22-11-2021||---||Cooch Behar Trophy: Mohit Mehra to lead U-19 Chandigarh team||Chandigarh, November 21Mohit Mehra will lead the team of the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, in the Cooch Behar Trophy starting November 29 in Vadodara. Paras will be his deputy. The team is placed in the Elite B group, which includes Rajasthan, Saurashtra, Gujarat, Kerala and Delhi.Chandigarh lads will play their first match against Rajasthan on November 29, followed by Saurashtra on December 6, Gujarat on December 13 and Kerala on December 20. Chandigarh’s final and fifth match will be against Delhi on December 27.The squad: Mohit Mehra (captain), Arnav Bansal, Dushyant Thaman, Paras (vice-captain), Shubham Arya, Harmanpreet Singh, Alam Bakshi, Aarush Bhandari, Samarpreet Kasana, Arbab Iqbal, Manan Rajan, Mohammad Arshad, Prince Dahiya, Neil Singh Dhaliwal, Harish Kumar, Mohit Gupta, Sohail Khan, Jaskirat Singh Mehra, Aayush Shukla, Pratham Sodhi.Standby: Mohit, Shrivansh, Prince Pandey, Raj Angad Bawa and Harnoor Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cooch-behar-trophy-mohit-mehra-to-lead-u-19-chandigarh-team-341159
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Badminton Championship: Akul Malik bags 3 titles on concluding day||Akul Malik claimed three titles on the concluding day of the Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State Badminton Championship at the Sector 38 Sports Complex here today.He won his first title in the boys’ U-17 category. Malik defeated Jayan Garg (21-15 and 21-13). In the mixed doubles U-17 final, the team of Malik and Rakshita overpowered Sarthak Madaan and Khwashish (22-20 and 21-15). In the boys’ U-17 doubles title clash, the pair of Malik and Vaibhav Mehra ousted Ashwin Puri and Siddharth Modi (21-16 and 22-20).Meanwhile, in the boys’ U-13 final, Ishit Rehal overpowered Arnav (21-15 and 21-16). Abhishek Saini won the men’s final by overpowering a tough challenge by Dhruv Bansal (21-14, 20-22 and 21-4). Rijul Saini won the girls’ U-17 final against Shagunpreet Kaur. Rijul won the first game (21-17). However, Shagunpreet returned to the match with a (18-21) victory. In the third game, Rijul was leading (21-8) when Shagunpreet decided to retire from the match.In the boys’ U-15 final, Krishna returned from one game down to defeat Rehaan (15-21, 21-8 and 21-14). Mili Verma and Vrinda Rana won the girls’ U-19 doubles final by overpowering a tough challenge by Jasmine Rawat and Naina Trehan (12-21, 21-12 and 21-10). Abhishek and Rajat won the men’s doubles title by defeating Sahil Katlaria and Varun (21-17 and 21-18). Garima Singh won the women’s title by defeating Rijul (23-21, 16-21 and 21-9) and Gurbaksh Saini won the boys’ U-19 final by defeating Dhruv Bansal (21-16, 17-21 and 21-19) in two see-saw finals.Sec 38 Sports Complex trainees dominateTrainees of the Sector 38 Sports Complex dominated the Yonex Chandigarh State Badminton Championships by bagging 10 gold medals, 13 silver medals and 20 bronze medals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badminton-championship-akul-malik-bags-3-titles-on-concluding-day-341160
22-11-2021||---||Santosh Trophy: Chandigarh lads play draw against J&K||Chandigarh, November 21Services pumped in three goals against Himachal Pradesh (HP), while city lads had to satisfy with a 1-1 draw against Jammu & Kashmir on the opening day of the North Zone (Pool) Santosh Trophy at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here today.In the opening match, Services, who are tournament favourites, started strongly against HP lads. The Services team played under traditional (4-4-2) format, while HP lads, eyeing to stop Services from winning the match, played with an extra defender (5-4-1).Services posted the first goal in the very first minute of the match. Moirangthem Ronaldo Singh scored the goal to dishearten HP lads.Singh’s goal helped Services gain momentum and the side held a majority of the possession. Just before the lemon break, Singh netted the second goal to put Services ahead by two goals. In the second half, HP lads tried to lift their morale and changed strategy, but Services midfielders proved to be too good for them. In the 70th minute, Services got their third goal as Vivek Kumar put the ball over the goal line. Services, thereafter, successfully defended the lead and closed the match in their favour. Singh was named the player of the match for scoring a brace in the Services’ win.In the second match, the host team managed to stop Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) from winning the match. The local lads played to a 1-1 draw. While the J&K lads started the match with a 4-4-2 format, the local team had their mid-field packed as they started with seven midfielders, two defenders and one striker.The visitors were off to a good start as they claimed the lead in the 7th minute. Shakir Ahmed Sheikh stunned the local lads with a beautiful strike. Chandigarh had their chances of comeback, but none went fruitful. The local team, however, got its first breakthrough in the 37th minute as Sanvir Singh netted the goal. In the second half, both tried to score the lead. However, the score remained unchanged.Earlier, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit inaugurated the tournament. Dharam Pal, UT Adviser, Sarpreet Singh Gill, Sports Secretary, Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, and Vinay Pratap Singh, Deputy Commissioner, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/santosh-trophy-chandigarh-lads-play-draw-against-jk-341161
22-11-2021||---||Tranggohel’s ton leads Saurashtra to victory||Chandigarh, November 21Tranggohel’s unbeaten ton helped Saurashtra defeat Tamil Nadu by 55 runs in the BCCI U-25 State A-league matches, being hosted by the Punjab Cricket Association, at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium here today.Batting first, Saurashtra scored 298/8 in 50 overs. Tranggohel scored unbeaten 154 off 94, with 12 boundaries and 10 sixes to hog the limelight for the side. Mohanprasath S (3/32), RS Jaganathsinivas (2/56) and Ajith Ram S (2/38) were the top performers for the bowling side.In reply, Tamil Nadu bundled out for 243 runs in 43.5 overs. Pradosh Ranjan Paul (67) and S Lokeshwar (53) were the main run getters for the side. Adityasinh H Jadeja (5/56) was the pick of the bowlers. P Rana (3/57) was the other notable wicket taker for the side.The Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association (UPCA), meanwhile, recorded a two-wicket win against Baroda at Maharaja Yadavindra Singh International Cricket Stadium, Mullanpur.Batting first, Baroda posted a mammoth total of 309/7 in 50 overs. Dhruv Patel scored an unbeaten 77 off 37 balls, with three boundaries and eight sixes. Bhanu Pania (77 off 90 balls) and Shashwat Rawat (48 off 53 balls) were the other main scorers for the side. Purnank Tyagi and Shiva Singh claimed two wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, UPCA scored 313/8 in 49.5 overs with the help of Sahab Youraj Singh (86 off 92 balls), Aaditya Sharma (73 off 41 balls) and Rahul S Rawat (58 off 79 balls). SD Patel and Dhruv Patel claimed three wickets for the bowling side.In the third match, Chhattisgarh recorded an eight-wicket win over Pondicherry, at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium. Batting first, Pondicherry was bundled out for 211 runs in 48.1 overs. P Ashish (67) and Logesh (30) were the two main run getters for the side. NB Dhruw (4/23) and AG Rao (4/59) shared wickets for the bowling side.In reply, Chhattisgarh achieved the target in 45.5 overs. Sanidhya Hurkat scored 101 off 106, with 10 boundaries and two sixes. Paras Ratnaparkhe claimed 2/48 for the bowling side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tranggohels-ton-leads-saurashtra-to-victory-341162
22-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh golfer Aadil Bedi to feature in two Asian Tour events||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21Local golfer Aadil Bedi will feature in two Asian Tour events - Blue Canyon Phuket Championship 2021 and Laguna Phuket Championship 2021 - carrying prize money of US$ 1 million each.The Blue Canyon Phuket Championship is starting from November 25, while the Laguna Phuket Championship is starting from December 2. Bedi, who has returned from a wrist injury, is eyeing to grab the titles. Bedi recently closed the week in fourth after his final round of 72 took his tally to 16-under 272 in the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational Tournament at Chandigarh Golf Club.He was overnight second and one off the lead before going down to fourth spot on the final day at his home club. Following the wrist injury, Bedi was out of action from three PGTI events earlier in September. However, with his performance in the Jeev Milkha Invitational, Bedi is looking ahead to gain something big.“Covid forced break and thereafter wrist injury. Last year was a bit low for me. I have been trying to be in the right shoes and practice hard. The recent tourney in Chandigarh hinted that my return to golf is moving in the right direction. These two Asian Tour competitions are really important,” said Bedi.Three players - Jeev Milkha Singh, Kiradech Aphibarnrat and Anirban Lahiri - have the honour of earning over US$ 1 million in a single season when they won the Order of Merit titles in 2008, 2013 and 2015, respectively. Thongchai Jaidee and Scott Hend are the two players to have broken the US$ 5 million mark on the Asian Tour. Bedi is also eyeing the Korn Ferry Tour, scheduled for August 2022.The c’shipsThe Blue Canyon Phuket Championship is starting from November 25, while the Laguna Phuket Championship is starting from December 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-golfer-aadil-bedi-to-feature-in-two-asian-tour-events-341163
22-11-2021||Depute at least one security guard||Open house: What steps should Market Associations take to smoothly run unmanned parkings in Chandigarh||It is a good step of the Municipal Corporation to permit market welfare associations manage parking lots. The associations should keep parkings clean. They should deploy at least one guard to make sure that vehicles are parked in an orderly manner and are safe. Sometimes haphazardly parked two-wheelers occupy much space. Separate places should be earmarked for parking two and four-wheelers. Owners of shops should voluntarily park their vehicles at some distance. This will help visitors park their vehicles easily.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhAssistants for valet parkingInner markets of Chandigarh have parking space constraints. So, market associations could deploy assistants for a valet parking. This will ensure that there is no haphazard parking in lots and visitors enter into no brawls.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhInstall CCTV cameras in parking areaThere certain market associations, which keep marshals to help visitors park their vehicles properly. This service is missing in paid parkings. Market associations can install CCTV cameras in the parking area and issue token to visitors. A sealed glass box can be kept at the parking entrance to give a ‘tip’ to the staff maintaining parking lots. Associations can also provide cleaners, who can wash cars, if any visitors desires.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliEarmark parking space for vehiclesMarket welfare associations must hire attendants for proper parking and security of vehicles in parking lots maintained by them. There should be proper markings for parking of two and four-wheelers to avoid haphazard parking. Proper lighting should be provided in lots. CCTV cameras must be installed in parkings.Dr HS Dhanoa, ChandigarhLearn from shortcomingsAfter getting a green signal from the MC to operate internal market parking lots on the V4 roads free of cost, the onus lies on respective market welfare associations to make sure that unmanned parking areas are run smoothly and responsibly. Associations must ensure that cars are not parked haphazardly in parkings. They should learn from strengths and shortcomings of internal parking lots in Sector 19 and 22, which are already being run free of cost by their respective market associations.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhA welcome step by civic bodyThe Municipal Corporation has allowed free parking in inner markets of Chandigarh. This is a welcome step taken by the civic body. Now, it is responsibility of market welfare associations to operate and maintain parking lots. Sign boards should be installed for parking vehicles at proper place in lots. Separate parking space should be provided for two and four-wheelers in lots. Guards should be deployed in parkings to help visitors’ park vehicles in lots. CCTV cameras can be also installed for proper management of parked vehicles. It will help preventing stealing of vehicles.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliProper plan needed to operate parkingsAny voluntary compliance of much needed disciplined parking in City Beautiful’s proposed lots to be operated by market welfare associations seems a distinct possibility. It would require some concerted and astute action plan to deal with emerging situation. First of all, entry/exit points of parkings ought to be properly regulated. Needless to say, nice looking provision of ‘free’ parking may prove counterproductive if not handled properly. Installation of CCTV cameras becomes all the more necessary if parking lots are unmanned.Vinayak G, PanchkulaTraders can share maintenance costThe decision of Chandigarh MC to allow market welfare associations operate inner parking lots free of cost deserves praise. Associations must utilise this opportunity for benefits of customers and shopkeepers. There should be proper demarcation for parking two and four-wheelers in lots. Any person parking his/her vehicle outside the marked area should be fined Rs200 for two-wheeler and Rs500 for four- wheeler. CCTV cameras can help in checking haphazard parking of vehicles. Parking lots must be clean all the times. Shopkeepers of the market concerned can share maintenance cost of parkings.AK Jindal, PatialaDisplay signboards to guide visitorsIt’s a good news for visitors to avail free parking. Market associations of Chandigarh should display signboards to guide visitors to park their vehicles systematically. At the same time, association members must ensure that vehicles are parked properly. If any adamant driver does not obey rules the association president should approach him/her and aks to park vehicle in a proper manner otherwise leave the market place. Let us hope that this system works well.MR Bhateja, NayagaonKeep parking lots cleanThis is a welcome step by the MC to give rights to operate parking lots of inner market to market associations. Now, associations can run lots according to their requirements. Market associations can provide valet service for senior citizens, physically challenged and women. Also marking of parking area is to be done properly. Smart automated parking systems can also be installed in lots with monetary help from the MC to ensure smooth running without manpower. Maintaining cleanliness of markets and parking lots is must to attract customers.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhRelief for city vehicle ownersDue to limited parking space in inner markets vehicle owners, who are mostly senior citizens or women for whom walking even short distances is not convenient, face difficulties. Market associations must ensure that vehicles are parked properly in front of each shop. Associations should deploy helpers to ensure smooth entry and exit of vehicles. Well bodied car owners should avoid using four-wheelers if market is nearby from their place. This will reduce vehicle congestion in inner markets.SC Luthra, ChandigarhYoung volunteers can help visitorsIt is a good step of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to allow market welfare associations operate inner market parking lots free of cost. This will not only save customers from paying parking fee, but also increase sale of shopkeepers. It is the first and the foremost duty of customers to make use of parking lots efficiently. They must park their vehicles in a proper manner. Associations can hire a guard to regulate parking. At the peak hours, Sundays and other holidays, young volunteers should come forward to help people park their vehicles in such lots. The police can also help drivers park their vehicles in inner markets.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurProper demarcation of lots for vehiclesMarket associations have vested interest in running parkings of internal markets. Customers like to park their vehicles where there get free parking space, which is safe and without any congestion. Associations should appoint guards to manage parking in internal markets. There should be proper demarcation of parking space for two and four wheelers. A slip system should be introduced to regulate and count vehicles in parkings.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhDon’t park vehicles haphazardlyMarket associations themselves need to clear encroachments in parkings to reduce vehicle congestion. Associations should mark separate zones for parking two and four-wheelers. Normally, residents park their vehicles in haphazardly in inner markets as they are in hurry. Market associations can maintain parking fund to recruit guards, who can help visitors park their vehicles in lots.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliMC decision may help residentsThe permission for manning inner parking lots in markets given by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation may prove beneficial for both the Administration and business houses. Free parking might increase customer footfall in markets. Market associations should hire dedicated staff for manning lots for the convenience of customers. The MC should issue guidelines for maintaining parking lots. The MC can also take feedback from commuters about their experience in inner parkings of markets.Wg Cdr (DR) JS Minhas (retd), MohaliMC failed to operate parking lots smoothlyTill date Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has failed to smoothly operate parking lots through contractors in the city. All its parking contracts ended in legal disputes. In many markets like Sector 22-D, market welfare associations are operating parking lots without charging any parking fee in a disciplined manner. Market welfare associations have much more in stake as convenience of their valued customers is important. They hire security guards, who guide drivers for safe and smooth parking. They not only maintain parking lots, but also control rowdy elements. Parking lots operated by market associations are better maintained. Office-bearers of market welfare associations will have to take care of parkings and employ disciplined attendants. This will end parking woes of visitors.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhDon’t charge parking feeMarket welfare associations should wholeheartedly operate inner market parking lots. Guards should be appointed to maintain parkings. No fee should be charged from owners to park their vehicles in inner markets. This will increase the number of customers at shops.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliDisplay parking info on boardsMarket associations can rationalise management of parkings. All encroachments in parking should be removed. No policy will work unless there is enforcement of rules to prevent haphazard parking. Information for parking vehicles at earmarked places should be displayed on boards in inner markets for the convenience of visitors.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhAssociation well equipped to run lotsThe Municipal Corporation (MC) is ready to hand over 60 parking lots in markets and commercial areas to market welfare associations to run them free of cost for two years. The MC had given two options to associations, which include run the lots free of cost or charge a nominal fee from users. After discussions, it was decided that parking lots would be run free of cost. The agenda states that the UT has 80 markets with parkings. But only 20 lots have paid parking and running fine. That leaves 60 unmanaged parking lots. The market associations are aware of the peak shopping time and customer footfall in their respective areas on a daily basis. They are better equipped to put in place a system that works well for operating lots.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliA step towards public participationApparently, it seems to a good step taken by the MC to allow traders run inner market parking lots in their respective markets. It is the first step towards public participation in operating parkings smoothly. The task is hard for market associations, but hope they will manage lots well by taking inspiration from their counterparts in Sector 22 and 19, who have set an example by providing free parking to visitors. Ideally, nominal charges can be taken from visitors for parking vehicles. Guards should be deployed to manage parkings.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaCitizen-friendly decision of MCThe decision of the Municipal Commissioner, Chandigarh, to allow market welfare associations operate inner market parking lots free of cost is a citizen friendly. However, there should be a proper charter to regulate these parking spaces. There should be no favoritism in these parking lots. Market welfare associations should come up with some dos and don’ts for running these parking lots. Proper operational manuals have to be prepared so that there is no hassle in operating parking lots. The revenue generated should be utilised in the upkeep and maintenance of parking lots. Market associations have to work hard for easing traffic congestion in lots and instilling a parking sense in the public.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhExperienced staff must handle parkingUT residents don’t like to pay unnecessary parking fee. So, it’s good decision of the MC to handover inner parkings to market welfare associations. These associations should hire experienced staff to manage parkings. They must earmark proper space for parking two and four-wheelers. One or two persons can be deployed per parking, who help visitors park their vehicles easily. This will increase customer satisfaction and overall reputation of markets.Aarti Verma, PanchkulaAttendants must to run parking lotsThe free parking lots can run smoothly with attendants, paid by associations. Attendants will guide and help drivers of vehicles in orderly parking. If need arise associations can charge a nominal fee for parking. Market welfare associations should allocate funds from their resources to meet expenses for maintaining parking lots. They will have to form a committee to control the staff and tackle parking issues. The MC in turn may provide associations some infrastructure.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhShopkeepers will get preference in parkingParking in inner markets should be only for visitors. Shopkeepers are not supposed to park their vehicles in lots from morning till night and block space. The Municipal Corporation has given management of inner parking lots to market welfare associations. This will result in preferential treatment for shopkeepers, who will park their vehicles in lots leaving no space for visitors.Ashok Kumar Goel, PanchkulaParking lots managed by traders betterPersons hired by businessmen to manage unpaid parkings are generally more efficient than those deployed by contractors. Reason is simple. Businessmen deploy two to three persons to manage even small parking while a contractor employs two, including one at the entrance and the other at the exit. Vehicles in lots manned by shop owners are parked properly. Also the staff at unpaid lots guides drivers to park their vehicles at designated places. They also help drivers in exiting parkings safely.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhQUESTIONChandigarh’s Swachh Survekshan-2021 ranking among cities with population above 10 lakh has dropped from eighth to 16th. What according to you led to the fall in the ranking? What steps need to be taken to improve the position next year?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-steps-should-market-associations-take-to-smoothly-run-unmanned-parkings-in-chandigarh-341164
22-11-2021||Zirakpur||Vehicular underpass to come up at Zirakpur-Chandigarh border soon||Work on a vehicular underpass (VUP) on the national highway near the Zirakpur-Chandigarh border is set to begin in the coming days. The underpass is being built on the Zirakpur side in an area of 450m at a cost of around Rs10 crore to facilitate the movement of heavy vehicles coming from the godown area side. It will remove the permanent black spot on the highway.As a result, traffic lights on the spot would not be required and vehicles coming from Zirakpur and Chandigarh side would have a halt-free movement, said an official at the site.The work is being done by a Jalandhar-based company, Associated Engineers, under the supervision of National Highway Division, Public Works Department, Punjab.Executive Engineer Yuvraj Bindra Singh said: “The purpose behind constructing the VUP is to remove the black spot from the highway. It is expected to be completed in nine months. It was noticed that several accidents were taking place due to heavy vehicles at the spot. Temporary measures were giving limited results only. Therefore, the need for an underpass was felt.”At present, the work on diversion of the main highway is being undertaken to streamline the flow of traffic on the busy stretch, which will be followed by the construction of the vehicle underpass.The work will lead to inconvenience to motorists on both sides of the road, but diversions are being made.Officials said the widening of slip roads near the Chhat light points had also been undertaken by the department recently to remove the black spot. “In case, the number of road accidents do not come down, a bridge will be made for the traffic coming from the Dera Bassi side,” said the official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vehicular-underpass-to-come-up-at-zirakpur-chandigarh-border-soon-341165
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police nab snatcher||Youth arrested with charasChandigarh: A 22-year-old youth has been arrested by the UT police with charas. The suspect, identified as Shadab, a resident of Khuda Ali Sher, was arrested from Sector 27 with 250 gm of charas. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act at the Sector 26 police station. The suspect was produced in a court and remanded in two-day police custody. TNS2 miscreants snatch purseChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a purse from a woman near the road separating Sector 39 and 38 (West). The complainant reported that the purse contained Rs8,000, a mobile phone and other valuables. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSYouth nailed while riding bike with fake numberChandigarh: The crime branch of the UT police nabbed a youth while riding a motorcycle bearing a fake number. According to the police, they had a tip-off that a youth, who was allegedly involved in robbery and theft cases, would be arriving near Sector 11 on a motorcycle with a fake number. Acting on the information, the police laid a naka and nabbed the suspect, identified as Sumit Kumar (19), a resident of Sector 52, while riding a motorcycle bearing a Chandigarh number. During the investigation, the police found that the original number of the motorcycle was of Delhi. The suspect was arrested and a case registered. TNSElderly robbed of gold banglesMohali: A car-borne women gang robbed an 80-year-old woman of her two gold bangles worth Rs1.75 lakh on Saturday afternoon. The victim was taking a stroll a near a park in Phase 5 around 11 am. A woman came there and started a conversation with her. She, along with her two accomplices, took the elderly woman to a distance in a car. The victim later realised that her gold bangles were missing. On a complaint of the victim’s son, a case has been registered at the Phase 1 police station. TNSVirtual seminar at SD collegeChandigarh: GGDSD College organised a virtual seminar on the topic “transformation through innovation: strategies for business”, here on Sunday. Dr Vishal Kumar, Principal, Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce, was the guest speaker. Kumar had a brainstorming session with students. He enhanced the knowledge as he deliberated on innovations and gave several examples, which the students could easily relate to their day-to-day life. TNSNat’l Pharmacy Week organisedChandigarh: To acknowledge the invaluable contribution of pharmacists and technicians, Aryans College of Pharmacy organised a series of webinar and competitions on National Pharmacy Week. Various activities such as poster presentation, debate competition, quiz competition, paper presentation, rangoli competition and declamation were conducted on the occasion. Dr Anshu Kataria, Chairman, Aryans Group, awarded the winners. TNSYouth found dead on railway trackDera Bassi: A youth was found dead on a railway track here. The deceased has been identified a Mohit (20), a resident of Kurawala village. The police said the youth left the house on his bike around 6 pm on Thursday to deliver milk in the nearby area. The railway police received a message around 6:45 pm about a body lying on the track. The victim’s bike was also found nearby. The police said no suicide note had been recovered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-nab-snatcher-341166
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 missing Mani Majra boys found at Amritsar railway station||Two boys, who had gone missing from Mani Majra, were traced by the UT police at the Amritsar railway station. Complainant Raj Kumar, a resident of Mani Majra, had reported that his 13-year-old son and his son’s 10-year-old friend had gone missing on November 19. The boys had left home in the morning, but did not return.The police registered a kidnapping case and initiated an investigation. The police said sensing the gravity of the matter, a special team was constituted and sent to different markets and the Mansa Devi temple. The police also shared information with the Railway Police Force (RPF), Chandigarh, that helped in tracing the missing boys at the Amritsar railway station.Both boys were brought to Mani Majra within eight hours. The boys disclosed that their parents forced them to study following which they escaped from hone. After a medical examination, both boys were handed over to their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-missing-mani-majra-boys-found-at-amritsar-railway-station-341167
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 6 Covid cases, no death||P’kula records 4 fresh Covid cases Panchkula: For the second time this month, Panchkula recorded four fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 30,797. The toll remained at 379. While 30,405 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 13 cases are still active. — TNSOnly one found infected in MohaliMohali: Only one Covid case surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 68,909. No fresh death was reported while seven patients recovered from the virus. The only case was reported from Kharar. Of the 68,909 positive cases reported so far, 67,800 patients have been cured. There are now 38 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,071. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-6-covid-cases-no-death-341168
22-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Bird Park a visitors’ delight||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21The Chandigarh Bird Park has received an overwhelming response from public as more than 13,000 people have visited the park within five days of its opening.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said more than 5,000 people visited the park on Sunday. He said the park had turned out to be a major attraction in the region as more than 13,000 people thronged it in the past five days.He said over 900 people visited the park on the first day of its opening, while over 1,200 came here on the second day, nearly 3,100 on the third day and more than 3,000 on the fourth day.Dalai said they had decided to keep the park closed for public on every Monday and Tuesday for regular maintenance and to give rest to the birds.He said Wednesday could be reserved for school children, while the park would remain open for the general public.He said: “The two-day closure was required as the birds also need sometime for rest and the department needs time to carry out necessary maintenance work”.Savita Kovind, wife of President Ram Nath Kovind, inaugurated the park on November 16. The park was thrown open to the general public from the next day.Children in the age group of six to 12 will have to pay the entry fee of Rs30 and Rs50 would be charged from people above 12 years.The Department of Forest and Wildlife, UT, has established the Bird Park on 6.5 acres at Nagar Van behind Sukhna Lake. The facility has got two small aviaries and two walkthrough aviaries. The structure surrounds thousands of plants of varying canopies, which gives an ideal habitat, food and shelter for these birds so that they can freely fly and breed.The park has African love birds, budgerigars, white swan, black swan, wood duck, golden pheasant, yellow golden pheasant, green wing macaw, sun conures, African grey parrot, finches and melanistic pheasant.The department had planned the enclosure in such a way that the birds, apart from having a free flight, ability to nest in the natural habitat, would stay at the aviary and visitors would be able to walk past them, he said.“Herbs, shrubs and trees have been planted to suit the birds’ natural habitat,” he said.Rajesh Arora, a resident of Barwala in Panchkula district, said it was awesome to see a large number exotic birds of different species at the aviary.Main attractionThe park has African love birds, budgerigars, white swan, black swan, wood duck, golden pheasant, yellow golden pheasant, green wing macaw, sun conures, African grey parrot, finches and melanistic pheasant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bird-park-a-visitors-delight-341169
22-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Winged guests from Siberia start arriving at Sukhna Lake||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21With a drop in the temperature, winged guests from Siberia have started arriving at Sukhna Lake.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said common pochard, common coot, mallard and pintail duck, all common species, had arrived at the lake for their winter sojourn. He said the arrival of migratory birds would pick up with further fall in the mercury from next month and they would stay here till March next year.Meanwhile, birdwatchers have started looking forward to have a glimpse of bar-headed geese, a migratory bird that reaches Sukhna Lake from Siberia after flying over the mighty Himalayas during the winter season.As the birds prefer shallow water for feeding and the water in the lake is quite high, the department will create floating islands for the migratory birds in the lake.Dalai said five such floating islands were created for the winged guests to bask, rest and sleep during their winter journey in the lake last year.On an experimental basis, a bamboo raft was pushed into the lake, he said, adding that as a large number of birds used that raft, they had decided to increase the number of such rafts to five last year. Due to the depth of water, birds needed mudflats for resting and in the absence of such facility, they had decided to create artificial islands for the birds, he said.However, during the annual Salim Ali Bird Species Count and Water Fowl Census conduct recently by the Chandigarh Bird Club, 73 species of waterfowl and other birds were spotted at Sukhna Lake and the adjoining areas. A total of 335 waterfowls were spotted during the survey conducted by members of the club in the Sukhna and Dhanas lakes.Six teams comprising 34 members and volunteers conducted the exercise at the Sukhna and Dhanas lakes in Chandigarh and three teams went to the Ghaggar beyond Chhatbir, Siswan Dam and Mirzapur Dam in the inter-state Chandigarh region (ISCR). The bird count for six places falling in adjacent areas was also conducted and a total 2,040 waterfowl birds with 99 species were sighted across the ISCR.Surprisingly, the number of species as well as the total number of birds seen this year was less than last year, said a member of the club, adding that, “We can say that it was the least since the first census was held in 2017.” The club conducts the survey every year in memory of Dr Salim Ali, an ornithologist, on the nearest Sunday to November 12, the birth anniversary of Dr Ali.The most common species that arrive in the lake are ruddy shelduck, black-winged stilt, Eurasian coot, great cormorant, Indian spot-billed duck, northern pintail, white-breasted waterhen, white-browed wagtail, pied kingfisher, citrine wagtail and common kingfisher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/winged-guests-from-siberia-start-arriving-at-sukhna-lake-341170
22-11-2021||Panchkula||Three rob Mansa Devi Complex family of Rs 5.5 lakh, jewellery||Three miscreants allegedly attacked a house in Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4, yesterday afternoon and robbed a family of Rs 5.5 lakh and gold and diamond ornaments. The complainant, Anu Waliya (65), told the police that the suspects barged into their house with an iron rod and a sharp weapon around 4 pm when her son and daughter-in-law were away.“As soon as they entered our house, they started beating up my husband. Soon, they intimidated us and threatened to kill my grandson. I cowered in a corner with my grandson. They kept on thrashing my husband. Before leaving, they took away Rs 5.5 lakh and several gold and diamond ornaments from our house,” Walia stated in her complaint. She added that their servant, whom they had hired 10 days ago, was missing since the incident.A case was registered under Sections 392 (robbery) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the the IPC at the Mansa Devi Complex police station.Inspector Wahid Hamid, SHO of the Mansa Devi Complex police station, said, “The missing servant is suspected to be the mastermind in the case. No arrests have been made yet.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-rob-mansa-devi-complex-family-of-rs-5-5-lakh-jewellery-341171
22-11-2021||Chandigarh||Car theft, snatching: Canada-returned youth among 2 held||Two persons, including a youth who recently returned from Canada, have been arrested by the UT police for allegedly stealing a Hyundai Venue from a parking lot in Sector 22 and later using the car in a snatching incident.Complainant Sunny Abrol of Kharar had reported that he had parked his car in front of Hotel Aquamarine on November 13 and he handed over the car keys to the security guard. The guard kept the key in a box. Later, when the complainant asked for the keys, the guard found it missing.On checking, it was found that the car, containing a laptop, a hard drive, documents and other valuables, was stolen. The police were informed, who registered a case at the Sector 17 police station. The police said on November 18, the suspect, identified as Nirmal Singh (27), a native of Faridkot, was arrested and the stolen car recovered from his possession. Inspector Om Parkash, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, said since it was a valet parking in the hotel, the keys of the cars were lying in a box. “Nirmal managed to pick the keys and stole the car”, he said.Nirmal was produced in a court and remanded in two-day police custody. During the investigation, the police found that the car was used in a snatching incident in Sector 24 on November 16. “Nirmal had snatched earrings from a woman pedestrian,” the SHO said. The suspect further gave the earrings to Dalip Kumar (34), a resident of Dhanas, who was supposed to sell these. Dalip was arrested on November 19 on identification by Nirmal.The police said the snatched earrings were recovered from Dalip. The police said the valuables, which were in the car, were recovered from Dalip. “The suspects had a plan to dismantle the car and sell its spare parts as the back seat, dashcam and the rear camera were removed from the car so that these could be sold,” the Station House Officer said. The police said Nirmal was a drug addict and had recently returned from Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-theft-snatching-canada-returned-youth-among-2-held-341172
22-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC elections: In Asha Kumari Jaswal’s ward, rehris still collect waste||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21Two-bin waste vehicles have replaced carts for door-to-door waste collection in the entire city, but rehris continue to ply in Sector 21, which comes under ward number 17 of councillor and former Mayor Asha Kumari Jaswal.Vehicles have been introduced everywhere except Sector 21 due to a payment issue. I have fulfilled all poll promises. Some people may question my physical presence in the ward. I want to clarify that due to old age, I limited my visits during Covid. Asha Kumari JaswalResidents said what was the point of spending crores of rupees on buying the vehicles when rehris were still being used. At some places in Sector 21, both vehicles and rehris function. The system was started in December last year in a phased manner.Kuldeep Singh Gill, president, Bright RWA, Sector 21, said, “Vehicles never started here. Rehris collect garbage from houses and put it in vehicles parked nearby. Besides, garbage dumps are everywhere and horticulture waste remains dumped outside houses as no one comes to remove it. There is no maintenance of service lanes.”FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu, who also lives in Sector 21, said, “Sanitation has taken a big hit. Waste collection is not done properly. The Sector 21 market has increasing number of motor mechanic shops, which have made the market area dirty.”Sector 19 is also facing similar issues. Rajiv Moudgill, president of the RWA, Sector 19, lamented, “Our Sector is badly crying for attention. Waste vehicles come after two-three days. Even before residents come to know that the vehicles have arrived in the locality, these move to other areas. Besides, waste dumps can be seen everywhere. There are potholes on roads and only patchwork is being done. The neighbourhood parks are ill-maintained. Street lights are not working at several areas, including roads near the two local temples.” Some Sector 19 and 21 RWA members complained that the councillor was “not visible” in their area during the five-year term.Kamaljit Singh Panchi, president of the RWA, Sector 18, said, “The councillor was accessible and has formed a WhatsApp group where she solves residents’ problems. However, like the whole city, we have a big problem of stray dogs. The ones creating trouble should be shifted to dog pounds.”Asha Kumari JaswalBJP councillor from ward number 17Area: Sector 18,19, 21Promises: Improving civic issuesResult: Residents feel needful not doneAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-in-asha-kumari-jaswals-ward-rehris-still-collect-waste-341173
22-11-2021||Naina Mishra||This November, dengue stings Chandigarh hard||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21November this year has broken the previous record of the month as Chandigarh has crossed the peak number of dengue cases reported during this period.A total of 465 cases of dengue have been seen in November so far, while only 116 cases were recorded in 2020. Even in 2017, when dengue cases were at an all-time high, only 336 cases were reported from the city. Generally, cases decline in November due to a dip in the temperature, but no relief has been seen till now in the city.‘Temp still conducive for mosquito to breed’The temperature is still hot during the day, which is the ideal temperature for the mosquito to breed. However, the cases have reduced to half now in the city. Earlier, as many as 40 cases were being recorded and now it has come down to 20. It will take another 10 days for the cases of dengue to come down. Dr Suman Singh, DHS, UTDr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “The temperature is still hot during the day, which is the ideal temperature for the mosquito to breed. However, the cases have reduced to half now in the city. Earlier, as many as 40 cases were being recorded and now it has come down to 20. It will take another 10 days for the cases of dengue to come down.” In 2017, 1,951 cases of dengue were recorded, while the cases dipped to 301 in 2018 followed by 286 in 2019 and 265 in 2020. This year has seen 1,354 cases of dengue so far. A total of 10438 notices and 478 challans have been issued till now.4 new dengue cases in MohaliMohali: Four fresh dengue cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,750. However no death has been reported from the district. A total of 24 samples were collected, of which four tested positive for dengue. In the past five days, 60 cases have been reported from the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-november-dengue-stings-chandigarh-hard-341174
