25-11-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 9 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Thursday reported nine new cases of Covid-19 as the total number of infections reached 65,430.The number of active cases is 41 as five patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A positivity rate of 0.71 per cent was recorded as 1,274 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.No new death was recorded as the toll remained 820.As many as 64,569 people have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-9-new-covid-19-cases-342684
25-11-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi lands at makeshift helipad||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and other VIPs attended the wedding ceremony of BJP leader Vijay Sampla’s daughter at a banquet hall in Zirakpur this afternoon.At a stone’s throw from the Mohali airport, the CM’s chopper touched down at a makeshift helipad in Zirakpur from Patiala around 2:37 pm. He spent close to half an hour at the venue and then took off for Delhi around 3:30 pm.Haryana CM, Haryana Deputy CM, Punjab and Haryana governors, and senior police officials also attended the function. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-lands-at-makeshift-helipad-342379
25-11-2021||---||Stone of power grid laid at Baltana||Zirakpur, November 24Congress in-charge of Dera Bassi unit Deepinder Singh Dhillon and PSPCL officials today laid the foundation stone of a 66KV power grid at Baltana.The grid will come up near the Gold Mark society on the old Kalka road. Officials said the grid would be built at a cost of Rs 10 crore and would cater to the power needs of residents of Baltana and the nearby areas.The grid would become operational before summers next years, the officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stone-of-power-grid-laid-at-baltana-342380
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Akul Bhanot shines in YMCA’s win||Akul Bhanot scored a quickfire 66 off 54 balls to help YMCA lads register a four-wicket win over Mahajan School of Cricket in the Saupin’s U-13 Gold Cup.Batting first, Mahajan School of Cricket scored 174 runs in 32.2 overs. Ritvika claimed three wickets. YMCA achieved the target in 30 overs with the help of Bhanot’s 66 runs and Gurinder’s 27 run. Prince and Saman claimed one wicket each. Bhanot was declared Man of the Match. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/akul-bhanot-shines-in-ymcas-win-342381
25-11-2021||---||Upnishad Bhardwaj in semis||Mohali, November 24Haryana’s Upnishad Bhardwaj ousted Punjab’s Gurbaaz Singh to march ahead in the boys’ U-18 semifinals in the ongoing Roots-AITA CS(7) U­-18 National Rankings Championship. Bhardwaj recorded a 6-1, 6-2 win.Sahajpreet Singh Bajwa defeated Anirudh Sangra 6-4, 6-4, Punjab’s Harmanjit Singh outplayed Agnivesh Bhardwaj 6-3, 7-6 (4) and Madhav Sharma defeated Rabi Narayan Sahoo 6-2, 6-2 in other matches. In the girls’ U-18 quarterfinals, Punjab’s Rasha Dhaliwal defeated Agampreet Kaur (PB) 7-5, 6-1. Chandigarh’s Isheeta Midha moved ahead by defeating Mehak Preet Kaur 6-2, 6-2 and Sia Mahajan ousted Radha Sadhra 6-0, 7-6(7). Gursimrat Kaur also confirmed a berth in the final-four by logging a 6-3, 7-6 (7) win. In the boys’ U-18 doubles event, Ahaan Dhekial and Madhav Sharma registered a comeback win over Anhad Singh and Sahoo 2-6, 7-6(3) (10-4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/upnishad-bhardwaj-in-semis-342382
25-11-2021||---||Day 2: Mehar Nijjar claims lead||Chandigarh, November 24On the second day of the 27th Punjab Open Ladies Championship being played at Chandigarh Golf Club, Mehar Nijjar emerged as the leader in the gold division with a two-day gross score of 157. She is closely followed by Diya Brar with a score of 159.In the silver division, Anjali Nagpal is leading with the gross score of 187, followed by Lakhi Swain with a score of 194. In the bronze division, Navina Kahai is leading with a score of 211, closely followed by Inder Gill at 216.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-2-mehar-nijjar-claims-lead-342383
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mandip Singh Brar made HARTRON MD||Former UT Deputy Commissioner (DC) Mandip Singh Brar has been appointed Managing Director, HARTRON, Haryana.Consequent upon the joining of Vinay Pratap Singh as UT DC, Brar was relieved from the Chandigarh Administration on November 18 after completion of three-year inter-cadre deputation with the UT. The post of UT DC is reserved for Haryana cadre IAS officers.Brar recalled the corona crisis and how the entire machinery in Chandigarh responded as one, including the citizens, leading to much better management in Chandigarh. A number of initiatives such as computerisation of land records, streamlining the processes of the Excise and Taxation Department, procurement of electric buses, setting up of command and control centre for the state transport buses, strengthening of e/nam, re-starting auction in Estate Office, achieving first rank nationally in GSTR Tax Return compliance, starting dealer-point registration in RLA office, and digitisation in the Estate Office were all remembered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandip-singh-brar-made-hartron-md-342384
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers pay tributes to Sir Chhotu Ram in Chandigarh||Protesters opposing the three farm laws today paid tributes to Sir Chhotu Ram on his birth anniversary in the city.At Matka Chowk, Baldev Singh Sirsa joined the protesters along with the state president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Takait), Chandigarh, Kuldeep Kundu.Kundu said Sir Chhotu Ram founded the Jat Gazette newspaper and the Unionist party to raise farmers’ issues. His efforts led the freedom of peasants from the clutches of moneylenders as well as restoration of the right of land to the tiller.In Sector 39, the protesters lit candles. “It’s important to keep revolutionary leaders like Sir Chhotu Ram alive in public memory so that farmers’ issues aren’t ever ignored in this country again,” said Jagtar Singh Chaunta.At the traffic light point of Sector 36 and Sector 37, the protesters held pictures of Sir Chhotu Ram.Buses to Singhu, TikriTo mark one year of farmers’ protest, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has urged farmers to gather in large numbers at all protest sites on November 26. A bus will be leaving from Gurdwara Shahpur of Sector 38 in Chandigarh at 5 pm to Tikri, Singhu and Gazipur, said Kirpal Singh of the Nojwan Kissan Ekta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-pay-tributes-to-sir-chhotu-ram-in-chandigarh-342385
25-11-2021||---||Woman hit by train in Lalru, dies||Dera Bassi, November 24A 27-year-old married woman died after being hit by a train while she was crossing the tracks near the Lalru Municipal Council office this morning.Lalru railway police post in-charge Manohar Lal said the deceased Sudha Devi, a native of Shahajahanpur (UP), was crossing the railway tracks around 8 am when she was hit by a train. She died on the spot.The deceased was employed in a private company and lived in a rented house at a village in Lalru. She is survived by a girl and a boy, one and six years of age respectively. The police sent the body to the local Civil Hospital for post-mortem and launched proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.Man found dead on tracksA 27-year-old man was found dead on the Ambala-Kalka railway tracks on Wednesday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Dadpura locality. He worked as operator in a private company. Dera Bassi railway police post in-charge Ranjit Singh said around 4 pm, they received information that the body of a man was lying on the railway tracks.The younger brother of the deceased told the police that he had been suffering from anxiety and had not gone for work for the past four days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-hit-by-train-in-lalru-dies-342386
25-11-2021||---||Advocate Mehta appointed Chandigarh senior standing counsel||Chandigarh, November 24Advocate Anil Mehta was today appointed the UT senior standing counsel in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The post was lying vacant after the then senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain was elevated as a High Court Judge.UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit appointed Mehta, additional standing counsel, as senior standing counsel. The post in the Union Territory of Chandigarh is equivalent to that of an advocate-general in a state.The Administrator, for seeking recommendations for the post, had constituted a selection committee comprising Additional Solicitor-General Satya Pal Jain, Adviser to the Administrator Dharam Pal and Home Secretary Nitin Yadav and Legal Remembrancer Vijay James. The committee interacted with around 15 candidates for the position and unanimously recommended Mehta’s name to the Administrator.Mehta is an alumnus of the Army Institute of Law, Mohali, and represents government organisations such as NHAI, FCI, Central University, Haryana, and Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In 2014, he was appointed deputy advocate-general of Haryana and joined the Chandigarh Administration as additional standing counsel in 2018.During his tenure as additional standing counsel, Mehta appeared before the High Court in various important matters such as apartment matter, minority status of schools and Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections to name a few.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/advocate-mehta-appointed-chandigarh-senior-standing-counsel-342387
25-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Santosh Trophy: Services log second win, Chandigarh lads settle for draw||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24Chandigarh lads lost a golden chance to pull off their first win in the ongoing Santosh Trophy qualifiers at the Sector 7 Sports Complex yesterday.Playing their second tie, after ending a 1-1 draw in the opener against Jammu & Kashmir, the city lads were expected to pull up their socks and win against Uttar Pradesh. However, they missed a good number of chances forcing them to manage with the second draw of the tournament.The match started on a high note. The team headed by former Indian stars Harjinder Singh and Sanjeev Maria started the match with an attacking formation. The local favourites packed their midfield with seven defenders with the support of three defenders. Both teams took 10 minutes to settle down by playing ball possession. However, it was the visitors who started showing some aggressive football in the match. In the 27th minute, Mohammad Mustafa Khan of Uttar Pradesh was shown the yellow card. However, not allowing themselves down, the Uttar Pradesh midfielders kept on pressing Chandigarh’s defense in search of their first goal. Though they were not able to taste success in repeated attempts, the visitors made sure that they were here to play. The first half of the match remained goalless. After the 15-minute mandatory break, it was again Uttar Pradesh lads, who held most of the possession. However, as the match entered in the 60th minute, Chandigarh lads started to show their strength. The strikers started getting good passes from the defensive midfielders, but they kept holding the ball for long. Towards the 75th minute, both Kunal and Shivam Pandey attempted some good cross-passes. However, poor finishing on the goal mouth kept troubling the side.The side had as many as four open chances to score goals. However, failing to convert those chances, forced the side to manage with just a draw.Services continue to excelMeanwhile, tournament favourites Services continue to impress with a fine performance on the field. In their second tie, Services defeated Jammu and Kashmir by three goals. Just like their last match, Services started with an early goal. Tongbram Krishnakanta Singh netted the opening goal in the 4th minute to demoralise Jammu and Kashmir lads. Pintu doubled the lead in the 19th minute. After scoring two goals, the side kept the ball within themselves to seal the first half in their favour. The side remained strong in the second half and scored the third goal in the 60th minute through Vivek. Services now top the pool with six points from two matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/santosh-trophy-services-log-second-win-chandigarh-lads-settle-for-draw-342388
25-11-2021||---||Day after attack on Home Guards volunteer, Chandigarh cops scan CCTV footage||Chandigarh, November 24The UT police today scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in Sector 28 and 29 to identify the suspect who had shot at a Home Guards volunteer on Tuesday.The police said the footage installed in the market and residential areas was scrutinised. Meanwhile, a few suspects were called to the police station for verification.The cops also visited the crime spot to look for the empty shell, but could not find it.The volunteer, Parkash Singh Negi (40), was shot at by a robbery suspect on the road from the Tribune chowk to the Transport light point. He, along with a constable, was patrolling in search of the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-attack-on-home-guards-volunteer-chandigarh-cops-scan-cctv-footage-342389
25-11-2021||---||Govt schemes priority, says new Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik||Panchkula, November 24Mahavir Kaushik, a 2011-batch IAS officer, today assumed charge as the Panchkula Deputy Commissioner. He was previously serving as the DC, Fatehabad.After assuming charge, Kaushik said his priorities included successful implementation of government schemes and those introduced by the Chief Minister like ‘Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana’, public services provided through the CM Window and e-office.Kaushik has served as the Administrator, Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran, for two years. His previous association with the city would help him understand the needs of local residents, he said.As the city was witnessing a rise in Covid cases, the new DC urged people to not miss their second dose. “The Covid is still not over. Along with vaccination, people need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to stop the spread of the virus,” he said.Kaushik has replaced Vinay Pratap Singh, who was recently appointed as the Deputy Commissioner of Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-schemes-priority-says-new-panchkula-deputy-commissioner-mahavir-kaushik-342390
25-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Portraits of achievers to boost trainees at Chandigarh sports complexes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24Local sports complexes will soon have portraits of meritorious sportspersons and coaches of the city, who have won accolades at the international level or have been honoured with national sports awards by the government.Sources said a list of such sportspersons and coaches had been finalised and soon their portraits would be installed at coaching centres of their respective disciplines in Chandigarh.The sources said the list carried some high profile names (for portraits), including hockey legend and triple Olympian Balbir Singh (Senior), world renowned athlete Milkha Singh, Dronacharya Award recipient and boxing coach Shiv Singh and Arjuna Award winner footballer Sandesh Jhingan.“Yes, a proposal has been made and it will be implemented soon,” said Dr Sunil Rayat, Joint Director, Sports, UT.The UT Sports Department has over 20 sports complexes in various disciplines, including cricket, boxing, football, swimming, table tennis, wrestling, kabaddi, hockey, judo, volleyball and gymnastics.Officials said the step was aimed at boosting the morale of local trainees. “Installing portraits will be a mark of respect to the sports heroes and will also motivate trainees. There are many meritorious sportspersons who have brought laurels to the city and the coming generation should know about them and their achievements,” said a senior official.Another official added, “The list will be upgraded every year as per the achievements of our local sportspersons. The initiative will encourage young trainees to make it to the list one day. Besides installing portraits, the department should also make provision for writing history and achievements of state-run academies at a hall of fame or in a visitors’ gallery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/portraits-of-achievers-to-boost-trainees-at-chandigarh-sports-complexes-342391
25-11-2021||---||Anganwadi workers swarm Panchkula, stage protest||Panchkula, November 24Over 1,000 anganwadi workers from across the state took to the roads today to stage a protest against the Haryana Government, demanding a hike in salary, better working conditions and facilities like insurance.The protesters alleged that they were compelled to stage the protest as the government was not ready to pay heed to their demands even after four months of their agitation.What protesters wantOn March 10, 2018, the state government had assured us of meeting our demands, but nothing has been done in this regard till date. Our key demands include a hike in salary, promotion as supervisors and other facilities like insurance. Jagmati Malik, Senior General Secretary, Anganwadi Workers and Helpers’ UnionThe protest march began around noon from their dharna site in Sector 5. The protesters were heading towards the Housing Board light point in an attempt to enter Chandigarh to gherao Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence. They were stopped midway on the road separating Sector 7 and 8, but eventually succeeded in reach near the Housing Board light point.Jagmati Malik, senior general secretary of Anganwadi Workers and Helpers’ Union, Haryana, said, “On March 10, 2018, the state government had assured us of meeting our demands, but nothing has been done in this regard till date. Our key demands include a hike in salary, promotion as supervisors and other facilities like insurance.”Commuters on way to Chandigarh from Panchkula had to face inconvenience with several prime roads of the district remained closed due to the protest. The road to the Housing Board light point was closed and traffic was diverted via the MDC-Chandigarh road as well as towards the Panchkula railway station.Sunita, an anganwadi worker from Fatehabad, said, “The funds given by the government for operating the anganwadi centres on rent are not sufficient. We often have to pay from our own pockets. The government seems least bothered about our troubles.”After several hours of protest, a seven-member group of representatives met the Officer on Special Duty to the CM but the talks remained inconclusive. “The officer told us that he would look into our demands but we want the demands to be met as soon as possible,” said Anupama, general secretary of the union.The protesters were holding the fort near the light point till the filing of this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anganwadi-workers-swarm-panchkula-stage-protest-342392
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: AAP’s 2nd ‘guarantee’ — clearing waste at dumping ground||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today announced its second “guarantee” ahead of the MC elections, which are scheduled to be held on December 24.During a press conference at the party office today, AAP city affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh announced the second “guarantee” of providing freedom from piles of garbage.The AAP leader said the BJP and the Congress had been ruling the MC in rotation for over two decades but failed to clean the city. He said after winning the election, residents of the city would be freed from the mountain of garbage at the dumping ground. “World-class arrangements will be made for waste disposal. Dadu Majra plant will be operated with world-class technology. Apart from this, best arrangements will be introduced to pick up garbage from every house,” he said.Also, a unique system would be developed to segregate wet and dry waste. The number of sanitation workers in each ward would be increased, said Jarnail Singh.AAP had earlier given its first “guarantee” of providing 20,000 litre of clean and free water per household per bill. Jarnail Singh was accompanied by the city AAP’s co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra, convener Prem Garg and general secretary Vijaypal Singh. — TNSParty issued notice over defacementThe UT Election Department on Wednesday issued a notice to AAP under the Defacement of Property Act. Sources said the party had put up posters and banners in some areas without obtaining permission. On getting information, the authorities concerned removed the posters and banners and issued a notice to the party. An AAP leader said they had hired a firm for outdoor publicity and it put up banners without taking permission. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-aaps-2nd-guarantee-%E2%80%94-clearing-waste-at-dumping-ground-342393
25-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh BJP to put up united show today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The ruling BJP would try to put up a united show tomorrow as it kicks off its campaign for Municipal Corporation (MC) elections. The civic body is scheduled to go to polls on December 24.The city BJP, which had earlier been marred with factionalism and infighting, will have its top four leaders together. City BJP president Arun Sood, MP Kirron Kher (virtually), ex-president Sanjay Tandon and former MP Satya Pal Jain will be sharing a stage tomorrow at the party office on the launch of “Mera Chandigarh Mera Sujhav” event.During the most part of the five-year term of the MC, party councillors and these leaders had reportedly remained divided. The party was earlier said to have factions led by Kirron, Tandon and Jain. Though the trio always denied factionalism, it was visible at several public events as many councillors used to attend events only of the particular leader they owed allegiance to.During mayoral elections, the differences had come out in the open on a few occasions. Two of the factions had even reportedly sent written complaints against each other to the party high command.But with elections around the corner, the party high command seems to have told them to put up a united face. However, it will be interesting to see whether the ‘union’ would stay after the candidates are announced and after the elections are over.On Monday night, BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh and general secretary Vinod Tavde had a meeting with the four leaders at Tandon’s residence. Kirron attended the meeting virtually. The four leaders are said to have been told to contest the election unitedly so that the saffron party could retain the power in the Municipal Corporation.Meeting held at Tandon’s placeOn Monday night, BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh and general secretary Vinod Tawde had a meeting with city BJP president Arun Sood, MP Kirron Kher (virtually), ex-president Sanjay Tandon and former MP Satya Pal Jain at Tandon's residence. Kirron attended the meeting virtually. The four leaders are said to have been told to contest the election unitedly so that the saffron party could retain the power in the Municipal Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-to-put-up-united-show-today-342394
25-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC elections: Congress, AAP to make Chandigarh’s poor Swachh rankings a poll issue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The poor show of Chandigarh in the Swachh Survekshan has not only given fresh ammunition to the opposition parties, but it is also going to be one of the major issues in the run-up to the Municipal Corporation elections.Both the Congress and the new entrant AAP have planned to take on the ruling BJP on the issue of poor ranking of the city in the cleanliness survey.Have started clearing legacy waste: MayorWe have started clearing the legacy waste and are in the process of setting up a new processing plant. At least we have started or are in the process for improvement, while the Congress had failed to do it. Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor & BJP CouncillorThe Congress has even planned to give the issue a priority in its campaigns, pamphlets, videos and speeches in an attempt to send this message to the public.“It is not our, but a public issue. People in Chandigarh are very touchy about cleanliness. The BJP did not discuss the issue in the House. They should have brought a white paper in the House over falling ranking in the past few years,” said Subhash Chawla, president, city Congress.Chawla also questioned the MC move of paying nearly Rs4.50 crore per month to a private sanitation agency. “The work could have been done by the MC by spending Rs2 crore,” he added.The AAP said clearing garbage from the dumping ground would be its second guarantee to the city residents. City AAP convener Prem Garg said, “The 66th rank is embarrassing for councillors, officers and the MC itself. It has made people question the existence of the MC. They are paying a huge amount to a sanitation firm and still failing to improve the ranking. We will not give work to that firm. We will bring these issues before the public through various campaigns. It will be a major poll issue,” he added.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, also a BJP councillor, said, “It is not that the city is not beautiful or clean anymore. It is just that the category under which the city was judged kept changing every year. We have already started to clear the legacy waste at the dumping ground and are in the process of setting up a new processing plant as well as an animal incineration plant. We also introduced vehicles for garbage collection.”“At least we have started or are in the process for improvement, while the Congress had failed to do it. They only gave dumping ground and a defunct processing plant to the city,” he added.The city got the overall 66th rank in the Swachh Survekshan-2021 and in the category of cities having population above 10 lakh, it was placed 16th. It is a big fall for the city as it was ranked second in 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-elections-congress-aap-to-make-chandigarhs-poor-swachh-rankings-a-poll-issue-342395
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 6 fresh cases of Covid||9 found infected in Mohali districtMohali: Nine new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district, while four patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, four are from Kharar, two from Mohali and one each from Dera Bassi, Dhakoli and Boothgarh. Of the 68,923 positive cases reported from the district so far, 67,811 patients have got the better of the disease. There are now 41 active cases. As many as 1,071 persons have succumbed to Covid-19 in the district. — TNSP’kula reports 4 fresh casesPanchkula: The district recorded four fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,815. The toll remained at 379. While 30,409 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 27 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.68 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-6-fresh-cases-of-covid-342396
25-11-2021||---||Man arrested in drugs case in Mohali||Mohali, November 24The police arrested a Kharar resident with 42 gm of intoxicant powder during a blockade on the Mohali-Kharar road on November 23.The suspect has been identified as Salman Khan.A case under the NDPS Act was registered against him at the Balongi police station. The suspect was produced in a court on Wednesday, which sent him to police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-in-drugs-case-in-mohali-342397
25-11-2021||Mohali||26 new dengue cases in Mohali||Immigration firm offices checkedMohali: SDM Harbans Singh, DSP (City-1) Gursher Singh Sandhu and the Mataur SHO on Wednesday jointly checked offices of eight immigration firms in Phase 5, 7, 3B2 and 8 and checked their licences and documents. Officials said the monthly statements of the firms had been submitted to the District Magistrate. TNSMan arrested for snatchingChandigarh: The police have arrested Mehtab Ali (28), a resident of Burail village, for allegedly snatching a woman’s bag. The complainant reported that a man ran after snatching her bag near the Sector 44/45/50/51 light point on November 23. The police were informed and the suspect apprehended from near the spot. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNSFake number on tempo: Man heldChandigarh: The police have arrested Sandeep Singh, a resident of Mauli Jagran, for affixing a fake number plate on a tempo. The vehicle owner had reported the matter to the police following which the suspect was nabbed from near the Vikas Nagar light point. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSLiquor boxes seized in cityChandigarh: The police have seized 163 liquor boxes from different parts of the city. A team of the Industrial Area police station seized 108 liquor boxes from a truck near the Verka plant in the Industrial Area, Phase I. The police booked Ranjit Singh and Nishant, who had loaded the liquor boxes in the truck, under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act and Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC. In another incident, the operation cell recovered 55 boxes of liquor, which were loaded in a pick-up at Mani Majra. The suspect, Rajesh, was booked in the case. TNSTraffic diversionChandigarh: In view of the construction work on an underpass near the Zirakpur barrier, the police have decided to divert medium and heavy (goods and passenger) vehicles heading from the city towards Zirakpur at the Hallo Majra light point. The vehicles will be diverted towards the road leading to the Industrial Area, Panchkula and Baltana. — TNSSatluj Public register winPanchkula: Satluj Public School, Sector 4, defeated Sarthak School, Sector 12, by 85 runs in the ongoing U-19 Inter-School Cricket Tournament. Bating first, Satluj scored 195/3 in the allotted 20 overs. Ayush contributed unbeaten 73 runs for the side. Kabir (50) and Dipender Kush (27) were the other two main performers. Aman Deol (1/17) was the lone wicket taker. In reply, Sarthak School lads bundled out for 110 runs in 17.4 overs. Ankit (41) and Luvjeet (19) were the only two main contributors in the chase. Arnav Dubey and Ujjwal Sharma claimed four wickets each for the bowling side. TNSCertification courseChandigarh: Teaching faculty of National Cricket Academy (NCA) will conduct a hybrid level-1 coaches certification course for the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, from December 6 to 11. Those interested can register at chd.cricket@gmail.com till November 25. TNSHockey trials todayChandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh will organise trials to select men's senior team for the coming 11th Hockey India National Championship. The trials will be held on Thursday at the Sector 42 Hockey Stadium from 2 pm. According to Anil Vohra, general secretary, only players who are registered with Hockey Chandigarh will be eligible to participate in the trials. TNSStone of fire station laidMohali: Foundation stone of a fire station was laid at Sector 78 here on Wednesday. The local Municipal Corporation is constructing the station. Former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said there was a great need for another fire station in the area and the new station would be constructed at a cost of Rs 3 crore. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-342398
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Activa rider dies in hit-&-run in Chandigarh||In a hit-and-run case, an Activa rider was killed after being hit by an unknown vehicle near the Poultry Farm chowk.Complainant Daman Tiwari, a resident of Sector 20, reported that the Activa, being driven by his brother-in-law Yograj, alias Yogesh, was hit from the rear by an unknown vehicle near the Poultry Farm chowk on November 22. The victim was injured and admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32, where he later succumbed to his injuries. The police have registered a case at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/activa-rider-dies-in-hit-run-in-chandigarh-342399
25-11-2021||---||Murder case: Ex-scribe booked for threatening witness||Chandigarh, November 24The UT police have registered a case against former scribe Sanjeev Mahajan, who is lodged at the Burail jail in a property grab case, for allegedly threatening a witness in a murder case registered in 2019.According to the police, complainant Rohit Kumar, a resident of Mohali, reported that a person who introduced himself as Sanjeev Mahajan allegedly called him from a mobile phone and asked him not to depose before the court against one of the murder suspects, Vikas. Rohit, who is also a witness in the case, had recorded the phone call and shared it with the police. The police are investigating whether the suspect had made the call during a court hearing or from within the jail.On September 4, 2019, victim Tejinder Singh, alias Malli, was shot dead while his friend was injured after four assailants opened fire on them in broad daylight at a car parking in Sector 17. Around two weeks later, the UT police had arrested three members of the Boxer gang, including gang leader Vikas, alias Boxer A case against Mahajan has been registered under Sections 195 A, 506 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-case-ex-scribe-booked-for-threatening-witness-342400
25-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Poor sex ratio in Chandigarh raises concern||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The city has seen a skewed sex ratio at birth in the past five years as 838 females per 1,000 males were born in 2020-21, while 981 females were born in 2015-16.This was revealed under the National Health Family Survey-5 profile of the UT. The overall sex ratio (females per 1,000 males) is 918 for the urban population and 868 for the rural.The sex ratio at birth is a crucial index to determine that fewer girls are born in comparison to males in the region. This is certainly not a positive trend as it points towards a possibility of female foeticide. Prof Rajesh Gill, Sociology Dept, PUExperts have expressed concern over the trend and have hinted at the possibility of abortion before birth through sex determination tests.Prof Rajesh Gill from the Department of Sociology, Panjab University, said, “The sex ratio at birth is a crucial index to determine that fewer girls are born in comparison to males in the region. This is certainly not a positive trend as it points towards a possibility of female foeticide.”Female foeticide, by definition, is the practice of aborting a foetus when a person finds out that the foetus is female after undergoing a sex determination test known as a prenatal diagnostic test.Professor Gill said, “We have conducted studies in the past in the border districts of Haryana and Punjab and found out that mothers of unborn child used to go outside in peripheral areas and other cities to get a sex determination test although this is completely against the law. It needs to be explored why the sex ratio is falling in the city.”The National Health Profile-2019, the annual health data publication of the Ministry of Health, also revealed that Chandigarh had the worst rural sex ratio. The profile stated that Chandigarh also had the second lowest rural sex ratio (690) nationally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-sex-ratio-in-chandigarh-raises-concern-342401
25-11-2021||---||After a slip in rankings, Chandigarh gets its act together||Chandigarh, November 24To improve the rankings of the city, UT Adviser Dharam Pal today reviewed the action plan to be implemented for the ensuing Swachh Survekshan-2022 at a meeting here.Chandigarh witnessed a sharp fall in the Swachh Survekshan-2021 rankings. The results were declared on Saturday. The rankings of the city dropped from last year’s 16th to 66th among 4,320 cities and slipped from last year’s eighth rank to 16th this year among cities with a population of over 10 lakh.Dharam Pal, UT AdviserAdviserspeakNon-cooperative bulk waste generator societies will be penalised as per law, besides putting boards outside societies terming these as ‘non-compliance societies.During the meeting, the indicators for Swachh Survekshan-2022 were discussed in detail, including the parameters and scheme of marking along with roles and responsibilities of the departments concerned of the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation.It was decided that screens would be placed/provided by the Engineering Department at a suitable distance from all choes to ensure that no solid waste was visible in these areas, besides capping the encroachments around storm water drains (choes), if any.The Police Department has been asked to ensure removal and proper disposal of condemned/unclaimed vehicles parked in the public place throughout the city. Besides beautifying he bus queue shelters in the city, regular sanitation will be ensured around these shelters.The Adviser directed the departments concerned to maintained proper cleanliness inside the vegetable market, Sector 26, and to review it periodically, besides submitting a progress report.On the plastic ban, the Adviser directed to carry out an intensive campaign involving the authorities concerned such as the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), the Police Department and the MC to ensure strict enforcement of the ban on unauthorised plastic items.Among other issues discussed was the processing of garbage collected from the city — dry waste and wet waste. The Adviser asked the MC Commissioner to upgrade the garbage processing plant so that the dry waste could be processed at full capacity. He also asked for completing the work of providing sanitary landfill at the Dadu Majra dumping site by December 31.On construction and demolition (C&D) waste, the MC Commissioner said a toll-free number would be introduced shortly to lift the C&D waste from the doorstep of citizens and 23 locations had already been designated to collect C&D waste in segregated form — wood, soil, bricks and concrete.The Adviser stressed the need for involving citizens and residents’ welfare associations in the Swachh Survekshan-2022 by intensifying the behavioral change campaign, besides conducting IEC activities.He directed that all HODs concerned would hold review meetings at their level once in a week.The meeting was attended by Nitin Kumar Yadav, Home Secretary, Vijay Namdeorao Zade, Finance Secretary, Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, MC, and Vinay Pratap Singh, Deputy Commissioner, all Head of Departments of the UT Administration and the officers concerned of the MC.Paintings in parksTo create awareness, murals and wall paintings will be made in parks in the city by depicting the message of the Swachh Bharat Mission and other informative messages.Initiatives to be taken||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-a-slip-in-rankings-chandigarh-gets-its-act-together-342402
