26-11-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 8 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Friday reported eight new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of infections in the city to 65,438.No new death was reported as the toll remained 820.A positivity rate of 0.74 per cent was recorded as 1,083 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases has reached 48 as one patient was discharged.As many as 64,570 patients have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-8-new-covid-19-cases-343101
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||CAT Bar Association gets Rs 1L grant||The CAT Bar Association, Chandigarh, felicitated Minderjeet Yadav, chairman of the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council, in a function on Wednesday.The Bar Council and the CAT Bar Executive Committee also honoured advocates RK Sharma, Lakhinder Bir Singh, JR Syal, DR Sharma, Vinay Gupta, GS Sathi, Rakesh Verma, Rohit Sharma, Poonam Thakur, Pankaj Kansal, Monika Koundal, Preeti and Anirudh Gupta for their contribution to the profession.The Bar Council also presented a grant of Rs1 lakh to the CAT Association. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cat-bar-association-gets-rs-1l-grant-342775
26-11-2021||Mohali||Mohali: Push for gender sensitive schooling||The district administration here has included six government schools in the pilot phase of the ‘Gender Sensitive Schooling Environment’.Starting the initiative at Government High School, Singhpura, Additional Deputy Commissioner Komal Mittal said these schools would be equipped with study material on menstrual hygiene and gender sensitisation.On the occasion, a workshop for boys on understanding and appreciating gender differences was also conducted by a Pune-based NGO – Equal Community Foundation.Mittal said the district administration was also planning to conduct similar workshops for the girls in the coming weeks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/push-for-gender-sensitive-schooling-342776
26-11-2021||---||Apoorva Khatri, a tale of hope and determination||Chandigarh, November 25Love, hope and the resolve to confront circumstances head-on — that’s the inspiring story of Apoorva Khatri and her mother Latika.Apoorva was in Class V when she was diagnosed with cerebral palsy – a condition that affects a person’s ability to move and maintain balance and posture. Thereafter began a struggle not just for her, but also for her family, particularly her mother.Capturing her experiences of bringing up her daughter in a book “Where Hope Lives: Have Wings Will Fly”, Latika sends across a message of hope to parents with special children.Describing her journey, Latika reveals how her love for her daughter saw her neglect everyone else in the family, including her elder son Aman.Latika recalls the day when the doctor broke the news to her. “My world came down crashing. He advised me to admit Apoorva to a school for special children as she wouldn’t be able to study beyond Class VIII. I felt so helpless. But that very moment, I decided to fight this battle.”Apoorva realised early that she was different from other children, who would make fun of her. “I had no friends in school. So I’d have lunch with Nalini ma’am, who was very understanding,” says Apoorva, who recently completed masters in Sociology from MCM DAV College. She has even launched her own start-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apoorva-khatri-a-tale-of-hope-and-determination-342777
26-11-2021||---||Diya Brar lifts Championship Bowl||Chandigarh, November 25Diya Brar scored a gross total of 234 to win the Championship Bowl at the 27th Punjab Open Ladies Amateur Golf Championship here today.Diya was closely followed by Sakshi Mehta (238) and Mehar Nijjer (239).Sonu Kalkat won the Silver Salver with a nett score of 215.In the silver division, Anjali Nangal topped the podium with a gross score of 282, while Archana Kumar (286) finished as runner-up.Lakhi Swain with a score of 218 was the nett winner.Navina Kahai, meanwhile, maintained her lead to win the bronze plate. She finished with a total of 312.Inder Gill (326) was declared runner-up, while Baljinder Mangat was the nett winner.The junior shield was bagged by Mehar Nijjer. She scored a total of 157. Diya finished second at 159.Shiraz Singh (170) won the Neelu Chopra Trophy, while Anjali Nagpal (147) was declared the nett winner.Anjali also bagged the Super Senior Challenge Cup with the gross score of 187.Sonu Kalkat (215) won the overall Neelu Chopra Cup.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diya-brar-lifts-championship-bowl-342778
26-11-2021||Mohali||Harmanjit Singh stuns Madhav Sharma, in final||Punjab’s Harmanjit Singh stunned second seed Madhav Sharma 7-5 7-5 to enter the boys’ final in the Roots-AITA CS (7) U¬-18 National Rankings Championship match here today.Haryana’s Upnishad Bhardwaj registered a 6-4 6-3 win over Punjab’s Sehaj Preet Singh in the semis.In the boys’ U-18 doubles semifinals, Upnishad and Agnivesh rallied from a set down to beat Gurbaaz Singh and Harmanjit Singh 5-7 6-2 10-7, while Arnav Bhishnoi and Anirudh Sangra ousted Ahaan Dhekial and Madhav Sharma 7-6(3) 6-3.In the girls’ U-18 semis, top seed Gursimrat Kaur came from behind to beat Sia Mahajan 5-7 6-2 5-7, while Isheeta Midha drubbed Rasha Dhaliwal 6-2 6-0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harmanjit-singh-stuns-madhav-sharma-in-final-342779
26-11-2021||---||Men's U-25 One Day: Pukhraj Mann steers Punjab to 201-run victory||Chandigarh, November 25A quick-fire century by Pukhraj Mann helped Punjab defeat Railways by 201 runs in a Men’s U-25 One Day match at Puducherry today.Batting first, Punjab rode on Mann’s 85-ball 127 to score 296/6 in the allotted 50 overs. Jashanpreet Singh contributed 43 runs to the total.Avijit Singh and MR Raut claimed two wickets each for Railways.Needing to score almost six runs per over for victory, Railways were bowled out for 95 runs in 23 overs as Prince Balwant Rai (4/31) and Prerit Dutta (3/12) shared seven wickets between them. Ikjot Singh Thind took 2/34.Raut (29) was the top scorer for Railways.Punjab will now face Goa on November 26.UT boys bow to JharkhandChandigarh, meanwhile, suffered a three-wicket defeat against Jharkhand in their fourth league match of Men’s U-25 One Day Trophy, at Bengaluru today.Batting first, Chandigarh made 279/9 in 50 overs.Opener Arslan Khan and Amrit Lal Lubana stabilised the Chandigarh innings with a 115-run partnership for the fourth wicket after the side was struggling at 46 for three in 11 overs.Khan was run out for 66 whereas Lubana fell eight runs short of a century. His 90-ball 92 included nine boundaries and two sixes.Bhagmender Lather then scored a solid 49 to steer Chandigarh to 279/9.In reply, Jharkhand boys reached home in 49 overs with V Vishal (60) and Surwar (58) scoring a half-century each. Aryaman Sain contributed 44 runs to the chase, while Rehan Khan chipped in with a useful 40.Harshit and Lubana took two wickets each.Chandigarh will play Maharashtra on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mens-u-25-one-day-pukhraj-mann-steers-punjab-to-201-run-victory-342780
26-11-2021||---||Santosh Trophy: Chandigarh boys finally taste victory||Chandigarh, November 25The city boys finally tasted victory in the ongoing Santosh Trophy as they defeated bottom-placed Himachal Pradesh 2-0 at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here today.Changes in the playing eleven helped Chandigarh play an attacking game and the side got their first breakthrough in the 10th minute when Gaurav Negi scored his first goal of the tournament.Having a one goal advantage, Chandigarh started playing for possession. The side was expected to score more goals as they were in complete control of the match. However, the hosts closed the first half at 1-0.In the second half, Chandigarh boys were once again in command as Shivam Pandey doubled the lead in the 47th minute.Himachal made some valiant attempts to level the score, but the score line remained unchanged.Negi, who scored the opening goal of the match, was adjudged the player of the match.UP hold J&K for 1-1 drawEarlier in the morning session, Uttar Pradesh managed to pull off a 1-1 draw against Jammu & Kashmir.Both teams started off on an aggressive note but it was Jammu and Kashmir which drew the first blood in the 35th minute through Akib Javed.Uttar Pradesh though made a terrific comeback in the match after the lemon break. The side pulled up their socks and launched back-to-back attacks on the J&K goal. The side finally pulled off the equaliser in the 91st minute after Sunil Yadav latched on to a small mistake by the J&K custodian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/santosh-trophy-chandigarh-boys-finally-taste-victory-342781
26-11-2021||Mohali||BJP hits out at AAP over singer Anmol Mann's nomination||The BJP today flayed senior AAP leaders Arvind Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann for fielding “outsiders” from the Kharar constituency and “ignoring the local leadership”.Senior BJP leader Vineet Joshi said in 2017, the AAP had ignored the local leaders by giving ticket to Kanwar Sandhu, who “ran away from his responsibility” after winning the election.AAP is not pursuing a policy of change with the people of Kharar. In fact, it is indulging in politics of revenge. Vineet Joshi, BJP leaderKharar residents are unable to approach their MLA and their key issues remain unresolved, he said.“Sandhu never visited the constituency to meet his people. He is just a missing person,” said Joshi.Kharar residents are not responsible for the underdevelopment of the area, but Kejriwal and Bhagwant Mann are responsible for this, he said. “Was it not Kejriwal’s duty to ensure that the Kharar MLA is present in his constituency for the service of people,” Joshi questioned.“AAP is not pursuing a policy of change with the people of Kharar. In fact, it is indulging in politics of revenge. That is why after the missing MLA, now the party has chosen a singer from Mansa as its candidate for Kharar,” said Joshi.“You and Anmol Gagan Mann will have to answer why she and her family left Mansa and why she has been nominated from Kharar constituency. Also, you will have to explain your relationship with Anmol,” Joshi asked Kejriwal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-hits-out-at-aap-over-singer-anmol-manns-nomination-342782
26-11-2021||---||Poll on mind, Manish Sisodia challenges Punjab Education Minister||Chandigarh, November 25Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia today challenged Punjab Education Minister to compare 10 government schools of his state with that of the Capital.Speaking on the sidelines of a party event at CII in Sector 31, Sisodia, who is also the Education Minister in Delhi Government, said: “I extend an open invitation to the Punjab Education Minister to visit 10 government schools in Delhi and see what improvement we have made in the education system.”If people find education system in Punjab better than Delhi, they will opt for Congress otherwise they will vote for Arvind Kejriwal’s AAP sarkar, he said.Sisodia claimed the education system in Delhi had improved remarkably under the AAP government and other states were following the “deshbhakati curriculum” that had been introduced in Delhi schools.“Students in Delhi are preferring government schools. Even the government teachers are being invited to teach overseas. The election in Punjab will be fought on the issue of education,” he said.Meanwhile, the AAP held an interaction with people from different walks of life to decide on the manifesto for the Chandigarh MC poll.AAP convener Prem Garg said the manifesto for the civic polls would be based on the people’s suggestions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-on-mind-manish-sisodia-challenges-punjab-education-minister-342783
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cops round up suspect in firing case||The UT police have rounded up a youth, who is suspected to have shot at a Home Guards volunteer.Sources said the suspect had two cases registered against him in Chandigarh.The volunteer, Parkash Singh Negi (40), was shot at on the road from Tribune Chowk to the Transport light point on Tuesday evening. He, along with a constable, was patrolling in search of the suspect who had robbed a woman of her jewellery at gunpoint near the forest area of the Industrial Area, Phase I, opposite Sector 29, on November 18. The victim was returning home in Sector 28 from Elante mall when she was robbed.Police sources said the woman had identified the detained youth. A toy pistol was also recovered from him.Sources said the youth was being questioned about the shooting incident. — TNSThe incidentHome Guards volunteer Parkash Singh Negi (40), was shot at on the road from Tribune Chowk to the Transport light point on Tuesday evening. He, along with a constable, was patrolling in search of the suspect who had robbed a woman of jewellery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-round-up-suspect-in-firing-case-342784
26-11-2021||---||28 more down with dengue in Mohali district||Mohali, November 25As many as 28 cases of dengue surfaced during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,854 in the district. There was no new fatality due to the vector-borne disease.The district saw 344 cases and two dengue deaths in September while 2,260 cases and 29 deaths were reported last month.A total of 82 samples of suspected dengue fever patients were taken and the reports of 28 of these came positive today.As many as 1,223 cases have surfaced this month and 108 of these in the past five days. The vector-borne disease has claimed six lives in the district in November.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/28-more-down-with-dengue-in-mohali-district-342785
26-11-2021||---||Mayor launches Rs 35L works in Mataur, Phase 10 in Mohali||Mohali, November 25Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu today launched development works worth Rs 35 lakh in Mataur village and Phase 10 here.Speaking on the occasion, Jeeti Sidhu said the work of laying paver blocks and repairs in Mataur village and along SBI Colony in Phase 10 was started today. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were present on the occasion.Jeeti Sidhu reiterated that there would be no discrimination when it came to development works and there was no shortage of funds for such works.Among others present on the occasion were senior Congress leader Pardeep Soni.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mayor-launches-rs-35l-works-in-mataur-phase-10-342786
26-11-2021||---||Chandigarh BJP to invite residents' suggestions, starts drive||Chandigarh, November 25To ensure involvement of residents in making the city “the most loving place in India”, the BJP today launched “Mera Chandigarh Mera Suggestion” campaign.In a media interaction at the city BJP office, Kamalam, MP Kirron Kher launched the campaign virtually.Co-incharge of the city MC elections and MP Indu Bala Goswami, along with city BJP president Arun Sood, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, former president of city BJP Sanjay Tandon, former MP Satya Pal Jain and spokesperson Kailash Chand Jain were among those present.Sood said, “Through this programme, we will try to establish a direct communication with the residents. The city residents will be invited and encouraged to share their suggestions/aspirations with the BJP, on the basis of which the party will prepare a vision document, Sankalp Patra, for the MC elections.”A total of 200 suggestion boxes will be placed at different places in the city. Besides, there will be a phone number on which residents can give a missed call following which a BJP representative will call back to take suggestions.Kirron said she might not be able to attend Chandigarh personally due to her illness and as per doctors’ advice, but she was virtually connected with every activity in the city. “I wish to make Chandigarh a world-class city and for this purpose, participation of public is really important. So, this campaign has been started today,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-to-invite-residents-suggestions-starts-drive-342787
26-11-2021||---||Traffic diversion triggers snarls on roads towards Zirakpur||Chandigarh, November 25Traffic snarls were witnessed on roads towards Zirakpur due to the diversion for medium and heavy motor vehicles made at the Hallo Majra light point here.The traffic has been diverted in view of the construction work on an underpass near the Zirakpur barrier.The diversion led to serpentine queues of vehicles on Dakshin Marg.A police official said commuters moving towards Zirakpur should take alternative routes, including from Tribune Chowk towards the Transport Light point (Madhya Marg) road and further towards the Housing Board light point or the road from Tribune Chowk towards the Faidan barrier (Sector 47/48) light point and further to the road leading to Phase 11, Mohali, and then towards the Airport road, to go towards Zirakpur/Ambala/ Patiala /Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-diversion-triggers-snarls-342788
26-11-2021||---||Chandigarh MC puts on notice 82 safai karamcharis found absent||Chandigarh, November 25In the wake of the poor Swachhta rankings, the Municipal Corporation today issued show-cause notices to 82 safai karamcharis for being absent from duty.Earlier, Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, MC, had warned chief sanitary inspectors and sanitary inspectors to remain in the field during the morning shift (7 am) and the afternoon shift (3 pm), and ensure proper attendance of safai karamacharis, besides proper cleaning of their respective areas.The Commissioner directed them to submit a daily report of the absent employees and a pictorial report of the cleaning work in their respective area.During the attendance today, 95 safai karamacharis, including eight regular, 14 daily wagers and 60 from outsourced firms, were found absent. Of them, 82 were put on notice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/found-absent-82-safai-karamcharis-put-on-notice-342789
26-11-2021||---||Waste management: Panel issues notice to 4 housing societies in Chandigarh for violating rules||Chandigarh, November 25The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) today served notice to four housing societies for non-compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.The notices have been issued to BSNL Society, Sector 50, Progressive Society, Sector 50, Pushpak Society, Sector 49, and Kendriya Vihar Society, Sector 48, under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.During a Swachh Survekshan review meeting yesterday, UT Adviser Dharm Pal had directed the Member Secretary, CPCC, to issue notices to these societies besides putting up display signs of the ‘Non-compliance society’ outside their premises.The duties of waste generators specified in rule 4 of the Solid Waste Management Rules are not being complied with properly, resulting in improper disposal of municipal solid waste by the societies, observed Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, CPCC, in the notices issued to the societies.The four societies have been directed to comply with the said rules and intimate the action taken in this regard to the committee with a copy to the Municipal Corporation within seven days of issuance of the notice. In case of failure in complying with the said rules, action under Section 15 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and the other action as per law shall be initiated against the societies.According to the rules, all gated communities and institutions with more than 5,000 sq m area shall, within a year from the date of notification of the Solid Waste Management Rules and in partnership with the local body, ensure segregation of waste (wet, dry, domestic hazardous and sanitary waste) at source by the generators, facilitate collection of segregated waste in separate streams, hand over recyclable material to either the authorised waste pickers or the authorised recyclers.The bio-degradable waste (wet waste) shall be processed, treated and disposed of through composting or bio-methanation within the premises as far as possible. The residual waste (dry, domestic hazardous and sanitary waste) shall be given to the waste collectors or agency as directed by the local body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-management-panel-issues-notice-to-4-housing-societies-in-chandigarh-for-violating-rules-342790
26-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC  elections: Promised Sector 30 community centre's renovation still incomplete||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25Though some new projects came up in ward number 18, the promise of renovating the dilapidated community centre in Sector 30 is yet to be fulfilled.The work is on, but the residents rue that it could not be done in five years. On the other hand, the Sector 27 community centre got renovated in this term. Gyms are being run from the community centres in Sector 27 and 28. Notably, gyms at the most community centres in the city are lying locked.The work on the Sector 30 community centre got delayed due to Covid and is on the verge of completion now. Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillorLeader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla is the Congress councillor from this ward.BJP’s Saurabh Joshi, an advocate, who had unsuccessfully contested from this ward, said, “The councillor had promised to get the community centre in Sector 30 renovated, but it did not happen. Besides, government quarters in Sector 27 and 28 are awaiting repairs, but to no avail.”Babla said, “The work on the Sector 30 community centre got delayed due to Covid and is on the verge of completion now. I got renovation and maintenance work done in government quarters, but the problem is the UT Administration uses substandard material which don’t last even six months. Their work should be handed over to the MC so that we can keep a check.”Besides, ward residents lamented that dug up roads were not restored and garbage points not cleared.Residents said private telecommunications laying cables dug up roads at several areas. The MC does not fill these pits for a long time, causing inconvenience to residents.“Unskilled labourers dig roads without any drawing or in the presence of technical supervisor of the cable company or an MC official. Pits are not filled with sand which is mandatory. Pits remain uncovered for 15 to 20 days,” rued RK Garg, a Sector 27 resident and president of a senior citizens’ body.Sector 27 residents also said horticulture waste was not lifted for many days.Dhian Singh, general secretary, Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 28, said, “Roads have been dug up in different parts of our sector. There should be a specified time for laying cables after digging and restoration work. It should be displayed at the work site.”In Sector 28, residents are also facing stray dog and monkey menace.Namrata Sharma, a Sector 30-B resident, lamented, “In our area, sanitation is the biggest issue. Waste and leftover material are not lifted after some function is organised at the park in front of our house. Also, garbage collectors do a shoddy work, littering roads.”On his part, the Congress leader said, “I have got the road restoration work hastened.” On stray dogs and monkey menace, he said, “Whenever we took action, the PFA started troubling us and does not let us help people.”Devinder Singh BablaCongress councillor from ward number 18Area: Sector 27, 28 and 30Promises: Overall improvement of the wardResult: Partly keptWard development fund: UtilisedAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-elections-promised-sector-30-community-centres-renovation-still-incomplete-342791
26-11-2021||---||Anganwadi workers to end protest||Panchkula, November 25Anganwadi workers have decided to give up their agitation after “fruitful talks” with Minister of State for Women and Child Development Kamlesh Dhanda at the Haryana Secretariat in Chandigarh on their long-pending demands.Kunj Bhatt, president of Anganwadi Workers and Helpers’ Union, Haryana, said, “Our few demands have been agreed upon and remaining are under consideration. Hence, we will give up our current agitation after final talks tomorrow,” she said.Yesterday, over 1,000 anganwadi workers had staged a massive protest against the government. The protesters began their march from Sector 5 around noon in an attempt to enter Chandigarh to reach the Chief Minister’s residence. They were stopped midway on the road separating Sector 7 and 8, but eventually succeeded in reaching near the Housing Board light point around 2 pm. They remained there till 10 pm.The protesters alleged that they were forced to stage the massive protest as their demands fell on deaf ears of the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government.Meanwhile, the local police have booked seven anganwadi workers’ union leaders for obstructing the traffic on the Panchkula-Chandigarh road for nine hours while staging a protest for their long-pending demands like better salaries, working conditions and facilities like insurance.A case has been registered against Kunj Bhatt, Raj Bala, Anupama, Usha Rani, Murti, Bimla Rathi and Manpreet under Section 283 (causing danger, obstruction or, injury in any public way or line of navigation) of the IPC at the Sector 14 police station.Case against protesting vocational teachersThe police have booked vocational teachers, who have been camping at the ‘Dharna Sthal’ in Sector 5 since October, for staging a protest outside the Shikhsha Sadan in Sector 5 yesterday and closing its all three gates.According to the FIR, the protest left the employees stranded and caused traffic jam on the road.A case was registered against unidentified teachers under Sections 283 (causing danger, obstruction or, injury in any public way or line of navigation) and 342 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anganwadi-workers-to-end-protest-342792
26-11-2021||---||Protesting teachers try to enter Chandigarh, face khaki wrath||Mohali, November 25Hundreds of computer teachers, who have been protesting for long in Mohali, faced water cannons and lathi charge on the Chandigarh-Mohali border here today.The protesting teachers were trying to cross over to Chandigarh to gherao the residence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. They crossed the YPS roundabout to enter the UT, but were stopped by the Chandigarh Police. The police resorted to mild lathicharge and used water cannons to stop the protesting teachers from entering the UT.The protesters sat in the middle of the road. Some teachers fainted as they could not face the water pressure.Gurvinder Singh, president, Computer Teachers’ Union, Punjab, said they were struggling for a long time for merging their posts with the Education Department. He said instead of fulfilling their demands, the state government and the bureaucracy were exploiting the computer teachers. He claimed that the Punjab Civil Service Rules mentioned in the appointment letters of computer teachers were not being applied to them. In addition, teachers were deprived of various facilities such as interim relief, medical leave and GPF.He said about 70 computers teachers had died and their families continue to face hardship as the dependents of the deceased employees had not been provided jobs on compassionate grounds. The teachers’ leader said the government had been holding meetings with the teachers but did not fulfil their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-teachers-try-to-enter-chandigarh-face-khaki-wrath-342793
26-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||DC office staff on strike in Fatehgarh Sahib||Employees working in the Deputy Commissioner Office today went on two-day strike to protest against the highhandedness of Vigilance Department with Naib Tehsildar and registry clerk in Hoshiarpur. All the official work came to a halt. The people visiting offices for their works had to face difficulties and return back for no fault on their part.Satnam Bhardwaj, district chairman of the union, condemned the action of Vigilance officials against the Naib Tehsildar, registry clerk and SDM office employees of Hoshiarpur. He said the Vigilance Department registered a case against Naib Tehsildar without any investigation or questioning anyone. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dc-office-staff-on-strike-in-fatehgarh-sahib-342794
26-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||2 test +ve for Covid in Fatehgarh Sahib||Two Covid positive cases were reported today taking the tally of patients to 8,901 in Fatehgarh Sahib district. The Civil Surgeon said now 14 cases were active in the district and they all were in home isolation, whereas 8,551 patients had recovered and 336 died after contracting disease. Samples of 631 people were collected today, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-test-ve-for-covid-in-fatehgarh-sahib-342795
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Over 150 VCs to attend north zone AIU meet||Over 150 Vice-Chancellors (VCs) of various universities from the north zone will attend a two-day conference, starting on November 26, to deliberate upon sustainable development goals through higher education institutions for ensuring equality and sustainable society.While 50 VCs have confirmed physical participation, others would be joining the conference online. Col (Dr) G Thiruvasagam, president, Association of Indian Universities (AIU), and Vice-Chancellor, AMET University, Chennai, and Dr Pankaj Mittal, secretary general, AIU, said the meeting would be held both in the offline and online mode. They said the agenda of the meeting was part of the United Nations charter for implementation of four sustainable development goals (SDGs). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-150-vcs-to-attend-north-zone-aiu-meet-342796
26-11-2021||---||PUTA delegation meets Punjab Finance Minister||Chandigarh, November 25A delegation of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) comprising Prof Ronki Ram, Prof Navdeep Goyal, Prof Keshav Malhotra, Dr Mritunjay Kumar, president, PUTA, and Prof AS Naura, secretary, PUTA, met Manpreet Singh Badal, Minister of Finance, Punjab, in Bathinda.The delegation apprised Badal of undue delay in adoption of the UGC pay scales as per the Seventh Pay Commission. After a detailed discussion on the matter, Badal assured to revise UGC scales as per the Sevent Pay Commission soon.Badal also said he would have a meeting with officials concerned on November 30 to complete the process for the notification of the adoption of the pay scales.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-delegation-meets-punjab-finance-minister-342797
26-11-2021||Mohali||Trees on shamlat land in Lalru axed illegally: Dera Bassi MLA||Flouting rules of the Forest Department, trees are being illegally cut on 100 acres of forest like shamlat land falling under the Lalru Municipal Council (MC) in Dera Bassi subdivision. The MC in order to benefit near and dear ones had sold these trees worth several lakhs for just Rs2.25 lakh.This was stated by Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma after visiting the area. During his visit he saw that many large trees with a diameter of about two-and-a-half feet were being cut, he added. Around 40 to 50 people were engaged for cutting trees, he said. This whole business was going on without the approval of the Forest Department, he added. As per the rules a written assessment was to be prepared by the department before giving permission for cutting trees on the shamlat land, he said. After this, an advertisement for auctioning of trees was to be issued, he added.Sharma alleged that Congress leaders had sold trees worth crores at the behest of the Assembly in-charge by showing a fake bid of Rs2.25 lakh. A complaint would be filed with the Mohali DC, SSP and the Forest Department regarding this matter, he said.Bindu Rana, president, Nagar Council, said, “The shamlat land has been cleared of standing ‘kikar’ trees and reeds (sarkanda) so that space could be allotted to 267 homeless persons. Steps have been initiated as per the rules.”Jai Singh, Block Officer, Forest Department, Dera Bassi, said the matter regarding seeking clearance for the said trees was not in his notice. ADC (Urban Development) has directed Lalru MC Executive Officer to submit report regarding cutting of trees instead of reed (Sarkanda) by tomorrow. Besides directing the EO to stop cutting of trees, the ADC said if he failed to submit reply by 10.30 am tomorrow then disciplinary action would be taken against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trees-on-shamlat-land-in-lalru-axed-illegally-dera-bassi-mla-342798
26-11-2021||---||Initiative to provide career guidance to school students launched in Ambala||Ambala, November 25The district administration of Ambala has come out with an initiative for Class XI and XII students of government schools to help them in selecting career.Continuing with this endeavour a seminar was organised for students of Ambala Block II and Saha, who want to join the Army and Air Force, at SD College, Ambala Cantonment.On the occasion, Col Gagan Katyal, Col Gopal Chand Lohani, Lt Col Varun Vashistha, Major Shaishta, and Captain Pooja guided students and made them aware about rules and education required for officers and soldiers in the armed forces.Lance Naik Himanshi Rajavat and Lance Naik Sandhya Shukla shared their experiences with students.The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Ambala, Vikram Singh, said, “In order to give the required exposure and opportunities to students of government schools we have decided to provide career guidance and counselling. In this process, students are being asked about career options and then interactive sessions are being organised with officials concerned to provide guidance to them.”“One such seminar was held today in which Army and Air Force officials addressed students. Students were informed about how they can join the Army. Officials answered queries of students and provided valuable information to them,” the DC added.While addressing students, the DC said, “We have to study regularly and hard to join the Army. Keep aim high and also keep in mind that our documents are always ready. Sometimes we fail to apply for a course or job due to non-completion of documents.”The DC also motivated participants to share information gathered at the seminar with other students.“Detailed information given at the seminar will also be made available in schools so that students are well informed about the career they want to choose. Students, who aspire to join banking, are being guided by bank officials in their respective schools. Similar sessions will be organised for students, who wish to join other fields,” the DC added.“To provide guidance to students, career guidance books are available in libraries of all 93 government senior secondary schools in the district. A career book containing necessary information, including career options, streams, websites, colleges and universities has also been provided. If more books are required, students can inform the district education officer through their respective school principals, and books will be provided to them,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/initiative-to-provide-career-guidance-to-school-students-launched-in-ambala-342799
26-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Three get life term in 5-year-old murder case of Ram Darbar resident||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25Additional Sessions Judge Jaibir Singh has sentenced three persons, including Deepak, alias Discovery, Srikant and Amit, alias Chhutka, to undergo life imprisonment in a five-year-old murder case. The court has acquitted another accused Rinku in the case.One juvenile in conflict with the law was also sentenced to undergo 10 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) in the case while another juvenile was acquitted in the case .The police arrested all accused in the case after registering an FIR against them on September 25, 2016, for offences committed under Section 395 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the police station, Sector 31, on the complaint of Deep Singh, a resident of Ram Darbar, Chandigarh. Deep alleged in his complaint that he, along with his father, were coming from Sector 21 market on a cycle on September 25, 2016. When they reached near Raman Gas Agency, Industrial Area, Phase II,Chandigarh, at 7.30 pm, Discovery and three or four other boys armed with weapons stopped them. They attacked his father Sita Ram with swords and rods, Deep added. All assailants fled from the spot after committing the crime, said Deep. Injured Sita Ram succumbed to injuries on September 26, 2016, Deep added.The police filed a challan against the accused. After perusal of challan and other documents a prima facie case for the commission of offence under Sections 395 and 302, IPC, was registered against accused for which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. After examination of many witnesses the public prosecutor claimed that the prosecution had proved charges against the accused. On the other hand the counsels of the accused claimed that they were implicated in a false case.Jasbir Singh Dadwal, counsel of accused Rinku argued that no recovery was made from his client and the police implicated him six months after registration of the case.After hearing arguments the court sentenced accused Deepak, alias Discovery, Srikant and Amit, alias Chhutka, to undergo life imprisonment and acquitted Rinku from charges. The court also imposed a fine of Rs25, 000 each on the convicts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-get-life-term-in-5-year-old-murder-case-342800
26-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Admission to entry-level classes in Chandigarh: Online or offline draw of lots? ISA to take decision next week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25Though a handful of schools have already announced schedules for admissions to entry-level classes, the Independent Schools Association (ISA), Chandigarh, will discuss whether to hold the draw of lots online or physically in presence of parents, at a meeting scheduled next week.The annual exercise of admission to entry-level classes, which is one of the testing times for parents, is scheduled to start from next month. However, it is yet not clear if the process will be completed online like last year due to the Covid pandemic or by physically holding the draw of lots in a traditional manner on the premises of respective schools.“We have yet to decide the process. The managements of various schools will meet somewhere around next week and take a final call on the admission process,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA.“The UT Education Department is already late in releasing the admission schedule. In such a scenario, we have to take a final call considering our number of staff, examination schedules, dates of admission and other important things. At our meeting, we will try to take up the matter with the Education Department as soon as possible,” said a senior official.Meanwhile, parents are eagerly waiting for official notification for getting their wards admitted to entry-level classes. “December is on the verge. Related departments should release a proper admission schedule. It will be a relief for parents,” said Esha, a parent.Sources claimed that the process (draw of lots) is likely to be held online like the last year. “The UT Education Department and private schools are likely to hold a draw of lots online just like last year. Not only Covid-related cases, but viral fever cases are also on the rise. Besides, the process of online draw of lots needs less manpower and is easily manageable considering last year’s experience,” said a member of the teaching staff.During the Pre-Covid times, parents used to download admission forms online and submit it at the registration counter of the respective school. The schools used to select eligible candidates and a draw of lots was held wherein volunteers were asked to pick a registration number slip from a box.However, during the pandemic, the UT Education Department issued a common admission schedule. Majority of schools accepted forms and fee online, wherein parents uploaded scanned copies of requisite documents.Last year’s common admission schedule||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-or-offline-draw-of-lots-isa-to-take-decision-next-week-342801
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Youth arrested with pistol in Chandigarh||Rs 40K, jewellery stolen in cityChandigarh: A theft was reported from a house at Makhan Majra. Complainant Amir Khan stated that unknown persons stole Rs40,000 and jewellery from his house on November 19. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSVipin selcted for World Para meetChandigarh: Vipin Singh, who is working as junior technician in the UT Engineering Department, has been selected to play in the 9th World Para Taekwondo Championship to be held in Istanbul from December 11-12. Singh was on Thursday awarded a letter of apperception by Ravindra Talwar, CEO, Chandigarh Olympic Association. TNSAnanya for Youth Para GamesChandigarh: Ananya will participate in the 3rd Asian Youth Para Games scheduled to be held in Bahrain from December 2-6. Ananya will represent the country in shot put. “She is the only para athlete in India to compete in F-20 category. She has also been selected for the Khelo India scheme as one of the medal prospectus for the 2024 Paralympics. However, she is yet to get any recognition from her state of Punjab,” said Ananya's father Sandeep Kamal. TNSBCCI to conduct course for UTCAChandigarh: The National Cricket Academy teaching faculty will conduct a hybrid level-1 coaches certification course for the UTCA, Chandigarh, from December 6-11. The teaching faculty will include NCA's head, education, Sujith Somasundar, Rajib Dutta, Apoorva Desai, R Muralidhar and K Jeswanth. TNSVolleyball trials tomorrowChandigarh: Chandigarh Volleyball Association will on Saturday conduct trials to select junior boys’ and girls’ teams for the 47th Junior National Volleyball Championship, scheduled to be held at Burdwan, West Bengal, from December 24-30. The trials will be held at the Sector 7 Sports Complex. Players born on or after January 1, 2003 will be eligible to participate in the championship. The sports body will also organise the State Junior Championship from December 11-12. The association, meanwhile, felicitated Harshit Giri, who represented India in the U-19 World Championship at Tehran. TNSACB league from tomorrowChandigarh: The Alumni Cricket Bash (ACB) will be organised from November 27-28 at the IVCA grounds. Alumni from Doon School, Mayo College, Daly College and Scindia School will feature in the tournament. The tournament is being hosted by the Scindia School Old Boys Association. Each team will have two players of above 50 years, four below 30 years and five between 30-50 years of age. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-with-pistol-in-chandigarh-342802
26-11-2021||Panchkula||Kalka man loses Rs 4.35 lakh to cyber fraudsters||A Kalka man lost Rs 4.35 lakh from his bank account to cyber fraudsters. The victim, Abhishek Singh (30), a resident of Housing Board Colony, Kalka, told the police that while checking the account statement on November 16, it came to his notice that that an unauthorised transaction of Rs4.35 lakh had been made from his savings account in the Union Bank of India.“I didn’t receive any SMS from the bank for the debit transactions. All transactions were done through UPI and it reflected in my bank statement that the debited amount went to ICICI Bank accounts,” Singh mentioned in his complaint. A case was registered under Section 420 of the IPC at the Kalka police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-man-loses-rs-4-35l-to-cyber-fraudsters-342803
26-11-2021||---||Man nailed for posing as excise employee||Chandigarh, November 25A Zirakpur resident has been arrested for allegedly posing as an employee of the Excise and Taxation Department.According to a complainant lodged with the police, Kamal Gupta, who owns a shop at Burail, reported that a Parkash Puri (66), a resident of Zirakpur, visited his shop on November 24 and introduced himself as an excise employee. The suspect asked him to show the bill of the goods at the shop.The complainant alleged that the suspect had also visited his shop around a year ago and had taken Rs5,000 from him. The police were informed following which a cheating case was registered at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-nailed-for-posing-as-excise-employee-342804
26-11-2021||---||Railway panel inspects Kalka, Chandimandir stations||Chandigarh, November 25Members of the Passenger Services Committee, headed by Ramesh Chandra Rattan, chairman, visited the Kalka and Chandimandir railway stations today and inspected the passenger services.The committee announced a reward of Rs10,000 for cleanliness and housekeeping services at the Kalka station and a reward of Rs5,000 for cleanliness at the Chandimandir station.The committee has been nominated by the Railway Board.The committee inspected passenger amenities at the Kalka and Chandimandir stations, including catering stalls, retiring rooms, dormitory and passenger waiting halls. The overall cleanliness at both stations was appreciated by the members.The committee also interacted with passengers regarding cleanliness, housekeeping and other services being provided at the stations.Karan Singh, Additional Divisional Railway Manager (Infra), Ambala Division, accompanied the committee members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railway-panel-inspects-kalka-chandimandir-stations-342805
26-11-2021||---||Constitution Day: Be alive to your civic duties, says Banwarilal Purohit||Chandigarh, November 25The nation will celebrate Constitution Day on November 26 to commemorate the adoption of the Constitution by the Constituent Assembly in 1949.“On this occasion, I would like to pay tributes to Baba Sahib Bhim Rao Ambedkar and all great men and women who worked tirelessly, directly or indirectly, to bequeath this most important legacy to us,” said UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit in a message to the public.“On this occasion, I would also like to make an appeal to the people of the city to be alive to your civic duties; to the need to maintain cleanliness in the City Beautiful. Help the Administration to make the City Beautiful the ‘Most Beautiful City’,” he said.The beauty of our Constitution lies in its flexibility and scope for interpretation, which makes it responsive to the need of the times and is enriched by the experience of the decades, he stated. The Constitution is a lodestar for the socio-economic transformation of an India whose civilization has celebrated pluralism, advocated tolerance and promoted goodwill between diverse communities. These values, however, need to be preserved with utmost care and vigilance.“Our founding fathers pulled together India’s remarkable diversity to build national unity, which has brought us so far. The Constitution represented a second liberation, this time from the stranglehold of traditional inequity in gender, caste, community, along with other fetters that had chained us for long,” he said.“Over seven decades since Independence and adoption of the Constitution, we have remained steadfast in our commitment to democracy, yet, we must be conscious of the fact that our democracy requires constant nurturing. At no cost should we allow the exploitation of the fault lines,” he said“Let us strive for rapid progress, but even as we do so, ensure that the benefits of economic progress percolate down to the poorest of the poor and those living in the farthest corners of our country. Let us make the poorest in our land a part of the story of a rising India. Let us embrace education, skill development and innovation, which will enable us catapult India into the future and build a knowledge economy,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/constitution-day-be-alive-to-your-civic-duties-says-banwarilal-purohit-342806
26-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||SDG Urban Index: Chandigarh fails to match Shimla, Coimbatore on 9 counts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25In spite of leading in clean water and sanitation and four other parameters, Chandigarh failed to maintain pace with Shimla and Coimbatore in the first Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Urban India Index.With a composite score of 72.36, the UT stood at the third position in Niti Aayog’s first SDG Urban India Index and Dashboard (2021-22).Shimla, with a composite score of 75.50 points, topped the index and Coimbatore got the second position with 73.29 points.According to reports, Chandigarh fared better than Shimla and Coimbatore in clean water and sanitation segment with 87, 72 and 67 points, respectively. The UT also scored over Shimla and Coimbatore on four other parameters, including gender equality, clean water and sanitation, reduced inequalities and sustainable cities and communities. In the quality education segment, with 88 points, the UT was just two points behind Coimbatore, but progressed against Shimla, which got 69 points. However, the city lagged behind on nine of the 14 parameters, including no poverty, zero hunger, good health and well being, affordable and clean energy, decent work and economic growth, industry, innovation and infrastructure, sustainable consumption and production, climate action and peace, justice and strong institutions.The UT’s best performance was recorded in sustainable cities and communities segment. With 90 points, the city was far ahead of Shimla and Coimbatore (with 64 and 73 points, respectively). However, the UT lagged behind Shimla and Coimbatore in sustainable consumption and production. The Queen of Hills got the perfect 100 points and Coimbatore scored 91 points, whereas the UT got 74 points. Shimla maintained its progress and achieved 100 points in climate action segment, but on the other hand, both Coimbatore and Chandigarh scored similar 67 points.According to reports, the SDG Urban Index and Dashboard ranks 56 urban areas based on 77 SDG indicators across 46 targets of the SDG framework. Of the 56, 44 urban areas have a population above one million and 12 are state capitals with a population of less than a million. The urban areas are ranked on a scale of 0-100 for each SDG and a score of 100 implies that the urban area has achieved the targets set for 2030.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sdg-urban-index-chandigarh-fails-to-match-shimla-coimbatore-on-9-counts-342807
26-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Watch out! Chandigarh sees 50% rise in cases of Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25The city has started to show a minor surge in cases of Covid-19 with a 50 per cent rise recorded this week.Against 18 cases of Covid recorded last week, the city has logged 36 cases now despite a decline in testing this week. This rising trend has worried experts as the seven-month-long break from Covid may begin to fade out.It is after a long time that the city has witnessed a high number of single-day cases. It is indeed a serious situation given the scenario where people are not seen following the Covid protocol. If this continues, the cases will rise sporadically and there will be yet another wave. I would like to appeal to people to stay careful and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Dr Suman Singh, DHS, ChandigarhToday, the city saw nine new cases of Covid-19.The positivity rate has increased to 0.4 per cent, while it was 0.2 per cent last week. The city conducted 8,626 tests this week against 8,926 tests from November 11 to 18. Kerala-based data scientist Rijo M John said, “It is a significant jump from its own baseline. This is quite a worrisome trend as the city is seeing a rise in cases despite a decline in testing and that is indicative of an increasing test positivity and evidence of more missing cases. It is high time the authorities significantly increased testing as the cases have begun to rise steadily over the past several days.”Expressing concern over the declining weekly testing rate and a spike in the positivity rate in some districts, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Wednesday wrote to 13 states and union territories to maintain high testing rates. Punjab is one of the states that has been asked to prevent a surge.The seven-day active cases growth of the city is above the national average. As on November 23, the city growth rate stood at 2.09 per cent, while the national growth rate was only – 1.53 per cent.The Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, Dr Suman Singh, said, “It is after a long time that the city has witnessed a high number of single-day cases. It is indeed a serious situation given the scenario where people are not seen following the Covid protocol. If this continues, the cases will rise sporadically and there will be yet another wave. I would like to appeal to people to stay careful and start practising Covid-appropriate behaviour.”No. of casesNov 25 9Nov 24 6Nov 23 5Nov 23 4Nov 21 6P’kula reports 4 fresh Covid casesPanchkula: The district recorded four fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,819. The toll remained at 379. While 30,409 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 31 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.66 per cent. TNSFive fresh cases surface in Mohali Mohali: Five fresh cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,928. No fresh death was reported. Among the new cases, one each came from Dera Bassi and Mohali, while three surfaced in Dhakoli. Of the 68,928 positive cases reported so far, 67,814 patients have been cured. There are now 43 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,071. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-out-chandigarh-sees-50-rise-in-cases-of-covid-19-342808
