27-11-2021||---||Carrying a petrol bottle, unemployed Punjab teacher climbs atop mobile phone tower in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 27An unemployed elementary teacher climbed atop a mobile phone tower near the MLA hostel in Sector 4 here on Saturday.The Punjab teacher is carrying a bottle of petrol.A heavy police force and fire tenders have reached the spot.Police officials said the protesting teacher climbed atop the tower around 4 am today. Fire officials tried to persuade him to come down but he did not pay heed.Meanwhile, SAD leaders, led by Sukhbir Singh Badal, Bikram Majithia and Jagir Kaur, who were on their way to the Punjab CM's residence during a protest march, appealed to the teacher to come down as they talked with Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh to resolve the matter.Sources said the protesting teacher claimed that his salary, along with that of 180 of his colleagues, was cut down to Rs 25,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carrying-a-petrol-bottle-unemployed%C2%A0punjab-teacher-climbs-atop-a-mobile-phone-tower-in-chandigarhs-sector-4-343422
27-11-2021||Mohali||Cemetery handed over to  community||Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu today handed over the keys of a cemetery to the Muslim community at Balongi village after the completion of necessary works. Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi was also present.Sidhu said it was a long-standing demand of the Muslim community. Land for the cemetery was given by MLA and former minister Balbib Singh Sidhu. The Mayor assured the leaders of the Muslim community that other needs of the community would also be met. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cemetery-handed-over-to-community-343163
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Governor releases 'India at 75'||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit released a book titled “India at 75” edited by Dr Amneet Gill, who teaches in the department of evening studies, Panjab University.This is her third book. It forms a part of the Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav celebrations and presents eight themes offering insights into significant aspects related to India. The diversity of themes examined include chronicling the various facets of the Indian National Movement, analysing the post-Independence achievements of the nation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-governor-releases-india-at-75-343164
27-11-2021||---||Jahanvi Bakshi wins Pro Golf Tour title||Chandigarh, November 26Jahanvi Bakshi completed a superb back-to-back win as she rallied from a one-shot deficit to register her fourth success in 2021 by taking the 13th leg of the Women’s Pro Golf Tour at the Boulder Hills Golf and Country Club in Hyderabad.Seher Atwal, who shared the overnight lead with Panchkula’s golfer Amandeep Drall, needed a birdie on the 18th to get into a playoff with Jahanvi, but she managed only a par as Jahanvi, who finished a group earlier, emerged the winner.Meanwhile, Vani Kapoor, playing alongside Jahanvi, had a chance to join the latter, but instead, she bogeyed the par-5 18th and fell one behind.Jahanvi (69) totalled 7-under 209 while Seher (71) was 6-under 210. Vani Kapoor (70) and Amandeep Drall (72) were tied third on the final day, which began with the promise of a thriller but in the end, Jahanvi, despite her young age, kept her nerves and registered a memorable win.Pranavi Urs shot 70 and was sole fifth while Jahanvi’s sister Hitaashee (73), who was level with her, had two bogeys on the back nine. That cost her a lot and she ended sixth.Jahanvi, who began the week with an even par 72, had a 68 on the second day. In the final round, she birdied fifth and seventh, both of which were par-5s and turned in 2-under. On the back nine, she dropped a shot on par-5 14th but made up on the next with a birdie on 15th. She parred the last three holes, including the 18th.Seher, with a bogey on the second, dropped back but with birdies on fourth and ninth, turned in 1-under. On the back nine, she bogeyed 12th but picked a shot on 14th. Needing a birdie on the challenging 18th, which did not yield a single birdie on the final day, Seher managed only a par and finished one shot behind Jahanvi.Saaniya Sharma (74) was sole seventh while Asmitha Sathish (73) and Khushi Khanijau (77) were tied-8th. Rhea P Saravanan (74) completed the top-10.Vani Kapoor bogeyed the second and 18th and had four birdies in her 70 while top contender Amandeep Drall began bogey-bogey to fall out of the lead. She picked a birdie on the third but dropped a shot on 13th before she had two more birdies on 14th and 15th. But it still left her two short of Jahanvi as Amandeep finished tied-third.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jahanvi-bakshi-wins-pro-golf-tour-title-343165
27-11-2021||---||Mohali Municipal Corporation celebrates Constitution Day||Mohali, November 26Constitution Day was celebrated at the meeting hall of the Municipal Corporation in Sector 68 in which, the Commissioner and employees took part.Addressing the employees, Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said. “We, the people of India, should make a solemn promise to make India a fully sovereign socialist secular democratic republic so that social and economic justice can be enjoyed by all. We should take care of our surroundings with full dedication so that we can provide a clean and pollution-free environment to society.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-celebrates-constitution-day-343166
27-11-2021||---||Mohali residents seek extension of Shatabdi||Mohali, November 26Residents of the city today demanded that the Shatabdi Express be extended up to Mohali so that passengers from the international airport could use the same to reach their destination in the neighbouring cities as well as states.The Mohali BJP unit, led by Sanjeev Vashisht, met the Chairman, Passenger Services Committee (PSC) (Railway Board), Ministry of Railways, Ramesh Chandra Ratna, who was in the city to inspect the services being provided to the people at the local railway station.Vashisht said the Shatabdi Express train should originate and culminate at Mohali. He also demanded that the Amritsar-Lal Kuan Express must be extended to Haldwani as thousands of migrant labourers working in various industrial units in the district could benefit from the same. He said many businessmen also go for work to Haldwani not only from Mohali but also from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, and other nearby places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-residents-seek-extension-of-shatabdi-343167
27-11-2021||---||Constitution Day: Banwarilal Purohit administers pledge to Chandigarh staff||Chandigarh, November 26To reinforce the significance of the Constitution of India, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today administered to the staff a pledge to live by the principles laid down in the Preamble.Commemorating the adoption of the Constitution of India, Purohit said, “There are some days and occasions that strengthen our relationship with the past and inspire us to work towards a better future; Constitution Day is one such historic day. Our Constitution is the quintessential achievement of a global democracy. It not only makes us aware of rights but also makes us aware of our duties.“We should take an opportunity today to ponder over our actions and check that we as an individual, as a family, as a society, are serious about our duties as expected from us,” said the Administrator.Exhorting the staff, he said that focus on duties was their best endeavour towards strengthening the Constitution values. “Let us uphold the ideals of our Constitution and strengthen our commitment to contribute to nation-building,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/constitution-day-banwarilal-purohit-administers-pledge-to-chandigarh-staff-343168
27-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation chargesheets XEN, SDE over 'illegal' road||Chandigarh, November 26The Municipal Corporation (MC) today issued a chargesheet against an Executive Engineer (XEN), Sub-Divisional Engineer (SDE) and initiated legal action against a former junior engineer (JE) for illegally constructing a road on private land at Faidan Nizampur village with the government machinery and funds.The chargsheets were issued against XEN (Roads-1) Ajay Garg and SDE (B&R) Jagdeep and legal action was initiated against JE Amrik (retired) by the orders of MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra this morning.After conducting an inquiry into the matter, a report was submitted to the Commissioner in which the rules to use Ward Development Fund (WDF), including guidelines for selection and execution of WDF scheme framed by the MC, were found to be violated as the land selected for execution of works should be necessarily be corporation land.According to the report of the Patwari Revenue, the Kanungo and the Patwari of the MC, the ownership of the land in question at Faidan Nizampur village has been found to be private as per the revenue record and does not belong to the government or the MC, Chandigarh.The Commissioner has ordered chargesheets under major penalties be issued against the engineers responsible for the construction of the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-chargesheets-xen-sde-over-illegal-road-343169
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bankers protest privatisation move||Tricity unit of the All-India Bank Officers’ Confederation, the apex organisation of bank officers in the country, held a protest at the Housing Board light point against the government’s move to privatise public sector banks. According to office-bearers, privatising the banks will hurt priority sectors of the economy. The confederation started Bharat Yatra on November 24 from Kolkata against privatisation and similar yatras were simultaneously started in other parts of the country to mobilise public opinion against the move. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bankers-protest-privatisation-move-343170
27-11-2021||---||Chandigarh Traders oppose proposed hike in GST rates||Chandigarh, November 26The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has opposed the proposed increase of GST rates from 5 per cent to 12 per cent on fabrics and readymade garments and footwear up to the value of Rs 1,000.On the invitation of Randhir Singh, newly appointed Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner (AETC), office-bearers of the CBM and presidents of market associations attended a meeting in the office of the Excise and Taxation Department.Randhir appealed to the CBM to spread awareness among shopkeepers to issue bills for every sale so that revenue of the department could increase further.Ram Karan Gupta, chairman, GST Coordination Committee, and Baljinder Gujral, General Secretary, CBM, presented a memorandum to be forwarded to the Union Finance Minister to reconsider the proposed increase in GST from 5 per cent to 12 per cent on fabrics and readymade garments/footwear up to the value of Rs1,000.Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, requested the officer to take up the matter to implement a scheme on the pattern of Punjab’s one-time settlement scheme of outstanding dues for disposal of VAT assessment cases of pre-GST period. “This issue is already under consideration of the UT Administration,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-oppose-proposed-hike-in-gst-rates-343171
27-11-2021||---||Anil Vij lays stone of sewer line project||Ambala, November 26Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij laid the foundation stone of a sewer line project in the Chanderpuri area of Ambala Cantonment this evening. The sewer line will be laid in Chanderpuri and Sundar Nagar areas at a cost of Rs41.33 crore under the AMRUT Scheme.While addressing the gathering, the minister said: “The sewer line will be connected with the Machhonda sewerage treatment plant and the capacity of the plant will be increased to 10 MLD from the present 7 MLD. To provide canal water to both areas (Chanderpuri and Sundar Nagar), an 18-km-long pipeline will also be laid.”The minister said he had directed officials concerned to ensure that local residents don’t face inconvenience during the laying of sewer line.While speaking to mediapersons about the farm agitation, the minister said: “The farmers’ protest is on for the past one year. They (farmer leaders) always demanded that the three farm laws should be repealed and their demand has been fulfilled. They should have thanked the Prime Minister and returned to their respective homes. But the political ambitions of the farmer leaders are not allowing them to end the agitation. They want to keep the agitation to continue on one pretext or the other till the elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anil-vij-lays-stone-of-sewer-line-project-343172
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Erroneous’ sex ratio: Chandigarh Administration to write to Health Ministry||The UT Administration has decided to write to the Union Health Ministry regarding the erroneous sex ratio of Chandigarh reported in the recent National Health Family Survey 5 profile of the UT.As per the birth register data maintained at the Registrar Birth & Death, the sex ratio of Chandigarh in 2021 is 935 females per 1,000 males, whereas 838 females per 1,000 males were born in 2020-21.“Considering altogether different statistics given in the National Family Health Survey 5, the matter is being taken up with the authorities for reconciliation of the data,” said Health Secretary, Yashpal Garg. As per the National Health Profile-2019, the annual health data publication of the Ministry of Health also revealed that Chandigarh had the worst rural sex ratio. The profile stated that Chandigarh also had the second lowest rural sex ratio (690) nationally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/erroneous-sex-ratio-chandigarh-administration-to-write-to-health-ministry-343173
27-11-2021||---||Chandigarh, Mohali railway stations inspected||Chandigarh, November 26The Passenger Services Committee (PSC), nominated by the Railway Board and headed by chairman Ramesh Chandra Ratn, along with other members, inspected Chandigarh and Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali) railway stations today. The members spoke about various issues at the station, including its redevelopment and privatisation of railways, and discussed ways in which passenger services could be improved.Vilayati Saini, SHO, GRP, Chandigarh railway station, suggested a police booth be set up at the entrance to the station from Panchkula. He said: “This will help keep a check on crime at the station as most incidents of snatching and theft are reported from the Panchkula area of the station. I will like to appoint four guards at the booth at all times to ensure public safety.”The members also raised the issue of absence of ATM machines at the station and assured that the machines will soon be installed. ‘Sahayaks’ at the station were also assured of proper accommodation. At the Chandigarh station, the committee members took stock of stalls and suggested that the ‘no bill no payment’ poster be put outside the stalls.The committee announced an award of Rs10,000 for cleanliness and housekeeping services at the Chandigarh railway station and an award of Rs5,000 was also announced for cleanliness at Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar (Mohali) station.PSC chairman gets two magazines removed from stallWhile inspecting the Chandigarh railway station, the chairman asked two magazines to be removed from the multipurpose stall at platform number 1. “These lewd magazines cannot be allowed at the station,” he said. Among these two magazines, one is an English language film and lifestyle magazine and the other is a Hindi language woman’s magazine. Ramesh Chandra Ratn said: “There are several magazines and books, which are provocative for the youth, and this kind of literature, which can’t be read in front of women and children, cannot be displayed.”Redevelopment plans for Chandigarh railway stationThe Rail Land Development Authority of the Ministry of Railways has prepared a proposal regarding the redevelopment of the Chandigarh railway station, said Gian Chand Gupta, speaker of the Haryana Legislative Assembly.Ramesh Chandra Ratn held a meeting with Gian Chand Gupta and assured him that he would take up the redevelopment project on a priority in the next meeting of the committee to be held on November 29. He said the station should be named as Panchkula-Chandigarh railway station.He has also demanded that a 24-hour ticket counter facility should be provided at the railway station towards Panchkula on the lines of Chandigarh. “At present, morning and evening bus service has been started according to the timings of Shatabdi train, but in view of the demand of passengers, arrangements of more buses would be made,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mohali-railway-stations-inspected-343174
27-11-2021||---||Punjab CM lays stones of development projects in Kharar||Mohali, November 26With a view to ensuring overall development of the Kharar area, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today laid foundation stones of a slew of projects worth Rs127.54 crore.In a landmark initiative, he announced to upgrade the status of Gharuan from panchayat to nagar panchayat and revealed that a sub-tehsil would also come up here.The projects whose foundation stones were laid by the CM are a sewerage treatment plant (Rs59.06 crore), a water treatment plant at Kajauli (Rs47.06 crore), beautification of Ajj Sarovar (Rs4.83 crore), Government Model Senior Secondary School at Badali village (Rs13.47 crore) and Pandusar Sarovar (Rs3.14 crore).Earlier addressing the Kharar Municipal Council, the Chief Minister described his visit as a homecoming for him and said Kharar gave him everything and made him what he is today.“I started my political journey from here itself. I know every nook and corner of the city. People of Kharar have showered immense love on me,” said Channi adding that he would forever remain indebted to the people here. He also exhorted the councillors to work diligently and go strict on illegal encroachments.Channi further pointed out that development-oriented projects would transform the face of the region and put it into higher growth trajectory. Describing the water treatment plant at Kajauli as a game changer, the Chief Minister said this would ensure clean drinking water for Morinda and Kharar. He mentioned that the beautification of Ajj Sarovar was his dream ever since he was a councillor. Additional sum of Rs10 crore would be allotted for sprucing up the infrastructure at the holy place.Later addressing the gathering at Government Model Senior Secondary School at Badali village, Channi disclosed that he would give Rs5 crore more for infrastructural mechanism at the school if the village panchayat gives another 3 acres of land for the construction of a stadium apart from 5 acres given earlier on which the school would come up. He also announced a community Centre for the village.The Chief Minister also announced Rs10 crore for laying astroturf at Khalsa school, gave nod to a sports complex at Sunny Enclave, Rs2.50 crore for water supply at Gharuan village and a bus stand for which tender has been allotted. He also announced that a park would be developed near the bus stand where an Army memorial would be constructed.Lauding the Chief Minister for his pro-people and pro-development approach, Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu expressed hope that the region would undergo further development under Channi’s tutelage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-lays-stones-of-development-projects-in-kharar-343175
27-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh starts Rs 50K ex gratia for kin of Covid victims||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26The UT Administration has started giving ex gratia of Rs 50,000 to the kin of those who died due to Covid-19, after the directions of the Apex Court.Disbursement of funds will be done under the District Disaster Management Authority to the next of kin of those who died due to coronavirus. The families concerned will submit their claims through a form issued by the Chandigarh authority along with the specified documents, including the death certificate that certifies the cause of death as “death due to Covid-19.”All claims will be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents and disbursed through Aadhaar-linked Direct Benefit Transfer procedures.It is pertinent to mention here that deaths due to poisoning, suicide, homicide and deaths due to accident will not be considered as Covid deaths even if coronavirus was the accompanying condition.As many as 820 persons have succumbed to Covid-19 in Chandigarh. An official source has informed that already four to five persons have claimed for the compensation and have been awarded the amount in Chandigarh.To help the families of those who died due to Covid, all hospitals concerned where the patient was admitted and provided treatment will provide all necessary documents of treatment to the family member of deceased as and when demanded.The criteriaClaims to be settled within 30 days||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-starts-rs-50k-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-covid-victims-343176
27-11-2021||---||Kishangarh girl raped, pregnant; juvenile held||Chandigarh, November 26A juvenile has been apprehended by the UT police for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl. The victim is eight-week pregnant.The police said the victim had reported of stomach ache following which her parents took her to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where doctors found her pregnant.The hospital authorities informed the police, who visited the hospital and recorded the victim’s statement.The victim, a resident of Kishangarh, revealed that a boy known to her had raped her in September while she was returning home. She got scared and did not reveal the incident to her parents.Acting on the information, DSP (North/East) SPS Sondhi constituted a team following which the suspect was apprehended. A case has been registered at the IT Park police station. The suspect has been sent to a juvenile home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kishangarh-girl-raped-pregnant-juvenile-held-343177
27-11-2021||---||Cops halt teachers' march towards Khattar's house||Panchkula, November 26Vocational teachers, who have been camping at Dharna Sthal in Sector 5 since October 25 over several demands, including better salaries and job security, today once again tried to enter Chandigarh to reach Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence. They were, however, stopped by the police at the Housing Board light point. Subsequently, a delegation of teachers was taken to the CM’s house for a meeting with senior officials in the government.The protesters, who reached the Panchkula-Chandigarh border near the Housing Board chowk around 2 pm, finally left the site around 5:30 pm. They said they would continue to sit at the dharna site in Sector 5 (behind the Shiksha Sadan) till the government met their all demands.The teachers have also been demanding cancellation of an FIR filed against some of them on October 25 when they had entered into a clash with the police in an attempt to gherao the CM’s residence.The confrontation had left both policemen and teachers injured. In the light of this incident, unidentified teachers were booked by the police under serious charges of rioting and unlawful assembly. The FIR was registered under Sections 147, 149, 186, 283, 323, 332 and 353 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 14 police station.Yesterday too, the police had booked vocational teachers for staging a protest outside the Shikhsha Sadan. According to the FIR, the protest left the employees stranded and caused a traffic jam on the road. A case was registered against unidentified teachers under Sections 283 (causing danger, obstruction or, injury in any public way or line of navigation) and 342 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.Anup Dhillon, president, Haryana Vocational Teachers’ Association, said they would not end their agitation till all their demands, including cancellation of the FIR filed on October 25, were met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-halt-teachers-march-towards-khattars-house-343178
27-11-2021||---||Dental surgeons’ recruitment: Ex-chief of Haryana AAP, supporters gherao HPSC building||Panchkula, November 26In the wake of fresh allegations of corruption in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), former state AAP president Naveen Jaihind, along with a large number of supporters, today gheraoed the commission office in Sector 4 here and staged a symbolic protest by burning cow dung cakes and sprinkling cow urine in the building of the recruitment body to “cleanse it of corruption”.Naveen Jaihind takes a jibe at state govtThe government should stop playing with the future of around 30 lakh youth and rather release a rate list for government jobs. Naveen Jaihind, former president, AAP, HaryanaHe also showed a suitcase full of cash in full public view to “reflect the persistence of large-scale corrupt practices, including bribery, in recruitment examinations conducted by the HPSC”.Protesters carried placards reading “Dental surgeon ka rate batao”, “Police ka rate batao”, and “Gram sachiv ka rate batao”. Some also held the tricolour in their hands.Jaihind, while addressing protesters, said the government should stop playing with the future of around 30 lakh youths and rather release a rate list for government jobs. “The level of corruption has only gone up during the BJP rule,” he alleged.Recently, the Vigilance Bureau, Haryana, had arrested HCS Anil Nagar, who was posted as HPSC Deputy Secretary, and two others for allegedly manipulating marks of candidates who appeared in a written examination for recruitment of dental surgeons, conducted by the commission on September 26. So far, the bureau has recovered over Rs3 crore from the suspects in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dental-surgeons-recruitment-ex-chief-of-haryana-aap-supporters-gherao-hpsc-building-343180
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Thieves steal Rs 40K, jewellery||Man held with poppy powderLalru: The police arrested a UP native with 10-kg poppy powder here on Friday. The suspect has been identified as Dharinder of Badaun. The police nabbed the suspect near Jharmarhi barrier. TNSDengue stings 25 in Mohali districtMohali: As many as 25 fresh dengue cases were reported from district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,879. However, no death has been reported from the district till Friday evening. TNSClearing work stops at lalruDera Bassi: A day after felling of trees on 100 acres of forest-like shamlat land falling under the Lalru Municipal Council in the Dera Bassi sub-division was highlighted in these columns, clearing work at the land has been stopped in the area. Mohali ADC (Urban Development) has directed the Lalru MC Executive Officer to submit a report regarding cutting of trees instead of reed (sarkanda). “I have complained to the Deputy Commissioner, Mohali SSP and the Forest Department regarding the illegal felling. The Administration should register an FIR in the case,” Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma said on Friday. Dera Bassi DSP Gurbakshish Singh Mann said no directions had been received in this regard so far. TNSTennis: Upnishad, Isheeta shineZirakpur: Upnishad Bhardwaj defeated Harmanjit Singh (6-1, 6-3) in the boys’ U-18 final of the AITA CS(7) U-18 Boys and Girls National Rankings Championship being organised by Roots Tennis Academy, Zirakpur. In the doubles’ finals, Upnishad and Agnivesh Bhardwaj beat Arnav Bishnoi and Anirudh Sangra (6-3, 6-4). In the girls’ U-18 final, Isheeta Midha defeated Gursimrat Kaur (4-6, 6-1, 6-2). In the doubles, Isheeta and Gursimrat defeated Sia Mahajan and Rubani Sidhu (6-2, 6-4). TNSConstitution Day celebraTEDPatiala: Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, celebrated National Constitution Day here on Friday. NCC cadet Gurpreet Kaur told students about Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar and his role in drafting constitution, other members of the drafting committee and important dates associated with the constitution. Principal Nirmal Goyal said, “Ours is the longest written constitution in the world. It is the supreme law of the land, which we must follow.” ANO Satvir Singh made students aware of their fundamental rights and duties. The cadets also used the occasion to educate students about how their parents and family members can make a new voter card or get correction done in it. Gagandeep Singh told students that being a democracy, it was important for the country that every citizen casts his/her vote in the coming Assembly election. TNSKindergarten Sports MeetPatiala: A two-day Annual Kindergarten Sports Meet concluded at St Peter’s Academy, here on Friday. The events included 50m race, frog race, lemon and spoon race, balloon race and pick and run race. The final day of the event was presided over by the chief guest Shashi Maan, zonal secretary of sports. Shashi praised students for their enthusiasm and inspired them to develop interest in sports through hard work and practice. School Principal Rev Fr Michael Collins congratulated winners on their achievement. The winners of various events were awarded trophies and certificates. TNSMC poll: Group releases list of 4Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Environmental Group on Friday released its first list of four candidates for the MC poll. It has decided to field Sanat Dutt Bhardwaj, an advocate, from Ward 13, Yashpal Yadav, a retired Army man, from Ward 25, Nakesh Kumar Jhingan, a retired Labour Bureau officer, from Ward 32 and Shekhar Modgil, an advocate, from Ward 34. Jhingan said they wanted to contest the elections in 35 wards. Their aim was to make people aware of environment, to save the heritage of the UT and to emphasise on education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-steal-rs-40k-jewellery-343179
27-11-2021||---||70-year-old thrashed over scratch on SUV in Panchkula||Panchkula, November 26The police have arrested a man for allegedly beating up a 70-year-old man with a stick over a petty issue – a scratch on his new SUV in a minor collision that occurred due to his own rash driving.The suspect has been identified as Manoj Kumar (43), a resident of Sector 11.After a video of the incident, that took place on November 22, went viral, the police took suo motu cognisance of the “inhuman behaviour” against the senior citizen. A case was subsequently registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (obscene acts) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.Ram Sarup Kalra, in his complaint, told the police that on November 22 when he was walking back home from a nearby park, he saw an Innova car coming towards him.“I signalled the driver to slow down since I had to take a turn towards my home and the space on the street was narrow with a car parked on one side. However, the driver did not slow down and hit my foot and I eventually fell down. After hitting me, the driver came out of the car and threatened me with a sharp object. I got scared. The suspect picked my walking stick and started beating me up mercilessly with it. He kept on abusing and thrashing me. Local residents came to my rescue. Some senior citizems asked the man not to beat me up. He threatened to eliminate me if was seen around that street or park again. He also threatened me against reporting the matter to the police,” the FIR stated, quoting the complainant.The victim said he was traumatised and could not muster the courage to go out for a walk.In the video, apparently recorded from a neighbouring house, the suspect can be seen beating up the victim with a stick. Despite voices from around the neighbourhood to stop, the man kept on abusing the senior citizen and intimidated him.According to the police, the victim is an insurance surveyor. “For this criminal act, the police will also write to the insurance regulator, IRDA, to take appropriate action,” the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-year-old-thrashed-over-scratch-on-suv-343232
27-11-2021||---||As cases rise, Chandigarh Health Department issues advisory||Chandigarh, November 26In the wake of a surge in cases of Covid-19 in the city, the Health Department has issued an advisory to the public to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and take the vaccine.The city recorded eight cases of Covid today, the highest single-day cases in months. The weekly cases have doubled, despite a fall in the testing rate. The advisory reads, “The Covid-19 pandemic has ravaged our nation during the past year and a half. Like the rest of the country, Chandigarh has also faced trials and tribulations associated with the first and second wave. The UT administration is engaged in preparing for an impending third wave. Apart from strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and etiquette, vaccination has been an effective means for the prevention and control of Covid.”The Administration has appealed to the public to encourage their friends and relatives to take their vaccine doses and make Chandigarh fully immunised by December-end.The Health Department has requested residents to call on the Covid helpline (9779558282) if they feel unwell and face a difficulty in breathing and cough. The patient must avoid close contact with anyone, if he or she is experiencing cough and fever.What you should do||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-cases-rise-chandigarh-health-department-issues-advisory-343229
27-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19 vaccine: 19.2% yet to take second dose in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26Around 19.2 per cent of the population, which has taken the first dose of the Covid vaccine, is already due for the second dose in the city, while 13 per cent of the eligible population has missed it as it has exceeded the maximum gap between two doses.During a review of the Covid vaccination in Chandigarh, it has been observed that the second dose is already due for about 1,80,000 persons, who took their first dose in the city. This includes about 1,20,000 persons, who have exceeded the maximum gap of 16 weeks since the first dose of vaccination.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Each person is being separately contacted on the given mobile number and a drive has been undertaken to administer the second dose in all overdue cases. The UT Administration has sufficient number of vaccines and there is no waiting time for getting the vaccination, the first as well as the second dose.” “Persons who got the first dose from Chandigarh and then went to other places may get their second dose from anywhere in India and should not delay it further for their return to Chandigarh,” said Garg.On Thursday, Chandigarh recorded nine cases of Covid, the highest single-day tally after a long time. The Health Secretary expressed concern over the sudden spurt in daily cases. He said, “For the past several days, we were getting about three or four Covid cases. However, yesterday, we recorded nine cases, which is a matter of concern. All citizens are requested to ensure that they take both doses and they should also ensure that their relatives are also covered.” All medical officers have been given the list of persons due for the second dose so as to cover the vulnerable population. No fatality, eight new cases in Chandigarh Chandigarh: The city on Friday reported eight cases of Covid-19. There was no death due to the virus, while one patient was cured of the disease. TNS10 cases surface in Mohali districtMohali: Ten fresh Covid cases were reported from the district in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,938. No new death was reported, while one patient was cured. Among the fresh cases, one came from Mohali, two from Dhakoli, three from Kharar and four from Gharuan. Of the 68,938 positive cases reported so far, 67,815 patients have been cured. There are now 52 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,071. TNS Panchkula reports 8 fresh Covid casesPanchkula: The district on Friday reported eight fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 30,827. The death toll remained at 379. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-2-yet-to-take-second-dose-in-chandigarh-343224
