28-11-2021||---||CBI chose not to file reply in Neha Shoree case: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, November 27Nearly three years after Zonal Drugs Licensing Authority Neha Shoree was shot in her office at Kharar allegedly for battle against the drug mafia, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has observed that the CBI has “chosen not to file reply as on date”.Her war-veteran father and another petitioner had moved the High Court two years ago alleging inaction in the matter. In their petition against the state of Punjab and other respondents, Capt Kailash Kumar Shoree and the other petitioner had contended that the FIR in the matter was registered on March 29, 2019, but “no further action has been taken”.Their counsel had submitted that the murder was the handiwork of drug mafia as she had been making efforts to stop the drug menace.Appearing before Justice Jaishree Thakur, counsel Kanika Ahuja moved an application for advancing the date of hearing in the case, which was listed for April 26, 2022. Allowing the application, Justice Thakur took up the matter for hearing and observed: “This is a case where daughter of the petitioner, who was working as Zonal Drugs Licensing Authority in Food and Drug Administration Department of the Government of Punjab, was shot dead in the office. Reply has been filed on behalf of the state of Punjab as well as respondent-NIA. However, for the reasons best known, the CBI has chosen not to file reply as on date”.Justice Thakur also directed the serving of the order’s copy on senior advocate and standing counsel for CBI Sumeet Goel. The case will now come up for hearing on January 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-chose-not-to-file-reply-in-neha-shoree-case-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-343587
28-11-2021||Amit Bathla||Covid cases rise in Panchkula, testing dips||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 27Even though there has been an uptick in the number of Covid cases, testing has gone down in the district.As per the Health Department, between November 19 and 25, only 2,860 people were sampled for coronavirus, an average of just 408 per day. The district logged 30 fresh cases during this period. Comparatively, the district took 4,619 samples between October 19 and 25 and just 12 of these tested positive for the virus.Health officials stated that they could not force people to come forward for testing as it was voluntary. “We can’t dictate people to go for testing,” said Panchkula CMO Dr Mukta Kumar, adding that people weren’t coming forward for testing. They were witnessing flu-like symptoms among patients reporting to the OPDs, she added.Claiming that it was very early to comment if cases would rise, she said all measures were being taken to contain any such situation. “Today, we just reported two cases. We can’t say what would happen tomorrow,” she said.The CMO said she had written to the Deputy Commissioner in this regard. “In my letter, I stressed upon the enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour as there is a rising complacency about the disease among public. I will also meet him personally on this issue on Monday,” the CMO told Chandigarh Tribune over the phone.She said she had also requested the DC to reopen a Covid care centre for better care of infected patients and declare containment zones in Mansa Devi Complex and Amravati Complex as both localities had five active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-cases-rise-in-panchkula-testing-dips-343588
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashvee, Amanjot to feature in Senior Challenger Trophy||Two cricketers from Chandigarh and three from Punjab have been shortlisted to play in the Senior Women’s Challenger Trophy. As per the announcement made by the BCCI, UTCA’s Kashvee Gautam will play for India C, while Amanjot Kaur will represent India D squad. Amanjot has also been named vice-captain of the team.“Both players are hard working and have been rewarded for their consistency,” said coach Nagesh Gupta.Tania to lead India BMeanwhile, seasoned India wicketkeeper Tanya Bhatia has been appointed captain of India B team. Kanika Ahuja has been included in India D squad and Mehak Kesar will be a part of India A team. The quadrangular tournament is scheduled to be played at Vijayawada from December 4-9. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kashvee-amanjot-to-feature-in-senior-challenger-trophy-343589
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||CLTA inks coaching pact with Portugal's Seruca||The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for coaching with former Davis Cup player Marco Seruca.The MoU, initially for one-year and extendable further by four years, was signed between Megh Raj, Chief Operating Officer, CLTA, and Seruca. Under the protocol of training and coaching systems, a high performance training centre of international standard will be developed at the CLTA.“This will be my first coaching experience in India. The infrastructure here (CLTA) is good and my aim will be to maintain quality of training. The trainees here respond well and have calibre to play in some major tournaments,” said Seruca.He said: “A high performance training centre will also be set-up here. Besides coaching players, I will be also teaching coaches for a better output. This centre will run under my supervision. I am eyeing to train young players to make key improvements in their style at an early age.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clta-inks-coaching-pact-with-portugals-seruca-343590
28-11-2021||---||66th Railway Week: Ambala gets 'Best Division' shield||Chandigarh, November 27The Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has won 10 individual and three joint shields for cleanliness, performance in ticket checking, environmental, family welfare, economy and GM excellence shield during the 65th Rail Week. The Ambala Division has won the ‘Best Division’ shield for the 66th Railway Week.The first train in India was started between Mumbai and Thane on April 16, 1853. Railway Week is celebrated every year on this occasion. This year’s award on 65th Rail Week was announced by the Head Office, New Delhi. The announcement was delayed due to the Covid-19.The General Manager of Northern Railway has announced to honour the outstanding work with shield/trophy for various departments of the Ambala Division during the year 2019-20 and 2020-21.Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said the Ambala Division had maintained its working standards years after years to perform the best, and this year’s Best Division shield fulfilled the long dream.The division has also bagged the General Managers Excellence Shield for its performance and dedication to duty during the time of crisis.“This also shows that the division has utilised the pandemic crisis productively to complete in major infrastructural and safety works. Apart from this, the division has also been awarded with three shields jointly with other divisions for operating, safety and engineering departments,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/66th-railway-week-ambala-gets-best-division-shield-343591
28-11-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Lobbying starts for Panjab University Syndicate elections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27While the Panjab University authorities are yet to take decision on opening the campus, PU Senators have started lobbying and preparing for the upcoming Syndicate elections. Though the exact date to elect the PU Syndicate is yet to be announced, sources claimed that the fight will be tough this year.“The fight will be interesting this time. The Goyal group, which won a majority of the seats in the Senate elections, is pushing its best to get its maximum members in the Syndicate. The group is receiving a tough competition from former MP and Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain, who is emerging to be the leader of another group,” said a highly placed source.It has been also confirmed that in order to judge their strengths, both groups had also conducted a get-together. The Syndicate has 15 members chosen by Senate members.“Before preparing for the Syndicate elections, officials have to wait for official announcement of appointment of the Senate. After official notification on the Senate, activity regarding chosen Syndicate will start,” said another source.Elected Senator removedMeanwhile, the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor has issued an order directing a Senator ineligible to contest elections. “Keeping in view the facts, I hereby declare that Tarun Ghai, being not a teacher in any college since June 23, 2021, is not eligible to be elected or to continue as a member of the PU Senate. “The official orders regarding the formation of the Senate may have been delayed for this particular case. It will be interesting to see what comes next,” said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lobbying-starts-for-panjab-university-syndicate-elections-343592
28-11-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||MD seat 'scam' at PGI: Court finds prima facie case against 27 accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27Inderjeet Singh, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Chandigarh, has found a prima facie case against all 27 accused in a nine-year-old alleged MD seat scam of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).While rejecting the discharge applications of two accused, the court has fixed December 6 as the next date of hearing for framing charges. The CBI had registered a case against all accused for the offences punishable under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471, 120-B and 511 of the IPC after the scam came to the light in 2012.The CBI had registered the case on the information that accused P Gurivi Reddy, Dr Gangadhar Reddy and Dr Kotesh entered into criminal conspiracy with each other and some unknown persons with an aim to cheat the PGI, Chandigarh. The entrance test of MD/MS for postgraduate medical courses in PGI, Chandigarh, was held on November 10, 2012, from 9 am to 12 noon, in which P Gurivi Reddy allegedly arranged certain dummy candidates, mostly women, to transmit image of question papers from the examination hall through electronic gadgets like Bluetooth device and button-hole cameras. The question paper was to be sent to Patna and Hyderabad, where experts namely Dr Gangadhar at Patna and Dr Kotesh at Hyderabad were supposed to solve the question papers and communicate back the solution to Gurivi Reddy stationed at a hotel in Chandigarh.P Gurivi Reddy was having certain candidates with specialised gadgets, including cellphones, Bluetooth devices and earphones, which are fixed to their body and answers or multiple choice questions were to be communicated to the candidates sitting in the examination hall from outside.As per the CBI, eight dummy girl students submitted application forms with fake names and different photographs with the PGI by impersonating themselves as students who completed MBBS, while they were never a student of medicine. All of them appeared for the examination after wearing specially stitched shirts containing electronic equipment and trying to leak the question paper. Most of them were caught from the examination centre and electronic equipment. The CBI has filed the charge sheet in year 2014. It also seized mobile phones and other gadgets used in the examination.Ranbir Singh Rawat, counsel for the two accused, argued that no recovery of alleged specially stitched shirt was made from the applicants and that mere recovery of mobile phones does not reveal any offence committed by the applicants.While opposing the discharge application, public prosecutor Narender Singh argued that at the time of framing of charges only a prima facie case was to be considered. He said oral and documentary evidence on record clearly spelt out a prima facie case against the applicants.After hearing of the arguments, the CBI Court dismissed the discharge applications of both accused.“The material on record in the form of documentary and oral evidence, which includes recovery memos, statement of witnesses recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC as alleged under Section 164, CrPC, provides a substantial ground to conclude the commission of prima facie offence punishable under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471,120-B and 511 of the IPC by all accused,” says the court in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/md-seat-scam-at-pgi-court-finds-prima-facie-case-against-27-accused-343593
28-11-2021||Zirakpur||Youth dies in hit-&-run in Zirakpur||SES holds annual award functionChandigarh: The Sikh Educational Society (SES) held its annual Panth Rattan Jathedar Gurcharan Singh Tohra Memorial award function at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26. Amrik Singh Ahluwalia, Pro Vice Chancellor, Eternal University, Baru Sahib, Sirmaur (HP), was the chief guest. Society president Gurdev Singh Brar said the major aim of the award was to honour two/three prominent persons who played a distinguished role in furtherance of the cause of Punjab history, culture and Sikh values. The award was conferred on Dr Tejwant Singh Gill, an eminent cultural historian, translator and critic of art and literature from Punjab, and Prof Gurbhajan Singh Gill, a distinguished Punjabi poet. TNSBook releasedChandigarh: A book, “Vibrant Colors of Punjab –an embodiment”, authored by Captain Narinder Singh (IAS) was released on Saturday. The book is a compilation of myriad activities that the author undertook to promote the traditional Punjabi culture. The author amply blends the rich traditional cultural achievements of Punjab and several social fibres of society, including marriage, comedy and contours of Punjabi cinema. “My book deals with literature, culture, cinema and music,” said Singh. While discussing about comedy and comedians, he has immensely discussed its master Charlie Chaplin. He enlivens Sufi cult and its evolution commencing from 1318 quoting Baha-ud-Din Nagshbandi, Bulle Shah and many medieval poets. TNSWoman nabbed with marijuanaLalru: The police arrested a woman with 2-kg marijuana near Lehli. The suspect has been identified as Rajrani, alias Ranjan, a resident of Bermajra. A case has been registered. TNSVarsity launches int’l projectMohali: Chitkara University has launched an international project, “EDUREFORM”, and has been supported with a grant of Rs9 crore in the framework of the Erasmus+ programme financed by the European Commission. The mission of the project is to mitigate the impact of the fourth industrial revolution on Indian society by promoting pedagogical tools instrumental to encourage deep learning among secondary school students. TNS23 new dengue cases logged in MohaliMohali: The district on Saturday reported 23 new cases of dengue fever. Samples of 70 suspected cases were tested for the vector-borne disease. With this, the dengue count of the district has touched 3,902. This month, 1,271 cases have been reported and 130 of these surfaced in the past five days alone. As many as 37 suspected dengue deaths have been registered in the district so far. TNSThieves flee with two motorcyclesChandigarh: Miscreants stole a bike of a Maloya resident, Harish Kumar, from the parking of Kairon Block, PGI, on November 6. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. In another theft case, a resident of Sector 12, Panchkula, Rajbir Sharma, reported that unknown person stole his bike parked near Sector 63 on November 12. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. TNSCyclist hit by car, diesChandigarh: A cyclist died after an unidentified car hit him near the ISBT Chowk, Sector 17, on November 22. The deceased has been identified as Krishna Sunar, a Sector 21 resident. He was injured in the incident and was taken to the GMSH-16 where he was declared brought dead. A case under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 19 police station. Investigation of the case is in progress. TNSCar glass broken, valuables stolenChandigarh: A Panchkula resident, Hari Om, reported that an unknown person stole his laptop, a purse containing credit card, Aadhaar card, driving licence and some documents from his car by breaking its rear windowpane on November 25. The car was parked in Mani Majra. A case under Section 379 and 427 of the IPC has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-dies-in-hit-run-343594
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Body found on train in Chandigarh||The body of a man, aged between 55 and 60, was found on the Unchahar Express (No. 14217) at platform number 5 of the railway station here today.Sub-Inspector Vilayat Saini, SHO, GRP, Chandigarh railway station, said, “The man’s body was found on coach number 2. He was dressed in black and white striped T-shirt and dark grey pants. The name, ‘Raj Kumar’, was inked on his right arm and ‘Sadhu’ on his left wrist. No document leading to his identification could be traced yet.”The GRP is investigating the matter under Section 174 of the CrPC. The body has been kept at the Civil Hospital, Panchkula, Sector 6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/body-found-on-train-in-chandigarh-343595
28-11-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula eatery serves hookah, 3 staffers booked||Three employees of the restaurant at a hotel in Sector 5 here have been booked for allegedly serving hookah to customers in violation of Covid guidelines.The police conducted a surprise check at the hotel, Circle, and seized hookah flavours to ascertain their nicotine content. Those named in the FIR have been identified as Sandeep Kumar, Prateek Singh and Robin.ASI Pritam Singh, the investigating officer, said, “The staff members, however, failed to produce the same following which, we seized hookah samples.”Meanwhile, an FIR was registered against Purple Frog, a restaurant in Sector 9, for allegedly operating beyond time and capacity in violation of the Covid guidelines. Over 50 guests were found seated in a little space around 2 am. The eatery owner, Prabhat Saini, and another person Abhinav Bansal have been named in the FIR. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-eatery-serves-hookah-3-staffers-booked-343596
28-11-2021||---||Neighbour sets 3 bikes on fire over tiff, nailed in Panchkula||Panchkula, November 27The police have arrested a resident of Rajiv Colony in Sector 17 for setting afire three motorcycles parked in his neighbourhood on the night of Friday. The suspect has been identified as Akshay, alias Golu.The police said there was enmity between the neighbours. “After witnessing flames outside around 2 am, I, my brother and father rushed out. We found our vehicles were on fire. Akshay was at the spot who said he set our bikes on fire to teach us a lesson,” said Sunil Maurya, who owned one of the three bikes.The other two bikes belonged to his brother Sonu and neighbour Suraj.“The suspect was annoyed over an old fight. He poured petrol on the motorcycles and set them afire. He fled the spot,” said ASI Arvind.“With the help of neighbours, we brought the flames under control. Sonu suffered burns on his hand and face while dousing the fire,” said the complainant.A case has been registered under Section 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neighbour-sets-3-bikes-on-fire-over-tiff-nailed-in-panchkula-343597
28-11-2021||---||Tortured for dowry, 33-year-old kills self in Panchkula||Panchkula, November 27A 33-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Sector 11 last evening.The police said her father had accused her husband and in-laws of harassing her over dowry. A case of murder has been registered against the in-laws under Section 302 of the IPC.The suspects have been identified as Puneet Vansal (husband), Shiv Kumar (father-in-law) and Neelam Vansal (mother-in-law). The victim was a native of Dhuri (Sangrur) and got married in January, 2012. Sushil Kumar, her father, said: “Yesterday afternoon, my wife received a call from my daughter on her mobile phone, which I took over immediately after hearing her cries. She informed me that her in-laws were beating her. Around 7 pm, my son-in-law informed me that my daughter killed herself.” He alleged they (suspects) hanged her daughter’s body from a ceiling fan after killing her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tortured-for-dowry-33-year-old-kills-self-343598
28-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC ELECTIONS: All is not well in AAP Chandigarh unit?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) election campaign committee chairman, Chandermukhi Sharma, has been ‘distancing himself’ from party activities for the past about 10 days and has switched off his mobile phone. Sources said he was angry as one of his recommended candidates was not being considered for ticket.Two days ago, when party’s senior leader and Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisoda visited the city to discuss the manifesto for the MC poll, Chandermukhi was absent even as all senior local leaders were there. In the last two-three press conferences held by party in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh, Chandermukhi was conspicuous by his absence.The party is already said to be divided in four groups after influx of people from the city Congress into the AAP fold. There are four major powerhouses in the city AAP — former Union Minister Harmohan Dhawan, city party convener Prem Garg, co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra and Chandermukhi Sharma. The latter two were earlier in the Congress.Sources said more fissures might appear once the names for ticket were announced.Calls and messages sent to Chandermukhi by this correspondent elicited no response.Denying any groupism in the AAP, Prem Garg claimed, “Chandermukhi has just returned from Bengaluru. He is ill. It is not that someone of his choice has not been considered.”SAD names 4 candidatesChandigarh: The city unit of the SAD has announced a total of 13 candidates for the MC poll so far. Nine names were announced earlier while four were declared on Saturday. Hardeep Singh Sajan will contest from ward number 8, Reema Mahajan from ward number 22, Jagtar Singh from ward number 24 and Atul Sharma from ward number 33. Meanwhile, AAP is expected to announce the names of its 20-25 candidates on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-elections-all-is-not-well-in-aap-chandigarh-unit-343599
28-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh: PGI, GMCH asked to step up Covid testing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27Fearing a surge in Covid-19 cases due to a new variant detected in South Africa (B.1.1.529, Omicron), the UT Administration has asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, to test patients coming to their outpatient departments.In September, the Health Department had ordered that all patients attending OPDs at the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, and the GMCH-32 would have to undergo the Covid-19 test. However, city hospitals such as the PGI and the GMCH-32 had stopped testing patients after witnessing a steep fall in the Covid cases.In June, the city was conducting from 15,000 to 17,000 tests in a week. The weekly testing declined to over 10,000 tests in August. This week, 8,386 persons were tested for the virus against 9,106 tests conducted last week.Only 1,000 tests are being conducted daily in Chandigarh these days, which is far below the single-day testing rate witnessed in September. Over 30,000 tests have been conducted this month, whereas over 59,000 tests were logged in October. Even if the city goes by the present testing rate, it will only be able to conduct 3,000 tests in three days. This month, testing has declined by at least 44 per cent.The Centre has asked the states to conduct rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from and transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong.The instructions came after a new coronavirus variant was detected in South Africa.Dr Suman Singh, Director Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “We are going to intensify screening and testing to track Covid-19 cases. The city government hospitals have been asked to conduct tests of patients coming to their OPDs. We never stopped testing patients who were coming to OPDs at the GMSH-16. Besides, all international travellers from South Africa and other regions will be quarantined for seven days and tested on the eighth day. So far, we do not have any travellers from these areas.”Dharam Pal, UT Adviser, said, “We have issued instructions to all city government hospitals to conduct testing in OPDs and increase the testing levels.”International arrivals being monitoredInternational travellers are being monitored right from the airport level on their return to India. Persons coming from high-risk countries (South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand & Zimbabwe) have to undergo the RT-PCR testing on their arrival in India and are quarantined for seven days. This is facilitated by the UT Police Department. On the eighth day, they are retested (RT-PCR) by the UT Health Department even if they have tested RT-PCR negative at the airport. The teams from the Police Department and the Health Department regularly monitor such high-risk returnees. This is done as per guidelines for international arrivals given by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Fall in Covid testingNovember 30,200 (till Nov 26) October 59,246September 61,730 Five infected in UTChandigarh: The city on Saturday reported five cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the infection. Only one patient was cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSMohali sees 1 caseMohali: One new case of Covid-19 was reported from the district on Saturday. Seven patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSTwo test positive in Panchkula Panchkula: The district on Saturday reported two fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the overall tally to 30,829. The toll, however, remained at 379. While 30,414 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 36 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.65 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgi-gmch-asked-to-step-up-covid-testing-343600
