29-11-2021||Mohali||7 new dengue cases in Mohali||Biker flees with mobile phoneChandigarh: A motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched a mobile phone from a woman in Sector 40. According to the police, the suspect snatched the mobile on November 27. A case was registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNSWoman booked for cheatingChandigarh: The UT police have booked a woman for cheating. Complainant Rajnish Jain, a resident of Mohali, reported that the suspect, a resident of Sector 19, cheated him by “denying the receipt” of Rs1 crore for selling a booth in Sector 19. A case has been registered under Section 420 of the IPC at the Sector 19 police station. TNS Temple priest’s car stolenMohali: An unidentified masked man stole a luxury sedan of a priest from the parking of a temple in Phase 3-A on Saturday night. In his complaint to the police, the Vaishno Devi temple priest, Sohan Lal, stated that he had parked his Honda City in the parking lot on Saturday evening. When he returned on Sunday morning, the car was missing. The CCTV footage installed near the temple captured a masked man opening the door of the vehicle and driving it away in a matter of minutes. The miscreant approached the car while talking to someone on the phone. A case of theft was registered at the Mataur police station on Sunday. TNSGrocery shop burgledMohali: Miscreants stole Rs2.30 lakh, dry fruits and groceries from a department store in Sector 79 on Saturday night. On the complaint of the shop owner, Mandeep Singh, a case of theft has been registered at the Sohana police station. The police are scanning the CCTV footage of the area. TNSStudy fair on December 4Chandigarh: The British Council, the UK's international organisation for educational opportunities and cultural relations, is hosting its fourth edition of the 'Study UK Virtual Fair' on December 4. The fair will be a one-stop platform for attendees to interact with the representatives of several universities and gather insights on the study opportunities in the UK, including courses, universities and scholarship offers, along with application processes and eligibility criteria. The fair would also provide information on student life in the UK, housing and career prospects. TNSAward function organisedChandigarh: The International Vaish Federation, Punjab, conferred OP Jindal Awards on 10 promising administrative officers of Vaish community during a programme at the Mahatma Gandhi State Institute in Sector 26 here on Sunday. Parveen Gupta, additional chief secretary to the Government of Delhi, was the chief guest at the event. TNSBook releasedChandigarh: Sanjeev Sethi’s fifth book of poems, Hesitancies, was released here on Sunday. His books have been published in more than 30 countries so far. His poems have been featured in over 350 magazines, anthologies and online literary sites. Sethi is a joint winner of Full Fat Collection Competition-Deux organised by The Hedgehog Poetry Press UK. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-new-dengue-cases-in-mohali-344097
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Services log 3rd win  in Santosh Trophy||Tournament favourites Services logged their third victory in the ongoing Santosh Trophy (zone qualifiers), at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here on Saturday.The side recorded an easy (2-0) win over UP to lead the points’ table with nine points. Unlike their previous matches, Services lads started slow and took their time to grip the match. The unnecessary space created by Services lads, in the first 30 minutes, was well captured by UP strikers as they launched some attacks. However, custodian Subhajit was in good position to avoid any danger to the side.The first half ended goalless. After the mandatory 15-minute break, Services played better football to pull off two goals. The first came in the 65th minute. Striker Vivek netted the first goal. Substitute Nikhil Sharma posted the second goal in the extra time to ensure an easy win for the side.In the morning session, Jammu & Kashmir registered a 3-2 win over Himachal Pradesh. With this, the side registered their first win of the tournament. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/services-log-3rd-win-in-santosh-trophy-344096
29-11-2021||---||Marathoners Sandeep, Divyanka claim gold at PU inter-college meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28Athletes of DAV College, Sector 10, claimed the top three positions in the men’s category of the Panjab University inter-college marathon held on the university campus here today.Sandeep Kumar completed the 42.195-km run in 2.33:29s to claim the gold medal. Narsingh Patel clocked 2.33:36s to claim the second position and Sahil Sagar claimed the third position by clocking 3.08:44s.Sanjeev Kumar of Jagdish Chandra DAV College, Dasuya, finished fourth in 3.08:44s.In the women’s category, KM Divyanka Chaudhary of DAV College claimed the top position by clocking 3.17:39s. Vikas Rani (3.31:12s) and Kavita Rani (3.37:15s), both from GTB College, Dasuya, won the second and third positions, respectively. Sakshi Mehra (3.38:20s) of Dev Samaj College and Ramandeep Kaur (3.44:34s) of DAV College settled for the fourth and fifth spots, respectively.SD College, PU campus win chess titlesMeanwhile, GGDSD College, Sector 32, won the Panjab University inter-college chess championship (men) held at Dev Samaj College, Sector 36. Government College, Ludhiana, claimed the second position and the PU campus team bagged the third position.In the women’s category, the PU campus team won the event. GGDSD College claimed the second position and the Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, finished third at the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/marathoners-sandeep-divyanka-claim-gold-at-pu-inter-college-meet-344095
29-11-2021||---||Naresh Markanda re-elected to ICA governing body||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28Naresh Markanda, a senior advocate, was re-elected to the governing body of the Indian Council of Arbitration (ICA) for a term of four years.Among the nine candidates, including retired judges and other renowned members in the field of arbitration, Markanda received 176 votes out of the total 582.The main objective of ICA is to promote amicable, quick and inexpensive settlement of commercial disputes by means of arbitration and conciliation.Markanda’s father late Dr PC Markanda has also served as vice-president of the ICA for two consecutive terms, from 2007 to 2009. He was the member of the governing body for 10 consecutive terms (1986-2019).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naresh-markanda-re-elected-to-ica-governing-body-344094
29-11-2021||Mohali||1 arrested for taking away car at gunpoint||The police today arrested one suspect of a three-member gang that snatched a taxi at gunpoint near Saneta on the night of November 26.The suspect has been identified as Satveer Singh. One 30 bore pistol and four live rounds were recovered from him.A case under the Arms Act was registered at the Saneta police post police station. The suspect will be produced in the court tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-arrested-for-taking-away-car-at-gunpoint-344092
29-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||296 get Covid jab at camp in Fatehgarh Sahib||Sirhind NGO Amarnath Barfani Seva Dal organised 15th free Covid vaccination camp at Shiv Mandir in the Hammayupur area on Saturday.The camp was organised in collaboration with Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib. A team of doctors from the Civil Hospital led by Dr Kuldeep Singh, Senior Medical Officer, vaccinated 296 people.Dr Singh urged people to be careful as new variant of Covid had struck in various countries. Follow Covid guidelines to prevent the third wave, he told the people. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/296-get-covid-jab-at-camp-in-fatehgarh-sahib-344091
29-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||SAD councillor joins Congress||Sirhind Councillor Jaswinder Kaur today resigned from SAD and joined the Congress. She was inducted into the party by MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra.The strength of Congress councillors in the Sirhind Municipal Council has now gone up to 20.Nagra said Jaswinder would be given due respect in the party and she would ensure overall development of the town without any prejudice or vendetta. He called upon all the councillors to rise above the party politics for the interest of the town and to speed up development projects in their respective wards.Jaswinder said she was impressed by the development agenda of MLA Kuljit Nagra and decided to join the Congress to support him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-councillor-joins-congress-344087
29-11-2021||---||Ex gratia for Covid death: Grievance panel constituted||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28The Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, will be the chairman of a grievance redressal committee formed in connection with the ex gratia assistance of Rs50,000 to the next of kin of the persons who died due to Covid-19.The Director, Health Services, UT, the Head of Department (Medicine) and the Head of Department (Pulmonary), Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will be the members of the committee.The UT Administrator has already notified the District Disaster Management Authority, UT, as the disbursement authority for the grant of ex gratia to the next of kin of Covid victims.The claimant will submit an application to the District Disaster Management Authority, UT, along with specified documents, including the death certificate certifying the cause of death as Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-gratia-for-covid-death-grievance-panel-constituted-344086
29-11-2021||---||PUTA delegation meets Punjab CM Channi||Chandigarh, November 28A delegation of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) today met Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and apprised him of a long-overdue demand of the college and university teachers for the adoption of the UGC pay scales by the Punjab Government as per the 7th Pay Commission.The delegation comprised Prof Ronki Ram, Prof Emanual Nahar, PUTA president Dr Mritunjay Kumar, and secretary Prof AS Naura.The delegation claimed that Channi assured them of resolving the issue at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-delegation-meets-punjab-cm-channi-344083
29-11-2021||Mohali||Revenue officials' strike to continue till December 1||Members of the Punjab Revenue Officers’ Association will take out a protest march from the ground in front of Gurdwara Angitha Sahib, opposite Gurdwara Amb Sahib, to the office of the Punjab DGP (Vigilance) here tomorrow morning.Along with revenue officers, employees of the DC office would also take part in the march, a press release stated.Further, the association announced that the ongoing strike by revenue officials was extended till December 1. The protest was being held to express anguish against the alleged false implication and arrest of Mahilpur Naib Tehsildar Sandeep Kumar and registry clerk Manjit Singh by the Vigilance Department recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/revenue-officials-strike-to-continue-till-december-1-344082
29-11-2021||---||Five booked for murder bid after firing incident||Ambala, November 28Five persons have been booked for attempt to murder and in an arms case in connection with a firing incident on Saturday evening.In his complaint to the police, Gaurav Goyal, an advocate and resident of Naraingarh, stated that around 7:27 pm on Saturday, two youths, who had their faces covered, reached outside his house on a motorcycle.“They rang the doorbell, enquired if it was my house and opened fire soon after my wife affirmed it was. My wife managed to lock the door somehow and saved our lives. They had fired five shots. Even in the past, I have received threat calls from international numbers and cases were also registered in this regard at the Shahzadpur police station, but no action was taken,” he alleged in his complaint.The incident was captured by the CCTV camera installed in the house. Gaurav’s wife reportedly suffered a minor bullet pellet injury in her leg.The complainant alleged that he had enmities over land and money disputes with Baldev, Ajit, Shiv Kumar, Captain Karnail and Rajesh and he suspected that these people could be behind the attack.The police have booked them on the basis of suspicion raised by the complainant. A case under Sections 307, 323 and 34 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered against them.Vijay Kumar, SHO, Naraingarh police station, said “Three teams have been constituted to nab the suspects. The investigation in the case is underway.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-booked-for-murder-bid-after-firing-incident-344081
29-11-2021||---||Over 7,000 appear for CAT in tricity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28Over 7,000 students appeared for the Common Admission Test (CAT) at various centres in the tricity. There was one centre in Chandigarh, four in Mohali and seven more within a 60-km range. More than two lakh students appeared for CAT across the country.“The level of difficulty of sections and the overall exam this year was on similar lines as in the past,” said Hirdesh Madan, co-founder, Hitbullseye, adding that, “The exam was conducted in three slots with uniformity in style, subject areas and level of difficulty. This will reduce the pain of disparity in result declaration.”In the region, the IIM, Sirmaur, and the IIM, Amritsar, top the charts of most coveted colleges accepting CAT scores. The University Business School of Panjab University is also one of the sought-after colleges and its CAT cut-off is expected to be around 90 percentile.Diksim Gulati of Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, said: “The paper was on expected lines in terms of difficulty.” Another student, Nikhil Gupta of DAV college, said, “I felt the overall exam was a bit lengthy even with less questions. I did well in the verbal section.” The result of the test is expected to be declared in the second week of January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-7-000-appear-for-cat-in-tricity-344078
29-11-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Heritage manhole cover in neglect at Sector 17||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28First, in August at the UT Sports Complex; then in September at Sector 21; and now at Sector 17. In the past six months, there have been three incidents of city’s heritage manhole covers being found in a neglected state.Each time, Ajay Jagga, member of UT Heritage Items Protection Cell, raised the alarm. Twice, the manhole covers were restored.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said a meeting with the UT heritage committee will soon be held to decide the fate of more than 2,000 Corbusier-designed heritage manhole covers in the city.In a letter to Mitra on Sunday, Jagga wrote that the manhole cover on road opposite Kashmir Emporium at 30 Bays Building in Sector 17 is unattended and ‘exposed to thieves’. He wrote: “The frame and the heritage manhole are lying in pathetic condition and an open invitation to thieves or smugglers. Some concrete steps and action should be taken for the protection of these heritage manholes. This is a well-known fact that these manholes are auctioned in foreign countries for millions of rupees.”On September 21, Corbusier-designed UT manhole cover was auctioned by Sotheby’s in London for Rs10.15 lakh.Asking the authorities to take emergent action for protecting the heritage item, Jagga also reminded the MC that its representative is also a member of the Heritage Items Protection Cell. “Thus, the MC is aware of its value and must show its sincere concern by taking the matter on a priority.”Designed by French architect Le Corbusier, nearly 2,000 cast iron manhole covers with an impression of the Chandigarh map are there in the city. In December 2019, the MC had approved a proposal for replacing these covers with cemented ones at an approximate cost of Rs75 lakh. This was done in view of protecting the heritage of the city.Mitra said, “During the meeting with the heritage committee, we will also take up the issue of the 2,000 manhole covers in order to know if these manhole covers need to be preserved or replaced. We don’t have the expertise to deal with heritage items of the city. We can’t pick up all of such items and keep them in museum.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heritage-manhole-cover-in-neglect-at-sector-17-344076
29-11-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI caters to 250-300 patients with diabetic retinopathy daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28Nearly 250-300 patients of diabetic retinopathy are visiting the PGI every day for retina services.About 90 per cent of them reach the hospital when their vision is affected, with 20 per cent to 40 per cent having advanced stage retinopathy, which requires complex surgeries. Due to Covid, several patients could not get laser treatment or injections on time and reached the advanced stage.With over 77 million people with diabetes in India, the country has emerged as the diabetes capital of the world. A sharp rise has been observed in the prevalence of diabetes-related preventable vision loss.It is estimated that around 1.1 crore people are suffering from retinal disorders in India. About one in every three people living with diabetes has some degree of diabetic retinopathy, a diabetes complication that affects eyes, which remains the leading cause of blindness in young adults.“In India, the burden of retinal diseases is on the rise. Diabetic macular edema (DME), for instance, mainly affects the working population of 35-to-45-year-olds, causing distorted vision. However, the DME onset can be significantly delayed with adherence to treatment, and effective control of diabetes,” said Dr Vishali Gupta, Professor, Vitreoretinal and Uvea, Advanced Eye Centre, PGI.Young population suffering from juvenile diabetes (Type 1 diabetes) is vulnerable to diabetic retinopathy, especially if they have had diabetes for over 10 years. Even people suffering from Type 2 diabetes are at a risk of losing their eyesight due to onset of diabetes-related retinal diseases.DME is the most common form of diabetic retinopathy, which arises when the damaged blood vessels swell and flow into the macula of the retina, causing visibility issues. While medical advancements have made treatment easy and effective, it is the delay in diagnosis that leads to a high percentage of diabetic retinopathy cases.On being diagnosed with diabetic retinopathy, it is important to adhere to the treatment and maintain a healthy lifestyle to effectively manage diabetes and prevent the onset or progression of eye diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-caters-to-250-300-patients-with-diabetic-retinopathy-daily-344074
29-11-2021||---||Man arrested with cocaine||Chandigarh, November 28The UT police have arrested a 32-year-old man with 11-gm cocaine. The suspect has been identified as Badal, a native of Karnal. He was arrested from Sector 23.The police claimed that the suspect used to get drugs from Delhi and supply them in the city. "He used to supply drugs in the night clubs. A gm of cocaine was sold for Rs8,000," said a cop.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered.The suspect was produced in a court, which sent him to three-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-cocaine-344071
29-11-2021||To improve our ranking||Open house: What led to a fall in swachh rankings of city beautiful||Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhQUESTIONDo you think Chandigarh lacks decent facilities for persons with mental disabilities and should the UT Administration rope in NGOs for establishing more such facilities in the city?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toopenhouse@tribunemail.comImprove garbage managementIt makes a sad reading that our City Beautiful’s ranking has been lowered in the cleanliness category. The only consolation is that it has topped the list among all UTs. It is prayed and suggested that the city should concentrate more on the door-to-door collection of waste as well as the disposal of garbage. The city has been able to dispose of very less quantity of garbage.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhLackadaisical supervisionChandigarh was better maintained when there was no corporation. Now, routine works of green belts, pathways, roads, sweeping, etc, are not carried out properly. There four main reasons behind this sorry state of affairs. Firstly, officers do not supervise work on the ground. Secondly, periodic maintenance has stopped and the MC only responds to complaints. Thirdly, private companies carrying out various works do not remove debris for days. Lastly, the debris generated during maintenance by MC agencies such as horticulture or road wings is left behind in heaps for weeks to be lifted by others. These issues keep Chandigarh perpetually dirty and poorly maintained. It’s high time we saw our SDOs, JEs and supervisors get actively involved and made accountable.Col PS Gill (retd), ChandigarhPoor garbage collection to blameChandigarh has always represented greenery and good maintenance, giving it the name of City Beautiful. Poor garbage collection and negligent maintenance of the city has led to a fall in its ranking. A good garbage-collection system, designated dumping sites for green waste and a good grievance-redressal system is needed.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhDissolve MC once for allThe fall in the ranking is just due to a shortage of funds. Chandigarh developed in good pace when it was under the Administration. Development has suffered since the MC came into being. It is a white elephant for the city. Dissolve the MC once for all to ensure good development. Funds when diverted to the Administration will boost development in all fields and it will also check corruption. The only remedy for Chandigarh as the best city of India is to get rid of the MC.Arun Jain, Mani MajraSerious, collective efforts neededThere is a famous quote — “Cleanliness is next to Godliness.” But it is sad that the city has shown a downward trend as far as the cleanliness rankings of cities with above 10 lakh population is concerned. The onus for this poor show lies primarily on the Municipal Corporation, but morally residents as well as industrialists are equally responsible for this mess. The staff of the MC were busy making Covid-related arrangements due to which they were not able to do their duty regarding cleanliness properly. Therefore, there is a dip in the cleanliness ranking. There a need for serious and collective efforts to improve the situation.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhSincerity is the keySorry to say that Chandigarh is a famous city in the world for its beauty, but its Swachh Survekshan 2021 ranking has dropped due to carelessness on the part of the authorities. They can improve its rank by giving special attention to various aspects. A special team of security guards should be made to keep a watch on people. They should challan those found littering. Heaps of garbage should be removed from public places. Open spaces and parks should be maintained well. All dustbins should be cleaned daily without fail. Area near the Central Library in Sector 17 should be cleaned. More dustbins should be put up near fruit and vegetable shops, sweets shops, dhabas and bakeries. All debris or raw material should be immediately removed after completion of construction works. Staff should show utmost sincerity while carrying out cleanliness works.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliPenalise people who litterThe City Beautiful cannot achieve the second rank like in 2016 until all residents, RWAs and the Administration work together. Making residents aware is important. Poor garbage segregation at source, the dump at Dadu Majra and the non-implementation of the solid waste management plan are the main reasons behind the falling Swachh Survekshan ranking. The MC must try to work rigorously on this front. The civic body authorities must focus on cleanliness instead of imposing new taxes. The corporation should keep an eye on tourist spots to prevent littering. Penalising people who do not throw garbage in dustbins.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhFix accountability of officialsNon-accountability of officials of all ranks is a major cause of weak cleanliness drive which resulted in a drastic fall in the city’s ranking. The political interference is also adding to the problem. The performance of all officials should be assessed on a monthly basis. This will have a cascading effect in improving the working of the MC and ensure a judicious use of taxpayers’ money. Under/non-performers be removed from service.KC Rana, ChandigarhGo for night cleaningFall in the ranking is due to laxity on the part of the MC. Heaps of garbage are lying here and there. The MC has failed to remove garbage from every nook and corner of the city. Residents, too, lack civic sense and are responsible for poor hygiene and sanitation in the city. The MC should make compost from dry leaves, clean roads during the night and get strict with those found littering public places.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliSegregation remains a big challengeA dysfunctional waste-processing plant and poor garbage segregation at source led to a fall in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 ranking of the city. The city stands at 66th position. The MC has neither improved the waste-processing plants nor upgraded the technology. There should be emphasis on devising a plan for integrated solid waste management, educating citizens on cleanliness, collection and transportation of waste, processing and disposal of waste, etc.Anita K Tandon, KhararManage waste wellNot only Chandigarh but cities like Shimla have also slipped down in the Swachh Survekshan ranking, showing that there is a lot of negligence and complacency. There has to be community participation and more efforts to create awareness. Charity begins at home. Each and every individual needs to participate and contribute towards the cleanliness of his surroundings. The Administration and residents need to work in unison to bring good results. First and foremost is to manage the waste well, at the individual level or at the state level.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaStreamline waste collectionThe ranking of Chandigarh has dipped drastically for obvious reasons — Garbage heaps in lanes and at the gates of houses, dog poop and trash in parks, puddles of stagnant water on roads near carwash centres and heaps of waste lying near buildings under construction. So, the first step should be to regulate/ban such practices which dirty the city. Then comes streamlining waste collection and garbage processing. Senior citizens and people residing in upper floors find it inconvenient to come down and put garbage bags in MC vehicles. The vehicle is erratic and has no regular timings. The best way would be rehriwallas collect garbage from homes and then put it in MC vehicles. Regular monitoring should be done so that no one dumps waste in open spaces or parks. A fine be imposed for littering parks or letting dogs make a mess there.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhManage waste to improve rankingIt is sad to know that our City Beautiful’s ranking has slipped to 16th from 8th. We must improve our waste-disposal system right from home to disposal point. We must follow the principal of 3 “R”s —reduce, reuse and recycle waste. A drive must be launched to educate people not to throw waste in open places like parks, streets and roads, which paint a poor picture of our city. Help of senior citizens and social organisations must be taken to hold a “Swachh Survekshan Abhiyan” by the authorities concerned in all wards on a regular basis to improve our position next year.Col TBS Bedi (retd), Mohalicasual approach towards cleanlinessWhile there is anger among public, the authorities are also seem to be worried. Local residents blame a causal approach towards cleanliness for a fall in the ranking. Also, failure to properly run waste-processing plants, the delay in floating tenders are the other reasons for the poor show. To my mind, the government authorities alone cannot achieve the targets, participation by public in efforts to improve the ranking is also needed. Every citizen should think how he or she can contribute to bringing back the lost glory of the City Beautiful. The authorities should launch a drive to instil among residents a habit of keeping their soundings clean. RWAs and NGOs can be of much help. Beautiful things can happen even after a bad storm, so nothing to be worried. All need to remain alert and make joint efforts to restore the city’s glory.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaHave five-year tenure for mayorResidents of Chandigarh were living in their self-believed notion that they were living in the country’s most beautiful and well-maintained city. With the Swachh Survekshan that myth has been shattered for all times to come. Indore is maintaining its Rank 1 from the first survey. The tenure of mayor is for a period of one year only. Almost two months are lost in party infighting for the next mayor. Thus, the city lost almost a year of development in a span of five years even with a single party being in power. This practice must end. We should have a five-year tenure for mayor. The old solid waste-management system was not functioning properly. The mountains of legacy garbage should be removed from the face of Chandigarh. If the ground realities are not changed and all planning on paper is not executed in action, it is very hard to turn the tables in the coming years.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhResidents are also to blameThe fall in ranking of Chandigarh from 8th to 16th position should be a matter of serious concern for the right thinking citizens. It is not only the Administration but residents are also equally responsible for the sorry state of affairs. While the Administration has miserably failed to improve the infrastructure, the residents have not discharged their responsibilities by not following the advisories issued by the government. The time has come to restore the city glory by taking strict measures to improve garbage collection as also the condition of roads and parks. This needs to be done by associating RWAs coupled with proper monitoring by senior officials.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaAdmn did not take matter seriouslyThe Administration did not take the matter seriously and a lack of interest was clearly noticed. The sector associations should work efficiently, so that areas are kept neat and clean. Every citizen must put in his or her efforts to bring the city at the standard of Survekshan next year. It is the first and foremost duty of Chandigarh administration to see to that all uncovered manholes are properly covered and there should not litter.MR Bhateja, NayagaonSpecial campaign should be launchedFor the past many years, the Administration has not been able to run the waste-processing plant properly in Sector 38 (West). Secondly, owing to increasing population, pollution and waste generation have increased. The Administration should start a special campaign for taking the city to Rank 1. Special bins should be installed and teams deployed to keep a watch on residents. Special awards should be given for checking waste generations in markets and sectors. A new garbage-processing plant with full capacity should be installed. The Administration must ban unnecessary plastic packaging.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhMost waste is still dumped at Dadu majraA dysfunctional waste-processing plant, slow disposal of legacy waste and poor waste segregation at source — all these factors pushed the city further down the Swachh Survekshan rankings. The poor solid waste management, particularly waste segregation and disposal, led to the poor show. The city’s GFC certification has been downgraded from 3 star to 1 star. The MC has failed to upgrade the solid waste-processing plant. In June last year, the civic body had taken over the plant from Jaypee Group due to its inability to process the waste completely. But since then, the MC has neither improved its working nor upgraded the technology. Most of the daily waste is still dumped at the Dadumajra landfill. Of a total legacy waste of 5 lakh MT, only about 2 lakh MT (40%) has been removed as yet. The work originally was to be completed in May this year, but the deadline has been extended to August 2023. Though the MC twin-bin door-to-door garbage collection vehicles now cover over 85% of the city, the waste segregation at source still remains a big challenge.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliAny change starts with usAny change or reform starts with us. As Gandhiji has rightly said “Be the change you wish to see”. The contribution of one and all will bring results. Charity begins at home. How can you expect any improvement when our own bureaucrats and seniors, while holding meetings relating to Swachh Survekshan, are seen using plastic bottles and talking about proper disposal of plastic and other waste.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaNeed for complete overhaulingThere are many reasons like lack of accountability, political patronage and corruption behind the city’s poor ranking in cleanliness despite spending a huge amount of taxpayers’ money. Lethargic solid waste management, bad roads and residents struggling to address their problems of basic amenities have resulted in the city witnessing a drop in its ranking. There is a need to completely overhaul the working efficiency of the MC and weed out corruption. Rope in RWAs and create an effective feedback system to enhance performance. The officials should be assessed on the basis of feedback and the results they achieve. The non-performers should be removedColonel Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhCouncillors should inspect areasTo improve the position of Chandigarh next year in Swachh Sarvekshan, the councillors should inspect their respective areas for cleanliness. The phrase, “The cleanliness is next to godliness”, must be followed by each and every one. The system of waste disposal should be upgraded with the help of advanced technologies. Awareness drives on cleanliness should be conducted at the morning assembly in schools. Also, awareness campaigns regarding cleanliness should be conducted through webinars.Adish Sood, AmlohFunds not spent judiciouslyOne of the biggest causes for the drop in ranking is the non-functioning garbage-processing plant. Segregation of waste is not being implemented efficaciously. Even though the funds allocated for sanitation are ample, these are not being spent judiciously. The Administration should focus on improving the technology and capability of the waste-processing plant. The corporation should actively engage with residents and chalk up a fitting policy so that the city sustains its tag of “City Beautiful”.Ananya Goel, AmbalaRemove weaknesses one by oneThe MC should pinpoint weaknesses and then devise a plan to improve the ranking. The foremost is improving the capacity of the garbage-processing plant. Next is streamlining door-to-door garbage collection and waste segregation at the source. Thirdly, public participation is also an area of concern. Some areas such as the vegetable market of Sector 26 and kisan mandis need special attention for collection and disposal of garbage. Citizens should be sensitised to keep parks and public places clean. Timely disposal of horticulture waste should be ensured. Plastic use has to be curbed.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhImplementation is ineffectiveResidents as well officials are equally responsible. Though the city has sufficient infrastructure, the implementation of plans is ineffective. The authorities had wasted around five months just in floating tenders and finalising a company for the waste-treatment plant. The citizens’ Participation, wholeheartedly support and internal willingness among officials is required to clean the every nook and corner of the city. The city is just like our common house and its maintenance should be the priority of every citizens which should be instilled in all residents. Officials concerned must guide the public with full cooperation to maintain cleanliness. The RWAs, departments and the Chandigarh Business Council should come forward to ensure cleanliness in the vegetable market and other markets. The political parties should launch special drives on cleanliness during the MC elections.Sukhpal Singh, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-led-to-a-fall-in-swachh-rankings-of-city-beautiful-344070
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Five infected in Chandigarh||5 new Covid cases in Mohali distMohali: Five new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Sunday. Two patients were cured. Among the new cases, two were reported from Mohali and one each from Kharar, Dhakoli and Dera Bassi. Of the 68,944 positive cases reported from the district so far, 67,824 have recovered. The active case count is 49. The toll stands at 1,071. TNSNo case in PanchkulaPanchkula: No new Covid case surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours. Panchkula also registered zero death. However, there are 30 active cases in the district. The death toll stands at 379. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-five-infected-in-chandigarh-344069
29-11-2021||---||19-yr-old ends his life, blames contractor||Mohali, November 28A UP-based contractor was held for abetment to suicide after a 19-year-old boy hanged himself to death in an under-construction house at TDI City this morning. Before the suicide, the deceased, Asif, a native of Amroha (UP), shot a video alleging that his two-month salary, around Rs24,000 was being withheld by the civil contractor and he was not allowed to leave the site.The police said the victim also alleged that he had no money left for two square meals. The police said the youth alleged in the video that contractor Saif Ali of UP was torturing and threatening him for a long time. As a result, he was depressed and decided to take the extreme step. The victim was employed as a helper to a car penter and was living in an under-construction building for the past some time.ASI Dilbag Singh said, “The police have seized the mobile phone in which the video was shot. A case under Section 306 of the IPC has been registered at the Balongi police station. The suspect has been arrested.” The police sent the body for a post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-yr-old-ends-his-life-blames-contractor-344043
29-11-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh: Soon, pay for  Estate Office services online||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28In a much-needed relief, the residents will be able to make payments online for various Estate Office services from the New Year.From the next year, people will also get the facility to submit their building plans online. Facing criticism over the delay in services, the Estate Office recently launched all its 16 property-related services online.“We have reviewed the pendency of applications in each branch of the Estate Office and emphasised on timely delivery of services,” said Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer Vinay Pratap Singh, who recently joined the UT Administration. To provide hassle-free services to the residents, Singh said policy-related issues needed to be decided on priority.“We emphasised that digitisation should be completed on priority so that all services can be moved to an IT platform. Building plan related services will be pushed on the Online Building Plan Approval System from next year,” he saidSingh also said the Estate Office would shift from demand draft based payment mode to the digital payment mode in January next year.Appreciating the steps initiated by the Estate Office regarding online approval of building plans and payments, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Property Federation Chandigarh, said it would save people from harassment.Kamal Gupta, president, Property Consultants Association, Chandigarh, said: “At present, the demand draft submitted by the applicants kept on lying in the files for months and after a few months, the official would ask the applicant to revise the demand draft. In such cases, the applicant gets the receipt several months after submitting the demand draft.”“Providing online modes of payment will bring a huge reprieve to the residents,” he said and added that the online submission of building plans would bring an end to corrupt practices.The Estate Office has been offering multiple services to the citizens under one roof like change of ownership, issuance of no-objection certificate, sanction of fresh and revised building plan, issuance of allotment letter, transfer of ownership, permission for bank mortgage, permission for change of trade, collection of lease, GST, etc.To provide timely information to the residents by adhering to the deadline, all property-related services being provided by the Estate Office were digitalised in a phased manner to ensure transparency in the governance system.The project of digitising the record was incepted in August 2020 and the staff of Estate office made nearly 80 lakh entries to make the entire process smooth and functional. The office also started SMS service to keep the applicant in loop about the status of the work done.In an attempt to simplify the processes at the basic level, the department has done away with the cumbersome process of attaching numerous documents with their files.Earlier the citizens had to submit separate affidavit for different points, but now with this new system, the affidavits have been clubbed with all relevant points. Once a document has been uploaded by the applicant, there will be no issue in resubmitting the same document time and again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-pay-for-estate-office-services-online-344041
29-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||CHANDIGARH MC ELECTIONS: Shakti Prakash Devshali's ward a picture of neglect||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28Several open spaces in ward number 20, a picture of neglect, did not improve during the five-year term of councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali.At least four such sites are there in Sector 29 alone and a few others in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. Stray cattle, wild grass growth, dumped waste/debris, stagnant water and open defecation at these points are the bane of ward residents.Manjot Singh, a local resident, said, “The open space in front of Shaitan Enclave, Sector 29, is full of wild grass growth and people defecate in the open. The city claims to be open defecation-free, but there is no check on such people. Such points also lead to breeding of mosquitoes due to which cases of dengue rise.”During a visit to the area, stray cattle were found roaming in in the Apni Mandi ground. The ground also had stagnant water. Another open space across the road too was full of wild grass growth and debris was dumped there.“We have raised the issue with the authorities several times, but to no avail. The authorities should challan those defecating or dumping garbage/debris here and should also fence the area to maintain it,” a group of residents told Chandigarh Tribune. At the fag end of the term of the MC, road recarpeting work is going on in full swing these days. However, still some stretches are yet to be reacarpeted. Residents rued that for four and a half years, they had to suffer due to bad roads. Unhygienic conditions and garbage dumps can be seen near slums near the Industrial Area, Phase 1.Harish Chander Chhabra, block president of the Congress and secretary of the RWA, Sector 29, said, “As many as 840 houses are yet to be given ownership rights under the rehabilitation scheme. The rehri market has not been removed from here. Parks are not maintained. Sanitation and street lights are an issue.”On this councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali said, “The ownership rights issue is there in the entire city and has to be resolved by the Administration. Parks are maintained, only those in congested areas have an issue. Area residents ask us to let them use these parks as parking lots due to space crunch.”Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said, “Irrational zoning of property tax is our common issue. Besides, we have been asked to clear arrears with interest. Street lights and parking problems are there in the Industrial Area, Phase 1.”Shakti Prakash DevshaliCouncillor from ward number 20Area: Sec 29, Ind’l Area, Phase 1Promises: Overall improvementResult: Partly keptAchievements claimed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-elections-shakti-prakash-devshalis-ward-a-picture-of-neglect-344040
29-11-2021||Sandeep Rana||Matdata puchhta hai event turns out to be a stormy affair||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28The “matdata puchhta hai” event remained a stormy affair today as political leaders came down heavily at each other. Congress senior vice-president Pawan Sharma and city BJP president Arun Sood had heated arguments over various issues ahead of the December 24 MC poll.Promising the overall development of the city if his party was voted to power, the Congress leader had a dig at the ruling party.“We will develop UT villages like urban areas in the city. Sanitation has gone from bad to worse. Cow cess is being charged, but the stray cattle menace is still there. Perhaps, this money is going in the salaries of the staff,” he said.“The hike in sewerage and water rates will be rationalised and roads recarpeted. We will also get 30 per cent of the total UT’s funds for the MC,” the Congress leader said.On this, Sood replied, “The Congress gave the work of waste processing plant to Jaypee without floating any tender and signed an MoU without any clause. After a long fight in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) with the firm responsible for the mountain of waste at the Dadu Majra dumping ground, we have started the process of clearing the waste and setting up a new plant.”“Cow cess is being spent on building a Barsana-like gaushala in Raipur Kalan. Besides, not just the MC’s grant, even its earnings have increased,” he said. Sood was interrupted by Congress leaders who said the latter was giving a speech. The BJP chief, after sharing his views, left the venue. “The Congress leader came late, not me,” he said while leaving.Later, Prem Garg, convener, AAP, which is fighting the MC poll for the first time, said, “We will ensure transparency and update the contract and agenda-related information on the MC’s website.” AAP has already promised 20,000 litre free water per bill, besides promising to clear all waste dumping sites in the city.The Congress leader fumed when Garg was “allowed to give a speech rather than just replying to questions.” He even left the stage and started to walk outside, but was later stopped.Earlier, sharing his party’s vision, city SAD president Hardeep Singh said, “We will raise the issue of one-time settlement with regard to CHB houses. We will provide 24X7 clean water supply. We will get garbage collection charges reduced and resolve parking problems. We will promote Punjabi.”City Congress chief fails to show upWhile the BJP, AAP and SAD presidents shared the stage, city Congress chief Subhash Chawla did not turn up despite a written confirmation to CRAWFED, the organiser, an umbrella body of RWAs. When Chandigarh Tribune contacted Chawla, he said, “An unscheduled meeting with the general secretary in-charge came up at 11 am and I had messaged the organisers on Saturday night that I won’t be able to come to the event. Pawan Verma reached late as he first mistakenly reached the Press Club instead of the the Chandigarh Club, the venue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/matdata-puchhta-hai-event-turns-out-to-be-a-stormy-affair-344024
29-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh dispensaries to screen all patients for Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28All patients coming to dispensaries in Chandigarh will be screened for Covid even if they are asymptomatic and fully vaccinated, the Director, Health Services, Dr Suman Singh, has ordered.As per the orders, patients of Chandigarh will be screened using the RT-PCR test and those from other states will be screened using both the RTPCR and Rapid Antigen test.“All heads of departments of the GMSH, Sector 16, and allied dispensaries are directed to ensure that all OPD patients are screened for Covid even if they are asymptomatic and fully vaccinated,” the official orders state.The orders have come in the wake of the Health Ministry pressing for increasing testing in all states after reports of a new virus variant, Omicron, surfaced. Like other states, Chandigarh has also seen a decline in testing after Covid cases began to fall.Only 1,000 tests are being conducted daily now, while the daily testing capacity of Chandigarh is over 3,000. In September, the UT Health Secretary had asked the GMCH, Sector 32, to conduct tests in OPDs. However, as per senior doctors of the hospital, conducting tests of all patients coming to OPDs is a difficult task.Besides dispensaries and the GMSH-16, the UT Adviser has instructed the PGI and the GMCH-32 to ramp up testing in OPDs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dispensaries-to-screen-all-patients-for-covid-19-344021
