30-11-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports nine new cases of Covid-19||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported nine new cases of Covid-19 as the total number of infections rose to 65,465.A positivity rate of 0.86 per cent was recorded today as 1044 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.A positivity rate of 0.63 per cent has been recorded in the last seven days.The number of active cases has risen to 65 as two patients were discharged.The death toll in the city remains 820.As many as 64,580 people have recovered from the virus till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-nine-new-cases-of-covid-19-344729
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Part of Sector 4 declared 'containment zone'||Part of Sector 4 has been declared a containment zone, an order by the district magistrate said on Tuesday.The order said a recent outbreak in Chandigarh prompted this response.The development comes a day after Chandigarh reported eight new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-part-of-sector-4-declared-containment-zone-344701
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Bansal, Chawla on Cong poll panel||2 arrested with 1.5-kg opium, carDera Bassi: The police have arrested two persons with 1.5-kg opium, a car and Rs35,000 drug money near Dera Bassi. They have been identified as Fazilika natives Prince and Kuldeep Singh. The police said they got a tip-off that two persons were coming in a car from Ambala to Dera Bassi to sell opium. TNSRoad closed tomorrowPanchkula: The police have issued an advisory that the Pinjore-Baddi road would remain closed from 6 am to 8 am on December 1 due to repairs to be carried out at the level crossing. Inspector Rajesh Kumar of the Traffic Police said the road from bus stand in Pinjore to Baddi would remain closed on December 1 due to level crossing repairs. TNSSaupin’s log 105-run winChandigarh: In the ongoing Saupin’s Gold Cup Cricket Tournament, hosts Saupin’s Cricket Academy defeated Sunrise Cricket Academy by 105 runs. Bating first, Saupin’s lads posted 172 runs before getting all out in 38.5 overs. In reply, Sunrise Academy lads were bundled out for 67 runs. Prabhakar was adjudged the man of the match. TNSCooch Behar: Good start for PunjabChandigarh: A fine uneaten century by Tikshan Tangri helped Punjab to gain good start against Uttar Pradesh in the Cooch Behar Trophy U-19 Men’s Tournament at MCA Cricket Stadium, Gahunje (Pune). Batting first, Punjab lads posted 237/1 at the drawn of stumps. Tangri scored unbeaten 127 off 255. His innings was ably supported by Taranveer, who scored unbeaten 94 off 264 balls. Chandigarh lads, meanwhile, were off to a poor show as they failed to take any wicket against Rajasthan on the opening day. Playing at Vadodara, Rajasthan lads posted 297 runs without losing any wicket. TNSGMHS-26 bag three titlesChandigarh: Government Model High School (GMHS), Sector 26, claimed three titles on the concluding day of the Chandigarh Junior State Dodgeball Championship for 6th CL DAV School Trophy. In the boys’ junior final, the Sector 26 team registered a (2-0) win over Sri Aurobindo School, Sector 27. GMHS-43 claimed the third position by defeating Sector 29 Junior Club (2-0). The Sector 26 team won their second title by registering a (2-0) win over GMHS-43 in the girls’ junior final. The Sector 29 Coaching Centre team claimed third position by defeating GMHS-43 (2-0). In the boys’ junior final, GMHS-26 logged (2-0) victory over Sri Aurobindo School, while GMHS-43 defeated Sector 29 Junior Club (2-0) to finish third. Sri Aurobindo School won the girls’ sub-junior title by defeating GMHS-43 (2-0) and Sun Shine Club claimed the third position by defeating Friend Club (2-0). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bansal-chawla-on-cong-poll-panel-344489
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Santosh Trophy: Services overpower city, top points table||Tournament favourites Services remained unbeaten to top the Group A table on the concluding day of the Santosh Trophy qualifiers (North Zone) at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here today.The team topped the group with 12 points. In their last league match, Services overpowered hosts Chandigarh (2-0). After a goalless first half, Services lads pulled off their first goal in the 60th minute. Liton Schil netted the much-needed goal for the side. Kamardeep Singh scored the second goal in the extra time of the match. Schil was named player of the match.Earlier, in the first match, Uttar Pradesh overpowered Himachal Pradesh by a solitary goal. Shishank Sehrawat netted the only goal of the match in the 30th minute. After the lemon break, Himachal lads tried hard to make a comeback. However, they failed to net the equaliser.Services topped the table with 12 points, followed by Chandigarh (5 points) at the second position, Uttar Pradesh (5 points) at the third, Jammu & Kashmir (5 points) at the fourth and Himachal Pradesh (0 points) at the fifth position. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/santosh-trophy-services-overpower-city-top-points-table-344488
30-11-2021||---||Biker tries to rob man of Rs4.71L, nailed||Chandigarh, November 29A motorcyclist was nabbed after he tried to rob a bag containing Rs4.71 lakh from a man in Sector 31 today.Rakesh Kumar (50), who works as cashier at Rama Agency, Sector 31, was on his way to deposit the cash in the Sector 31 branch of the SBI when the incident took place.The police said when the victim reached the parking lot in front of the bank, the suspect threw red chilli powder in Rakesh’s face. He made a futile attempt to snatch the bag containing the cash.Rakesh, with the help of other people, nabbed the suspect. The police arrested the suspect, identified as Arvind Kumar, alias Babbu, a resident of Phase-I, Ram Darbar.A case under Section 393 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-tries-to-rob-man-of-4-71l-nailed-344487
30-11-2021||Mohali||45-yr-old undertrial flees from Mohali court||An undertrial in a fraud case fled from the police custody at a Mohali court, where he was brought on a production warrant for a court hearing by the Chandigarh Police this afternoon.The accused has been identified as Ashish Goyal (45), a resident of Phase 11. He had an industrial unit in Baddi.The accused, a proclaimed offender in two cases, borrowed a phone on the pretext of contacting his lawyer and pushed the cop accompanying him and fled in a black car waiting for him outside the main gate in a no-parking zone. The cop raised the alarm following which police officials rushed to the spot and tried to chase the vehicle for a distance, but later returned empty-handed. The accused was lodged in the Burail jail in a fraud case registered at the Sector 39 police station.The police said he had a shady past as he and his wife were also declared POs in a fraud case registered at the Phase 8 police station in 2008.The police are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to nab the accused. The police said the registration number of the vehicle could not be noted down.Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said, “On a statement of ASI Brahm Pal, a case has been registered at the Sohana police station. The police have formed teams to nab the accused.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-yr-old-undertrial-flees-from-mohali-court-344486
30-11-2021||---||Three former Punwire officials get two-year RI||Mohali, November 29The Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Mohali, today sentenced the then executive director and two other former officials of Punwire to two-year rigorous imprisonment (RI).The special court also imposed a fine of Rs7,000 each on Ved Prakash, former executive director, Ashok Jerath, former AGM, and NK Bhambri, former statutory auditor, of Punwire.The CBI had registered the case on October 10, 2002 on the directions of the Supreme Court on the allegations of large-scale embezzlement of funds in Punwire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-former-punwire-officials-get-two-year-ri-344485
30-11-2021||---||JCT case: Punjab and Haryana High Court orders status quo||Chandigarh, November 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted relief to ARCIL, a secured creditor, by ordering status quo in all respects. It had taken the possession of plot number A-32, Industrial Focal Point, Phase VIII, Mohali, under the SARFESI Act.The property was sold through public auction for Rs 90.56 crore to successful bidder GRG Developers & Promoters LLP. A secured creditor is a lender, generally a bank, with the benefit of a security interest over some or all of the assets of the debtor.Following the auction, the PSIEC raised the issue with regard to entitlement of 50 per cent of the sale consideration towards unearned increase as per terms of the lease deed executed on July 8, 1987, whereby the land was allotted to M/s JCT Electronics Ltd on a leasehold basis for 99 years.While confirming the sale and subsequent transfer of title and possession in favour of auction purchaser, PSIEC also demanded enhanced land cost and transfer fees to be directly paid to it for getting NOC for the purpose of transfer.Appearing on behalf of ARCIL before the Bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi, senior advocate Chetan Mittal with counsel VK Sachdeva and Mayank Agarwal pointed out that the PSIEC in one of the communications dated November 6, 2020, had stated that the matter had been considered and approval of the Punjab Government was conveyed for execution of a tripartite agreement. Thereafter, a tripartite agreement was executed on December 11, 2020.The dispute arose after it was conveyed that the matter has been referred to the Finance Department in spite of exact calculation in December 2020 and part payment already being received from the auction purchaser by the PSIEC.Mittal informed the court that the tripartite agreement, which was made for the facilitation of direct payment of unearned increase to the PSIEC, has been terminated through the impugned order on the directions of the Punjab Department of Finance. It was alleged that it amounted to illegality and was without jurisdiction. It was also overreaching the court especially on account of the previous matter being sub judice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jct-case-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-status-quo-344460
30-11-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Pre-bid meeting of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking cancelled after protest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29Over 300 CTU employees and members of citizens’ groups protested at the Sector 43 bus stand today against a pre-bid meeting organised in connection with a scheme for the tendering of 20 AC buses, saying that the move was aimed at privatising the bus service.Though the CTU shelved the meeting, the UT Director (Transport), Pradhuman Singh, said it had not been done because of the protest, but because he was busy with election duty.Meanwhile, president of CTU Workers Union Dharminder Singh Rahi claimed that the meeting was cancelled after the director had a meeting with them.“This protest is triggered by the tender of kilometer scheme for 20 buses, out of 41 AC buses. It may be recalled that the union had reached an agreement with the Administration in 2016 and approved the purchase of 120 HVAC and 40 ordinary buses and these buses were to be procured by the CTU out of its budget,” said Rahi.He added, “Two depots of the CTU, number 2 and 4, have already been privatised and brought under the ‘Chandigarh City Bus Services Society’. And now, they are planning to privatise buses of Long Route Depot No. 1 under the kilometer scheme, which is absurd and wrong.”The union, joined by over 10 worker unions and citizens’ groups, warned the officials of the Chandigarh Administration that if the tender was not cancelled, they would block the entire city.Pradhuman Singh while talking with The Tribune said, “There is no existing bus to be privatised. This move will not have any effect on the existing CTU drivers or ticket price. The pre-bid meeting was called off as I was busy with election duty, being the returning officer of four wards.”The protest was attended by about 200 people from several organisations, including the Samyukt Karamchari Morcha, Contractual Karamchari Sangh, AITUC (Chandigarh), Samyukt Kisan Morcha, INTUC (Chandigarh), UTSS Federation, Unrevised and Partially Revised Front of Punjab, CRTC and PUNBUS Contractual Workers Union, Pendu Sangharsh Committee and the Housing Welfare Association, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pre-bid-meeting-of-ctu-cancelled-after-protest-344456
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Eight test positive for Covid in Chandigarh||Only one found infected in MohaliMohali: Only one fresh case of Covid-19 was reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 68,945. Meanwhile, no new fatality was reported till Monday evening, while 11 patients were cured of the disease. The case was reported from Mohali (urban). No case was reported from Dera Bassi, Dhakoli, Gharuan, Kharar, Kurali and Banur. As of now, the district tally stands at 68,945 and recoveries 67,835. There are 39 active cases with 1,071 deaths in the district. TNSTwo fresh cases in Panchkula districtPanchkula: Two fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 30,831. However, no death due to the virus was reported from the district on Monday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-344455
30-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Omicron scare: Chandigarh hospitals put on high alert||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29Threat posed by the new South African variant, Omicron, has prompted the Health Department to put the UT hospitals on alert to again activate Covid beds.As per the action plan, the hospital at Sector 48 with 121 oxygenated beds (including 17 ventilator beds) will be opened as soon as the GMCH-32 reaches about 80% occupancy.Special arrangements have been made in the Sector 45 hospital for children with a sufficient number of ventilator beds. The sub-district hospitals at Sector-22 and Mani Majara are also prepared to take initial care of some patients. Besides, three mini-Covid care centres are in the state of temporary closure and can be revived withing a notice of two or three days.A review meeting was held today to discuss the emergent issues especially because of the new variant of concern, Omicron. The meeting was attended by the Director Principal of GMCH-32, the Director, Health Services, and Dr Naveen, from the PGI.The Covid test of all patients visiting the OPDs of the GMSH-16, sub-district hospitals at Sectors 22, 45 and Mani Majra, and the GMCH-32 has been ordered by the department. In case of any hospital admission, all patients will be subjected to rapid antigen test (RAT) and RTPCR tests, and in case of OPDs, all patients are to be subjected to RAT.In view of the MC elections, the Director, Health Service, will appoint a nodal officer with each of the returning officer and provide all assistance required, in accordance with the directions of the State Election Commission and the prevailing ground situation.Persons sans mask to be challanedIt has also been decided by the authorities to challan/fine residents for not wearing a mask in public places and to ask them to undergo the Covid test.UT holds meeting with religious leadersThe UT Health Department held a meeting with religious leaders to encourage their followers to come forward for vaccination. Dr Nagpal, Medical Superintendent of GMSH-16, and Dr Manjit Trehan, District Immunisation Officer, met Maulana Mohd Ajmal Khan, Imam of Sector-20 mosque in Chandigarh, and Father Kajus, Father James and Father Tharthus of the Sector 19 church and requested them to support the Administration in increasing the pace of vaccination against Covid. Special camps will be held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/omicron-scare-chandigarh-hospitals-put-on-high-alert-344450
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH MC POLL: AAP releases list of 26 nominees||The city AAP has released its first list of 26 candidates for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections, scheduled for December 24. The remaining names are expected to be announced tomorrow.The list of candidates, along with ward numbers, was declared by the party in-charge for Chandigarh and Punjab Jarnail Singh.The party leaders kept discussing the names the whole day and released the list to the media around 10.30 pm. The party had announced a list a few days ago, but had to take back the names due to alleged opposition. The declared candidates were then made ward in-charge. As the party announced the names today, a probable candidate from ward number 25 said he would burn an effigy of party leaders tomorrow. The list includes several Congress leaders who had joined AAP.The list includes the names of Jasvinder Kaur (ward 1), Sukhraj Sandhu (ward 2), Suman Amit Sharma (ward 4), Amanpreet Kaushal (ward 5), Satish Kumar (ward 7), Vandana Yadav (ward 9), Avtar Kaur (ward 10), Omkar Singh Aulakh, aka Sunny (ward 11), Sandeep Dahiya (ward 12), Kuldeep Kukki (ward 14), Ram Chandra Yadav (ward 15), Poonam Kumari (ward 16), Taruna Mehta (ward 18), Neha Mushawat (ward 19), Rajesh Chaudhary (ward 20), Jasvir Singh Laddi (ward 21), Anju Katyal (ward 22), Prem Lata (ward 23), Yogesh Dhingra (ward 25), Kuldeep Dalohar (ward 26), GeetaDevi (ward 28), Vikram Pudhir (ward 30), Lakhvinder Singh Billu (ward 31), Sahil Makkad (ward 32), Harjinder Singh Bawa (ward 34) and Sandeep Bhardwaj (ward 35). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-poll-aap-releases-list-of-26-nominees-344411
30-11-2021||---||Langar Baba, who fed needy outside PGI, dead||Chandigarh, November 29Padma Shri Jagdish Lal Ahuja (85), popularly known as ‘Langar Baba’, passed away in the city today. He was suffering from leukaemia for a long time and took his last breath on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday as his oxygen level dropped to 50.For 20 years now, Ahuja’s langar outside the PGI had been serving nearly 2,500 people a day. He sold his entire property, including 45-acre agriculture land and a one kanal triple-storey house in Panchkula, to fund the langar. He never accepted any donation to run the langar.The langar, which continues to this day, was started outside the PGI in January 2000 when Ahuja was hospitalised there for the treatment of cancer.Ahuja would often say that no one knew better than him what it meant to go to bed on an empty stomach. His story goes back to Partition, when a 12-year-old Ahuja migrated from Peshawar and stayed at the Mansa railway station in Punjab for weeks. “I have seen such poverty when I was not sure of even getting two square meals a day. However, I never got down to begging. I would survive by selling grams,” he would recall.From Mansa, he shifted to Patiala where he would sell candies and bananas on buses. Later, he moved to Kansal on the outskirts of Chandigarh in 1956 where he started selling bananas.It was during his son’s birthday celebrations when the realisation dawned upon him that while his family enjoyed a feast, many faced poverty and starvation. Since then, he has been organising a langar every day.On January 21, 2000, he organised a langar outside the PGI. The response was low on Day 1, but by the fifth day, people started coming.As he was not keeping well for the past some time, only one thing would bother him: who would look after the langar once he was gone? His grandson, Kushagra Duggal, said, “We are grieving at the moment and are yet to take a call on who will carry forward his legacy.Sold entire property to fund langarFor 20 years now, Padma Shri Jagdish Lal Ahuja’s langar outside the PGI had been serving nearly 2,500 people a day. He sold his entire property, including 45-acre agriculture land and a one kanal triple-storey house in Panchkula, to fund the langar.PGI expresses grief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/langar-baba-who-fed-needy-outside-pgi-dead-344393
30-11-2021||Naina Mishra||Back from South Africa, Chandigarh man tests +ve for Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29A 39-year-old man from Sector 36, who returned from South Africa recently, tested positive for Covid today.His wife and domestic help have also tested positive, while two other family members are reported to be negative. The report of one family member is still awaited.He had returned from South Africa on November 21 and was quarantined at home on his arrival in Chandigarh. He was RT-PCR negative on arrival. However, he was again tested for Covid today as per the protocol.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said the patient and his family had been shifted to the Covid isolation ward at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.The Health Department said as per the protocol, the positive cases were being shifted to an institutional quarantine facility. The samples of the positive cases would be sent for whole genome sequencing to the NCDC, New Delhi, to ascertain the variant/variant of concern (VoC), if any.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Omicron variant B.1.1.529 has a large number of mutations, some of which are of concern. Preliminary evidence suggests an increased risk of reinfection with this variant, as compared to other VoCs. The number of cases of this variant appears to be increasing in almost all provinces in South Africa.Preliminary evidence suggests there may be an increased risk of reinfection with Omicron (i.e. people who have previously had Covid could become reinfected more easily with Omicron) as compared to other variants of concern, but information is limited.How to keep safeThe WHO advises that the most effective steps individuals can take to reduce the spread of Covid is to keep a physical distance of at least 1 metre from others, wear a mask, open windows to improve ventilation, avoid poorly ventilated spaces, keep hands clean and get vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/back-from-south-africa-man-tests-ve-for-covid-344391
30-11-2021|| Chandigarh||Chandigarh: South African returnee tests Covid-19 positive; samples sent for genome sequencing||A 39-year-old man from Sector 36, who returned from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.  His wife and domestic help have also tested positive for Covid-19, while two other family members are reported to be negative. The report of one family member is still awaited.  He had returned from South Africa on November 21 and was quarantined at home on his arrival at Chandigarh. He was RT-PCR negative on arrival, however, he was again tested for Covid today as per the protocol.  UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg informed that the patient and his family have been shifted to the Covid isolation ward at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.  The health department said that as per protocol, the positive cases are being shifted to an institutional quarantine facility. The samples of the positive cases will be sent for Whole Genome Sequencing to NCDC, Delhi to ascertain the variant/variant of concern (VoC), if any. As per the World Health Organisation (WHO), Omicron variant — B.1.1.529 — has a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning. Preliminary evidence suggests an increased risk of reinfection with this variant, as compared to other VOCs. The number of cases of this variant appears to be increasing in almost all provinces in South Africa.  Preliminary evidence suggests there may be an increased risk of reinfection with Omicron (i.e., people who have previously had Covid-19 could become re-infected more easily with Omicron), as compared to other variants of concern, but information is limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-administration-dismisses-rumours-over-omicron-variant-says-no-case-yet-344275
30-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh?s ?langar baba? Jagdish Lal Ahuja passes away||Chandigarh, November 29Chandigarh’s ‘langar baba’ Jagdish Lal Ahuja has passed away.He was recently conferred the Padma Shri for selfless service.For 20 years now, Ahuja’s langar outside the PGI here and later at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has been feeding nearly 2,500 people a day.The langar, which continues to this day, was started outside the PGI in January 2000 when Ahuja was hospitalised there for the treatment of cancer.Ahuja would often say that no one knew better than him what it meant to go to bed on an empty stomach. His story goes back to Partition, when a 12-year-old Ahuja migrated from Peshawar and stayed at Mansa railway station in Punjab for weeks.“I have seen such poverty when I was not sure of even getting two square meals a day. But I never got down to begging. I would survive by selling grams,” he would recall.From Mansa, he shifted to Patiala where he would sell candies and bananas on buses. Later, he moved to Kansal on the outskirts of Chandigarh in 1956 where he started selling bananas.Ahuja says he was a fun-loving man. “It was my son’s birthday and we were having a party. That day, I felt bad that while we are having a feast, so many people have to go to bed hungry. So, we made rotis and gave them to the poor. I then decided to organise a langar every day,” he once recalled.He soon started distributing bananas among people. On January 21, 2000, he organised a langar outside the PGI. The response was low on day 1, but by the fifth day, people started coming, he recalled. “For many years, we kept serving daal, roti, chawal and halwa to around 2,000 people daily.”This continued without a day’s break, but it came at a cost. Ahuja sold a number of properties, including farms, showrooms and residential plots. “I had bought them for thousands, but they sold for crores,” he recalled.As he was not keeping well for the past some time, only one thing would nag him: who would look after the 'langar' once he is gone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-langar-baba-jagdish-lal-ahuja-passes-away-344249
30-11-2021||---||Three dead, 5 hurt in car crash at Gharuan||Mohali, November 28Three persons were killed while five others were injured when a speeding car crashed into a road divider and hit bystanders near Chandigarh University in Gharuan this afternoon. The deceased have been identified as Gharuan residents Jamil Khan, Surinder Shinda and Sanjeet, all auto-rickshaw drivers, who were in their 40s and were waiting there for passengers. Five persons, including car driver Ankush, were injured in the incident and rushed to the Civil Hospital, Kharar. The police said they were later shifted to the GMSH, Sector 16, where their condition is stated to be serious. ASI Balbir Singh said, “The speeding Hyundai Verna car, with five occupants, was on the way to Ludhiana from Chandigarh. The driver lost control over the vehicle and it crashed into the road divider, overturned and hit bystanders on the slip road around 2 pm.”The police said two motor cycle-borne youths suddenly came in front of the car, which led to the crash. Two motorcycles parked nearby were badly damaged in the accident. Eyewitnesses said there was a traffic jam after the accident. The police have sent the bodies to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, for a post-mortem.A case of negligent driving has been registered against the driver at the Gharuan police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-dead-5-hurt-in-car-crash-at-gharuan-344042
