14-03-2021||New Delhi||Delhi HC to resume physical functioning from Monday||After a year, the Delhi High Court will resume from Monday its complete physical functioning, which was restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic.From March 15, all judges of the high court would hold physical hearing of cases.Since March 2020, the high court has been holding proceedings through video conferencing and subsequently, a few benches started holding physical courts everyday on a rotation basis.Some of them were also holding hybrid proceedings, wherein lawyers have the option to attend the hearing via video conference instead of appearing in person.According to a notification issued by the high court administration on March 12, limited numbers of litigants who are appearing in person and/or required to appear in compliance of the court’s order/directions be permitted in the court premises.The high court on March 2 had issued certain guidelines to be followed upon resumption of physical court hearings from March 15, including that visitors and advocates shall maintain social distancing as per government norms.A circular issued by the administration branch of the high court earlier had said entry of litigants will be regulated as it was during the pre-COVID-19 pandemic period and facilitation counter/pass counter will also function in a normal manner.“All the visitors, including lawyers, shall maintain social distancing as per norms/protocol issued by the government of India/ Delhi government and or this court,” it had said.The functioning of the high court was restricted to urgent matters from March 16, 2020.Thereafter, from March 25 last year, the functioning of the high court and district courts was further restricted and no physical hearing was being conducted due to the spread of COVID-19 cases.An office order had said that all pending routine or non-urgent matters listed before it from February 22 to March 26 would be adjourned en bloc to dates between April 15 and May 20. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-hc-to-resume-physical-functioning-from-monday-225140
14-03-2021||New Delhi||Delhi records 407 new COVID-19 cases; positivity rate 0.60 per cent||Delhi recorded 407 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, crossing the 400-mark for the fourth consecutive day, while the positivity rate stood at 0.60 per cent, according to data shared by the health department.The death toll climbed to 10,941 with two more fatalities, as per the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi Health Department.The city had recorded 419 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, while 431 cases were recorded on Friday, the highest single-day spike in over two months. The count on Thursday was 409.Delhi had registered 370 new cases on Wednesday and 320 on Tuesday. The city had reported three COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday and four on Tuesday.A total of 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures.The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month’s highest daily count of 256 new cases was recorded.The new coronavirus cases recorded on Sunday took the infection tally to 6,43,696, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the city rose to 2,262 on Sunday from 2,207 on Saturday.Health experts and doctors have attributed this “sudden rise” of COVID-19 cases to people turning complacent, not following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and “assuming that all is well now”.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Friday said the figures of over 400 per day suddenly were “not alarming”, and had asserted that the positivity rate was still below one per cent.The total number of tests conducted on Saturday stood at 68,223, including 41,195 RT-PCR tests and 27,028 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said.The number of people under home isolation on Sunday rose to 1,270 from 1,204 on Saturday, it said, adding that over 6.30 lakh people have recovered from the infection till date. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-records-407-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-0-60-per-cent-225135
14-03-2021||New Delhi||Delhi: 3 firing incidents in 48 hours, 1 dead||A man was killed while two others seriously injured in three separate shooting incidents in north east Delhi within a span of 48 hours.A 47-year-old man was shot dead by a gunman in north-east Delhi's Khajoori Khas on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Sohrab Ansari, and the police suspected personal enmity behind the cause of the murder.The incident was reported at around 8.40 p.m. on Saturday when the deceased was at his shop located in D- Block, Gali No.2, Shree Ram Colony of Khajoori Khas where he was shot by some unknown person."On inquiry into the incident, it has primarily emerged that personal animosity, at Delhi or at his native place Sultan Ganj, Bihar, may be the reason for the incident. The case has been registered under appropriate sections of law and investigation is in progress," said Sanjay Kumar Sain, DCP North East.In another incident reported from Jafrabad on Saturday evening a 42-year-old man was shot in Brahampuri road at his Mother Dairy shop. Injured person Manoj Sharma has been shifted to the GTB hospital."At about 4.20 pm, information was received in Jafrabad police station from the JPC hospital about a gunshot injury caused to Manoj Sharma, who owns a Mother dairy shop located at B55 on Brahmpuri road and the incident took place at his shop. The injured person has been shifted to GTB hospital, said the police."In the incidents of Jafrabad and Khajoori, accused have been identified and police teams are working to arrest them," the officer added.Another incident of firing was reported from Jafrabad area on Friday. A man was injured when the assailants opened fire at him. According to the police the dispute was about the repairing work of a bike."In this incident of Jafrabad both the accused, Suhail and Gazi, have been identified and arrested," the officer added. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-3-firing-incidents-in-48-hours-1-dead-225066
14-03-2021|| New Delhi||DU online exams: Important do's and don'ts||Online exams are scheduled to begin in Delhi University from March 15. The students have been asked to take care of technical things like download, upload, password, internet network, more than the answers to the questions.Many times, hundreds of students get entangled in technical matters. To overcome this confusion, a special team has now been formed, which includes professors and students knowing about online book exams.On March 15, online book examinations of the first-year students are going to start. About 1.25 lakh students will appear online. For the first time, this team of professors and students will provide solutions to the problems related to the examination of students of Delhi University sitting in the online book exam. Students of colleges, non-collegiate and SOL will get benefit from this.The team has been formed by the Delhi Teachers Association (DTA) and student organisation CYSS. The committee includes those teachers and students who have information related to the university examination. The committee consists of Hansraj Suman as convenor and Kamal Tiwari as covalent. Assistant Professors Sunil Kumar, Manoj Kumar Singh and Narendra Pandey are also part of this committee.Professor Hansraj told IANS, "Students have been instructed to first go to the university's website and download their admit cards to get the information related to taking the exam. Please do any work related to the exam with your registered email id. The students will be required to download the question papers and upload answer sheets with the same email id from which they have filled the examination form."Professor Sunil Kumar said, "It is mandatory to remember your email ID and its password before the exam, write it down somewhere or remember it. While submitting the PDF of the answer sheet, keep in mind that it should not be password protected, otherwise the checker will not be able to open and evaluate it."Students will have to create a separate PDF for every answer which should not be greater than 7MB in size. For instance -- If a student attempts four questions, he or she will have to create four PDFs for every answer with the size of up to 7MB each, he said.Giving information related to the exam, the committee's co-convenor Kamal Tiwari said that the students will get 3 hours to complete their question paper and one hour to upload the answers.Differently-abled students will get a total of 6 hours. Students are advised to use the uploading time only for uploading, otherwise, they might have to face trouble due to network issues at the last moment. Hence, students should take care of the time.Another important step that the student must follow, is to take a screenshot at every stage of the examination. Keep the screenshot of every question and its answer that you are giving, Moreover, if you receive the acknowledgement slip after submitting your answer then take a screenshot of it too because in any case of unsuccessful upload the varsity and college may ask you for the screenshot as proof. These screenshots would also help you in case of a wrong evaluation.Students are informed that sometimes they face problems while uploading the PDFs due to network issues. If it happens then they are advised to take screenshots of that too and upload the proof with the answer PDFs. The university is giving you one hour extra for only the right uploading.After submitting all the PDFs when the acknowledgement slip appears, it means the papers have been submitted.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/du-online-exams-important-dos-and-donts-225057
14-03-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Buzz back at Amritsar railway station as Delhi Shatabdi returns after year||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 13Much to the delight and relief of passengers, vendors, porters and others, after a gap of nearly a year popular Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi Express arrived at the Amritsar railway station on Saturday. Passengers were upbeat about the resumption of trains from the railway station as it offered them convenient travel at moderate price.Harjit Singh, a passenger, said he and his family frequently visited the holy city to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and to meet close relatives living here. He said the central government should empathetically listen to farmers in distress.Traders relieved The resumption of direct trains, especially to Delhi, has brought a great relief to traders. Now we can travel regularly to the national capital and carry out our routine business as we used to do a year ago. —Krishan Kumar, TraderKrishan Kumar and Sandeep, both traders, said they had been travelling by car to Delhi from the holy city for the past one year which was expensive and tiresome. Sandeep said traders had heaved a sigh of relief with the resumption of train services. They stated that “sweeping changes like demonetisation, GST and three laws on agriculture, in a large democracy like India should be avoided. Similarly, Covid-19 lockdown and its restrictions were equally and even more massive”. The moment the train arrived at the station concerned staff was seen engaged in sprinkling disinfectant over it.Expecting livelihood, porters were seen running behind the train. However, most vendors did not open their vends at the railway station, demanding compensation in waiving rents during the past one year. They said vends had been closed since March last year following the announcement of Covid-induced lockdown in the country. They were being asked to open these without any assurance by the railway authorities in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/buzz-back-at-amritsar-railway-station-as-delhi-shatabdi-returns-after-year-224785
14-03-2021||New Delhi||Delhi HC directs accused to do community service at gurdwara, quashes FIR||The Delhi High Court has directed a 21-year-old man to do community service at Bangla Sahib gurdwara here for a month while quashing a criminal case against him.While imposing a fine of Rs 1 lakh, the court said the man must learn to control his anger and not take law in his hands.Justice Subramonium Prasad quashed the FIR lodged against the man for the offence of attempt to murder, noting that he was a 21-year-old youth with his entire life ahead of him and the fact that the parties have entered into a settlement.The court directed him to do one-month community service at Bangla Sahib gurdwara from March 16 to April 16, 2021 and added that after completion of one month, he should submit a certificate from the gurdwara to show compliance with the order.“The youngster must learn to control his anger and keep in mind that he cannot take law in his hands,” the judge said.The court said a perusal of the charge sheet would show that during interrogation the accused has stated that when he was arguing with his mother, the complainant slapped him, he felt insulted and therefore, in anger, he took a knife from a vegetable vendor and stabbed the complainant.The incident had taken place in March 2020 and an FIR was lodged against the man.The court noted that the man has already spent about a month in custody and he has expressed regret in the court. Also, the complainant who was present in the court stated that the life of the youngster would get spoiled if proceedings continue. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-hc-directs-accused-to-do-community-service-at-gurdwara-quashes-fir-224712
