23-03-2021||New Delhi||Court upholds order for 2-year jail to Somnath Bharti for assaulting security staff at AIIMS||A Delhi court on Tuesday upheld an order sentencing AAP MLA Somnath Bharti to two years in jail for assaulting the AIIMS security staff in a case registered in 2016.After the pronouncement of the order, Bharti was taken into custody, a lawyer said.A magistrate court had in January sentenced him to two years in jail.Special Judge Vikas Dhull partly dismissed Bharti’s appeal and convicted him for the offences under sections 147 (rioting) read with 149 (unlawful assembly) of IPC and under section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.The court, however, set aside his conviction under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) read with section 149 of IPC.In January, Bharti was granted bail to enable him to file an appeal before the high court against his conviction in the case and jail term.According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here with a JCB operator.The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R S Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/court-upholds-order-for-2-year-jail-to-somnath-bharti-for-assaulting-security-staff-at-aiims-229411
23-03-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police organises training programme on crowd control for its personnel||Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava has organised a training programme on crowd control and public order management for Delhi Armed Police personnel, which will enable them to handle law and order during sensitive situations in the national capital, officials said on Tuesday.The first batch of 75 police personnel is being trained at RAF Academy of Public Order (RAPO) in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut from March 22 to April 6, they said.The training will help the police personnel in handling the law and order situation and enable them in countering sensitive situations such as riots and protests effectively, police said."This training programme is the first of its kind in the history of Delhi Police in which all the police personnel of Delhi Armed Police will be trained in all technical strategies of crowd control along with modern weapons and special techniques," Additional Delhi Police PRO Anil Mittal said.The police personnel will also be trained in psychology, public and police relations, communal harmony, fire fighting technique, less lethal weapon and ammunition handling, new special devices, anti-riot drill and human rights, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-police-organises-training-programme-on-crowd-control-for-its-personnel-229408
23-03-2021||New Delhi||If BJP makes drinking age 25 years in other states, we will make it 30 years in Delhi: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Sourabh Bharadwaj on Tuesday said that if the BJP made the minimum age of buying liquor 25 years in party-ruled states, then the AAP would increase it to 30 years in Delhi.   He said that the legal age of drinking alcohol in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh was 21 years, while in BJP-ruled Goa it was 18 years.Bhardwaj said that the BJP was speaking against the decision to lower the drinking age in order to protect black markets and financial misappropriation.  He claimed that when youths under 21 years go to restaurants and pubs, police extorts money from restaurant owners which then makes its way to the "top"."By our decision, this malpractice will be stopped and that is why BJP is upset," Bhardwaj said.He said that BJP leaders should ask the central government to bring a law which makes the age of drinking 25 years in the whole country as this will bring uniformity. "I am surprised to see the hypocrisy of the BJP. Till now no one has seen such hypocrisy in any political party. It is very clear that the BJP is shameless. Within the BJP-ruled states, the legal of liquor consumption is 21 years from many years. It is 21 years in dozens of states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh. The BJP has ruled for 15 years in Goa, where the legal age is 18 years," he said "I challenge Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and LOP Shri Ramvir Bidhuri to bring this age back to 25 years in the BJP ruled states, then we will make it 30 years," Bhardwaj said.This is BJP's attempt to steal revenue and protect black marketing, he alleged. The Delhi Cabinet on Monday approved a new excise policy lowering the minimum age for consumption of liquor to 21 years from 25 years, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced.The opposition on Monday hit out at the AAP government for lowering the drinking age, claiming the new excise policy will make the city the "capital of intoxicants".The Delhi BJP president said he and his party leaders will meet Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday to protest the new excise policy."The new policy will not only lead to (sale of) spurious liquor and promote crime but will also spoil youngsters as the legal age for drinking has been lowered from 25 to 21 years."The right thing would have been for the government to tighten liquor policy to make Delhi safe for women and keep youngsters away from the liquor," Gupta said in a statement. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/if-bjp-makes-drinking-age-25-years-in-other-states-we-will-make-it-30-years-in-delhi-aap-229391
23-03-2021||New Delhi||Light rain in Delhi-NCR, temperature to rise by weekend||The National Capital and its neighbouring areas witnessed light rain coupled with thunderstorm on Tuesday afternoon, providing much-needed relief to the people from the rising mercury levels.According to Kuldeep Srivastava, the Head of India Meteorological Department's (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, a western disturbance is behind the sudden rain, thunderstorm and increase in wind speed.The western disturbance is a cyclonic storm that originates in the Mediterranean Sea and travels across Central Asia. When it comes in contact with the Himalayas, it brings rains to the hills and the plains.However, the respite will be short-lived. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 31-degree Celsius on Tuesday, which will rise to 37-degree Celsius by March 28. The  last time the city received rain and thunderstorm was on March 12.The IMD has predicted partly cloudy sky for Wednesday. The temperature will, however, be constant.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said that the rainfall has contributed to the improvement of air quality in the national capital, where the Air Quality Index (AQI) stood in the 'poor' category at 245 micrograms per cubic metre."Better ventilation and washout are likely to influence AQI positively. AQI is likely to marginally improve to the lower end of the 'moderate' category on Wednesday. Moderate to poor AQI is forecasted for March 25 and March 26," it stated. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/light-rain-in-delhi-ncr-temperature-to-rise-by-weekend-229383
23-03-2021||New Delhi||43-year-old retired Army jawan shot dead in Delhi's Dwarka||A 43-year-old retired Army man was shot dead allegedly by two unidentified men in west Delhi's Jaffarpur Kalan area, police said on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Mukesh alias Fauzi, a resident of Jaffarpur Kalan, they said. Around 5.30 pm on Monday, Mukesh was singing along with his friends in a field of one Rajender near Firni Road in Jaffarpur Kalan, where two unidentified men came on a motorcycle and inquired them about one Rakesh, a senior police officer said. They said that Rakesh was not with them, police said. "Meanwhile, the man who was inquiring about Rakesh, opened fire at Mukesh with a country-made pistol. He shot at Mukesh and fled on his motorcycle," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said. Later, Ishwar Singh (60), a resident of the same area, made a PCR call, following which Mukesh's nephew took him to the nearest hospital, where he was declared brought dead, police said. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered, they said.Police have inspected the crime scene and recorded the statement of the eyewitnesses. The post-mortem of the body has been conducted and an investigation is underway to nab the accused men, the DCP said. It is suspected to be a case of personal enmity, however, the exact cause will be ascertained after the arrest of the accused persons, police said. Mukesh was a retired Army man and had opened a grocery shop in his village, police said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/43-year-old-retired-army-jawan-shot-dead-in-delhis-dwarka-229348
23-03-2021||New Delhi||Delhi's min temp settles at 21.5 deg C; rain likely||The national capital on Tuesday recorded a minimum temperature of 21.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above the season's average, officials said. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 57 per cent, they said. According to MeT officials, the maximum temperature will settle at around 33 degrees Celsius. The weatherman has forecast generally cloudy sky with light rain later in the day.The air quality in the city was recorded in the “poor” category. The air quality index (AQI) was 224 at 8.05 am, according to real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered 'poor', 301-400 'very poor' and 401-500 'severe', while the AQI above 500 falls in the 'severe plus' category. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhis-min-temp-settles-at-21-5-deg-c-rain-likely-229321
23-03-2021||New Delhi||Lok Sabha clears contentious Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill 2021||The Lok Sabha on Monday cleared the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill 2021, which seeks to give more powers to the lieutenant governor (L-G), who is a representative of the Central government and Delhi’s administrative head.Opposition MPs, including from Congress, Shiv Sena, NCP, SP, BSP, IUML, National Conference, accused the Narendra Modi government of “destroying” democracy and “damaging and jeopardising” India’s federal structure and opposed the move vehemently.“They (Arvind Kejriwal government) must be doing something right which is why people elected them (AAP) for three consecutive terms,” NCP leader Supriya Sule also pointed, urging the government to send the Bill to select committee.Replying to the debate, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, however, said no rights were being taken away from the Delhi government. The aim of the Bill was only to bring clarity in laws and create sound government mechanism in Delhi and enhance public accountability.“Delhi is a UT with limited powers. Don’t make wrong allegations like murder of democracy, it is wrong. There has been no murder of democracy, no one is taking away any right of the Delhi government,” he said adding that only when there is a difference between the CM and LG, the President can be approached.“We are not amending the Constitution and it is in tune with recommendations and court judgments. The amendment is only to bring clarity on duties and responsibilities and clear misunderstandings. There is no political angle to the move,” said Reddy.Earlier, Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Bhaurao Raut slammed BJP’s New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi “for her words against the AAP CM who is not a member of the House”.He also reminded that Daman and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, who allegedly died by suicide, had named the Administrator there in his suicide note.AAP MP Bhagwant Mann accused the Central government led by PM Modi of murdering the democracy.“We are being punished because we did not give stadia to build jail during farmers’ agitation. You cannot run Delhi through ‘tanashahi’. The BJP is out of power for 22 years in Delhi but cannot digest that. What is the point of holding elections,” he said. Initiating the debate, Congress MP Manish Tewari claimed that the move “cuts the legs of the Delhi Vidhan Sabha”.“This law is completely misconceived. Go and read the law by former Home Minister LK Advani and see what your worthy predecessor has proposed and how far you have come from that,” Tewari told Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy.  Congress’ JS Gill accused the BJP of trying to “usurp” power in states it lost using unfair means.“They are trying to create a super CM in Delhi,” he said, requesting the Centre to allow the Delhi government to run.Only when states are strong, country will become strong, he added.Rebutting Opposition claims, BJP’s New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi said the LG has the right to send the Bills to the President.“We are quasi federal structure where on some issues the Central government will take precedence. The Centre moved in because it was required,” she said. Quoting the 1987 Balakrishnan Committee report on the issue which talked of restricted power, she said no rights have been impinged upon by the Bill and that it only aimed at “improving” the lives of people.“When a person drowns at the Minto bridge who is responsible? The BJP is trying to amend the pitiable situation of Delhi. Why did you not give Delhi the complete statehood when you (Congress) were in power,” Lekhi questioned. She also accused the AAP government of “creating” the farmers’ agitation.“The government refused to give buses to the Delhi Police. It has not given any benefit to residents. It has not even added new buses to the DTC fleet as promised or tried to improve the life of people. The Delhi CM is not the owner of Delhi as he claims,” she said.“Democracy does not mean murder of its own people. We are servants of people not their masters. Give water, electricity and good facilities to people. Work on betterment of Delhi with the LG, who is also the Administrator,” Lekhi said. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on March 15, setting up the stage for yet another confrontation between the Centre and the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government.The Bill amends the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991, which provides a framework for the functioning of the Legislative Assembly and the government. The Bill amends certain powers and responsibilities of the Legislative Assembly and the Lieutenant Governor. The Bill provides that the term “government” referred to any law made by the Legislative Assembly will imply Lieutenant Governor.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called the Bill an “unconstitutional and anti-democracy move”.Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has said the Bill will have “dangerous” consequences on India’s federal structure. The AAP and the BJP have been sparring over administrative powers of the LG ever since Arvind Kejriwal won the assembly elections in the national capital in 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/lok-sabha-clears%C2%A0contentious%C2%A0government-of-national-capital-territory-of-delhi-amendment-bill-2021-228937
23-03-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Government to bring down drinking age to 21||Delhi government is bringing down drinking age from 25 to 21 years, its Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday.Sisodia announced his government’s new excise policy on Monday.There will be no new liquor shops in Delhi. Additionally, Delhi government will not operate any liquor shops in the national capital."The Delhi government will not operate any liquor shops and all shops will be run through private vendors. A bidding process will be conducted soon. We have decided not to increase the prices. No new liquor shops will be opened in the national capital," he said.Sisodia, who also holds the finance end education portfolios, said his government will ensure that there is no open drinking in the market areas or near wine shops.At present, 60 per cent liquor shops in the national capital are run by the Delhi government, while the remaining 40 per cent are operated by private vendors."We have prepared for some major changes in the new excise policy which will be announced soon. We are expecting that with the new excise policy, the Delhi government will witness an uptick in revenues," the Deputy chief minister said.— Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-government-to-bring-down-drinking-age-to-21-228920
