24-03-2020||Amritsar||Improvement Trust staff to donate salary||Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) officials and employees, including its Chairman Dinesh Bassi, have decided to donate their one-month salary to the Chief Minister’s relief fund constituted to provide food, shelter and health care to the needy.In a statement on Monday, Bassi said each official would donate his or her one-month salary to ensure that daily wagers and several unorganised sector employees, who would be hit hard due to the lockdown, would get some support.“As many as 150 officials and employees of the AIT will donate their salaries to the Chief Minister’s relief fund. It is the least we can do to help those who would lose their livelihood due to the shutdown. We need to make sure that they do not sleep hungry,” said Bassi.Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday sanctioned Rs20 crore from the Chief Minister’s relief fund for providing free food and medicines to the needy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/improvement-trust-staff-to-donate-salary-60371
24-03-2020||---||Social distancing need of the hour: Sukhmani Sidana||Amritsar, March 23Observing self-isolation and encouraging others to follow her, actor Sukhmani Sidana is spending some quality time at home with her family in Amritsar. The actor, who has worked in several Bollywood films such as Manmarziyan and a web series, Sacred Games, flew in from Mumbai before Holi and has since been refraining from venturing out or meet people.“I reached the city a day before Holi and at that time, the airports were not testing people. Two days later, news of increasing Covid-19 cases started coming and it was then that my family and I decided to observe social distancing,” shared Sidana. The actor said with the current rate of cases being reported across the country, lockdown and isolation are the best strategies to follow.“I feel that individual responsibility plays crucial role in this (tackling the disease). I heard that people are not abiding by the advisory and not disclosing their travel history which is an irresponsible act and must be dealt with strictly,” she said.Sidana said to contribute to encouraging the people to perform constructive activities during the lockdown, she has been become a part of social media campaign, #Togetherapart, which is supported by the city chapter of FICCI FLO. She also praised the steps taken by administration to control the outbreak in the city.Sidana said she had been trying her luck in cooking these days. “I have been cooking lunch everyday at home and my family is paying for my misadventures in the kitchen,” she shared amusingly,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-distancing-need-of-the-hour-sukhmani-sidana-60370
24-03-2020||---||Docs demand masks, personal safety kits||Amritsar, March 23Doctors, especially junior and senior residents, at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital rued that they have not been provided with personal safety kits to protect them from contracting Covid-19 while tending to suspected patients.The doctors said the hospital has set up Flu Corner at the emergency block which has endangered the health of patients and the medical staff. “If a patient comes to Flu Corner and also happens to be Covid positive, it will become risky for others present in the emergency room which usually remains crowded,” said a doctor.They demanded that Flu Corner be shifted from the place. The medical staff also complained that they had not been provided with masks and personal safety kits, and thus they are afraid of falling sick. They stated that as junior and senior residents are the first ones to contact any patient, their safety should be ensured.Meanwhile, as the police got medicine shops near the hospital closed amid the state government-imposed lockdown, patients and their attendants faced trouble in getting medicines.The hospital is visited by over a thousand patients on a daily basis, apart from around 500 indoor patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/docs-demand-masks-personal-safety-kits-60369
24-03-2020||---||1 held for taking away Innova, vehicle seized||Amritsar, March 23Three days after an Innova car was taken away from a taxi driver, the rural police have nabbed one of the suspects, Gurbir Singh of Mari Thehwali village in Tarn Taran, for the crime. The police have also recovered the vehicle from Ludhiana.Two of Gurbir’s accomplices, Lovepreet Singh and his wife Anu of Bhuchar Khurd village, are still at large and raids are on to nab them, the police said. On Thursday, three persons fled with the Innova car of a taxi driver after hiring it for Chandigarh. The woman posed as a film crew member.Victim Jatinder Singh, who is a resident of Khalra in Tarn Taran stated to the police that on Thursday, he received a call from his friend Gurpreet Singh, who is a resident of Mugal Dodhe village, who said an Innova was needed for three days for a film shooting. Gurpreet asked him to reach Amritsar and contact the woman who identified herself as Anu, he told the police.He said on reaching Amritsar, he contacted the lady who asked him to reach Loharka road and pick two youth up from there. After picking them up, when he moved towards the city, they pushed him out of the vehicle, threatening to shoot him. Later, they had fled with the vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-held-for-taking-away-innova-vehicle-seized-60368
24-03-2020||---||Amritsar MC to continue all essential services||Amritsar, March 23The Municipal Corporation (MC) has clarified that all essential services like health, sanitation, water supply, sewerage, fire brigade and major repairs would be continued as usual.The officials said the MC had been given the responsibility for surveillance of home quarantined people. It has constituted different teams which would be supervised by Joint Commissioner MC Nitish Singla.The MC Commissioner has put the services of all officials and employees at the disposal of Joint Commissioner to ensure proper surveillance of persons quarantined at their homes. Around 1,625 persons have been quarantined at their homes. A maximum of these are from areas falling under the jurisdiction of MC.The MC officials stated all station leaves have been cancelled and employees have been directed to ensure their presence when called for. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the MC would also ensure that salaries and payments were made in time.All heads of departments have been asked to ensure that all government directions to deal with the situation which has emerged due to coronavirus threat are followed strictly, he said.Meanwhile, employees and officials of the Improvement Trust have announced to give their one day salary to Chief Minister’s relief fund to help government fight the coronavirus threat, stated its chairman Dinesh Bassi. He said he would be giving his one month’s salary towards CM’s relief fund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-to-continue-all-essential-services-60375
24-03-2020||---||Police Commissioner warns against spreading rumours||Amritsar, March 23Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill on Monday warned against spreading rumours and misinformation regarding the corornavirus. He said people should avoid forwarding such messages without verifying the reliable source.He said the cyber wing of the Police Department had been keeping an eye on rumour mongers for spreading misinformation on social media platforms. He said strict action would be taken against those who would spread rumours.He said people should not forward such messages to their friends and relatives until and unless they were sure about their veracity. He said such messages could create panic among residents.Doorstep delivery of ration to beneficiariesDC Shivdular Singh has issued fresh instructions to the ration depot holders to stop the use of ePoS machines at once for distribution under the Atta-Dal scheme. He has also directed them to provide wheat and other commodities under the scheme to the needy at their doorsteps.The instructions come in wake of Covid-19 statewide lockdown and the district administration has put curfew on the movement of people in the city. District Food Supply Controller Lakhwinder Singh will be overseeing the arrangements to deliver the ration at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries till March 31.“The process to distribute wheat through biometric system using ePoS machines has been suspended till further notice. Also, we will be working on logistics to deliver the ration at doorsteps of the beneficiaries to avoid movement of people under the curfew,” said Lakhwinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-commissioner-warns-against-spreading-rumours-60366
24-03-2020||PK Jaiswar||Admn talks tough to contain Covid spread||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 23Taking a strict note of people defying the lockdown orders, the Punjab Government on Monday imposed a full curfew in the state to contain the spread of Covid-19.In the morning, though commercial establishments remained closed following an extension of the lockdown till March 31, people were seen commuting and arguing with policemen deployed on roads in the city. After the curfew orders, a large number of police personnel have been deployed in every nook and corner of the city. The police have also set up checkposts on all routes and chowks. On Monday, the police forced traders to close their shops and establishments, including medical and grocery stores. There is complete restriction on the movement of public.Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Police Commissioner, said as per the government orders, there was a complete shutdown and no movement would be allowed. He said if anyone wanted to commute in an emergency condition, the individual should take permission from the DCP (law and order).As soon as the news of the curfew broke out, residents rushed to grocery stores and markets to buy ration and vegetables.“As the month is about to end in a few days, we are storing grocery items in advance as there is a possibility that the curfew may be extended,” said a resident.In the morning, police personnel were seen requesting residents through loud speakers to take all precautionary measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus. They asked shopkeepers to keep hand sanitisers, maintain some distance and attend customers one by one.“We have been making announcements through loud speakers to urge people to repeatedly wash their hands and take safety measures. We were requesting them to stay in their houses. Despite that, residents were not following the instructions and were commuting without proper reasons,” said Neeraj Kumar, SHO, Rambagh police station.After the curfew orders, main roads were barricaded to restrict the movements of commuters. Slip roads on either side of the GT Road, besides BRTS corridor, were closed for traffic.36 booked for violating DC orders||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-talks-tough-to-contain-covid-spread-60365
