25-03-2020||Amritsar||Four held with stolen bikes||Snatched phone recovered, 2 heldTarn Taran: The Bhikhiwind police have arrested two persons and recovered a snatched mobile phone from their possession. ASI Naresh Kumar on Tuesday said the suspects had been identified as Surinder Singh of Algon Khurd and Gurpreet Singh of Pahuwind. The ASI said the suspects had snatched the mobile phone from Rajwinder Kaur on March 20 when she was on her way to Assal village after finishing her duty at hospital. She was traveling in a bus when the suspects snatched her mobile phone and jumped off the bus. Later, they managed to escape from the spot on a motorcycle. Thereafter, the victim approached the police. On the basis of the information provide by her, the police arrested two persons. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-held-with-stolen-bikes-60836
25-03-2020||---||Amid shortage, make your own sanitiser||Amritsar, March 24As people across the world are living under lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak, hand sanitisers have become a weapon of mass protection, or so it seems. As hand sanitisers fly off the shelves of medical and grocery stores, there are some people who have come up with their own DIY recipes of sanitisers that are made using simple ingredients in the kitchen.Manmeet Pal Kaur, a science teacher from the city, is one of them. She has been making hand sanitisers at home so that her stock is never low in this period of uncertainty. “Before the curfew and lockdown, I couldn’t find any hand sanitisers for my family. This made me look for some home remedies or ideas and I thought of using natural ingredients to make one,” said Manmeet.She has made a hand sanitiser using simple ingredients such as isopropyl alcohol, apple cidar vinegar, glycerin, body oils and aloe vera and had been conducting workshops before the lockdown, for kids on health awareness.She said: “The basic ingredient of any sanitiser is isopropyl alcohol, but we can also use ethanol-based products such as rubbing alcohols. If we do not have alcohol-based product, we can use apple cidar vinegar, which is found in most kitchens these days.”She further said: “Mix isopropyl or any alcohol-based product with aloe vera in 2:1 ratio, along with glycerin mixed with water in 1:1 ratio. We can add essential oils or body oils such as sesame oil, coconut oil (only viable in summers) and almond oil to make natural and safe hand sanitisers.”Manmeet is using kitchen remedies to ensure health and safety of her family during the lockdown. “Oiling neem or mango or peepal leaf in mustard oil and using it as a body rub also offers protection against germs. Since, we are under curfew and we cannot go out in case we fall short of sanitisers, these are simple methods to make sure your kids and family members are guarded,” she added.She says that the current situation is a reminder of adopting nature-friendly lifestyle and going back to nature for good health.MethodMix isopropyl or any alcohol-based product with aloe vera in 2:1 ratio, along with glycerin mixed with water in 1:1 ratio. Add essential oils or body oils such as sesame oil, coconut oil (only viable in summers) and almond oil to make natural and safe hand sanitisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-shortage-make-your-own-sanitiser-60835
25-03-2020||Amritsar||Health employees facing hurdles in reaching offices||The Employees’ Welfare Association of the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital has written to the Deputy Commissioner regarding the problems faced by Health Department employees in reaching their workplaces. As the government has imposed curfew in the state, the employees were being stopped at check-posts and were not allowed to travel to their offices, they said.Association chairman Rakesh Sharma said while some policemen allowed health employees to pass after looking at their identity cards, others insisted that they showed the permit issued by the Deputy Commissioner. He said the government order clearly stated that health employees, whether private or government, were allowed to attend their duties after showing the identity card issued by the institute. He said asking for the Deputy Commissioner’s permit from health employees was unjustified and the Deputy Commissioner should issue instructions to the police department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-employees-facing-hurdles-in-reaching-offices-60834
25-03-2020||Amritsar||OP Soni reviews situation||Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni on Tuesday took stock of the situation of the border district after the implementation of curfew by holding a meeting with MPs, MLAs and officials of the district administration and the Municipal Corporation.He informed that the spray of sodium hypochlorite was being carried out to disinfect city areas. He said needy people were being provided wheat and other eatables. He called upon people to cooperate with the government to overcome Covid-19 by staying indoors. He asked well-off people to help needy personsin society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/op-soni-reviews-situation-60833
25-03-2020||---||95 booked for violating orders||Amritsar, March 24The police have booked around 95 persons for allegedly violating the curfew orders issued by the state government in the past 24 hours. However, all of them were released on bail.The city police booked 20 persons under Section 188 (disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC. Those who were booked included shopkeepers and people roaming on roads.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said there was no relaxation in the curfew so barring people involved in essential services such as medical staff and mediapersons, no one was allowed to move.Amritsar rural SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police had booked 75 persons in five separate cases for violating the curfew orders. He said despite the fact that the curfew was imposed, some people were came out of their houses and violated the orders. He said they were booked under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC.Now, the rural police have noted down the addresses and names of the offenders. The SSP said copies of FIRs would be sent to their houses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/95-booked-for-violating-orders-60832
25-03-2020||---||Amritsar MC imposes ban on entry of public in gardens||Amritsar, March 24Though the district administration imposed curfew in and around the city, residents were seen roaming inside gardens till evening here on Monday. Taking preventive measures to contain the spread of coronavirus, Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal gave the directions to ban the entry of residents in the gardens and lock the gates.The police on Tuesday checked gardens and removed those sitting in parks and other public areas. A number of homeless and drug addicts reside inside the gardens. Police officials claimed that they were shifted to night shelters and now entry was prohibited in the gardens.Komal Mittal, Commissioner, MC, has put a ban on the entry of residents in the public gardens and written to the Police Commissioner for appropriate action.It is worth mentioning here that a large number of residents were still following their daily routine by walking inside the gardens. After the ban, the residents were not allowed to enter the gardens.Darsahn Lal, a resident, said, “I have been going out for a morning walk for the last 40 years at Company Bagh. It was the first time that I took a break in my routine. The police did not allow us to go out even in the morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-imposes-ban-on-entry-of-public-in-gardens-60831
25-03-2020||---||Covid effect: Educational institutions move online||Amritsar, March 24As the lockdown due to Covid-19 continues, educational institutions are reaching out to students through online classes to ensure that their remaining course material is completed on time.Dr Manjot Dhillon, director, Mount Litera Zee SchoolStudents will be worst affected due to the shutdown. Many of them are preparing for competitive exams that are held in May. We have started online classes through Skype and other online applications to reach out to them and continue helping them with course materialSeveral colleges and schools are taking online classes, sharing study material through videos and Whatsapp groups. The state had ordered complete shutdown of schools and colleges on March 12 till March 31 due to Covid-19 outbreak.“Students will be worst affected due to the shutdown. Many of them are preparing for competitive exams that are held in May. We have started online classes through Skype and other online applications to reach out to them and continue helping them with course material,” said Dr Manjot Dhillon, director, Mount Litera Zee School. She said: “Teachers are available for web lectures throughout the day at designated time periods.”DAV College too began online classes and many professors are sharing course material using online applications. “Looking at the present scenario, we feel that this is the best possible option to ensure that students do not miss out on their studies. We are providing online lectures, study material through PPTs, video classes, using Whatsapp as a tool for learning. We are also guiding students on how to find course-related material at several other academic websites,” said Prof Arif Zargar, assistant professor and head, Department of Journalism, DAV College.The Global Institutes of Management and Technology too is also starting online lectures. “Despite suspending all physical classes, we will provide all course material online on a daily basis to students. Teachers will be available online as per their class schedules and deliver their course content through video lectures, PowerPoint presentations and self-prepared notes,” said Dr VK Banga, principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-effect-educational-institutions-move-online-60825
25-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran administration provides essential items on doorstep||Tarn Taran, March 24On the second day of the curfew imposed by the District Magistrate (DM), the administration provided essential items on the doorstep of residents in the town on Tuesday.However, the administration did not give any relaxation in the curfew in the day. SDM Rajnish Arora said essential items that were provided to residents included milk, cheese, breads, tea-leaf and eggs.The SDM appealed to the residents not be panicky as the administration had made all arrangements for providing essential items. The SDM added that the supply essential items would be made round the clock. Though the police have made tight security arrangements, they are facing difficulties in convincing residents to stay indoors. In the morning, policemen exchanged arguments with devotees visiting the Darbar Sahib.Police personnel led by SSP Dhruv Dahiya took out a flag march in the town on Tuesday. The SSP appealed to residents not to come out of their houses and support the administration.Residents sought fodders for their pet animals as these have been stopped due to the curfew.As many as 40 persons have been booked in the district for violating the curfew orders.The Verowal police arrested 13 persons who were travelling in a truck loaded with dry fodders.Besides, Gurbachan Singh of Joti Shah Sabhra has been booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC as he had gathered 80 persons during the marriage function of his son. Later, they were released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-administration-provides-essential-items-on-doorstep-60824
25-03-2020||PK Jaiswar||Police set up ‘corona control room’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 24The police have set up a ‘corona control room’ to keep a check on visitors, especially who have returned from foreign countries and are in home quarantine.DCP (law and order) Jagmohan Singh will lead a 200-member team. The control room has been set up on the premises of the DCP’s office.ACP Sushil Kumar has been appointed the nodal officer (corona). He said the city police were in touch with their rural counterparts. He added that the police had received a list of people who were advised home quarantine in the recent past.A large number of people have returned to the holy city from foreign countries. Though many of them are asymptomatic, the police have been asked to keep an eye on them so that they cannot come out of their houses. If they violate the orders, the police have been told take appropriate action against them.Following the curfew orders, the entire city is sealed and heavy police force is deployed on roads. Besides, several roads is barricaded. On Tuesday, people preferred to remain indoors and those who tried to violate the orders were taken to task.Meanwhile, the Amritsar rural police have set up a helpline desk and issued helpline numbers (9115555212 and 8054104837) to give information about Covid patients.The police also issued emails addresses — pcrasrrural@ gmail.com and dpo.asrr. police@punjab.gov.in. Amritsar rural SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said officials would respond to calls round the clock on the contact numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-set-up-corona-control-room-60823
25-03-2020||---||Civic body launches spray drive to make Amritsar virus-free||Amritsar, March 24In its drive, the Municipal Corporation has started spraying sodium hypochlorite to sanitise vulnerable places in the city. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Tuesday stated that as a preventive measure against the spread of coronavirus, the MC was spraying sodium hypochlorite to make the city free from the virus.Initially, the MC had started spraying in public places to destroy the virus. Earlier, an NGO had started spraying sodium hypochlorite in slum areas. The MC had also launched a comprehensive campaign in the city to educate city residents on how to prevent the community spread of coronavirus.Through a speaker on e-rickshaws, the MC had been making announcements that people would have to stay indoors, maintain hygiene, wash hands, eat, stay away from each other and did not step out of their houses and follow the government’s instructions.Sandeep Rishi, Assistant Commissioner, MC, said despite curfew, the sanitation teams continued to clean streets of the city. He said they were trying to make the city free from the virus during the curfew days. Sandeep Rishi said they had appealed to the residents to cooperate with the government and stay at home.The health wing of the MC was also conducting fogging to curb the breeding of mosquito larva in slum areas and other localities. The workers conducted fogging in various wards of the walled city.Sanitation workers on jobDespite curfew in and around the city, sanitation workers were seen performing their duties early this morning. MC Commissioner Komal Mittal issued curfew passes to all the sanitation staff on Monday evening. Following the notification of the government, sanitation was an essential service and around 1,700 employees of the MC and workers of solid waste management company also joined their jobs in the morning.Dr Yogesh Kapoor, Municipal Health Officer, said, “Sanitation is our priority and we have left no area unnoticed. The company is collecting garbage from door to door and MC trollies are collecting it from the garbage collection points. The safai karmacharis are sweeping major roads and streets as routine.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-launches-spray-drive-to-make-amritsar-virus-free-60822
25-03-2020||---||Despite curfew, Amritsar residents step out of houses to buy essential items||Amritsar, March 24Despite messages by the Amritsar Police Commissionerate denying any relaxation in curfew, people came out on roads to buy essential items in the morning. It prompted the police to take out a flag march forcing shopkeepers and vegetable vendors to close down. Wholesale fruit and vegetable market at Vallah had also opened, though merchant association functionaries denied its opening.Similarly, one of the biggest retail vegetable and fruit markets in the Lohgarh area, catering to dwellers of the walled city, had also opened for a brief period.Safai workers were seen cleaning roads and lifting garbage in some parts of the city. The work of distributing newspapers was affected as vendors refused to pick up newspaper supplies. However, following the flag march as the day progressed no curfew order violation was reported. No shop was opened and roads remained empty.Harminder Singh Sandhu, General Manager, Verka Milk Plant, said about 55,000 litres of milk was supplied on Tuesday. Normally, the plant supplies about 85,000 litres of milk daily in the city.He said as per the instructions of the government they were working out modalities to supply milk home to home as its delivery to retailers was prohibited. He said 41 vans would be pressed into service to supply milk home to home from tomorrow morning.Already in crisis, poultry farmers of the state are worried over how to dispose of about 50 lakh birds, including nearly 6 lakh in the district and 1 crore eggs, including about 5 lakh here.GS Bedi, president of the Amritsar Poultry Farmers’ Association, said the value of 1 kilogram of broiler stood at Rs 15 two days ago and following curfew they did not have any buyers. So, the question is how to dispose of mature birds.In a communiqué to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, he stated that being a livestock activity they were facing huge losses. There was no correlation between poultry products and coronavirus. Rather the consumption of chicken and eggs could enhance the immunity to fight any virus.To keep them alive, please give relaxation to truckers to carry poultry feed and birds. Birds and eggs should be allowed to be sold in the market. Otherwise, there would be a large number of deaths of poultry birds on farms which could create new problems. If these measures were not possible, the government should direct the Animal Husbandry Department to cull the birds and release compensation to the poultry farmers, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-curfew-amritsar-residents-step-out-of-houses-to-buy-essential-items-60821
