26-03-2020||Tarn Taran||One booked for abducting girl||Relaxation in curfew timingsTarn Taran: The district administration on Wednesday decided to give four hour relaxation to public (from 6 am to 8 am and 4 pm to 6 pm) for buying necessary items till further orders. Today, the administration permitted some pharma shops to operate during this period on rotation basis. People maintained social distance during this period. Milk vendors were allowed to supply milk from 6 am to 8 am and petrol pumps remained open from 4 pm to 6 pm today. SSP Dhruv Dahiya said police officials served food to needy families in different parts of the district. Bread, atta, eggs and other essential items were also supplied to residents. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-booked-for-abducting-girl-61230
26-03-2020||Amritsar||10 fire engines flagged off to sanitise Amritsar areas||In a major move against community spread of coronavirus, Member Parliament Gurjit Singh Aujla and Mayor Karamjit Singh on Wednesday flagged off 10 fire tenders to conduct the spray of sodium hypochlorite to disinfect the city.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said the spray would be conducted in all Assembly constituencies, wards and streets of the city. “A roster has been prepared for the spray. The chief sanitary inspector and the sanitary inspector have been deployed for this job. Around 3 lakh liters of solution will be sprayed in the city. Ten fire brigade vehicles and 43 hand-spraying machines would start working in each ward of the city soon, said the Mayor. The area councillors would monitor the spraying process.The Mayor said the spraying of the solution would continue for next days. He said every effort would be made to protect the city residents. “Every officer and staff of the municipal corporation is on their jobs and there will be no shortage of funds for the work”, said Rintu.“The residents should not throw garbage out from their houses but keep it inside and the corporation vehicles would take it out in routine. The administration is also making efforts to help needy families who do not have food or other daily needs. People should stay in their homes and strictly follow government instructions to prevent the spread of virus”, added Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-fire-engines-flagged-off-to-sanitise-amritsar-areas-61229
26-03-2020||---||Officials seek police help to handle rush of patients at OOAT centres||Amritsar, March 25Health Department employees on Wednesday faced a tough time in persuading patients to avoid rush at counters in Out Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres as a precaution to check the possible spread of coronavirus.At some centres, the authorities had to call the police for help. Addicts were given medicine for four days and on Wednesday, they came to get the same for the upcoming days. On the occasion, they ignored all guidelines related to social distancing and gathered at OOAT centres in large numbers.An employee at the OOAT centre in Sursingh village of Tarn Taran said, “We asked patients to come one by one and do not gather in groups. But, they did not listen to us.” Later, the authorities sought the help of senior health officials and police personnel. Tarn Taran district has 10 OOAT centres.In Amritsar district, there was a huge rush of patients at OOAT centres as well. The district has 11 OOAT centres and as per the estimate, the two border districts have around 25 per cent of the addicts in the entire state.Earlier, patients were required to take the medicine in front of the health officials to prevent its misuse. For the purpose, the patients were required to come to OOAT centres every day.“If a large number of patients come together, the purpose of social distancing and curfew is defeated. To deal with the situation, we now have given some patients medicine for four days, some got medicines for five days and others got the same for six days. The objective is that they do not come together on the same day to get medicines,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/officials-seek-police-help-to-handle-rush-of-patients-at-ooat-centres-61228
26-03-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Stitching masks to address shortage||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 25As the government imposed a curfew to combat the spread of Covid-19, many individuals, social groups and religious organisations have come forward to help residents who are in a state of panic and people at forefront.Parshotam Kumar, a lab assistant at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, is daily making nearly 50 cloth masks in his free time. So far, he has handed over 500 masks to the hospital management.Another local resident Gaurav Ghai and his family members too have made around 2,000 masks and distributed these among people in need.A video went viral in which the Amritsar rural police team could be seen purchasing the whole stock of vegetables from an elderly vendor and later selling it on their own. Policemen at a naka near the entrance of Cantonment area from GNDU side were also seen distributing cloth masks among riders.The act of the Amritsar Rural cops who purchased the vegetables is being lauded by many, including Chief Minister Amarinder Singh who had also shared a video of the same.Even social and religious organisations have come forward to provide meals to the policemen on duty at various check points.Members of a local group also distributed water bottles to cops standing guard on various roads. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has also started providing langar to cops on duty. It has deputed special vehicles that are reaching out to cops at all check points.Laal Singh, Manager, Gurdwara Chehharta Sahib, said: “In this time of crisis, it is the duty of social and religious organisations to help the administration in fighting the disease. We are doing our bit by providing meals to cops who are on duty.” He said gurdwaras would welcome all people who face any problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stitching-masks-to-address-shortage-61227
26-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Married woman commits suicide||Tarn Taran, March 25A 27-year-old married woman committed suicide after consuming some poisonous substance at her parental house in Chuslewar village, 30 km from here, on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Rajwinder Kaur.The police have booked four members of her in-laws family. The suspects have been identified as deceased’s husband Haridner Singh and father-in-law Sukhchain Singh, both residents of Bhai Ladhu village; Naridner Singh and his wife Kuldeep Kaur, both residents of Kairon village, who were mediators in the marriage.A case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/married-woman-commits-suicide-61226
26-03-2020||---||Allow sale of veggies: Farmers||Amritsar, March 25The Vegetable Producers’ Association has demanded from the administration to allow farmers to sell their produce on their own at designated places during the curfew.Farmers have complained that trolleys loaded with agricultural produce were not allowed to enter the vegetable market on Wednesday and they were forcibly sent back.“As vegetables are perishable, these will be damaged and farmers will face huge losses. It will increase the prices in the market and people will be forced to buy costly vegetables,” said association leader Lakhbir Singh Nijampura.He added that farmers should be allowed to sell their produce at desgnated places in the city. “The administration has already devised a system to ensure regular and timely supply of medicines and milk. If the same step is taken regarding the vegetables, farmers will not have to face losses and people will get fresh vegetables at a less cost,” said Nijampura.Another farmer Raj Bhupinder Singh said the time was now apt for sowing fresh vegetables, but farmers were not getting diesel. “If farmers fail to sow vegetables now, the prices will go up and it will be tough for the poor to buy the same,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/allow-sale-of-veggies-farmers-61217
26-03-2020||Amritsar||Take home quarantine seriously: Civil Surgeon||In an appeal to people, especially those who have returned from foreign counties and been advised home quarantine by the health authorities, Civil Surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal has asked them to take the instructions seriously or else they would result in infecting their near and dear ones.Dr Johal said: “People who have been advised home quarantined should follow the instructions and should not step outside of their homes. In fact, it is their moral responsibility to avoid coming in contact with their family members.”“The persons who have been quarantined at the centre are comfortable and also fully understand the need for precaution,” she said. She, however, added that they had received hundreds of calls from local residents today that persons who had returned from abroad were not following the government instructions strictly.Johal said the health teams were on the toes throughout the day today after receiving such calls and to sensitise people who had been advised home quarantine.“If we do not follow home quarantine strictly, we surely will move towards an alarming situation,” said the civil surgeon in an emotional appeal to the residents.The district at present has 48 persons quarantined at the centre. Additionally 1,625 persons have been kept in quarantine at their homes.However, messages and phone calls from residents reporting unnecessary movement by persons who had been quarantined at their homes were received by the Health Department and were circulated on social media. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/take-home-quarantine-seriously-civil-surgeon-61216
26-03-2020||Amritsar||Admn steps up efforts to provide essential items on doorstep||To provide essential items on the doorstep, the district administration has issued a list of contact numbers of shopkeepers and traders.Admn creates pageson social median "The social media platform is important as we can get direct feedback from people. We welcome the opinions of residents," said an official.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said after holding a meeting with different associations of traders, they started providing essential items on the doorstep from Wednesday. He said the sole purpose was not to allow people to gather in front of shops.The DC said milkmen could deliver milk at houses between 5 am and 8 am. Cooperative organisations Verka and Amul could supply the same between 5 am and 2 pm. However, they would supply milk only to residents.The DC added that booked LPG cylinders could be delivered between 10 am and 4 pm. He said the area SDMs had been asked to ensure the supply of vegetables by roping in vendors in their areas.The DC said arrangements for providing fodder to livestock were being made.However, people complained of not getting essential items, including dairy products, grocery and vegetables, in their areas.Meanwhile, devotees faced difficulties in performing rituals on the first day of Navratri and commencement of Vikrami Samvat on Wednesday as all temples were closed during the ongoing curfew. Defying the curfew orders, some devotees were seen paying obeisance in front of the closed doors of temples.61 booked for violating curfew restrictionsThe city police on Wednesday booked 61 persons for violating curfew restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.Police Commissioner Sukchain Singh Gill said during this period most of the residents in the city stayed indoors.The Police Commissioner said those who did not follow instructions were booked for violating the curfew. Gill asked residents to cooperate with the police in fighting the coronavirus.The Police Commissioner warned anti-social elements against sharing rumours or fake news on social media. He said strict action would be taken against them.Police distribute food items to needy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-steps-up-efforts-to-provide-essential-items-on-doorstep-61215
