04-03-2021||Today's||In defence of rooted Indian nationalism||In his reply to the motion of thanks in the Rajya Sabha, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi emphasised the importance of Indian nationalism, and argued that nationalism in India is neither narrow-minded nor aggressive. But he suggested that it has come under attack of late, with every occasion being used to mock and demean India. Referring to the threat of “foreign destructive ideology”, the PM was right in underlining that we remain far too much in awe of the theories and constructs flowing in from the West.The false parallels drawn between nationalism in western countries and nationalism in India exemplify it. Unlike the exclusivist nationalism in the West built around linguistic or ethnic supremacism, Indian nationalism emerged in opposition to imperialism. Since its inception, Indian nationalism endeavored to bring together people of different languages, religions, castes, classes, and ethnicities based on unity in diversity. And despite the setback caused by Muslim separatism and consequent Partition, it continues to champion the same values of democracy, liberty, diversity, and equality. To equate it with the western concept of nationalism and “de-construct” it in line with fashionable western intellectual trends is remarkable intellectual bankruptcy.Take, for instance, the grandiloquent talk about being a patriot and not a nationalist. Patriotism is a pre-industrial construct rooted in the patriarchal notions of “blood and soil”, i.e. defence of land and kinsmen. It served the same practical purpose as nationalism in an industrial society. But a faux debate is generated to make nationalism sound regressive and, in millennial slang, uncool and glorify the agrarian, patriarchal construct of patriotism.With intricate ties to the wider Anglosphere, India is precariously placed in the face of wokeness and social science theories emanating from American universities. For many years, there has been a concerted attempt to delegitimise not just India’s anti-imperialist struggle and Indian nationalism but also Hinduism and the existence of Hindus as a people too. In this academic discourse, each of these categories has been converted into an “oppressive identity”, whose destruction is crucial to attain the elusive “azadi”.This mirrors academic and intellectual trends within America itself. Just like the “preservation of slavery” has been sought to be placed at the heart of the American war of independence, the “preservation of the caste-system” has been attributed as the main motive behind India’s freedom struggle. Indian nationalism is painted as a conspiracy of the upper castes to deny the political aspirations of the Dalits, backward classes and minorities.But far from being a tool of oppression, Indian nationalism has been a force of integration and upliftment of the masses. The growth of nationalism enabled people to transcend the narrow confines of caste and community. It propelled them to create common platforms and advocate social reform and economic upliftment of the masses. Indian nationalism does not seek to conquer or colonise other countries. Instead, it supported national struggles in other countries under imperialist rule, emphasising sovereignty and democracy.Indian nationalism has always been inward-looking and focused on national development, which was always strongly imbued with welfare and social justice goals. The resolutions on fundamental rights and national economic programme in 1931 Karachi resolution of the Congress, an umbrella organisation of mostly Hindu nationalistic forces, amply demonstrate this. In India, nationalism resonates with the masses as a positive construct, unlike its western variant. Nationalism binds this diverse geography and demographics together, something that would have been otherwise unimaginable.But this critical distinction is often forgotten, and the idea that nationalism needs to be banished has taken hold in urban intellectual discourse. But such adventurism has proved costly even for America, where the deconstruction of a common narrative, banishment of nationalism and dethronement of religion has created a crisis of identity and polity. Instead of a nation, there are just different groups in silos such as Blacks, White males, LGBTQ+, women, and a range of ethnic categories, making agreement even on basic issues strenuous. With a far more complex society and social fault lines, India needs to academically, socially and politically contest attempts to push such theories and ideas in our context.The sanctity of the nation and territorial integrity of states should not be confused with grandiose constructs such as constitutional patriotism. A Constitution simply reflects the underlying working of the nation and demographics, and not the other way around. Without state power to enforce it, it is just another book. This is starkly reflected in how the Indian Constitution is weakest in regions where Indian nationalism is weak. Another charge of nationalism vs Hindu nationalism is an old one. Before Independence, the Congress was called a Hindu nationalist party and nationalism a Hindu supremacist construct. There is nothing new in these charges and the language now deployed against the BJP and Indian nationalism.India needs to strongly reassert nationalism in the realm of ideas and mass culture and push back against the attempt to confuse or delegitimise it. And the task starts with resisting the theories sweeping in from the Anglosphere while rejuvenating social sciences in India, rooted in Indian reality. The decoupling of social sciences in India and the wider Anglosphere must be the next decolonisation movement.Abhinav Prakash Singh is an assistant professor, economics, Sri Ram College of CommerceThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-defence-of-rooted-indian-nationalism-101614866928388.html
04-03-2021||Today's||Why the battle of Bengal matters||In West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has emerged as the chief challenger to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), which has ruled West Bengal for 10 years. This, in and of itself, is a major change in Bengal’s politics, where the BJP had never been much of an electoral factor.Building on an astounding performance in the 2019 election, where it won 18 out of 42 seats, the BJP has a genuine opportunity to win in the upcoming state election. If it does win, it will have major reverberations across Indian politics. To date, the vast majority of the BJP’s electoral dominance has been built in areas where its chief opponent is the Congress, and in large Hindi-speaking states such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. For the party, states such as Tamil Nadu or West Bengal ruled by “vernacular parties” — regional parties that use linguistic nationalism as part of their appeal — were once considered unattainable.A careful look at how the BJP has risen in Bengal, and how the ruling TMC has sought to counteract its growth, is instructive in understanding the new dimensions of the BJP’s appeal and possible templates to defeat it.If we calculate the 2019 Lok Sabha results by West Bengal’s 294 assembly constituency (AC) segments, the BJP led in 121 ACs with an average of 40.6% constituency-wise vote share. The TMC won 164 ACs on a 43.6% average of constituency-wise vote share. The Congress and the Left had a combined average constituency-wise vote share of just 13%, with the Congress winning nine ACs and the Left winning none.In addition to subsuming the vote share of the Left and the Congress, there were strong identity-based factors to the BJP’s rise. Unlike in other states, where the BJP has an upper-caste base, the BJP support has grown the fastest among West Bengal’s marginalised communities. The BJP led in 46 (55%) of the state’s 84 Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe reserved seats, while winning just 75 (36%) of the remaining 210 ACs. High levels of Hindu-Muslim polarisation were also observed. According to Lokniti’s 2019 National Election Survey, 57% of Hindu voters selected the BJP as compared to 32% of Hindu voters supporting the TMC. By contrast, the TMC won 70% of Muslim voters with the BJP winning a negligible amount (4%).This identity-based polarisation is visible on the ground today and is the key demographic heuristic one can use to analyse the BJP’s chances.Approximately 30% of West Bengal’s voters are Muslims and, as a rule of thumb, we can classify the remaining 70% of the state’s voters as Hindu. Given a negligible amount of Muslim support for the BJP, this implies that the BJP is likely to win if it can get about 60-65% support among the Hindu population. To tap this, the BJP has begun a poriborton yatra, one that looks strikingly similar to the rath yatra that yielded national electoral dividends for the BJP in 1990.The pattern of extreme Hindu-Muslim polarisation and campaign strategies that exacerbate the divide between these communities have been seen as a trump card for the BJP. To be sure, there are other concerns for the TMC, from a series of high-profile defections to concerns that its ground-level cadre is excessively dominant and violent. But the TMC’s core challenge is to prevent an “identity-based” vote along caste, tribe, and religious lines.In a similar position, Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) sought to reduce polarisation by taking more ambiguous stands on Hindu-Muslim political issues. And one might have assumed that the TMC’s approach would be to “pander” to the Hindu vote given the situation. But the TMC, along with political strategist Prashant Kishor, who also advised AAP, has taken a different approach.The party has positioned itself as a “progressive” alternative to the BJP and its vision of India. In addition to linguistic nationalism, the TMC has projected itself as concerned with gender equity and social delivery. (This is all the more noticeable as the Left and Congress look to ally with controversial cleric Abbas Siddiqui). In one strikingly visual example, on Republic Day, when the vast majority of states opted for religious or tradition-themed tableaus, West Bengal featured a schoolgirl studying in front of a laptop (a latent advertisement for state government schemes targeting girls and women). In December 2020, the state government also initiated the duare sarkar (government at your doorstep) programme, in which people can avail of state government schemes by visiting local melas — the government claims this reached 22 million citizens between December 1, 2020 and January 18, 2021.This narrative fits well with the popularity of Mamata Banerjee as the only female chief minister (CM) in India, and one who has focused on delivery. Indeed a recent CVoter poll found that 55% of voters want her to continue as CM, and almost half of voters believe duare sarkar will help the TMC’s re-election.We do not yet know which way the wind will blow in Bengal. If the TMC achieves the unthinkable — a big victory amid large-scale attempts at polarisation and pressure from central agencies — it will set a template for how to fight the current dispensation and show that voters are willing to vote for a progressive alternative to the BJP.Neelanjan Sircar is an assistant professor, Ashoka University, and senior visiting fellow, Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-the-battle-of-bengal-matters-101614866929314.html
04-03-2021||Today's||BARC plays a valuable role. Preserve it||The Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) continues to face criticism from multiple quarters, with powerful voices even going so far as to ask the broadcast industry to jettison it, once and for all. Is this reasonable?Ratings, of BARC type, are indispensable for the broadcast industry. Linear television is not ready for 100% customisation. Streaming services do it at great cost. Linear TV is, and will, for the foreseeable future, remain, the optimum pipe for live content. Public Service Broadcasting is often funded by the exchequer and must deliver the widest audience at the lowest cost. Given its focus on public service over profits, it hews toward linear, unencrypted, non-addressed, free-to-air (FTA) delivery. Conditionally accessed (CAS) content creates a trackable record of household consumption, since the distribution platform is theoretically able to see and store tune-in information, but unencrypted content does not. If an FTA unencrypted channel sells advertising, how will it price inventory? Most licensed channels are FTA, and only a handful of distribution platforms actually have return paths. What universally acceptable basis can they offer to transact advertising? This leads us to a deeper set of issues. First, a bit of history. Television audience measurement started with the BBC in the mid-1930s. As a broadcaster funded by the United Kingdom exchequer, BBC was accountable to the House of Commons. When questions were asked about the value of the TV channel to a television-owning Londoner, the Beeb established a research department that would conduct day-after-recall sampling to assess programme relevance. This question continues to bedevil broadcasters, and tune-in data, even where available, sheds no light on it.Second, advertising-funded platforms, whether Facebook or Google, have encyclopedic detail on registered users and their consumption behaviours. They produce little content — so they are best served when they carry the widest possible range from third parties to fulfil expectations of consumers on the farthest end of the “long tail”. While platforms know exactly who is consuming what, the actual content owners can only access aggregates and averages, but are content to leave the matter there as long as their advertising revenue is juicy enough. It is disingenuous to compare audience measurement for TV broadcasters with that for these platforms.It is a separate matter that advertisers are making their displeasure about the “census” measurements offered by these mega-platforms quite clear. Marc Pritchard, P&G’s global marketing czar, has been particularly scathing, making it clear that the numbers these platforms claim are massively inflated. A Netflix show, The Social Dilemma, has shone an unflattering light on the invasion of privacy by digital platforms. Growing awareness of privacy concerns and regulatory interventions now place limits on the collection, storage and use of user data on such platforms. The laissez-faire they enjoyed is over for the moment.Third, the term “census” connotes comprehensive, unlike “sample” which suggests only partial. As a result, it seems self-evident that census data is superior to sample data for its sheer scale. Return Path Data (RPD) is supposed to be “census” data in contrast to panel data, which BARC uses. But there is a fatal flaw in this contention. RPD is proprietary to distribution platform owners, and they would probably breach privacy statutes if they shared household demographics with a measurement body. In any case, they would treat their subscriber details as commercially invaluable, and be loathe to part with them. Samples are also better placed to accurately mirror the underlying population by reflecting its composition along multiple axes.And finally, assume, counterfactually, that reliable RPD was available from all commercial distribution platforms. You would still need an agnostic party to compile and weight it. And we would leave out DD-Direct, mortally impairing the measurement. BARC has its problems. But the solution is unlikely to lie in denouncing it. It is still the best bet for hundreds of broadcasters to remain viable, and hundreds of millions of viewers to enjoy the fruits of their exertion.Paritosh Joshi is a media professional with a keen interest in audience measurementThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/barc-plays-a-valuable-role-preserve-it-101614866924048.html
04-03-2021||Today's||Refine the Covid-19 vaccination strategy||Delhi had its first Covid-19 case this week, last year. Over this period, India has been able to keep the number of new cases, transmission rates as well as deaths at relatively lower levels, compared to many developed nations with better public health systems. Till recently, we have also seen a dip in infection rates in many parts of the country.Having said that, the pandemic is not over until it is actually over. In fact, we need to be extra cautious during the downward trend of number of new cases, just as we would during the descent after scaling peaks. Pandemics also behave in set patterns in terms of trajectory. I wrote last June, that Covid-19 is no exception and there will be multiple peaks and we need to prepare our health systems for these surges. Even as the brutal first wave of the pandemic waned, numbers have begun rising again. With the opening of borders and international travel, it is, also, almost impossible to stop newer variants from entering India.As we enter into the second year of Covid-19 pandemic, we do have reasons to be optimistic. The momentous scientific achievement of past 12 months has been the development, testing, scrutiny, and approval of vaccines in the shortest possible timeline. Vaccination is the single-most important strategy to end the Covid 19 pandemic. Despite the appearance of multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants as well as general vaccine hesitancy, vaccines provides a real measure of hope. The benefits of vaccination far outweigh the rare but possible risks as per our present understanding.Though there has been steady progress with world’s largest vaccination campaign in India, which began in mid-January, there is still a long way before it achieves targets. Since the vaccination roll out drive began at a time of falling infection rates, it gave us a crucial window to get the better of the virus quickly. The experience from the West shows that the second, or subsequent, waves are usually more pronounced.The second phase of roll out, which began this week, is a welcome and commendable step towards expanding the availability of vaccine as well as making it available at affordable rates in the private sector. The rationale behind who we vaccinate, and in which order, is crucial to achieve the goal of vaccinating maximum number of people at risk and towards achieving vaccine-induced herd immunity. Since there is no issue of lack of intent, effort, or resources, an alternative approach should be explored which may turn out to be complementary to the existing strategy.One of these is vaccine deployment based on burden and severity of Covid-19 in different states in India. There have been major state-level differences in the burden and mortality from Covid-19 owing to the large size and the heterogeneous population of our country. As some of us reported in a recent paper “Macrolevel association of COVID-19 with non-communicable disease risk factors in India” published in Diabetes & Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research & Reviews, the more urbanised states in India have greater a higher proportionate case burden and mortality from Covid-19 than rural ones. Greater Covid-19 related mortality has also been reported among persons with various non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Our paper was based on an analysis of cumulative and weekly national and state-level data on Covid-19 cases and deaths from a publicly available database. This was correlated with health care related factors and social variables.The study covered at least 9.5 million Covid-19 cases and 135,000 deaths reported in India from March 2 till the end of November 2020. While the national burden of cases and deaths is 6900/million and 100.4/ million respectively, there were wide disparities in rates of cases and deaths across states, with reported cases of more than 20,000/million in states of Delhi and Goa and 10,000-20,000/million in a number of states. Similarly deaths rates of more than 300/million are observed in Delhi (490), Goa (434) and Maharashtra (383). The case-fatality rate also showed significant differences, with less than 0.5% in Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Kerala and Assam to more than 2% in Punjab, Maharashtra and Sikkim.Data on various state-level demographic indices also showed wide variability. There was significant positive correlation of state-level Covid-19 cases and deaths per million, respectively, with epidemiological transition index (0.59, 0.44), literacy (0.46, 0.46), indices of health care availability (0.23, 0.18), health care accessibility and quality (0.71, 0.61), urbanisation (0.75, 0.73) and human development (0.61, 0.56). These figures reveal that just as our population is aging and the disease profile is changing from infectious diseases to lifestyle ones (which is the essence of the epidemiological transition index), the pandemic is also showing a similar trend with states with a high per capita income, and a high burden of these non communicable diseases, displaying a high burden of Covid-19.Our analysis conclusively shows that in India, the more urbanised and better developed states have greater burden and mortality from Covid-19 and need vaccinations earlier than other states. This study also reaffirms that the pandemic in India is still an urban phenomenon. In countries with a similar profile — a larger proportion of rural population — including China, Brazil, Iran, Mexico and South Africa, reports have highlighted a similar predominantly urban nature of the disease. This has important implications for implementation of population and individual level preventive measures and equitable vaccine deployment.A judicious strategy targeted at the urban population, especially the vulnerable, could be the most appropriate intervention. My suggestion is that such states, including Kerala, Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu should get priority in the vaccination drive. This re-prioritisation of vaccine deployment may well be an alternative way out of the pandemic and help us return to a semblance of normalcy across the country soon.Rajinder K Dhamija is the head of neurology department, Lady Hardinge Medical College and SSK Hospital , New Delhi. He was, formerly, a WHO Fellow at National Institute of Epidemiology.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/refine-the-covid-19-vaccination-strategy-101614782679639.html
04-03-2021||Today's||Where are India’s women leaders?||With International Women’s Day approaching on March 8, the United Nation’s upcoming Generation Equality Forum aims to focus on feminist movements and leadership as an action agenda. However, in India, climbing the ladder of political leadership remains a deeply inequitable enterprise. While reservations have improved women’s participation, much of the day-to-day functioning of Indian politics remains a man’s game.At the national-level, while the 2019 Lok Sabha elections saw an increase in representation of women representatives, only 14% of the Members of Parliament (MPs) in India are women. At the state-level, women make up only nine per cent of the elected candidates of state legislative assemblies. Globally, India ranks 122 out of 153 countries when it comes to women’s representation in parliament, according to the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2020.Women’s representation in panchayats in India, on the other hand, is relatively better, thanks to the reservations brought in by the 73rd constitutional amendment that ensure one-third of leadership positions for women. However, this increased representation masks the barriers that women face in getting elected or while in office.Evidence suggests that women candidates in India differ from their male counterparts in a number of ways. First, women candidates are more likely to come from political or wealthy families. A frequent path to panchayat leadership for women is belonging to political families where men are unable to serve due to a reserved seat. This pattern is also reflected at the national level. 42% of women MPs come from political families compared to 15% of male MPs. This could be because campaign expenses required to run for office tend to favor more well-off families and being embedded in political families ensures greater resources. Women candidates are also assumed to have an added sense of electability when their family members are popularly known.Second, women candidates, unlike male candidates, are much more likely to run in SC/ST reserved seats than general seats. At the panchayat level, reservations for women can unintentionally make it difficult for women to contest general seats, which have come to be seen as seats for men.Third, political aspirations are notably different between men and women. In one study of panchayat chiefs in Karnataka, less than three per cent of women candidates contested for a second term. Studies also reveal a “backlash effect” in states with higher gender bias, where the election of women leads less women to run in future cycles.Much of the absence of women in political leadership stems from gender gaps in overall political participation. While female voter turnout has even surpassed men’s in some states, women’s political involvement in non-electoral activities lags behind.Women are less involved when it comes to participation in campaigns and contacts with public officials. Women candidates also have less education and experience, on average, compared to male candidates. There are also different societal expectations from political leaders of different genders. Some research has shown that people can be less satisfied with women leaders even though they are shown to produce equal or greater results.The gender gap in contestants collides with growing literature highlighting the benefits of women’s leadership. Evidence shows that having women leaders leads to improved provision of public goods and greater addressal of women’s issues, such as in health and education. There is also consensus that local-level reservations have increased bargaining power and improved the situation of women overall in India. This includes improving political participation — women have been shown to speak up more in village meetings when the panchayat head is a woman.These results align with the larger discourse on women leadership, particularly in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Recent research shows that countries with governments headed by women have arguably managed the pandemic better. In the United States too, research suggests that states with women governors had fewer Covid-19-related deaths. Yet, despite yielding improved outcomes, a recent study suggests that women are being left out of decision making at all levels of Covid-19 response structures.An often-ignored quality of women leaders, which may also explain their more empathetic Covid-19 response, is their “soft skills”. Women tend to outperform men in areas such as coaching others and building trusting relationships.It is not as though India is not ready for gender equality. In a recent international opinion survey, a large majority (76%) of respondents in India think the government “should do more” to promote gender equality. Interestingly, 49% of respondents want the government to “reform laws to promote equality between women and men and end discrimination against women”.Perhaps it is time that longstanding promises from political parties to pass the decades-in-waiting Women’s Reservation Bill be met. The idea may be radical, but if evidence on India’s reservation system for women in local panchayats is considered, then it may require affirmative action to give women the space they deserve in Indian policymaking.Soumya Kapoor Mehta is the head and Steven Walker is a consultant at the Initiative for What Works to Advance Women and Girls in the Economy (IWWAGE), Krea UniversityThe views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/where-are-india-s-women-leaders-101614781421864.html
04-03-2021||Today's||There is a looming epidemic — of loneliness. Take it seriously||Imagine a hypothetical scenario. Vibha Saxena, a 72-year-old professor of literature, has spent her life in Dehradun, where her children grew up and where her husband passed away a year ago. Though she lives alone, Saxena cannot think of a time she ever felt lonely. Why? Because her day has been curated by her relationship manager. At 8 am sharp, she calls Saxena to check in, sharing news headlines and reminding her to be ready for her online class in the evening.Saxena looks forward to these conversations, comforted in knowing that there is someone available at the click of a button. At 10 am, Saxena’s app alerts her to take her medications. By 10.30 am, her home is cleaned by a team arranged by the manager. At lunchtime, a professional meal service, organised by the same manager, arrives with the special diet necessary for her heart condition.In the afternoon, Saxena’s app reminds her it is time for her online English Literature class. She logs in and is excited to see a global audience for her class on Shakespeare, welcoming her with loud applause. After a busy day, Saxena looks forward to having dinner in peace while video-chatting with her newfound friend who she met online recently.This imaginary life represents the possibilities in the battle against loneliness, an epidemic running so deep and with such impact, that it dwarfs Covid-19.Japan’s prime minister Yoshihide Suga, announced a minister of loneliness to his cabinet last month, closely following a similar announcement in January 2018 by the United Kingdom (UK). Loneliness is rarely acknowledged, deeply misunderstood, and alongside anxiety and depression, presents a massive opportunity for rectification as India copes with Covid-19 and beyond.Considered a taboo subject, with most adults too scared to admit that they are lonely, the UK itself has close to 33% and the United States (US) close to 50% of its people who accept they are lonely. In India, as per the recently released Longitudinal Ageing Study of India, approximately 23% of elderly stay alone, without children. While loneliness can have an impact across ages and be relevant irrespective whether you stay alone or in a full house, it is most common among those above 60 and affects almost everyone at some point in time.The impact of loneliness on our physical and mental health is acute, with resultant challenges in blood pressure, increased likelihood of dementia and depression. Yet, as a result perhaps of our childhood socialisation, no one likes to admit that they are lonely. We are trained to grow up trying to show a false sense of connectivity, a false sense of happiness and independence, and this has been the underlying driver for the growth of social media. The impact of loneliness has been compared to having 15 cigarettes a day and, left unchecked, can cause severe mental wellness challenges. Loneliness, on the other hand, should not be mixed with solitude where one is at peace spiritually with one’s self and does not mind staying alone.Thankfully, the vaccine for loneliness exists, right in our midst. Our local communities, social support systems, family and friends, even social media, and online and offline-curated programming can help reduce the sense of emptiness that accompanies loneliness. It also helps to build on India’s expertise with hospitality and consumer services brands, which have created great concepts and models of engaging their customers through trained “relationship managers”. If we extend this same concept to people who are lonely and alone, we could perhaps bridge the gap that leads to feelings of loneliness.India has a real opportunity to showcase solutions to a global audience towards using the best of tech and expertise in reducing loneliness. While a dedicated ministry for loneliness may just be the impetus, all we need is to look for are basic ways and means to help people who are on the brink of feeling lonely. In our world, we have seen the magic of that one call every day. This shouldn’t be so difficult if you can make it your daily ritual to call at least one person who you know is alone. And see that transformation happen.Saumyajit Roy is a co-founder and CEO, Emoha EldercareThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/there-is-a-looming-epidemic-of-loneliness-take-it-seriously-101614779376468.html
