05-03-2021||Today's||What Bollywood could learn from Munawar Faruqui||They have failed to uphold the spirit of the [the] constitution” — not my words, but those of Justice Deepak Gupta. In conversations with me, both Justice Gupta and Justice Madan Lokur have expressed dismay and anger at the abject surrender on free speech principles by their brethren in the Indian judiciary. We were talking about the interventions of the courts in Madhya Pradesh and Allahabad in the arrest of Munawar Faruqui and the denial of pre-arrest bail to Amazon executive, Aparna Purohit, for the web series Tandav, respectively. I only half-joked, when I quipped to the two retired justices of the Supreme Court, that they could not be hauled up for contempt, but I sure would be. The Allahabad High Court goes so far as to list the Hindi movies it argues has hurt Hindu sentiments. And as Justice Gupta argues, irrespective of whether you are a free speech absolutist or not, in his view, the verdict — which denied bail to Purohit, despite her unconditional apology and deletion of the offending scenes — “does not make sense on any point of law”.The real challenge to upholding India’s freedoms is how patchy and individual-driven it is when it comes to the judiciary. The system is so arranged that instead of legal precedent and case law setting the template for the court’s interventions, the idea of justice is guided by what Judge A or Judge B may think. So, Justice Dhananjay Y Chandrachud reminded us of the 1970s Krishna Iyer diktat on “bail not jail” as the desired guiding principle while adjudicating on personal liberty in the Arnab Goswami case. Justice Rohinton Nariman took less time than the turn of a minute on the clock in giving bail to Faruqui. But the same court behaved differently in the case of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, who has now been in lock-up for close to 150 days. Admittedly, the charges against Kappan are framed under an anti-terror act, making it a less simple case than the other two. But the bail not jail dictum should still hold true. The process of seeking justice cannot be so dependent on which court your case ends up in. So, Judge Dharmendra Rana called out the sedition law and the “wounded vanities” of the powerful while allowing climate activist Disha Ravi to walk out on bail. The exact same case could have had a different outcome had it been heard by someone else. The unpredictability of the courts aside, the reluctance of the film industry to stand up for itself is even more disappointing. How does one stand in solidarity with those who won’t fight for themselves? The makers of Tandav apologised, not once but twice, thereby effectively accepting the accusation that the content was offensive to Hindus. The muted, fearful response in the film industry — apart from a handful of usual suspects — does not help its cause. There were stirrings of a collective response when producers gathered to take on the slanderous and vile television coverage of Bollywood during the Rhea Chakraborty trial. But now it appears to have been akin to a gasping attempt to come up for air whilst drowning. India’s biggest actors may want to take a life-lesson from Faruqui, the 29-year-old stand-up comic who spent 37 days in jail. It’s not as if his spirit has not been damaged. “Jail takes away your sense of self-respect,” Faruqui told me, “I kept thinking, what have I done to be here? Have I killed someone?” He revealed that he now takes sleeping pills every night since his release and those don’t help either. Yet, Faruqui, whose father was paralysed for 10 years and whose mother died last year, had found salvation and hope, economic and professional in comedy. “I will not give up on making people laugh,” he told me, “I am not leaving comedy, I am living it.” There appeared to be neither rancour nor resignation in him; just a desire to put together the broken pieces of his life, with the same energy with which he once discovered, by pure accident, what an Open Mic is. Without either the wealth and connections or profile of India’s film industry, Faruqui has shown more courage and almost zero cynicism. It doesn’t matter if you found his jokes funny or not — the jail-time he was subjected to was an abomination. This has been a patchy, roller-coaster of a fortnight for India’s fundamental freedoms. It has been held together by the interventions and doggedness of a few good men (and women). And sometimes that’s all it takes. Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-bollywood-could-learn-from-munawar-faruqui-101614947997751.html
05-03-2021||Today's||Creating a sustainable, legitimate digital regulatory regime||There may be a range of immediate or proximate causes for regulating Over The Top (OTT) platforms and/or online news media — from fake news to hate speech; from content that hurts religious sentiments to pornography; from a plausible intent of creating level-playing fields to ensuring the protection of rights of children to national security. However, such a cause has to manifest through appropriate channels or its very existence is bound to fail. And therein lies the key issue in Part III of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (Digital Media Code), which seeks to regulate two distinct types of publishers — OTT platforms carrying curated content and online news media — under a common regulatory framework.It does seem reasonable when a government says it wants to apply a level-playing field between traditional media and online media. It seems more than fair when it says that it only wishes to regulate, and not restrict, and resorts to a predominantly self–regulatory mechanism. We also often end up having a misplaced belief in restrictions, under the guise of regulation, if sugar-coated with the promise of security. The Digital Media Code fails to conform to, and, in fact, confounds, every settled constitutional mandate for lawmaking — the very obvious premise that law is to be made by the lawmakers i.e. the legislature and not the executive. That fundamental rights come with restrictions is clear. But that does not give unfettered rights to even the legislature to invoke such restrictions. Even a law enacted by Parliament, to enforce a legitimate state aim, has to ensure proportionality, which has a “rational nexus between the objects and the means adopted to achieve them” (Puttaswamy v. UOI or Privacy Judgment, 2017). And such lawmaking cannot be usurped by the executive.The Digital Media Code has been formulated rather speciously, under Section 87 (1) & (2)(z) & (zg) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (as amended) (“IT Act”) i.e., the rule-making power. Rule-making or subordinate legislations are intended to carry out the purpose of an enactment. Subordinate legislations have to stay within the boundaries of the parent provision, which has the imprimatur of the legislature. The Supreme Court’s caution that “a powerful executive may unduly overstep the limits of delegation” (Devi Das Gopal Krishnan v. State of Punjab, 1967) has come to pass in the formulation of the Code. The above provisions relate to exemptions or protections to intermediaries and their duty to block content online pursuant to orders passed, as per due process. Neither provision can extend to non-intermediaries, which is what the publishers of curated content or news media would be classified under. That the Code itself carves out a separate category for intermediaries buttresses this assumption and makes it patently flawed.Both entertainment and news are regulated for traditional media. To want similar regulations for online entertainment or news would not, in itself, be unfair or arbitrary. But clubbing both these together and regulating them on par is unsustainable. News, in particular, is not and cannot be subject to excessive legislation. Censorship, for instance, of news, is anathema to a democratic construct. That, in effect, is what invoking blocking rules, for regulating news achieves. And that is a further ground to sustain a strike down of the Digital Media Code through judicial review, for want of proportionality.The raison d’etre for the regulations i.e. of ensuring a level-playing field and several provisions for regulating OTT are welcome and follow global trends, including standardised age gating ratings and self-regulatory mechanisms. The methodology adapted is however irreparably flawed and unconstitutional. Be it self-regulation or soft regulation, even oversight, if the same laws and regulations, as those applicable for traditional media, had been invoked, including delegated legislation, it would have been the right step forward. To resort to subordinate legislation under a completely unrelated parliamentary law, using provisions that are inapplicable, undermines the core of the Constitution and is nothing more than a futile exercise bound to fail from its very inception.From an industry perspective, it is imperative that proportionality replaces fury so that constructive suggestions are put forth to ensure that national and citizen interests are protected, in a constitutionally sustainable manner while protecting stakeholder interests. There is enough within the deeply flawed regulations that are essential for ensuring victim rights, particularly of women and children; protecting against the pandemic of fake news and hate speech; age gating and other acceptable standards that qualify as reasonable restrictions on free speech. There cannot be one-sided rhetoric either from the government or the naysayers. It is imperative that the good does not get thrown out with the bad and effective remedial action is mediated by all stakeholders. There cannot be one-sided rhetoric either from the government or the naysayers. It is imperative that the good does not get thrown out with the bad and effective remedial action is mediated by all stakeholders. NS Nappinai is an advocate, Supreme Court and founder, Cyber SaathiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/creating-a-sustainable-legitimate-digital-regulatory-regime-101614947157624.html
05-03-2021||Today's||Dowry remains India’s abiding shame||Her name was Ayesha. She was 23, worked at a bank and was hoping to complete a master’s degree when she chose to end her life in the Sabarmati river. The police have arrested her husband, Aarif Khan, who she married in 2018, and charged him with abetment to suicide.Rashika Jain was 25 and had married businessman Kushal Agarwal at a grand destination wedding in Jodhpur a year ago. On February 16, she was dead from a fall off the third floor terrace of her in-laws’ home in Alipore, Kolkata. The police have filed a first information report against Agarwal. In both cases, the women’s parents have alleged harassment over dowry.A consumerist, post-liberalisation economy now drives the marriage market — destination weddings, designer jewellery and, at the very least, a DJ-wale bhaiya even in small towns and villages. Much of this is paid for by the bride’s family because it’s “tradition”. But even as gifts, how do you separate an outright demand from what was given under social pressure?Six decades after the Dowry Prohibition Act of 1961, the continuing prevalence of dowry remains India’s national shame. The 2019 National Crime Records Bureau data tells us that a woman is subject to cruelty by her husband and in-laws every four minutes. Every 73 minutes, there is a dowry death — 23 bodies a day. Yet, when was the last time you saw public outrage over these numbers? It is possible that these are now so routine, that we don’t even react.In the 1980s, at the height of these “kitchen accidents”, two mothers, Satyarani Chadha and Shahjahan Apa, turned a personal tragedy, the murder of their daughters, into a public crusade, leading to changes in the law. By 2014, public sympathy had waned and the Supreme Court called Section 498A, the cruelty section, among the “provisions that are used as weapons rather than shield by disgruntled wives”. Notwithstanding the misogyny of “disgruntled wives”, men rights activists are voluble when it comes to the “misuse” of this section, but inexplicably silent on dowry itself. Dowry is the issue that everyone, even government and social workers, has forgotten. Ayesha’s death led to a welcome break in the silence as Hyderabad Member of Parliament Asaduddin Owaisi said: “Irrespective of which religion you belong to, I strongly urge everyone to end this greed of dowry.” There’s one good reason for bringing dowry back into the forefront of the gender agenda. A study found that states with the highest increase of dowry deaths also have the highest decline in sex ratio. In other words, in states such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh where dowry is rife, it does not make economic sense to have a girl child.In the run-up to International Women’s Day, it’s good to celebrate the undeniable gains on our road to gender equality. But it’s also worth remembering just how far we have to go — and how little has changed.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/dowry-remains-india-s-abiding-shame-101614946497363.html
