07-03-2021||Today's||Look at number of people dying post-vaccination: Efficacy number that matters||Something sounds fishy when public health experts advise us to take whatever vaccine is available even though some vaccines show much more promising efficacy numbers than others. And it’s understandable that people would want to shop for the best vaccine. Americans are accustomed to the idea of consumer choice in pharmaceuticals — why else would we have so much direct-to-consumer drug advertising? But cut through the noise and there’s only one thing that really matters: all three FDA-authorized vaccines seem to work equally well — close to 100% — at preventing hospitalization and death.That message has gotten diluted in the reporting around the efficacy numbers for different vaccines. The efficacy numbers associated with the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines came in at around 95%, while the newly approved Johnson & Johnson vaccine has shown a less impressive 72% in the US, and even lower in other countries. As risk communication expert Peter Sandman says, people remember from school that 95% usually earns and A, and 72% a C at best. The problem is that numbers most touted to measure “efficacy” measure various degrees of symptoms plus a positive test — criteria that vary some from trial to trial. They don’t measure what’s most important: protection against hospitalization and death.And on that score, all three vaccines are outstanding. So public health experts are justified in suggesting people take the first vaccine available.People aren’t only worried about dying from Covid; they’re also worried about getting so-called long Covid and transmitting the disease to others even after they’re vaccinated. There’s no data one way or the other one whether vaccination cuts the risk of long Covid for those who get sick, but all the vaccines appear to reduce the number of people who get mild illness or asymptomatic cases, and thereby probably reduce transmission.While the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines work the same way, Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine works through a different mechanism. The first two use messenger RNA, and the latter uses DNA, which is ferried to the nucleus of cells with a different kind of virus, called an adenovirus, modified so it can’t replicate itself and cause disease. All three vaccines have good safety data, and all of them prompt the body to produce T-cells, which retain a sort of memory of the protein and attack it.One reason for the seemingly stark difference in efficacy numbers is that the clinical trials were held in very different groups of people. The Johnson & Johnson trial enrolled more people with hypertension, diabetes and HIV, as well as more people over 60, says University of California infectious disease doctor Monica Gandhi. Johnson and Johnson’s results also came from testing people in South Africa and Latin America at a time when new variants of the virus were already rampant. The important thing to note, says Gandhi, is that nobody who got the vaccine in the clinical trials — for any of the shots — was hospitalized for Covid-19. None of them died. None even got a severe enough case to require medical intervention at all.The absence of hospitalizations and deaths in the Johnson and Johnson trial looks even more impressive given that the volunteers included people who were more vulnerable to dying from the virus. Gandhi says she’d advise her own 80-something parents to get that shot if it was the first one available. Earlier this year, Yale University epidemiologist Robert Hecht had told me in an interview that he thought more lives could be saved by vaccinating people in so-called hot spots where there was an unusually high burden of disease. I called him back and asked whether the single-shot advantage of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine might make it a good choice for those places. He agreed it would, but worried about the perception that it’s an inferior vaccine, which could incite outrage about racial or socioeconomic injustice.Other experts are also wrestling with this question, since the Johnson & Johnson vaccine is cheaper than the other approved shots, delivered in a single dose, and requires only ordinary refrigeration rather than ultra-cold storage. That would make it a practical choice for vaccinating homeless people, and those in hard-to-reach rural areas, but again, experts are wrestling with the perception of inequality.That concern isn’t justified, given a proper interpretation of the data. Even the perception of unfairness, though, could be harmful. Giving people the ability to vaccine-shop might help more hesitant people feel more in control and less coerced — but also inadvertently prolong the pandemic.Getting the one-shot vaccine out as fast as possible and focusing on virus hot spots would save lives and hasten a return to some level of normal life. It’s now up to the public health community to send out a clearer message and get the public on board.The most important numbers here aren't 95% or 72%, but 0%: the number of vaccinated people who've died from the virus. When that's the emphasis, the message to get the first available vaccine makes a lot more sense.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/look-at-number-of-people-dying-post-vaccination-efficacy-number-that-matters-101615124021661.html
07-03-2021||Today's||For reforms, create a coalition of the willing||On contentious matters of economic policy, the Narendra Modi government has demonstrated a penchant for pursuing a shock-and-awe approach.In 2015, the government attempted to push through a controversial bill that diluted the most stringent provisions of the previous government’s flagship land acquisition law. In 2016, the prime minister (PM) announced a draconian demonetisation measure, with just a few hours of notice. And more recently, the government has pushed through — with minimal consultation and deference to parliamentary procedure — three bills liberalising agricultural markets.On each occasion, the planned dhamaka (big bang) has led to an unfortunate tamasha (spectacle). While the government succeeded in winning the Lok Sabha’s assent on the land bill, it failed to muster the requisite numbers in the Rajya Sabha, forcing it to beat a hasty retreat. Demonetisation triggered a massive economic disruption and, though the government stayed the course, it failed to secure its principal objective of rooting out black money. Now, the fierce opposition to the farm bills has caught the ruling alliance on the back foot. The government has offered to stay the bill’s enactment for 18 months, but negotiations with the protesting farmers persist with no resolution in sight.One common driver of these shock-and-awe policies — and the PM’s governance style more generally — is the increasing concentration of power in the hands of the Prime Minister’s Office. This vertical approach to national policymaking shuts out input not only from the Opposition but also stalwart rank-and-file Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) officeholders and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) allies. Debate and deliberation are often sacrificed for the sake of speed and scale.Yet, this strategy often ends up costing the ruling party. In an effort to override the fragmented, every-state-for-itself nature of India’s economic governance, the party high command has failed to pre-emptively defuse— or even anticipate — the kind of backlash that the farm bills provoked. Excess centralisation has too often delivered ineffectual policy.Fortunately, for contentious economic reform, there is an alternative path. Imagine, for a moment, if PM Modi deployed his considerable stature, charisma, and political savvy to forge a common minimum programme for a coalition of the willing, comprised of BJP-ruled states (the same idea could extend even further to include NDA allies, of course).This programme could include commitments to reform outmoded labour laws, ease impediments to land acquisition, revise laws governing Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), and reform inefficient power sectors. A common minimum programme for BJP states could also spell out changes to ease-of-doing-business regulations and roll back the most intrusive tentacles of the Inspector Raj.Under such a coordinated approach, BJP-ruled states would lead by example and let investors vote with their feet. If reforms kicked off a virtuous cycle in a critical mass of large states stretching from Gujarat to Uttar Pradesh, states that dithered would come under pressure to act.Forging a common programme for BJP states is not the same as letting allied states tinker with policy. When the Centre gave up on pushing nationwide land reform, it signalled it would use its authority under Article 254(2) of the Constitution to allow states to refashion their own land laws even if they contravened federal ones. This, however, is a half-measure — rather than galvanising states to act in unison, it merely permits ad hoc changes.Conditions are ripe for a more coordinated approach. Since assuming power at the Centre in 2014, the BJP’s fortunes at the state level have improved considerably. Today the party occupies chief ministerial positions in a plurality of states, accounting for 40% of India’s population and 36% of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Of course, there may be pushback from within the BJP’s ranks.But PM Modi possesses considerable leverage here. In states controlled by the BJP, each and every chief minister owes his position to Modi’s patronage. At the state level, Modi faces no credible alternative power centres within his own party.This then throws up a question. Why has the government persisted with a highly centralised approach? At least three factors appear to be at work.First, the BJP 2.0 appears enthralled with the idea of One Nation, One India. The Goods and Services Tax, simultaneous elections, new farm laws — all of these have been defended as necessary steps on the road to One India. This economic thrust aligns well with the government’s political modus operandi. This brand of politics relies on strict uniformity, an erasure of federal differences, Hindu unity, and an all-powerful executive. This helps reinforce what political scientist Neelanjan Sircar refers to as the “politics of vishwas”.Second, there are also strategic considerations at play. Collaborating with state governments or opening legislation up to parliamentary debate requires more time, effort, and risk of failure than executive decree. After all, there is a reason that issues such as market reforms have long been seen as intractable. The Modi government may simply prefer the speed and certainty of policy by fiat.Third, there is the issue of credit-claiming. Much of Modi’s success in projecting an image of delivering for the aam aadmi (common man) has stemmed from sweeping welfare initiatives such as rural electrification, toilet construction, and the distribution of LPG cylinders that can be clearly tied to Brand Modi.A common minimum programme places the party, instead of the PM, upfront. And if states ruled by non-BJP forces mimic the BJP’s approach, Modi’s rivals could assume credit for the changes he initiated.But shock-and-awe won’t work forever. Centralisation gives the illusion of control, but usually serves to exacerbate underlying social and political cleavages, and rarely achieves durable change. A common minimum programme for BJP states, in contrast, offers a middle path between One India and patchwork India.There is an obvious allure to pursuing a big bang approach that can be implemented in a top-down manner. It would seem to place opponents on the defensive, avoid pesky political compromises, and signal audacity to the electorate. Unfortunately, this is a best-case scenario and, as the record reflects, even the best-laid plans can go awry.Facing no existential threat until 2024, it is not too late for the government to change course. Ultimately, the question is how PM Modi understands his own strategic imperative. If he believes that he can get by on the perception of success — taking the tough, bold calls that might ultimately backfire — then crafting a coalition of like-minded states will be seen as more trouble than it’s worth.But this approach relies on an illusion that will only grow more difficult to sustain -- the deception that sheer vigour can substitute for progress. The BJP, then, will have to gamble that voters don’t notice that Made-in-Delhi diktats often don’t survive their first contact with reality.Milan Vaishnav is senior fellow and director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment forInternational Peace in Washington, D.C. Jonathan Kay is a junior fellow at CarnegieThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-reforms-create-a-coalition-of-the-willing-101615022346514.html
07-03-2021||Today's||The missing women in India’s workforce||According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2018-19, the female labour force participation rates among women aged above 15 years are as low as 26.4% in rural areas and 20.4% in urban areas in India. Both supply and demand factors contribute to the low levels of employment among women — especially the burden of domestic responsibilities, including the reproductive roles played by women, coupled with the lack of adequate and appropriate job opportunities.Studies have shown that women are willing to be employed, negating the argument that cultural factors keep women from working outside the household. It is also seen that unemployment rates (ie, those who are seeking employment but not finding any) are highest among women who are educated up to secondary and higher levels (17%; this is higher among young women at 26%).There is also the problem of much of women’s work not being counted as work. The All India Time Use Survey (2019) shows the disproportionate amount of time women spend on unpaid activities, much of which is not accounted for as economic activity. For instance, over 80% women participated in “unpaid domestic services for household members”, spending, on an average, 299 minutes a day compared to 26% men spending, on an average, 97 minutes a day.Even for women who are in the workforce, the nature of their employment is such that most of them are out of the purview of labour laws, including the recently passed Social Security Code. Over 55% of women (71% in rural India), who are counted as being part of the workforce, are in agriculture (vis-à-vis 53% in rural areas and 38% overall in the case of male workers). This is, by its very nature, informal and lacks social security provisions. Moreover, with land in agriculture continuing to be mostly in the name of men, women are not even recognised as farmers, although a large proportion of them are involved in agricultural work. This also keeps women away from accessing various schemes and resources such as priority sector loans, income support cash transfers and so on.At least 53% of women workers are in the self-employed category (of this, the majority are in the category of “helpers”), 22% receive regular wage/salary, and 25% are casual labour. Even among regular/salaried employees, two-thirds of the women workers had no written contract, about half were not eligible for any paid leave or had any social security benefit. The wages earned are also very low — their average earnings in a month from self-employment work in 2018-19, for example, being only ₹4,919. The average earning of those in regular employment is also only ₹12,000 per month. This category also includes domestic workers, anganwadi workers and so on — basically all those who receive some payment at regular intervals, even though that might be below minimum wages in some instances.The Social Security Code has minimal provisions for such women workers who are in informal employment. The maternity benefits portion of the Code is simply a reproduction of the Maternity Benefits Act, which includes only those women who work in an “establishment” and have worked for more than 80 days with the employer from whom she claims the maternity benefit. This automatically leaves out women in self-employment and those in informal jobs, together constituting more than 90% of the female workforce. In relation to the workers in unorganised sectors, the Code only specifies that they need to be registered (with mandatory Aadhaar) but does not spell out what they are entitled to. This is left for schemes to be notified by central and state governments.It is clear that Covid-19 has impacted women’s employment even more than that for men. Concerted efforts towards ensuring enabling conditions for women to be employed including transport, safety, women’s hostels along with social security provisions for all in the form of maternity benefits and child care arrangements are required for providing a level playing field for women entering the labour market. Unfortunately, these are all absent.Dipa Sinha teaches at Ambedkar University, DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-missing-women-in-india-s-workforce-101615022286658.html
07-03-2021||Today's||Institutions have failed citizens on sedition||I haven’t kept count but the available facts suggest an alarming increase in cases of sedition.The website, Article 14, claims 65% of the sedition charges against 10,938 individuals since 2010 were brought after 2014. Within that category, 96% of sedition cases “for criticising politicians and governments over the last decade” were registered after 2014.According to Article 14, this means “a 28% increase in the number of sedition cases filed each year between 2014 and 2020… compared to the yearly average between 2010 and 2014”. Finally, the National Crime Records Bureau seems to confirm these figures with its own, which show a 165% increase in cases of sedition between 2016 and 2019.Mahatma Gandhi would be appalled. He called Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, which is the sedition law, “the prince amongst the political sections of the Indian Penal Code designed to suppress the liberty of the citizen”.As for “attempts to excite disaffection against the government”, which the law penalises, he said: “I hold it as a virtue to be disaffected towards the government … one should be free to give the fullest expression to his disaffection, so long as he does not contemplate, promote or incite violence.”The fact that, in recent years, sedition has been used against cartoonists, students, journalists, historians, authors, actors, directors and, even, threatened against little children would have reduced the Mahatma to tears. Not of anger, but shame. This is not the future he envisaged for his country.Yet, the truly perplexing bit is not that our rulers have ignored Mahatma Gandhi — they’ve been doing that ever since he died — but they also refuse to heed the Supreme Court (SC). And even more bizarre is the fact the court has not complained.In 1962, in the Kedar Nath Singh judgment, the court upheld Section 124A, but restricted its use to “such activities as would be intended, or have a tendency, to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence”.In other words, it read down the law. It’s no longer what the language seems to suggest. Today, it has very limited application. Equally importantly, the court reiterated this in the Balwant Singh case of 1995, the Bilal Ahmed Kaloo case and the Common Cause case and reaffirmed as recently as September 2016.In a nutshell, sedition can only apply if there is clear and imminent incitement to violence. Not otherwise. But have our police and various governments recognised this? Or, if they have, do they care? Clearly, the answer is no.They blithely accuse of sedition men who complain of power cuts, people who write to the prime minister criticising mob-lynching and journalists who’ve tweeted about the death of protesters. Yet there was no hint of incitement of violence in any of these cases.We have even reached the point where a junior judge has admonished that “the offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the government”.But it is. That’s the only credible explanation for the blatant and frequent misuse of Section 124A. It’s become the favourite weapon of government retribution against people who say things it doesn’t like or act in ways it disagrees with. This is not simply disregard of the SC. Not just disrespect of it. It’s defiance.So why is the court silent? Once retired, judges have spoken out, but those still sitting on its benches have kept their lips sealed.Yet, I would argue our police and governments are guilty of contempt. And this is far more serious than a comedian or cartoonist mocking the judges or the court. Across Indian states and irrespective of party in power, governments, which take oath to uphold the constitution, are repeatedly dishonouring and disobeying it.Last month, a junior judge in Delhi spoke out. Is it not time for the elderly brethren who adorn the apex of our judicial system to find their voice? I, for one, am aching to hear it.Karan Thapar is author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/institutions-have-failed-citizens-on-sedition-101615021326331.html
07-03-2021||Today's||Can Covid-19 open doors for working women?||As India slowly begins battling its way out of the pandemic with its vaccination drive, new models of work and innovative thinking on the part of employers can create positive outcomes for women. Women have suffered tremendously during the pandemic, but there may well be some silver linings.India’s social structures, which force a woman to move to different locations depending on her husband’s job or remain behind with families in villages or small towns to take care of the household, have resulted in millions of women either having to stay out of jobs, drop out or miss opportunities to acquire the appropriate skills or educational qualifications to build a career.A range of sectors now allow employees to work from anywhere. This can benefit women, for whom lack of mobility and distance to office, not to mention household chores, have meant a decrease in career opportunities. Flexibility in the workplace will give them more choices, though this transformation will take time.If location and time are not factors, more women are likely to stay on in a job after having children, which gives them continuity in service and hence better chances at career progression. New work models will bring, apart from more work from home opportunities, possibilities of fewer days a week in the workplace for many.But this is not enough, for women also need support structures if they are to be truly productive. This is a good time for workplaces across the spectrum to consider crèches so that women who do have opportunities but are held back by child care responsibilities can put themselves into the job market.The government has been proactive in getting the economy back on track. The issue of giving women the right tools to not just empower themselves but also make a significant contribution to the economy should be a priority. If health care and social support systems improve, some of the burden of care-giving at home can also be lifted from women, leaving them to pursue their own aspirations. Employers should actively look at reskilling women already on the rolls and the government should offer more support for women who wish to acquire the educational skills to meet the demands of the labour market today.Though it may be a bit premature to say that mindsets have changed, there is definitely greater realisation now, after the onset of the pandemic, even within patriarchal structures, that women have had to bear a disproportionate burden of housework and care-giving for the young, elderly and sick.This could lead to greater male participation in the household. Economic pressure will also push more women into the job market and they should be able to access resources, information and skills with much greater ease than was the case before the pandemic.The Start-up India and Skill India schemes should target women much more aggressively now. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose words have proved transformational in many areas, should use his popular radio broadcast, Mann ki Baat, to emphasis the need to get women back into the workforce and make the workplace more conducive to those already in it. This would ensure that India does not lose out on so much talent waiting to be tapped if only the conditions are enabling. On this International Women’s Day, a pledge to bring women back into the workforce should be India’s top priority.lalita.panicker@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/can-covid-19-open-doors-for-working-women-101615020549334.html
