10-03-2021||Today's||Embracing techno-alliances of the future||If tariffs were Donald Trump’s weapon of choice against China, technology is going to be Joe Biden’s. Even as the Quad leaders prepare for their first-ever summit meeting on Friday, Washington has begun piecing together a set of coalitions designed to counter China’s dominance in key technologies. Some of these alliances may be centred around the Quad. India should watch this space carefully. If these “techno-alliances” start to come together, they could be a major economic and geopolitical opportunity for India. But New Delhi must be prepared to dilute some of the economic fixations it has developed.In its recent Interim National Security Strategy, the Biden administration says the United States (US) will seek to shape “emerging technology standards to boost our security, economic competitiveness, and values…We will join with like-minded democracies to develop and defend trusted critical supply chains and technology infrastructure”. The Biden administration’s plan is more than just about reducing dependency on China for various technological inputs. It is also about ring-fencing know-how against Beijing’s penchant for large-scale intellectual property pilfering. It is also about re-establishing the US and its partners as world leaders in innovation and production efficiency.Early reports on these techno-alliance plans say semiconductors are first on the list. Semiconductors are in the news thanks to a global shortage, itself partly because of Chinese hoarding. It is also an industry dominated by a handful of countries, most of whom are US allies. China would not be denied these chips, but the alliance would seek to ensure that the technology’s future trajectory is not decided by Beijing.Each techno-alliance would be sui generis, built around a set of countries competitive in a certain technology. The Trump administration had urged India to join a nascent US-Japan 5G coalition and the new US president will probably do the same. Plans are on for coalitions regarding Artificial Intelligence (AI), quantum computing, biotechnology, surveillance technology and more. Most of these will begin by simply setting common rules, standards and practices. Over time, they could become more complicated with member-states offering each other market access, sharing technology and perhaps subsidies to boost alternatives to Made in China goods and services.Some of these coalitions will coalesce around existing multilateral groupings. The most obvious one would be the Group of Seven. Another could be the Quad. While most reports say India is a target country, US officials say Washington internally wonders how far New Delhi is prepared to join such arrangements given its autarkic tendencies. India is also not a major research and development (R&D) centre for most such technologies and a niche player in terms of advanced manufacturing.India’s contribution, and benefit, would be in being able to provide a competitive and alternative site if sensitive manufacturing has to be moved out of China. It would be an obvious player where software is concerned, for example in 5G. However, India would have to accept being part of an export control regime to ensure against the leakage of technology to China. This would be needed for even associate club membership.In the Biden administration’s view, the real brake on a Quad-based tech arrangement is India’s reluctance to sign up with anything that is explicitly anti-Chinese. The US hopes that India will be less risk averse following the Galwan Valley clashes. The other Quad members have taken heart at the alacrity with which India accepted President Biden’s proposal for a Quad summit. There is also a smaller debate in Washington as to whether India has become too authoritarian to be included in surveillance and AI technology groupings.The real obstacle to India becoming genuinely aligned with any techno-alliances will be its own domestic economic policies. When it comes to 5G, for example, New Delhi is insisting on a set of India-specific standards seen as obsolete by most telecom equipment makers — and out of sync with global coalition-making. India has also dragged its heels about a Japanese-proposed Supply Chain Resilience Initiative, a sort of techno-alliance lite. Tokyo wants to bring in key Southeast Asian countries essential to electronics and industrial components. The Indian commerce ministry has stalled proceedings, arguing unrealistically that all these supply chain segments should be shifted to India. The line ministries and regulators concerned are blind to the geopolitical imperatives involved.Over the next few months, the US will stitch together these coalitions one by one. India will be invited to the inaugural ceremony, but is likely to dither about going any further if it hasn’t given the concept serious thought. The Narendra Modi government should set up an inter-ministerial task force to begin weighing the implications of the coming Silicon War and how India should respond. If it plays its cards correctly, India could become a major hub for these techno-alliances with benefits in terms of domestic manufacturing, experts as well as cutting-edge research. If it attempts to adhere to either Atmanirbhar Bharat or Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam in their purest form, however, it may find itself once again on the margins of the international economic system. Tech-alignment may define geopolitics this century. India should prepare accordingly.pramitpc@yahoo.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/embracing-techno-alliances-of-the-future-101615382128995.html
10-03-2021||Today's||The significance of the LoC ceasefire for bordering communities||A rare joint statement by the Indian and Pakistani directors general of military operations, on February 25, announcing that the two countries have agreed to strictly observe the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) triggered much speculation over what brought about the turnaround. Moeed Yusuf, special assistant on national security to Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, called the announcement a “victory of diplomacy” and added that “more avenues” will open in the future, amid reports that back-channel meetings at neutral locations led to the pact.Analysts linked the reiteration of the observance of the truce along the de facto border to the protracted stand-off between the Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh and New Delhi’s attempts to avoid a two-front conflict with two allied adversaries. Many wondered whether the new Joe Biden administration had nudged the two countries to normalise ties. The Pulwama attack, the subsequent Balakot strike, and India’s move to change the constitutional status of J&K escalated tensions between the two countries in 2019. The following year, the highest ceasefire violations — about 5,000 —were reported along the de facto border.But while the roots of the current thaw can be debated, the only question that matters for the residents in the constant line of fire along the 740-km border is whether the ceasefire will sustain long enough for them to live to fight another day, or whether their lives and livelihood will again be sacrificed at the altar of narrow political ends. The breakthrough means they can tend to their fields, and educate their children without worrying whether they would be able to return home alive.Cross-border shelling over the years has destroyed livelihoods, left crops unharvested, and forced even well-off people to opt for small-time jobs in faraway towns to sustain their families. Most of the border areas are inaccessible and remote, and were even denied mobile phone connectivity for years due to their proximity to Pakistan.Border residents can now hope to live their lives with dignity without having to often rush to cramped bunkers to save their lives. Cross-border shelling has not just left hundreds dead but has taken an emotional toll on survivors. Many border areas such as Karnah are so remote that people have to stock up supplies for the winter months before snow cuts it off from the outside world. The cross-LoC shelling would even hamper the stocking and evacuation of wounded residents.In Kashmir’s hillside Churnada village of 1,600 people, which lost two residents in 2020 to cross-border shelling, residents gathered at the shrine of a Muslim saint to celebrate the new agreement. They heaved a sigh of relief that they could now finally till their land, graze their cattle and send their children to school without fear. As many as 70 civilians and 72 soldiers have died in cross-border firing since 2018. According to Reuters, nearly 300 civilians have been killed since 2014 in ceasefire violations on the Pakistani side. It reported that in the picturesque Neelum valley on the other side, hundreds of hotels and guesthouses came up when the ceasefire held as tourists visited around the year. Reuters said tourism went into a tailspin and guesthouse operators were forced to dig into their savings as skirmishes and firing increased.The divided border residents on both sides can only hope the ceasefire is not derailed like it was in the aftermath of the 2008 Mumbai attacks. The 2003-2008 era of peace brought rich dividends for border communities and led to the start of cross-LoC bus services. This would have been unthinkable a decade earlier, as it was akin to Pakistan’s acknowledgment of the Indian sovereignty over J&K.The reiteration of the commitment to the truce has raised hopes for a dialogue process effectively stalled since 2008. That top national security officials are believed to have been involved in the back-channel talks ahead of the turnaround should hold out hope.A similar engagement led to the ceasefire agreement first in 2003 that translated into over a half-decade calm in Kashmir and a degree of healing. Build on the current moment.sameer.arshadkhatlani@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-significance-of-the-loc-ceasefire-for-bordering-communities-101615296625388.html
10-03-2021||Today's||Defence: The disjunct between words and action||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi addressed the Combined Commanders Conference (CCC) at Kevadia, Gujarat, on March 6, and in his characteristic manner, departed from tradition by directing that personnel below officer rank (PBOR) would also be part of the deliberations.This the first time that the annual conference, where the PM meets the combined top brass of the Indian military, included Junior Commissioned Officers and Non-Commissioned Officers (JCOs-NCOs). It is a radical departure in form but vintage Modi. Whether this kind of inclusiveness will have meaningful long-term benefits to the national security agenda of the CCC remains moot and can be gauged only much later.It may be recalled that in his first term, PM Modi recast the CCC template with a flourish when he moved the venue from the staid confines of Delhi to distant Kochi. The commanders met on board the aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya, in December 2015 and the PM gave a clear-and-strong signal to the commanders about his national security priorities. In the 2014 election campaign, Modi, the candidate, berated the United Progressive Alliance government for its somnolence at the wheel in relation to the defence sector and resolved that if elected, he would make amends — swiftly.Thus, the December 2015 CCC was rich in detail about what Modi, now the PM, would focus on with characteristic resolve. The excerpts from the PM’s address, released by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), at the time constituted a comprehensive document of about 2,350 words.In what could be yet another departure, the gist of the PM’s address to the CCC this year was communicated in a short 350-word PIB release. This was disappointing, for with the Galwan face-off of mid-2020 and the uneasy disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops still a work-in-progress, the nation would have benefited from a 2015 kind of elucidation by the PM about the challenges to India’s national security and the blueprint that the higher defence apex would be reviewing. This would also have been valuable, given the fiscal constraints that the pandemic has imposed on the national exchequer and its attendant implications for the material state of the Indian fauj.At Kevadia, the PM “stressed on the importance of enhancing indigenisation in the national security system”. Furthermore, dwelling on the rapidly changing technological landscape, he “highlighted the need to develop the Indian military into a future force”. The need for India to enhance indigenous efforts at providing major military inventory and capabilities has been an abiding theme from the era of PM Indira Gandhi to that of Manmohan Singh, but the results have been well below the median.While there have been some islands of success — for instance, missile and space capability, as also in the nuclear domain (including submarine propulsion) — the stark reality is that India is yet to design and manufacture even a personal weapon (rifle) that would be of international standards.Having inherited a deeply inefficient public sector defence research and development (R&D) and manufacturing ecosystem, PM Modi, in his first term, made indigenisation a priority, along with an overhaul of defence procurement that moves at a glacial pace.In 2015, Modi asserted, “We will soon reform our procurement policies and process. And, our offsets policy will become a strategic tool for improving our capabilities in defence technologies.” Six years later, the results apropos indigenisation have been modest, though many projects are in the pipeline and expected to reach fruition — hopefully soon.The intractable nature of the Indian defence bureaucracy and its tenacious reluctance to adapt to change has often frustrated the PM and he has urged the system to review its own track record and improve itself. This exhortation was evident in Kevadia 2021 where the PM “called for a holistic approach, focused on breaking down civil-military silos and on expediting the speed of decision making”.To his credit, Modi took the long-delayed political decision to revamp India’s higher defence organisation and move towards synergising army-air force-navy capabilities by creating the post of a Chief of Defence Staff and theatre commands. But this is still a work-in-progress and some changes that have been mooted will have to be reviewed and calibrated astutely.The PM’s emphasis on the Indian military as a “future force”, predicated on the changing technological landscape, is timely and welcome. The current profile of the Indian military with its large manpower content (this is particularly true of the army) will have to be transmuted in a manner whereby the resultant force is threat-relevant, effective and affordable. Technology is the key and translating the PM’s vision will be a complex human resource and fiscal challenge.On current evidence, the bench strength of team Modi in the defence sector is wafer-thin and having four defence ministers in the first term is case in point.But it is the fiscal constraint that remains daunting. On March 8, Parliament was informed that in FY 2021-22, the capital budget for defence had been slashed by a whopping ₹76,553 crore.The Indian fauj remains caught between a rock and a hard place, and the PM will have to do more to translate his words into action.C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy StudiesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/defence-the-disjunct-between-words-and-action-101615296622922.html
10-03-2021||Today's||How Covid-19 can transform health care||The pandemic disrupted life, livelihoods, education and health like little else in recent history. The world found innovations and adaptations to minimise some of the disruptions for some people, but not all. Health care disruptions, less amenable to home-based solutions, ranged across a very broad continuum — a shift in health-seeking behaviour, limitations in health infrastructure, difficulties in outreach to community members, lack of availability of human resources and interruptions in supply chains. Not all of these were limited to the context of the pandemic — some have pre-existed but got magnified in the context of the pandemic.Covid-19 saw health care workers diverted to the much-needed task of preventing and dealing with infections, taking them away from their regular tasks, and thus, further reducing the availability of health care workers. Health care facilities were deployed for testing and treating patients, but this made them unavailable for regular services. Supply chains were disrupted due to lockdowns. When health facilities were functioning, citizens were either fearful or unable to travel to them or were unaware that facilities were functioning. All this led to significant disruption in the provision of essential health services such as routine immunisation, testing and treating tuberculosis (TB) patients, maternal and child health care and nutrition-related interventions.But India is no stranger to innovation. A few months into the pandemic, there were a variety of interventions, which sought to address some of these barriers related to health human resources, demand for and access to services, and provision to the last mile. Innovations were found in at least four categories — leveraging technology, leveraging community platforms, strengthening frontline workers and augmenting supply chains.Extensive interventions leveraged the digital platform such as remote counselling and consultation in several states; a child growth-monitoring app for remote monitoring of severely acute malnourished children in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh; an Interactive Voice Response System-based solution in Uttar Pradesh for reminder calls to the community about immunisation sessions; digital surveillance applications for front-line workers for TB and Covid-vulnerability assessment in states such as Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab for simultaneous TB and Covid assessment; an artificial intelligence-based diagnostics solution to scan chest X-rays and detect abnormalities.Various organisations leveraged digital platforms to conduct training and information sessions for frontline workers. The range of such services and their providers is vast including e-Sanjeevani, Swasth, Practo, Portea, TeCHO, Anmol, to name just a few.The involvement of community-based organisations in the form of self-help groups (SHGs) and village organisations reinforced their potential for last-mile services. Active TB case finding by community health volunteers through outreach and awareness; demand generation for services and provision of timely information to pregnant women by volunteer groups through helpline numbers; support for essential health service delivery through panchayati raj institutions contributed to strengthening health services.The Indian postal department was leveraged for its extensive postal network as an alternative logistics chain for delivery of family planning commodities. Social franchising model for TB diagnosis and drug dispensation via e-pharmacies to the doorsteps of patients was also utilised.India saw many innovations rolled out, although not necessarily at scale and most not evaluated for impact. Based on rigorous impact evaluations, there is potential for scale and convergence. It is not that this potential is not recognised by the government. The introduction of telemedicine guidelines and the launch of the National Digital Health Mission provide a foundation for greater leverage of the digital platform. Admittedly, limited internet penetration in rural India, gender disparity in internet usage, data privacy and data-sharing ethics concerns limit the impact of digital platforms, but an increasing focus on health technology platforms can address, to some extent, the needs of information, triaging, counselling, consultation, scheduling visits, home delivery of drugs, and remote follow-up reducing some of the demand- and supply-side challenges.Similarly, a stronger policy environment can enable the 70 million SHG women members to play an institutionalised role in health service functions, such as behaviour change interventions, demand for essential services, community-led accountability of health systems and services.The pandemic saw multiple innovations surface, some deployed in small geographies, some by private organisations and others by the government, most not evaluated for impact. These innovations merit policy attention — in assessing their impact, in their geographic scale, in convergence of currently fragmented services, and in developing meaningful partnerships with private innovators for public adoption.Scaling innovations requires attention to at least three aspects. One, assessment of innovation impact and certification, which, in turn, will require institutional mechanisms that can enable this. Second, a policy environment that encourages and facilitates public contracting of innovations, in a context where the benefits of purchasing existing, tried-and-tested products/services in the public system are large. Third, grant-and-loan mechanisms that enable innovators to address the needs of the health care system. The platforms on which these innovations are deployed are under-leveraged, with the pandemic demonstrating the opportunity to build on these innovations, leading to a stronger health systems response.Sandhya Venkateswaran is fellow, Lancet Citizen’s Commission on Reimagining India’s Health SystemThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-covid-19-can-transform-health-care-101615296083608.html
