11-03-2021||Today's||The hypocrisy of India’s secular polity||At a media conclave in 2018, Sonia Gandhi made a candid confession. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), she claimed, had managed to convince many people that the Congress is a “Muslim party”. Her remarks, in a sense, were an admission that Nehruvian secularism had failed to combat the rising tide of political Hindutva. Gandhi’s words also echoed the party’s AK Antony committee report, drafted in the aftermath of the 2014 poll debacle but never made public, that the Congress was seen as “pro-Muslim” and “anti-Hindu”. Three years later, the party’s predicament is even starker, with its secular identity once again being questioned for aligning with Muslim parties.In Kerala, the Congress’s long-standing alliance with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) is under the scanner with both the ruling Left Front and the BJP targeting the party for being partial to the League’s interests. In Assam, the Congress has tied up with businessman-politician Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), a party representing the concerns of the state’s Bengali-speaking Muslim immigrant population. And in West Bengal, the Congress is part of a Left-led alliance that includes the Indian Secular Front (ISF), a party started by Abbas Siddiqui, a cleric, whose public utterances are contentious. In each instance, the BJP has unsurprisingly been flagging these alliances to consolidate its Hindu votebank.The nature of these alliances and the reaction to them reflect the deepening crisis within the Congress and, indeed, within mainstream secular politics. For the Congress, this is a crisis that has been building up for decades, ever since Indira Gandhi inserted “secularism” in the Preamble in 1976. Her move was driven by realpolitik, designed to consolidate her hold among the minorities while cornering her political rivals. Unlike Jawaharlal Nehru, for whom secularism was an article of faith, Indira Gandhi was guilty of practicing lip-service secularism, especially after returning to power in 1980. Then be it in Punjab, Assam or Jammu and Kashmir, she appeared to shun the pretence of secularism in the race for votes by aligning with religious forces of all hues.Rajiv Gandhi, as prime minister (PM), put further strain on secular values by appeasing both Hindu and Muslim fundamentalists. The politics of running with the secular hare and hunting with the communal hound through the turbulent 1980s would culminate in the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992 and propel the BJP into a position of power.Since then, while the saffron brotherhood has gone from strength-to-strength, the Congress has struggled to find a consistent ideological and organisational response to the challenge posed by strident Hindutva nationalism. The party has oscillated between a Manmohan Singh as PM affirming that minorities, particularly Muslims, have the “first claim” on government resources to a Rahul Gandhi going temple-hopping ahead of a Gujarat election and the party asserting that he is a “janeudhari” Hindu. As a result, the centrist secular space that rejects religion as a marker of political identity has over time been hollowed out.The Congress now finds itself caught between a rock and a hard place. Appealing to any kind of Hindu sentiment only leaves it looking like a “B team” of the BJP, an unconvincing copy of the original party of majoritarianism. The shortlived Kamal Nath-led government in Madhya Pradesh attempted this with its version of cow politics but with little resonance on the ground. On the other hand, forging alliances with smaller, Muslim-centric parties also appears like a temporary fix for uncertain electoral gains. For example, in Assam’s surcharged post-Citizenship (Amendment) Act politics, the Congress-AIUDF alliance may sweep the Muslim-dominated seats of lower Assam but will inevitably spark off a counter-polarisation in the rest of the state. In a sharply divided Bengal, a tie-up with the ISF is not only ideologically incompatible but will only further split the Muslim vote between Mamata Banerjee and the Left-Congress-ISF alliance, thereby improving the BJP’s chances. Ironically, the Left, which attacks the Congress in Kerala for its IUML partnership, has had few compunctions in pushing for an alliance with an Islamist party in Bengal — it is these underlying hypocrisies in the secular project that have weakened it morally and politically.Sadly, the worst sufferers in the credibility crisis facing mainstream secularism have been the minorities. Isolated and demonised by the Hindutva brigade, their patriotism routinely called into question, the Rightward lurch in Indian politics has only made Muslims feel fearful and resentful. Their anxieties and grievances with secular politics have seen many younger Muslims turn to the likes of Asaduddin Owaisi as potential protectors and defenders of the faith. In the recent Gujarat local body polls, for example, Owaisi’s party, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) won seven of the eight seats it contested in Godhra and emerged as the main Opposition party in Modasa town. Most of these seats were previously won by the Congress. Clearly, even Muslim voters are looking for alternatives that go beyond clichéd and bogus definitions of secularism.Post-script: The BJP has attacked the Congress’s secular vision for aligning with an Islamic cleric in Bengal. However, the party happily advertises the fact that India’s most-populous state is run by a saffron-robed Hindu head priest affiliated to a religious monastery. Or are the rules in votebank politics different for different people? Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and author The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-hypocrisy-of-india-s-secular-polity-101615465117091.html
11-03-2021||Today's||China’s hydro hegemony is overstated. But India needs a plan||China is planning to harness the lower reaches of the Yarlung Tsangpo, or the Brahmaputra, as it is known in India. Many of these planned water-related projects, under China’s new five-year plan (2021-2025), will be built disconcertingly close to India’s border. China’s overdrive on transboundary rivers has strategic content, underpinned not only by its low-carbon energy economic growth, but also fashioned by the desire to use international rivers as instruments of politico-diplomatic leverage. As an upstream country, China shares more than 50 major international watercourses with 14 downstream neighbours. The volume of water flowing out of China to other countries is about 730 bcm (billion cubic meters), which is 30 times the volume flowing into China. This, undoubtedly, is a strategic asset. The Chinese leadership, while harnessing the rivers, has, as and when required, used them for coercion and compliance, or what the Marxist political philosopher Antonio Gramsci termed as “a mix of force and consent”. It is not uncommon to hear China as a “hydro-hegemon”.China has a legacy of controlling rivers and a history of hydraulic engineering. When Mao Tse-tung established the People’s Republic of China in 1949, he issued directives to harness rivers and viewed Tibet as a water-tower. As Mao set about transforming China into a modern industrialised socialist State, he would often say, “Nature is an enemy that had to be beaten”. Rivers, as Mao realised, symbolised political supremacy. Today, China has a powerful hydraulic bureaucracy, with large investments in the hydropower sector, mega dams, and water diversion projects.Despite India being a lower riparian State on the Brahmaputra, it is not completely in a disadvantageous situation. Since 56% of the Yarlung Tsangpo/Brahmaputra flows in Chinese territory, one can be easily mistaken into believing that China controls a large share of the water. However, the Yarlung Tsangpo/Brahmaputra’s volumetric is not proportional to its length inside China.The Yarlung Tsangpo is a trans-Himalayan river where the annual precipitation, as studies reveal, averages about 300 mm. Once it crosses the Himalayan crestline, the annual rainfall is about 2,000-2,100 mm. This means that when the Yarlung Tsangpo reaches India, it swells because of the monsoon rain and also the contribution of the tributaries such as the Luhit, Dibang and Siang/Dihang. Data suggest that both during the lean and peak flow, the total annual outflow of the Yarlung Tsangpo from China is less than that from the Brahmaputra. This means that India has ample water on its side to harness.India needs to have more water development footprints in the Northeast, particularly in Arunachal Pradesh. To enhance economic growth in the region, it needs to build water storages and, thereby, exert prior downstream riparian appropriation rights. India’s water storage capacity is less than 250 bcm – pitiable as compared to China. It must also not be forgotten that China’s claim to the Arunachal Pradesh territory (South Tibet) is also a claim to the vast amount of water flowing in the area. However, hydro projects in Arunachal Pradesh have to be framed in a consultative manner with wider stakeholder and inter-provincial participation in the Northeast, particularly with Assam, which is downstream to Arunachal Pradesh to avoid inter-state water conflicts.Equally significant are the potential waterways and navigation in the Northeast. With the National Democratic Alliance government’s investment in inland waterways, the Brahmaputra National Waterway 2 will act as a critical economic corridor with direct access to the Chittagong Port in Bangladesh and the Haldia Port in West Bengal and boost trade with Southeast Asian countries.China’s upstream position is a reality, but its dominance on the Brahmaputra is overstated. It’s time to de-emphasise China’s hydro-hegemony. Pursuing a more meaningful water dialogue on hydrological data-sharing is essential, but India would require building a lower riparian coalition with Bhutan and Bangladesh on the Brahmaputra. Uttam Kumar Sinha is a fellow, Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/chinas-hydro-hegemony-is-overstated-but-india-needs-a-plan-101615465054226.html
11-03-2021||Today's||Instituting accountability on the Internet||The internet grew in the last three decades as a global, open network connecting people, enabling the exchange of ideas. But, in recent years, it has morphed into something very different. The internet is increasingly being carved up and dominated by platforms, aka intermediaries that, in turn, wield tremendous influence and power over what a netizen consumes.In India, these internet players are regulated by the Information Technology (IT) Act. It was pushed, in its current form, by the United Progressive Alliance government in 2008 — and provides, through Section 79, a safe harbour for these intermediaries. This means they have little or no responsibility for the content and material they carry — a provision that has been brazenly misused to escape accountability.For decades, their influence and power have grown unchallenged, even as they have distanced themselves from the regulatory rules and laws that real life publishers/content creators have to comply with and operate under. Remember, all non-digital media and content creators have significant regulations and rules to comply with.For all its power to do good, these intermediaries, operating in this type of rule-less environment, have exercised power — for years hidden, but now out in full view — to shape/distort narratives and, therefore, incite public opinion and behaviour sans accountability. When used by bad people, this becomes a dangerous force multiplier to create violence, hate and divisions — with no corresponding accountability and compliance requirements under any law.The debate around the growing power of these unregulated “platforms” and the need for some rules has waxed and waned. After every period marked by critical commentary, people and governments have tended to move on, allowing consolidation of power and lack of regulation to continue uninterrupted.The lack of accountability of platforms, combined with non-traceability of illegalities, poses huge risks to a democracy because of the ability to violate offline laws in the online world without fear or consequence. This also represents an unprecedented power in the history of mankind — a person sitting somewhere in Silicon Valley has the power to amplify/mute a person far away or allow inciteful or illegal content to continue, without being accountable to any law in the jurisdiction where this content is being consumed or consumer being impacted.Our Constitution has defined free speech under Article 19 and the limits that can be put on that right to free speech in Article 19(2). The principle that all platforms should normally abide by, therefore, is simple — any content or speech on a platform can be taken down if it meets the test of 19(2) and that alone. India has a surfeit of laws to protect the individual and the State — both in the real world and in the online world. However, specifically vis-à-vis the internet, the laws and regulations are a mix of old, inflexible and static. Consumers have very little protection against digital platforms when many use so-called “guidelines” and “algorithms” to decide to mute or amplify content on totally non-transparent terms — repeatedly violating Article 19’s guarantee to free speech. All social media platform takedown “policies”, “community guidelines” or “algorithms” must be compliant with, and not go beyond, Article 19(2) exceptions. And this standard must be equitably applied to all, as per Article 14. But none of this is followed by these platforms.India is the largest connected nation in the world, and under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has made huge strides in Digital India. It is fitting that India leads the way in addressing these challenges with the new intermediary guidelines. These guidelines harmonise offline and online rules. The same type of accountability and rules that applies to a broadcast TV platform will apply to digital platforms. It permits transparent self-regulation to evolve, and it also permits the continuation of the safe harbour under Section 79 as long as the platform exercises due diligence on its users — implying that platforms have to take responsibility for traceability in the event of inciteful and/or illegal content. To ensure that the costs of compliance don’t become a burden on start-ups and smaller enterprises, the guidelines specify a higher threshold of compliance for Significant Social Media Intermediaries. But most importantly, it establishes an important principle in this debate of regulating tech — the principle of accountability to the consumers and communities they serve — by ensuring that consumer redressals are an obligation of these platforms and are not evaded.These new rules are the right way forward and will continue to evolve. The values of a free and open internet, consumer rights and, at the same time, accountability of platforms are all being met with this contemporary regulatory regime — that will continue to evolve. India has signalled that it will harness the good of the internet effectively to fuel its rise. At the same time, it is proceeding to evolve a culture of accountability that ensures that the internet never becomes a safe haven for those who seek to misuse it.Rajeev Chandrashekhar is a BJP MP, national spokesperson of the party and a member of JPC on data protection bill The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/instituting-accountability-on-the-internet-101615464757496.html
11-03-2021||Today's||How we the people are responsible for the spread of the virus||The virus has moved in Delhi from “pandemic” to “endemic”, says Delhi’s health minister. And I have heard a senior virologist say exactly that about the country. They may well be right. But what matters is that the virus is still very much around, and we are as responsible for it being so as the virus itself is.We?Yes, we. And that includes just about everyone except health workers who have been given but a small token of our appreciation by being made the first to be vaccinated. And even there, we want them to be protected because we want them to continue to protect us.And the ‘we’ starts with our political class. As they bared their upper arms for the jabs before cameras, did all our leaders wear masks? Alas, not all of them. Our vice-president, M Venkaiah Naidu, and external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, did.They wore masks, correctly, admirably, over mouth and nose as the needle went in. And they sent two clear messages across — wear masks, get vaccinated. There may well have been others like them who did. But not all our other leaders did so. It is not as if the nation would have failed to recognise them, masked. And why could the officials on duty not have whispered just two words to them, “Sir, mask…”And now, with elections, leaders are going to be needed to campaign. They will need crowds. Where does social distancing go? A great responsibility rests on leaders and their compliance to health protocols during elections. But our leaders are only what we or the majority of us are. Put differently, what we are, our leaders are.And what are “we” doing?We have to but step outdoors to see us as we always are — mixing, milling about in clusters and crowds, holding hands, eating, chewing, spitting, with the gentlemen among us secure in the belief that incontinence is integral to the Indian male’s vested rights. All this, let us recognise, is not a class matter. The well-to-do in malls and cinema houses galumph around like elephants in musth, maskless, careless, shameless. Travelling by air, the “business class” is no model of compliance. Small wonder that the virus thrives.Can the authorities who are serious about supporting the vaccination roll-out with a compliance roll-in, consider three urgent suggestions?First, about masks. Let the non-wearing of masks be visited with condign fines on the spot. This is not difficult to do in places of public concourse, on trains, in buses, in cinema houses, shopping plazas, with a “virus police” on duty. Mumbai has started, late, perhaps, but it has. Other cities must follow suit.Second, about elections. Let the vaccination drive be opened immediately to all registered voters in poll-bound regions straightaway, irrespective of the age and co-morbidity criteria. And let no political campaigner do any campaigning, whether as a speaker at rallies or otherwise, unvaccinated. And let all poll personnel, including security forces, report for duty only after being vaccinated.Third, about farmers. The spike in parts of north India, including Punjab, may be because of many reasons, pandemic, endemic or other. But common sense tells us that the prolonged farm protests, with groups of protesters moving back and forth from their villages to the rallies, are both at risk and unwittingly, innocently, risk-enlarging.As a health measure first and last, let the government announce the revocation of the three farm bills and a reconsideration of their provisions by the Inter-State Council (ISC) with farm leaders being heard at it, after the majority of the nation has been vaccinated and the number of new cases has been brought down to, and kept at, negligible figures. And let farm leaders agree to this arrangement, disband the protest, again as a gesture to health concerns, for a later engagement on the contentious issues at the ISC in a post-Covid-19 situation.If these steps are taken, the virus can be more swiftly brought under control. If they are not taken, the vaccines and their amazing creators and disseminators would have been weakened by us.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-we-the-people-are-responsible-for-the-spread-of-the-virus-101615382132374.html
11-03-2021||Today's||In Kabul, a strategic defeat for the US||The elaborate United States (US) draft “Afghanistan peace agreement”, and its impatient letter to Afghan president Ashraf Ghani, once again reveal the strategic defeat of the US in a country that has been “the graveyard of empires”. America’s new desire to shift the onus of resolving the Afghan mess from its shoulders alone to a group of countries, including India, only starkly profiles its Afghan failure. The Joe Biden administration will doubtless justify this collective approach as part of its commitment to multilateralism to address international issues. This does not, however, disguise its ongoing desperation to extricate itself from a 20-year-long morass of its own making.The three-part draft containing ideas for a new constitution, the establishment of an interim government — called “the Peace Government” to take the global mind away from the wheel turning full circle two decades after the Bonn agreement set up an interim administration — and principles for a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire are hardly realistic in many crucial elements. It claims to represent “a variety of ideas and priorities of Afghans on both sides of the conflict”, but reflects US concerns and aspirations for Afghanistan in their very selection and enumeration. In the absence of corroborative evidence, it is difficult to visualise how the Taliban and the Kabul authorities will take a giant leap of faith for peace, with the former abandoning fundamental sources of strength and the latter their current political offices.The Taliban’s strength is derived from the success of its armed cadres. Aided by Pakistan, the Taliban first demonstrated that the US-led North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces could not crush it. This also meant that NATO could not prevent the spread of Taliban influence and, in many cases, control of a significant portion of Afghan territory.A principal reason for Taliban’s strength lay in its bases in Pakistan which, because of the US policy of self-denial, remained protected. Later, as US forces withdrew, armed Taliban elements kept the Afghan security forces under pressure, preventing the Afghan government from achieving stability. Will the Taliban, now, agree to the imposition of crippling conditions, including abandoning its foreign (read Pakistani) bases, draining the effectiveness of its armed cadres?This question is all the more pertinent if it is put in the context of the US proposal that the constitution of the Afghan Republic is to be “the initial template from which the future Constitution will be prepared”. Many Taliban leaders may construe this as a way of the international community seeking to pressure them ab initio in abandoning the founding principles of the Islamic Emirate. Will the lure of becoming full participants in the Peace Government be sufficient to make many in the Taliban senior leadership consider pulling up their roots?The president of the Peace Government is to be decided by the “two parties”. Let alone the Taliban, it is most unlikely that even the Kabul political elite will accept Ghani in that office. Thus, the US letter to Ghani virtually asks him and his administration to do the honourable deed of falling on their swords for Afghanistan’s future. Ghani and his colleagues have given no indication of a desire to do so, despite the caution that if US troops withdraw by May, the Taliban will irresistibly gain ground. Vice-President Amrullah Saleh is certainly not the kind of person who will fold up — his courage and ghairat (honour) will never allow that. The fate of the US advice on them is, therefore, uncertain even if Abdullah Abdullah, former president Hamid Karzai and professor Abdul Rasul Sayyaf encourage them to accept the inevitability of an interim government.These imponderables are largely intra-Afghan. In addition, there are others which stem from the proposed group of countries — Russia, China, Iran, Pakistan, India and the US — to “discuss a unified approach to supporting peace in Afghanistan”. The US wants the United Nations (UN) to convene a meeting of this group believing that these countries “share an abiding common interest in a stable Afghanistan and must work together if we are to succeed”. Iran’s inclusion is because of Biden accepting the reality of the positive or negative role it can play in Afghanistan; Russia, China and Pakistan will welcome Iran. Reports indicate that India’s inclusion was resisted by China and Pakistan, with even Russia conceding only India’s “eventual deeper involvement in dedicated dialogue formats”. Is the group’s membership now a closed issue or will Russia demand the inclusion of Afghanistan’s Central Asian neighbours apart from Saudi Arabia?India is the only country of the group of six that has stubbornly and rigidly avoided formally and openly accepting the Taliban. Can it continue to do so any longer? Over the past few months, India demonstrated that it counted with the Kabul elite even while it stressed its continuing support to the Ghani administration. The larger strategic aspects of the India-US relationship and India’s utility to help move sections of the Kabul elite in a direction which the US would want is responsible for its inclusion. But India’s justified satisfaction over this development cannot mean that it should continue to turn its back on the Taliban, despite the unsavouriness of its ideological positions and the violence it perpetrates. It should use the opening provided by this US initiative to urgently invite a Taliban delegation and convey its positions on Afghanistan and the region directly to it.Vivek Katju is a retired diplomat who headed the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division in the ministry of external affairs for six years and served as ambassador to AfghanistanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-kabul-a-strategic-defeat-for-the-us-101615382130157.html
