14-03-2021||Today's||The rationale and future of Quad||United States (US) President Joe Biden is credited with taking the initiative for the summit-level meeting of Quad that took place on March 12. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, thanked Biden for taking this initiative in his opening comments at the summit. This is the second high-profile foreign policy initiative taken by Biden in his first 100 days in office. Earlier, he addressed the Munich Security Conference on February 19 where he tried to win back European allies such as Germany, France and the United Kingdom, by proposing a transatlantic alliance to counter China. However, the mood in the European Union (EU) is not for confrontation with China. Both the German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the French President Emmanuel Macron seemed less enthusiastic about taking on China directly.Biden’s next stop was Quad. Here too, his focus was to contain China. But he did not betray the aggression of his predecessor. The last time when the foreign ministers of Quad countries met in Tokyo, they could not even issue a joint statement, primarily because of the strident anti-China rhetoric of then US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo. India was particularly reluctant to agreeing with the Obama-time vocabulary of “Free and Open Indo-Pacific — FOIP”. It insisted on adding another I — inclusive. India deserves credit that there was not only a joint statement this time, but it even stated that: “We strive for a region that is free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion.”The elephant in the room, China, could not be ignored. India’s insistence on an inclusive approach was in keeping with the sentiments of many smaller countries in the region, which may not take an explicit anti-China position. On the other hand, the Americans are clear about their containment policy. Both have met midway. The joint statement highlights maritime challenges in the region and calls for “collaboration, including in maritime security, to meet challenges to the rules-based maritime order in the East and South China Seas”. It is a clear indication of possible future joint action by Quad countries in the region, although India was never forthcoming about it in the past.Quad may not be a full-scale alliance yet, but a new “minilateral” is taking shape. Quad’s immediate focus on vaccines and sharing of responsibility was welcomed by India. India is already supplying 60% of the world’s vaccines. The initiative will further boost its vaccine manufacturing capacity. This could also pave the way for India to become the manufacturing destination for Quad countries, thus reducing dependence on China. Quad partners such as Japan and Australia were unhappy over India’s decision to stay out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership. If Quad emerges as an economic powerhouse, it will be beneficial to the entire region.The region has had several multilateral and minilateral alliances in the past. East Asia Summit (EAS), Asean Security Forum, and the decades-old APEC are some of them. But these forums have become lazy talking shops without any discernible results. If Quad were to not go down that path, it should be willing to take the bull by its horns. The Indo-Pacific is heating up. A new Cold War has already started. Xi Jinping, the supreme leader of China, believes that time and momentum are on his side. He is flexing his military muscle aggressively. The grand display of military might on the streets of Beijing on October 1, 2019, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China (PRC), was intended to send out a clear message about China’s military preparedness. China has built extensive infrastructure in the Indo-Pacific region from Djibouti to Kyaukpyu in Myanmar. Its Maritime Silk Road is as much strategic as economic. Its economic might is its potent weapon too.In order to tackle a belligerent China, other countries are also actively upping their strategic activity in the region. The US has bases from Hawaii to Guam to Okinawa to Diego Garcia to Djibouti. Japan has a base in Djibouti and is increasingly seen patrolling in various Indo-Pacific sites. Australia has its outposts at Cocos and Christmas islands. It undertakes surveillance operations from Butterworth base in Malaysia and is also operationalising its facility in Manus island of Papua New Guinea. France has its bases in Reunion and New Caledonia. Britain has Diego Garcia. India too is building ports in Chabahar, Chittagong, Colombo and Sittwe. It has an agreement with Japan for access to its facility in Djibouti. India is also building a military base at the North Agalega island in Mauritius.Militarism is, thus, very much in the air in the Indo-Pacific. China has dozens of nuclear submarines under the ocean. India has its own Arihants. The US and others have their own too. Nuclear Armageddon is not an impossible reality. Avoiding it requires keeping the levels of engagement below confrontation. The two big powers in the region — India and China — have thus far avoided any military alliances. It is important to keep the competition non-militaristic. As suggested by the Australian scholar Rory Medcalf, “development, deterrence and diplomacy” should be the way forward for Quad.Lastly, Quad must keep in mind the warning given by the Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong: “Asia-Pacific countries do not wish to be forced to choose between the United States and China”.Ram Madhav is a senior BJP leader and member, board of governors, India FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-rationale-and-future-of-quad-101615738967822.html
14-03-2021||Today's||In India, the weakening of the institution of grand inquest||Legislatures have been called the “grand inquest of the nation”. About 270 years ago, British parliamentarian, William Pitt used the expression to describe the House of Commons. The occasion was the proposed investigations into Sir Robert Walpole’s government. Pitt told his colleagues, “We are called the grand inquest of the nation, and as such it is our duty to inquire into every step of public management, either abroad or at home, in order to see that nothing has been done amiss.” Parliament, this institution of the grand inquest, continues to weaken in India. Last week, protests by the Opposition, demanding a discussion on rising fuel prices, led to disruptions in Parliament. The two Houses were barely able to work for three hours each over the first three days. The fourth day was a holiday, and parties agreed to cancel the proceedings for Friday. Media reports suggest that parties now want the budget session cut short for campaigning in assembly polls. The first casualty of a non-functioning Parliament is accountability of the government. Question Hour, where Members of Parliament (MPs) quiz ministers about the functioning of their ministries, is the most visible mechanism for this. Last week, Question Hour barely took place. The second casualty is Parliament’s ability to debate the budget and scrutinise pending bills. Last week, Parliament passed a bill in each House, after discussing them for only half an hour. Suppose disruptions continue, and the session ends early, crucial bills will either get passed in the din without adequate discussion or get delayed till the monsoon session. Upset by interruptions, Rajya Sabha chair M Venkaiah Naidu asked MPs whether they wanted discussion or disruption. The key here is strengthening the scrutinising and deliberative ability of Parliament, which requires an overhaul of some parliamentary processes. For example, Parliament passed an amendment to the arbitration law last week. Since 2015, this is the third amendment to the principal act of 1996. The legislative journey of the three amendments is similar. Parliament passed the first amendment in 2015 in less than 30 days. It resulted in some “practical difficulties”, leading to the second amendment in 2019, which was approved in under 20 days. The third amendment sailed through during this session in less than a week. Multiple changes to a law suggest that just a debate on the House floor does not have the thoroughness required for scrutinising a bill. Parliamentary committees did not examine any of the three amendment bills. Its scrutiny has multiple advantages. The process builds a bridge between Parliament and citizens. Experts and concerned citizens can make their voices heard before the committee. It can also allay fears about the intent and the working of the law. Requiring all government bills to be looked at by a parliamentary committee is an easy step in strengthening Parliament’s deliberative ability. Another low-hanging fruit is significantly increasing the meeting days of Parliament and making its calendar inviolable. It will provide more time to debate laws. MPs and presiding officers have, often, suggested that Parliament should sit for at least 100 days a year. But more time for deliberation in itself will not solve the problem of disruptions, for the behaviour of parties is crucial. Meaningful discussions in Parliament hold the key to India’s democracy. In 2003, Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee said, “In a democracy, there are bound to be differences among political parties, and there is bound to be vigorous debate among divergent viewpoints in Parliament. Differences and their well-researched, articulate expression both inside and outside Parliament is the very stuff of democracy.” He went on to say, “But the vitality of democracy also demands discipline, constructive approach, and a readiness to contribute to consensus-building on pressing issues before the nation — and adherence to rules.” He also championed the need to protect the institutions of democracy. He said, “Our ancient seers taught a guru mantra: Dharmo Rakshati Rakshitah. Dharma, protected, protects. In the same way, institutions, protected, protect.” Heed the message. Chakshu Roy is the head of legislative and civic engagement, PRS Legislative ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-india-the-weakening-of-the-institution-of-grand-inquest-101615732547822.html
