15-03-2021||Today's||Under Joe Biden, a return to professional diplomacy with India||India, United States (US), Japan and Australia came together for the Quad summit on March 12, 2021, hosted by US president Joe Biden. This was the first interaction between Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden in a multilateral forum since the change of power in Washington earlier this year, though they have spoken on the phone since Biden took over.In the past two decades, bilateral relations have grown under successive Democratic and Republican administrations, with the two countries cooperating on a wide range of areas, from trade, commerce and technology to defence and terrorism. The two have also been working together on several multilateral forums. In recent years, Quad has come to be seen as a platform that will serve as a counterweight to China. In fact, the Donald Trump administration had even floated the idea of an Asian NATO.Some in India, who have been increasingly worried about the Chinese border transgressions in recent years, may have been hoping for Quad to become just that. Biden’s participation in last Friday’s summit signals that his administration does indeed see strategic potential in Quad.However, judging by the remarks delivered by Biden and the other leaders at the summit, it is clear that Quad will serve as a multi-dimensional forum that will address myriad topics from economic growth to health care, but not as a military alliance.There are already signs that ties are moving back to the old days of being channelled through institutions and processes. Biden is a firm believer in ironing out differences and cementing ties through multilateral forums and bilateral institutional co-operation. So, we will see a sharp departure from the presidentially-centred diplomacy that was the hallmark of the Trump White House. But, that does not mean Biden will not forge a good working relationship with Modi.During the campaign, there were concerns among some in India about Biden because of his criticism of India on issues such as Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Many were also worried whether Modi’s relationship with Trump, especially the two campaign-style rallies where they made join appearances in Houston and Ahmedabad, would hamstring New Delhi when dealing with Biden. While we are likely to hear US concerns on Kashmir and CAA, they are not going to be deal-breakers.Another issue that pundits in both countries have been keeping a close eye on is, of course, China. Beijing has been a factor in US-India bilateral relations since the early 2000s, when China arrived as an economic power and its spectacular rise on the world stage began. Some Indian analysts have suggested that the recent military disengagement by both New Delhi and Beijing would not have taken place if then secretary of state Mike Pompeo were still in office because of his continuous attempts to insert himself into the India-China dispute.Under the current secretary of state, Antony Blinken, the US is more likely to play the role of a firefighter, rather than that of an arsonist. That does not, however, mean Washington will be blind to potential Chinese aggression.Even though the Quad summit and the readout of the Modi-Biden call did not mention China, they both emphasised the importance of a free and open Indo-Pacific. It means China will remain a factor in India-US relations, but not in the way anti-China hawks in Washington and New Delhi envisaged during the Trump administration.Biden understands geopolitics better than most other heads of state, having served in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for decades. He has more India expertise than any previous president, which will only be a good thing for bilateral relations. But it’s not Biden’s experience and expertise alone that will count. It will equally be the extensive experience and expertise of others whom he will bring to the table to meet with their Indian counterparts to work collaboratively to construct policy positions that will work to the benefit of both nations and the world.Frank F Islam is an entrepreneur, civic leader, and thought leader based in Washington DCThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/under-joe-biden-a-return-to-professional-diplomacy-with-india-101615822070990.html
15-03-2021||Today's||For the US, the competing priorities on India||Relations between the United States (US) and India, which were in the doldrums during much of the Cold War era, started to take a more cordial turn from the waning days of the second Bill Clinton administration. However, they were placed on a genuinely secure footing following the US-India civilian nuclear agreement of 2008. Since then, there has been a remarkable bipartisan consensus about the significance of India in the US foreign policy calculus.Even Donald Trump, who used strong-arm tactics in trade negotiations, curbed H-1B visas and saw the relationship in transactional terms did not undermine it. Though otherwise mercurial, he nevertheless allowed his administration to adopt a pro-India stance when the Sino-Indian border troubles flared up in Ladakh last year.The Joe Biden administration assumed office with the promise of moving away from the nativist outlook of the Trump administration. Earlier, during the presidential campaign, Biden made it clear that his administration would return to multilateralism, promote democracy and global human rights and stand up to the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and Russia’s attempts to support and promote authoritarian regimes across the world.Earlier this month, the White House released a document, the Interim National Security Strategic Guidance, which provides a working blueprint for the administration’s new national security strategy. To no one’s surprise, it affirms the administration’s return to multilateralism, commits it to strengthening long-standing alliances and declares its interest in promoting democracy and protecting human rights. There is little question that the administration will attempt to implement these goals.However, it has already recognised that certain trade-offs are inevitable. To that end, last month, it released an unclassified version of a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) analysis of the killing of the Saudi dissident and The Washington Post columnist, Jamal Khashoggi. (The Trump administration, in an effort to avoid offending the Saudi monarchy, and with its lack of interest in promoting human rights abroad, kept it under wraps.) The report left little or no doubt that the murder could not have taken place without the imprimatur of the Saudi Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto ruler of the desert kingdom. In its wake, the US Department of the Treasury placed a series of sanctions on a number of high-level officials in Saudi Arabia.However, the administration chose not to impose any costs on the Crown Prince. Political commentators argued that the administration decided not to publicly upbraid him for fear of unsettling this long-standing relationship. Clearly, as has happened many a time in previous administrations, this one too felt the need to strike a delicate balance between ideals and self-interest.Will the administration feel compelled to strike a similar balance in dealing with India? On the one hand, the report has, albeit quite briefly, alluded to the significance of India in promoting cooperation and advancing its strategic interests in the Indo-Pacific. Yet, in several places, this document highlighted US concerns about promoting democracy and human rights on a global basis. During the campaign, both Biden and vice-president Kamala Harris expressed their unease about the state of human rights in India in general, and in Kashmir in particular. After assuming office, the administration has raised these concerns again. The issue is one that the administration will not abandon. This is even more likely as there are a number of key Congressional Democrats who are prone to holding it accountable on this particular score.However, it is also evident that the Biden administration continues to attach considerable strategic significance to the Indo-US relationship. This is reasonable to infer given that Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin, is making his initial trip to India this week. His visit signals a continuity in policy. In the meanwhile, last week, at the virtual Quad conference, the members agreed to boost vaccine distribution and coordinate their policies to counter China’s assertiveness.Given these two competing imperatives, how is the Biden administration likely to tackle them? Faced with the growing aggressiveness of China, India remains a prospective linchpin in American regional strategy. Consequently, the US will elicit India’s cooperation in guaranteeing security and stability in the region. Yet it cannot allow its stated commitment to protecting human rights and boosting democracy to ring hollow. How then is it likely to weigh in on these demands which are likely to be at odds?The strategic relationship, after years of vicissitudes, is now stable. More to the point, New Delhi, after decades of vacillation, sees considerable value in it despite some lingering reservations. Accordingly, it cannot distance itself from the US. Despite this strategic convergence, the new dispensation in Washington, it will not, as occasion demands, shy away from quietly, but firmly, reminding New Delhi to adhere to its democratic traditions. Negotiating between these two shoals may prove to be taxing for both Washington and New Delhi.Sumit Ganguly is a distinguished professor of political science and holds the Rabindranath Tagore Chair in Indian Cultures and Civilizations at Indiana UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-the-us-the-competing-priorities-on-india-101615816733832.html
15-03-2021||Today's||In poll season, the security of leaders||The heady mix of chanting crowds, streaming banners, blaring loudspeakers and curious onlookers can drive any political leader to violate security and safety protocols during election campaigns. The exuberance is infectious enough to make even security personnel complacent and disregard the basic canons of protection. Popular leaders from across the globe love reaching out to the fawning masses, literally throwing all caution to the wind. History is witness to many such serious mishaps and yet, unfortunately, this keeps repeating itself, since no lessons are learnt.The injury suffered by Mamata Banerjee, during her public rally in Nandigram after filing her nomination, is a case in point. The Election Commission (EC) report, compiled by special observers, terms it as an accident caused by critical gaps in the security arrangements laid out by district authorities. The state police finding is along the same lines. The EC suspended director, security, and SP, Nandigram but strangely spared the collector and only transferred him.But a chief minister (CM) getting hurt on an election campaign does raise issues of safety and security of candidates during electioneering. More so, when the CM has Z+ scale of security. It is the highest scale accorded in individual protection against threats emanating from terrorists and anti-national elements. The recent internecine battles between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) cadres warranted strict implementation of security and safety guidelines by Banerjee’s security personnel. A Z+ scale of security provides layered protection comprising an isolation cordon too, which is critical for insulating the protectee from an assault or proximate threat. While the protected person is on the move, the personal security officer (PSO) is responsible for opening and closing of the vehicle door. In the current case, one theory is that a car door hit a standing pillar and, while closing banged against the victim’s leg. If only an advance recce of the road show was conducted, two imminent threats would have stood out — pillars on the way and unchecked crowds lined up sans barricade. Even if the crowd was friendly, mobile security teams could have managed a semblance of order and warned of the pillars ahead, along the way.Another glaring security lapse was the manner in which the injured was carried to the hospital 125 km away, lying in the same vehicle. Every state has a security manual for the CM’s security which is scrupulously followed. Advance planning for such rallies would surely include an ambulance in the arrangements, with a doctor and paramedics.Before every election, an elaborate exercise is undertaken for studying threat assessment of political leaders, and the state government is alerted on the security guidelines to be followed. However, politicians mostly disregard the advice of even senior police officers. The personal security detail merely stands as a silent observer of what goes on — in the name of all being free and fair during elections. Candidates, precariously perched on their vehicles, standing with the door half open and waving to the crowd, are watched helplessly by the accompanying security personnel.The alleged presence of the director and deputy director, security at the rally has spawned a huge debate of jurisdiction between EC and the state government. TMC leaders have accused EC of usurping the law-and-order authority from the state, resulting in such lapses. EC has retorted stating that law and order was not taken over and still remained under the state.A former chief election commissioner has said that before every election, a notification puts every police officer, from the director general of police (DGP) downwards to the constable, on deputation to EC. Then, how can EC escape responsibility? It transferred the DGP and key officers of the state to eschew perceived bias in the conduct of elections. It also announced an unprecedented eight-phase poll schedule in exercise of its unfettered powers. If law and order was so fragile, then wasn’t it incumbent on EC to issue strict guidelines for compliance of security and safety of candidates? Isn’t safety of star campaigners, especially during exciting but dangerous road shows, essential? Mamata Banerjee is not just the CM but the most popular local leader in West Bengal. She is the lone star of Trinamool — the main battle tank against the BJP juggernaut. Her safety is paramount. Then why did the Trinamool not think of getting her a custom-made vehicle, which would enable her to participate in such rallies with safety while waving to the crowds? Many political leaders have benefited from using such vehicles.A number of issues arise from Mamata Banerjee’s accident for the conduct of elections in future. Central and state security agencies have to play a much more assertive role in assessing threat perception, laying out security cordons and firmly implementing them. The candidates must adhere to security and safety norms for their own good and smooth conduct of elections. And, lastly, EC, while denying that it is micromanaging governance activities during the period, should accept some measure of responsibility for such lapses and take serious corrective measures to prevent their recurrence in future.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer who served as Secretary (Security), Government of India. He is also a former Central Information CommissionerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-poll-season-the-security-of-leaders-101615816670958.html
15-03-2021||Today's||Address political finances, election malpractices||Two recent news reports paint an image of India today. The first report was about how Delhi’s residents saw a dip of ₹20,000 in their average income during the Covid-19 period. If this is the case in Delhi, one can well imagine the situation in many other states.The other report, from Assam, highlighted how more than ₹18 crore in cash, alcohol, drugs and other banned substances were recovered in the state in just 11 days. So, on the one hand, the world’s largest democracy has been left poorer by the pandemic. On the other, the political system, instead of doing anything constructive, is using cash and liquor to woo voters, in a democratic election.These reports remind me of a dinner I attended when the Janata Dal was in power. The host was a Union minister and many Members of Parliament (MPs) and influential people were in attendance. Before moving into the Lutyens’ bungalow he now occupied, the minister lived in a tony area of Vasant Kunj in Delhi. A self-proclaimed socialist, he was born into riches.At that party, a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Rajasthan blithely told me that liquor and money were necessary lubricants for elections in India. He went on to say that the main demand from voters after the elections was not to build roads, schools or hospitals but for jobs, contracts or a back-door entry for some sinecure or other.That, said the MLA, is why elected representatives need much more money than their salaries would afford them — to build up a corpus to provide liquor and cash for the next election, not to mention hiring musclemen.His words were met with much mirth. But I was deeply disturbed. I recalled a popular slogan of that time — “Raja nahi faqir hai, Bharat ki taqdeer hai” (not a king but a beggar, he’s the destiny of India).Many in that room were fellow travellers of the then faqir-raja prime minister, Vishwanath Pratap Singh. Yet, their sentiments were that voters could be bought with cash and liquor.Since the conversation, three decades ago, a whole new generation has emerged in the country. Statistics may not always be completely accurate, but they give us an indication of which way the wind is blowing. It does not matter which party won the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, but the figures that the Election Commission made public are shocking.During the 2014 elections, ₹300 crore in cash and hundreds of kilos worth of drugs was recovered across the country. Action was taken against more than 1.1 million people in this connection. And during the next general election, ₹844 crore in cash, liquor worth ₹304 crore, narcotics worth more than ₹1,200 crore, and jewellery or gifts worth about ₹1,000 crore were recovered. In just five years, this trend has deteriorated sharply.The Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR) found in an investigation that out of 539 members in the Lok Sabha, 475 were multi-millionaires. Of these, 266 have assets of more than ₹5 crore. There has been a steady increase in the number of millionaire MPs in our country. In the 2009 Lok Sabha, 58% of the MPs were crorepatis. In 2014, their number rose to 82% and 88% of the MPs in the current House are multi-millionaires.It does not end here. At least 51% of those elected to the Bihar assembly in 2020 have serious criminal charges against them. The previous assembly had 40% members with criminal charges.At the same time, the people’s incomes have not gone up, and, in many cases, they have come down. In the Covid-19 era, many people have sunk further into poverty while another section has profited significantly. This disparity does not bode well for our democracy.Elections in a democracy should not be so expensive that only those with financial power can hope to win. Such high-cost elections can never lead to a healthy democracy. The great socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia, a champion of the poor, came up with the slogan “one note, one vote”.His candidates used to hand around bags at their meetings and appeal for one rupee notes. Many of these people won and went on to have successful political careers. But most of them changed, for the worse, once in power. If they had followed the principles of Lohia, surely our democracy would have been the better for it.These are all matters of regret. But regret changes nothing. For the last five decades at least, our collective consciousness has been largely guided by money power. This goes against the very grain of democracy.Our leaders and the people who elect them must introspect on this and hopefully engage in course correction before it is too late.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/address-political-finances-election-malpractices-101615732550582.html
