18-03-2021||Today's||The transformation of Uttar Pradesh||On March 19, we complete four years of our pledge to realise the aspirations of 240 million people of India’s largest state, with endless possibilities of progress. With a determination to achieve “Target Antyodaya”, we have been focused on pursuing our goals. I am of the firm belief that if work is done for the larger good with good intent and conviction, it is definitely successful.It is a matter of great spiritual satisfaction that our government succeeded in preserving both lives and livelihoods of the people amid the horrors of the coronavirus pandemic, under the guidance of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. Whether residents or migrants, everyone was taken care of during Covid-19. We succeeded in breaking the chain of infection and continued to create employment, while pursuing developmental goals. Even the World Health Organization and the global media praised Uttar Pradesh (UP)’s strategy to contain the virus. All this became possible because of our sincere, sustained and collective effort. In this battle against the coronavirus, a new UP has emerged on the national scene.UP has immense potential for development. However, there was a need to explore ways to exploit this potential through coordinated policies and clear intentions. The first effort in this context was to focus on infrastructure and industrial development. In fact, infrastructure is the growth engine for any economy. Without it, economic growth cannot be rapid, sustainable and competitive. We have made continuous efforts in the last four years keeping this in mind. UP is also the most promising state in terms of the demographic dividend. It was not easy to rise to number two in the national Ease of Doing Business rankings within four years, but we did it. In terms of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), UP has surpassed Gujarat, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to become the second largest economy in the country today.To rid UP permanently free of the brunt of unemployment and migration, we decided to make every village and every district self-sufficient. Reviving traditional industries through the One District-One Product (ODOP) scheme, with the “Swadeshi to Swavalamban” and “Vocal for Local” mantra, millions of units of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) provided loans on easy terms. This gave an impetus to the economy and paved the way for job creation. Under the ODOP scheme, units of cottage industries, supported by subsidy-based financial incentives and favourable environment, created more than four million jobs.This is the new picture of the “New and Self-reliant (Atmanirbhar) Uttar Pradesh of New India”. PM Modi has given the call of a “Self-reliant India”. He is pursuing the goal of making the country a $5 trillion economy. UP expresses its commitment to play a leading role in realising this dream.Schemes such Mission Shakti and Mission Rozgar are becoming instrumental in achieving the goals of women’s safety and empowerment by helping them become self-dependent. Rigorous efforts paved the way for economic upliftment of more than 10 million women from one million self-help groups in the state. The innovative experiment of connecting 58,758 women — one each in all of UP’s gram panchayats — to the banking system through the banking correspondent Sakhi Scheme, and extending the bank to every village has also emerged and flourished. Today, women are being entrusted with the responsibility of running community toilets (Izzatghar) of the state, while giving priority to women under the Swamitwa Yojna, a new script is being prepared for their social empowerment. The policy of reserving 20% of the posts in the police department for women has also brought favourable results.Four years ago, the present government’s journey of public welfare started with the waiving of loans of farmers. Today, farmers in the state are moving towards agricultural diversification by connecting with advanced technology. Efforts are also being made towards reducing the cost for farmers and doubling their income.We have a firm approach towards faith and economy and these are manifested clearly in our policies. The light of cultural nationalism, which has ignited in UP in the last four years, has illuminated the heart of every believer in the eternal force. Through the Ganga Yatra, the objectives of both faith and economy were fulfilled. The foundation stone for the centuries-old, long-awaited, grand temple of Lord Sri Rama at Sri Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya was also laid in 2020. Ayodhya Deepotsav, Dev Deepavali of Kashi and Braj Rangotsav were widely appreciated. The government is also making planned efforts to enrich Ayodhya by presenting it as a blend of Vedic and modern cultures.Four years ago, UP was fifth-largest state in terms of the economy and youth migration was the order of the day. The state with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of ₹10.90 lakh crore in 2015-16 has, today, emerged as the second economy in the country with a GDP of ₹21.73 lakh crore. The state is the same, the resources are the same, the workers are also the same, but the work culture has changed. This committed, transparent work culture with dedicated spirit is the hallmark of this new UP.We have been successful in implementing our policies in line with the PM’s path of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas”. Yes, we are not following the policy of appeasement. But our political rivals also recognise that in the last four years, there has not been a single scheme which differentiates on the basis of caste or religion. Farmers, youth, women and the poor are at the centre of the policies of the present government. The policy and intention of the government is clear and that is why the people are with the government. The success of the last four years, and continuous development, is today giving rise to a self-reliant UP.Yogi Adityanath is the chief minister of Uttar PradeshThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-transformation-of-uttar-pradesh-101616074099761.html
18-03-2021||Today's||The centrality of defence in India-US ties||America is back. Diplomacy is back. Alliances are back.” This is, undoubtedly, United States (US) President Joe Biden’s foreign policy bumper sticker. It was Biden’s underlying message in the Interim National Security Strategic Guidance published earlier this month by his administration. It is this simple, clear, and irrevocably direct message that the US secretary of defense, Lloyd Austin, brings to India on March 19, as he touches down in New Delhi for a short visit. This is the tail-end of a trip to Asia. He, and the US secretary of state Anthony Blinken have visited Japan and South Korea — America’s “treaty allies”.India is not an ally, clearly. The relationship with India represents an abiding partnership unlike any other. As Austin noted, on his way to Hawaii, the first stop before the Asia tour, the aim of his travels was to rediscover “great alliances” and “great partnerships”. Every American principal in the present day understands that India will never be an ally of the US. This has been established through decades of jostling, misunderstandings, uncanny interventions, and finally, the management of expectations on both sides.There is a democratic, economic, and even a cerebral promise that ties this relationship together. Equally, there is enough argument between the two sides — from data diplomacy to the price of stents and from agricultural standards to taxes on motorcycles — to keep practitioners on their toes.For the US department of defense, India offers stability, or at least a degree of balance, in a region beset by Chinese bellicosity. Whether on land, on the commons, or in cyberspace and the internet, China’s one-sided, forceful, and obstructionist imperatives are clearer today that at any time since the end of the Cold War. Decisive discussions on the future shape and form of the Indo-Pacific, giving additional substance to Quad following the summit last week, and navigating the challenge of maintaining regional stability are the key topics that are likely to inform discussions during Austin’s visit.As far as bilateral defence ties are concerned, situationally, India and the US could not be in a better position. In October 2020, days before Donald Trump lost the election, both sides signed what is popularly known as the fourth “foundational” defence agreement. It concluded a two-decade long process of tiresome negotiations. The first agreement, setting standards for sensitive information shared between India and the US, was signed in 2002.The remaining three were concluded in the last five years. In essence, these agreements facilitate greater military interoperability; they make it easier to share geo-spatial intelligence — which reportedly helped India a great deal during the 2020 standoff with China; and they allow India to access encrypted and highly-sensitive military technologies. In sum, these agreements are potentially transformative, if and when they are fully implemented.In many ways, defence ties have saved the larger bilateral relationship from political lethargy when negotiators dealing with matters of commerce and trade have been unwilling to reconcile differences. In some quarters, both in the US as well as in India, there is an argument to connect the defence dialogue more clearly within a larger political framework. Experts argue that the “over-securitisation” of the defence relationship presents an uneven organising principle for a broad-ranging relationship. Trade, data, and US and Indian positions in multilateral fora, some suggest, ought to be considered alongside and parallel to strengthening defence ties.This would be a mistake.The differences on trade and the future of technology are unlikely to be resolved anytime soon. Trying to balance the scales between dairy standards, carbon emissions, and the sale of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles unnecessarily over-complicates the tightly negotiated defence relationship.Austin’s visit provides an excellent and timely opportunity to further develop military-to-military ties, enhance joint training, and deepen discussions on the import of emerging technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence, for military adoption.Equally, Austin should be left with no uncertainty about the fact that sanctioning India — under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) — for the purchase of the Russian made S-400 air defence system will be nothing less than a strategic blow to India. US officials argue that critical equipment such as the S-400 make the sharing of sensitive information with India difficult. Others make the case that the relationship can absorb the sanctions.Whilst each of these arguments may well be merited, what is clear is that India will not stop buying Russian military equipment. This, however, does not take away from the steady drift towards American-made platforms. It’s worth recollecting that between 2008 and 2020, defence sales have jumped from zero to $20 billion. This is partially why the US gave India the Strategic Trade Authorisation tier 1 status in 2018, making it much easier for India to access critical military technologies.Partnerships such as these, rather than treaty alliances, are designed to provide more room for manoeuvre. This is what “great partnerships” ought to account for. It is clearly outside the purview of the defence secretary’s remit to make a call on CAATSA. Yet, as much as this visit is about bolstering ties, he needs to appreciate that sanctions, if authorised, will, in no small way, undermine the spade work invested in a relationship between these two oversized democracies.Rudra Chaudhuri is director, Carnegie IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-centrality-of-defence-in-india-us-ties-101616073975769.html
18-03-2021||Today's||In the Congress, the Nehru-Gandhi family has to sit out or step up||The internal upheaval in the Congress continues, with PC Chacko, a four-time Member of Parliament (MP) from Kerala, now quitting the party. His gripe — factionalism in the state unit and the lack of leadership at the central level.That Chacko failed to find an attentive ear in Delhi spoke volumes about the internal state of play in the Congress. Why couldn’t the veteran leader be talked out of leaving the party? The question is even more relevant when Rahul Gandhi is an MP from Kerala, which is also the home state of KC Venugopal, the general secretary in-charge of organisational affairs.Not that there weren’t any election-time threats to leave the party in the past. But timely interventions saved the day. Among the leaders placated or persuaded to stay included such weighty names as Siddaramaiah, Amarinder Singh, Virbhadra Singh and more recently, Sachin Pilot. The leadership’s emissary in most of these cases was the late Ahmed Patel, whose word carried the weight of Sonia Gandhi. Patel had his work cut out as the Congress president’s plenipotentiary. His brief was to persuade or cajole party-persons to fall in line, upon conveying her desire or decision.It won’t be easy to substitute the temperament and the agency Patel brought to the 24x7 job. Only three among his peers can, perhaps, match his network and political experience: Ashok Gehlot, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Digvijaya Singh. Of them, Gehlot alone passes the “loyalty test”, but is reluctant to move out of Rajasthan.Truth be told, what the Congress needs is the utility, not as much the individual loyalty, of leaders with proven capability. Many among the Group of 23 who sought election-driven intraparty reforms have been assigned duties for the upcoming assembly polls. Why the rest of them are out in the cold remains unclear. On paper, the G23 might have been reduced to G7 or 8 if one takes out the original signatories who’ve since been drafted for party work. That, however, doesn’t dilute their case for the party’s organisational revival. Even if a few among them are pursuing personal goals, the leadership must take a generous view of them as a group the party needs. For their part, the reformists who haven’t found a place in the list of campaigners should have, by now, written another letter to Sonia Gandhi, offering to campaign in states up for polls. This would have burnished their credentials.The advice isn’t out of place at a time the Congress’s internal consultative mechanism is in a shambles. With access to Sonia Gandhi limited after Patel’s demise, and Rahul Gandhi remaining out of bounds for most party-persons, the Congress is undergoing a multiple organ dysfunction. Rather than awaiting word from the interim chief, the ginger group, whose key members had an interaction recently with Priyanka Vadra, has to be proactive if it’s keen to be co-opted for canvassing. To be fair, Rahul Gandhi has shown no signs of changing the stance he took while demitting office as party chief. He remains convinced that the de jure leadership must move out of the Gandhi family domain. The hiatus between what he thinks and what his mother wants is an open secret. The other conundrum is whether his and Priyanka Vadra’s presence in the party, without leadership responsibility, will help the new dispensation after organisational elections. Talk privately to even those who are committed to the Gandhis, and they agree that the family has no place in the back benches. They should either sit out or step up to lead.The contradiction between the designated and de facto leadership can exist only when the top leader, as is the case with the Bharatiya Janata Party, makes the party win elections without holding organisational office. That hasn’t happened for the Congress in a long time. It has, instead, seen 170 legislators resigning their seats to contest from other parties in seven big and small states where it had governments or was the single-largest party. The talent-drain continues unabated — the leader refusing to return to do the heavy lifting.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-congress-the-nehru-gandhi-family-has-to-sit-out-or-step-up-101616073916397.html
