19-03-2021||Today's||Five ways to beat the second wave of Covid-19||That there is a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic on is now certain. The seven-day average of daily cases on Thursday night was 29,330, 167% higher than its post-first wave peak low; and the seven-day average of daily deaths, 151, 71% higher. Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh are all seeing a resurgence in cases. And despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s exhortations and warnings, in the course of a meeting with chief ministers on Wednesday, no one really seems to care. The second wave, if left uncontrolled, could surpass the peak of the first wave, as the experience of other countries shows. The fact that it is raging at a time when new variants of the coronavirus disease, including the dangerous P1 variant that is wreaking havoc in Brazil, have all been sequenced in India, is cause for concern. The situation now is far more dire than it was exactly a year ago, when India started thinking about a lockdown, and finally implemented one at four hours notice on March 25, 2020. Given this context, what should India’s response be? One, a nation-wide lockdown is out of the question for two reasons — its impact on a still-fledgling economic recovery would be catastrophic; and after a year of living with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, it is clear that other measures can achieve the same result as a hard lockdown. Two, what should those measures be? There is, of course, the usual Covid-safety protocol of masking, social distancing, and sanitising. This is now being honoured more in the breach than in the observance. Most people do not wear masks; many, who do so, wear them improperly, as chin guards. Restaurants, perhaps delighted at the prospect of being allowed to operate after what has been many long hard months for them, are paying little attention to social distancing. And people, tired of isolation and quarantines, are socialising with a vengeance, and holidaying as if the end of the world is nigh (it could be, if they continue to do so). Most tourist and pilgrimage destinations in India are witnessing huge crowds — and the state of Uttarakhand has allowed the Kumbh Mela to go on without adequate Covid-safety protocols (one of the first moves of its new chief minister was to do away with negative Covid-test reports for visitors to the event, which happens once in 12 years, a requirement put in place by his predecessor). It is time for the Union home ministry to issue a set of guidelines, and it is time for the states to follow these (tightening them, if needed, but not diluting them). The guidelines should mandate masking, social distancing, limit capacity in restaurants, hotels, malls and multiplexes, place restrictions on religious, social, and cultural events, and, perhaps, even bar inter-state travel.Three, it’s time for Mumbai, and perhaps even the rest of Maharashtra, to lock down for two weeks. The numbers in India’s commercial capital, and one of its most important states, require this. Between March 1 and March 18, the number of cases in the state has risen 135%. On the basis of Thursday night’s numbers (from the HT dashboard), Maharashtra accounts for 65% of all Covid-19 cases in the country. The lockdown needs to be accompanied by aggressive testing, efficient contact tracing, and mandatory quarantining. The Centre and the state also have to work together to launch a large (and fast) vaccination drive in Maharashtra. Four, as Hindustan Times has repeatedly called for, it is time for the Union health ministry and the drug regulator to approve more vaccines. If the latter could approve Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on the basis of belief and not hard evidence — as expected by many, the evidence followed, and showed the vaccine to be highly effective, but vaccines should always be approved on the basis of science, not belief — there’s no reason for it to drag its feet over the Sputnik vaccine, or the Novavax one, which will be made in India by the Serum Institute of India. And once approved, it should allow their sales in the open market. Five, again, as Hindustan Times has repeatedly suggested, the health ministry should open up vaccination for all, and perhaps focus on the 50 cities with a population in excess of a million in the country. It is clear that Covid-19 affects urban populations disproportionately, and even today, the hotspots (and the emerging hotspots) are all in urban areas. This, combined with vaccine hesitancy in rural areas, makes a good case for the drive to focus on cities first and the hinterland later. It is perhaps time to review the sequencing of the vaccination drive. Complacency over the end of the first wave, misplaced confidence about the vaccination, and fatigue over Covid-safety protocols have brought us here — but smart and fast action, based on science and data, can lead us out. sukumar.ranganathan@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/five-ways-to-beat-the-second-wave-of-covid19-101616169745792.html
19-03-2021||Today's||China’s hostility, India’s resilience shaped Quad||The churn in the Indo-Pacific is no longer beneath the surface. It is visible, palpable and ready to emerge into something rather substantive. Most of the actors are now ready to make overt moves and are no longer reticent in trying to shape the wider canvas. There is a widespread recognition that this is an inflection point in the geostrategic space, now widely called the Indo-Pacific. Those who were challenging the very nomenclature of the region a few months ago are having to acknowledge that try as they might, there is no going back on the new idiom and grammar that is now beginning to reconfigure the world around them.Last week, leaders of Quad countries — India, the United States (US), Japan and Australia — met at the summit level and, in their very first joint statement, underlined their commitment “to promoting a free, open rules-based order, rooted in international law to advance security and prosperity and counter threats to both in the Indo-Pacific and beyond” as well as supporting “the rule of law, freedom of navigation and overflight, peaceful resolution of disputes, democratic values, and territorial integrity”. Beyond that, this week has seen US secretary of defence, Lloyd Austin, visiting Japan, South Korea and, now, India to boost military cooperation with American allies and partners, and foster “credible deterrence” against China.China, of course, has taken note and has attacked those nations trying to form “enclosed small cliques”, describing it as “the sure way to destroy the international order”. Beijing has targeted “certain countries” for being “keen to exaggerate and hype up the so-called ‘China threat’ to sow discord among regional countries, especially to disrupt their relations with China”. It was not long ago, in March 2018, that China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, had referred to the Quad grouping as nothing more than “sea foam on the Pacific and Indian oceans” that would eventually dissipate.But dissipate it did not; instead, as China’s own foreign policy became ever more irresponsible and short-sighted, the once shaky foundations of Quad gained strength to a point where it emerged as the preferred option for the first multilateral engagement of a new US administration within less than two months in office. When the Chinese foreign policy establishment looks back at recent history, it can justifiably be proud of its accomplishment in sowing the seeds of a new regional security architecture. Indo-Pacific would have remained a concept in think-tank reports and Quad would have been nothing more than a trial balloon of 2007 had it not been for China’s belligerence and aggression towards its neighbours, so creatively displayed and operationalised over the last decade.The agenda of Quad, as outlined during last week’s summit, is quite expansive and stands on its own merits, without the crutches of the China threat. The leaders have been creative and realistic at the same time as they seek to leverage each other’s core strengths in being able to offer an alternative regional governance paradigm to the smaller states in the Indo-Pacific. The main regional constraint so far has not been China’s rise per se, but the unwillingness of other major regional players to do their bit in offering credible alternatives. It was not that China was a playing a great strategic game, it was that others were conceding defeat without even making an effort. And that’s what’s being rectified now and it will have serious consequences — for China, for smaller states and for the region at large.China claims it cannot be contained and it is right. A power like China certainly cannot be contained; its rise and fall will be determined by its own actions. China’s recent actions have generated a backlash in the region and beyond, which the Communist Party of China will find rather difficult to navigate. What other powers are trying to do now is to set the terms of engagement so that a rising China does not remain inimical to their interests. All states, major and minor, will continue to remain engaged with China, but the battle is over who sets the terms of this engagement.And it is here that India’s role has been central in galvanising this response. Even before the ongoing border crisis ushered in a paradigm shift in India’s China policy, New Delhi was not shy of walking alone, if need be, in challenging China on the predatory aspects of its policies such as the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). It walked a lonely path with even its friends advising that shunning BRI could have consequences. But New Delhi was eventually successful in making its critique of China’s infrastructure plans widely accepted and mainstream. The Indo-Pacific construct and its viability was also sold to the world by India’s insistence that only when the two oceans are viewed as part of a single unified maritime space, can a coherent regional balance of power can be envisioned. Most significant, perhaps, was India standing up to China on the border issue, underscoring to the wider region, which has been suffering under the onslaught of Chinese aggression, that giving in to a bullying power is not the only option available.Just as without Chinese belligerence, a substantive Quad would have remained a distant dream, without a pro-active India, this grouping would not have been able to move so far, so fast. As a new geopolitical order takes shape in the Indo-Pacific, India and China will continue to be at the centre of this emerging order. And New Delhi would do well to remember that the game has only just begun.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College, London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/chinas-hostility-india-s-resilience-shaped-quad-101616169272665.html
19-03-2021||Today's||The core issue is representation||Travel concessions for women, a salary for “housewives”, LPG cylinders, government job reservations, even free washing machines. Doesn’t take a genius to spot the signs of an election at a time when women voters can no longer be ignored.And yet, despite the sops, one fact remains impossibly hard to dislodge — the low number of women contestants.Of the 291 candidates fielded by Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress, 50 are women. That’s an unprecedented 17% women contesting — lower than the 41% the party had put up for the 2019 general elections — but leagues ahead of Kerala, where just 9% of candidates are women, resulting in Kerala Mahila Congress chief Lathika Subash’s protest tonsure. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has 12 women candidates out of 85; the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 15 out of 115.In Tamil Nadu, only 14 of the 171 candidates announced so far by the AIADMK and 12 of the 173 by the DMK are women. In Assam, 19 of 223 candidates announced (as of March 8) are women. This, by any yardstick, is pathetic.Calling it a “travesty of democracy”, Tara Krishnaswamy, co-founder of Shakti, an organisation aimed at increasing women’s political representation, said that states that do well on gender indices, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, for instance, have historically been stingy when it comes to putting up women candidates. “Parties committed to social justice have been extremely patriarchal in their set-up. Investing in women’s leadership is seen as a threat to male power.”The demand for 33% reservation of seats in the assemblies and in Parliament gets a great deal of lip service in party manifestos. This humbug is both tired and dated. When we are half the population, why settle for anything less in the legislature? The issue is representation. Men cannot continue to decide on policies that affect women, whether it’s a revamped abortion bill, passed this week, or changes in the juvenile justice law.But more than representation, there is also women’s right to occupy space.When we think of public spaces, we tend to restrict our imaginations to parks, streets and public transport. But public space also includes Parliament and assemblies. It includes the higher judiciary, labour force, higher education, the corner office, sport.In each of these spaces, women are missing. The recent retirement of Justice Indu Malhotra leaves just one woman judge in the Supreme Court and fewer than 6% women judges in the higher judiciary.The question of who owns public spaces gains urgency at a time when the pandemic has pushed women indoors, with disastrous consequences — a spike in domestic violence, girls being pulled out of schools, a surge in child marriage and an even more precipitous drop in labour force participation.Who can quarrel with free washing machines, except to point out that it reiterates a belief in what male-dominated parties hold to be woman’s true place? Someone should tell them, it’s not behind the spin cycle. It’s in the House. And it’s time women voters delivered that message.Namita Bhandare writes on genderThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-core-issue-is-representation-101616168005164.html
