20-03-2021||Today's||The evolution of Delhi’s governance structure||By introducing an amendment bill to the Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991, the Centre has clearly indicated that it wants to assert its authority over the Delhi government in its day-to-day functioning. Once the bill is passed and becomes law, the Delhi government will have to seek the concurrence of the Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) for all its executive actions. This will also redefine the powers of Delhi’s legislative assembly.Expectedly, Delhi’s chief minister (CM), Arvind Kejriwal, and the Congress have strongly criticised this move, with former finance (and home) minister, P Chidambaram, saying that the city government will be reduced to the level of a municipality. There is no doubt that the autonomy the Kejriwal government enjoyed since the Supreme Court (SC) judgment of July 4, 2018, will be curbed if the bill is passed. The SC, then, effectively reduced the powers of L-G to that of state governors, who act on the advice of the elected government — except on three reserved subjects of police, public order and land, where L-G has discretion. It was because of this limited discretion that SC was careful to say L-G was not the governor, but “an Administrator in a limited sense”. The court further ruled that L-G should not routinely sit in judgment on decisions taken by the elected government.Those arguing for greater political accountability in the running of the city will be upset by the bill as, in this case, the elected component is being shortchanged. There is, no doubt, politics behind the decision, but that alone does not explain the move. It is useful to see how the system functioned since elected governments came into play with the 1993 assembly elections. Till Kejriwal decided not to seek L-G’s approval, all governments sought L-G’s approval on specific policies and important decisions. This was because, while Article 239AA of the Constitution said that L-G shall act on “aid and advice” of the elected government, it also allowed for L-G to refer to the president any matter where there was a difference of opinion with a minister. Under the rules of business of the Government of India, the minister concerned exercises the power of the president; in this case, it is the home minister. Pending a decision, if the matter was urgent, L-G could go ahead and take action. This provision was taken to mean that L-G must be aware of the actions of the elected government before their execution, and, therefore, L-G’s prior approval was taken. Kejriwal successfully challenged this logic in SC after being rebuffed by the Delhi High Court.Chidambaram’s criticism has validity but as home minister, with a Congress CM in Delhi, he did rule on matters when L-G and CM had differences, most famously in case of the flyover on Outer Ring Road at Vasant Vihar. My own limited experience of working in the Delhi government has been that L-G routinely went along with the government’s decisions, unless these were egregious, or there were strong personal reasons.Going beyond the immediate, there are two key issues.One, large countries, especially those with a federal/quasi-federal polity, have great difficulty in allowing their capital cities to function as regular provinces. Washington DC’s residents got the right to vote in presidential elections only in 1961. Their only representative in the House of Representatives is a delegate-at-large who has no voting rights. They have no representation in the Senate. And remember, this is a country which was founded on the concept of “No Taxation without Representation”. The city has an elected mayor and a 13-member elected council, but while they can propose the city’s budget, the Congress approves it.There is occasionally a desultory demand to convert DC into a state but this has never been seriously considered. Canberra is another federally-run capital, with an elected legislative assembly and a CM, such as Delhi. However, they essentially deal with health, education and the environment. The assembly is competent to make laws, but these can be superseded by the national parliament. According to the official website, the mayor of London “has a duty to set out plans and policies for London covering transport, planning and development, housing, economic development and regeneration, culture health inequalities and a range of environmental issues including climate change and air quality”. However, the mayor does prepare the budget for these activities as well as for the police and fire brigade. The 25-member elected Greater London Assembly can only overturn the mayor’s budget by a two-third majority. It also scrutinises the mayor’s proposal and has a monthly question hour at which the mayor, transport and police commissioner explain their actions.Right from the time Delhi was created as a Chief Commissioner’s Province by the British, the Centre has controlled the police, land and law and order. In independent India, Delhi went from a part C State to a Union Territory, with a Metropolitan Council (1967) and later an assembly (1993), but it has been the chief commissioner (later L-G) who has been its administrator under the Constitution, with only the 2018 SC decision that allowed the elected government to function autonomously on all but three subjects. The present amendment restores the older position. Even Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government tried twice, but failed to give Delhi statehood, or even additional powers, though it was a key party promise. Non-Bharatiya Janata Party ministers vehemently opposed the idea as they said it would be incongruous for a national government to function in a territory where it did not have control.The second question is how to better manage our cities. Most state capitals and major cities have state government-run development authorities that have taken over considerable municipal functions. Sometimes, there are separate bodies for water supply and sewage directly under the state government. Unlike London, no Indian municipality has any authority over the police. Most importantly, it is the state government-appointed municipal commissioners who are the chief executives of municipal bodies, with the mayors basically performing the role of speaker of the elected bodies. Delhi’s position is more complicated, with four municipal corporations functioning under the home ministry, with some role for the housing and urban affairs ministry and the Delhi government. The Cantonment Board functions under the defence ministry. Both the Delhi government and the municipal bodies have similar responsibilities — running schools, hospitals, giving old age pensions and so on. The central government-controlled Delhi Development Authority manages all land matters, including land use. This confusing organisational structure does lead to lack of a unified, coherent planning and execution process, quite visible to the plain eye. Cities, as engines of economic growth, need clearer lines of command and accountability.To close with Chidambaram, he chose to go with the CM Sheila Dikshit, overruling L-G Tejinder Khanna on the elevated road issue. The road, once completed, caused more havoc than before, as L-G predicted. Much later, a parallel elevated road had to be constructed at considerably extra cost. Every car needs a brake, but it must be applied wisely.Shakti Sinha is a retired Indian Administrative Service Officer who served in the Delhi government, and is the author of Vajpayee: The Years that Changed IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-evolution-of-delhi-s-governance-structure-101616244278281.html
20-03-2021||Today's||Lifting the morale of citizens is key to economic recovery||By the time the pandemic fades into memory, millions of Indians would have been infected and hundreds of thousands killed. But not a single citizen will remain unaffected. Each of us would have, with some degree of separation, lost a loved one, endured financial and social losses, and for a majority, suffered a decline in quality of life. Graduating students will encounter subdued hiring. Financing ventures will become harder. Social instability indicators such as domestic violence, road rage and crime have started shooting up. This pent-up stress, anxiety and fear will channelise themselves into low tolerance and increased anger, especially against the haves. While India has handled the battle against Covid-19 well, we face a much bigger challenge in terms of bringing back positivity into the ravaged social psyche. Morale, positive outlook and a sense of hope fuel economics, which reflects in the Gross Domestic Product. It is impossible for any organisation or nation to achieve its full potential when the mood is despondent. Entrepreneurship and innovation are a state of mind and, without the foundation of high morale, it is impossible to leverage concrete resource outlays. India needs to address the morale and mental state of our citizens on a war-footing for a faster recovery. This is easy to understand at an individual level. A sad person cannot, just biologically, engage in any productive activity. We are driven by chemicals in the brain that propel us to achieve our goals. The capitalist who seeks to enlarge her empire, the soldier who dies for the glory of the battalion, the athlete who strives against excruciating pain for national pride or the employee who achieves the “ownership mindset” — all need the right chemicals firing in their brain. A downcast person, far from being productive, even stops caring about his physical well-being. The behaviour of a sad and a depressed person is similar because the same chemicals cause these emotional states. Extrapolating the individual to a family, a company and the nation explains why the state of mind of the nation and its economic recovery are existentially interlinked. This is a daunting challenge, primarily because mental health has remained largely ignored, though it is the largest national medical burden. The understanding of the subject is so rudimentary that most corporates believe band aids such as yoga, a few counselling sessions or company-sponsored offsites are enough to solve the problem. That’s about as useful as giving an aspirin to an acute heart patient. This situation, however, presents a unique opportunity for corporate India. Indian corporates have always contributed towards health care in the form of the mandatory Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Apart from hundreds of hospitals run by corporates, many of them have occupied a mindspace in the niches of health. But the mental health space lies open and unoccupied.There are three categories of stakeholders when it comes to mental health. First, the government — for which it is imperative that the citizen’s morale is uplifted. Second, corporates — whose success depends on the engagement levels of their employees. And finally, the pharma companies, because it is only an optimistic and concerned individual who will care about her own and her family’s health. All pharma companies (not just those who manufacture psychiatric drugs) are, therefore, invested in building a positive mental state among their potential customers. More Indians, especially the young, will be affected by mental health than any other disease. This is an opportunity for all three stakeholders — for the government to amend CSR rules to channel more resources to mental health; for conglomerates to invest and occupy this mindspace; and for the Indian pharma industry to take a global lead in the domain of preventive interventions. Most armies of the world follow a version of the British Defence Doctrine that lays down Ten Principles of War, the first of which is “Selection and Maintenance of Aim”. If the national aim is to achieve quick economic recovery, then we need to remember that the second of the Ten Principles is “Maintenance of Morale”, without which no war, including the one against Covid-19, can be won. Raghu Raman is founding CEO, NATGRIDThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/lifting-the-morale-of-citizens-is-key-to-economic-recovery-101616243854580.html
20-03-2021||Today's||Engaging the world on Indian democracy||I’m prepared to bet the emotions that are almost impossible to hide are hurt and pain. They show on your face, reflect in your tone and colour the language of your response. That’s equally true of the most humble citizen as it is of the grandest panjandrum of State. For us Indians, however, there’s a further twist. We crave praise from the West. Their compliments thrill us whilst their criticism deeply wounds.So, Nobel Prizes and Booker Awards mean more than any Sahitya Akademi honour. Oxbridge, Harvard and Yale carry greater weight than St Stephen’s, Presidency and St Xavier’s. And look how proud we are of Sundar Pichai, Satya Nadella and Indra Nooyi. In comparison, we hardly mention Narayana Murthy or Azim Premji.Let me be honest and admit it’s the “phoren” stamp that makes things special. This is why appreciation of our democracy from Freedom House, V-Dem and the Economist Intelligence Unit is intoxicating. When they admonish, we bristle.This, I would say, is the best explanation for the external affairs minister, S Jaishankar’s unseemly, if uncharacteristic, outburst. Terming their criticism “hypocrisy”, he called these highly respected institutions “self-appointed custodians of the world” who “invent their rules (and) their parameters” and claimed they “pass their judgments and then make it look as if it is some kind of global exercise”. But that’s not all. He pointedly added they “find it very difficult to stomach that somebody in India is not looking for their approval”.Now, the hurt is self-evident and I shall deftly circumvent the name-calling, but who is the “somebody in India not looking for their approval”? Perhaps, there could be such a person meditating on a Himalayan mountain top or far away deep in an Andaman forest, but I doubt if there’s any individual of that description in the government.Indeed, how could there be when every improvement in India’s ease of doing business ranking is trumpeted by South Block? When groups of ministers meet for months and produce 97-page documents on how to influence the western press and public opinion? Or when the information and broadcasting ministry creates an Index Monitoring Cell to improve India’s ranking in the World Press Freedom Index? And, remember, Mr Jaishankar was part of the group that sought to “neutralise” what it calls “false narratives” and “negative coverage” of the government on international news platforms. Is this “not looking for approval” or desperate for it?In May 2015, The Economist did a special report and cover story to mark the Prime Minister (PM)’s first year in office. The front page headline was “India’s one-man band”. Adam Roberts, its correspondent, was given an unprecedented 90-minute interview. He described Mr Modi as “thoughtful, sincere and well-briefed” and predicted the PM could become “a truly transformative force”. The government was thrilled to bits. Ministers tripped over themselves drawing attention to the magazine. At the time, the foreign minister was foreign secretary. I wonder if his stomach found this praise indigestible?Let me make a further point. Criticism of India’s degraded democracy is neither unproven nor unwarranted. But if Mr Jaishankar wants to test for himself, here’s a simple suggestion. To assess how his government treats Muslims, he could lean across the Cabinet table and have a word with his colleague, Giriraj Singh. If the minister wants evidence of how intolerant Indian governments are of dissent, a quiet word with a junior judge in Delhi would suffice. Dharmender Rana could easily explain why cases of sedition have increased 165% between 2016 and 2019. Incidentally, that figure comes from the government’s National Crime Records Bureau. It’s atmanirbhar.Just as Amnesty, The Washington Post and The Economist kept alive the flickering flame of Indian democracy during the dark days of the Emergency with their concern for our country, I hope V-Dem and Freedom House continue to remind our government of the commitments made in our Constitution, which it’s trying to wriggle out of.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/engaging-the-world-on-indian-democracy-101616243136931.html
20-03-2021||Today's||End the silence on the abuse of the male child||While problems faced by the girl child have been discussed, the abuse of the male child has been overlooked and unrecognised. National Crime Records Bureau statistics for 2018 recorded 21,605 child rapes, of which 204 were of boys. This, child rights activist Divya Vaishnava says, suggests that the issue is grossly under-reported.Boys suffer high levels of violence, including sexual abuse, which, in turn, makes them more prone to violence as they grow into adults. In the film Anatomy of Violence, based on the perpetrators of the 2012 Delhi gang rape, Deepa Mehta sensitively portrays the brutalisation suffered by the rapists during their formative years, so much so that they seemed, according to recorded testimonies, immune to the sufferings of the victim. In fact, one of them blames her for making them act the way they did.Boys are easier targets for predators in many ways as they are not as supervised or protected as girls are. There is considerable shame and stigma attached to abuse of the boy child — he is expected to be strong in a patriarchal society. Such a society deters the boy child from being given help; it is something he is left to deal with by himself.Film maker Insia Dariwala, who conducted an online survey of 160 men a few years ago, found that 71% of the respondents had been abused as children; and among those who had been abused, 84.9% said they had not told anyone about it due to notions of shame, guilt, fear and confusion. It is not just adults who are responsible for this abuse; in unsupervised situations, as in those of street children or children in slums, the perpetrators are often older children, says Indu Prakash Singh, who has done extensive work on the abuse of slum children. The male child who has suffered sexual abuse may end up with psychological problems, trauma, depression, suicidal thoughts, substance abuse, and a tendency towards violence. We rarely speak of these issues, even though they have a bearing on male violence against women in later life. Patriarchy forces a male abuse survivor to keep quiet even in adulthood, for fear of being labelled as weak. The issue of abuse of the male child should be brought into the discourse and parents, teachers and the community should be more involved in addressing this. Boys should be taught about what constitutes abuse. Many young boys, especially those without parental or other adult supervision, don’t even understand that they have been sexually abused.When the MeToo movement opened up stories about women who had been abused but had kept quiet, it caused a backlash against men in power. Now boys, who have been abused or are at risk of being abused, need to hear from survivors about their stories, so that they can seek appropriate help in time. The government needs to focus on the issue. It is silence that emboldens the perpetrator. Boys have to be told by trusted adult figures that admitting to abuse is not a sign of weakness or taken to mean that they were complicit. It is time to end the silence on the abuse of the male child. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/end-the-silence-on-the-abuse-of-the-male-child-101616243017098.html
