21-03-2021||Today's||The Union versus Delhi, Act II, Scene 1||Act 2, Scene 1 of the Delhi vs the Union saga was unveiled by the home ministry, by introducing a bill to amend the Government of National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi Act, 1991. The explicit objective, in the statement of objects and reasons, is to give “effect” to the 2018 judgment of a five-judge constitutional bench of the Supreme Court (SC), on the structure of governance in NCT. The implicit purpose is to nullify it. In doing so, it also renders the 69th amendment to the Constitution, which established Delhi as a Union Territory (UT) with a legislative assembly, infructuous. This bill, despite its stated objective, represents yet another step toward centralising India’s federal polity. If passed, it will not only sharpen the political battle between the elected government of Delhi and the Union government, but also deepen the fault lines in India’s fragile federal compact.Three amendments in the bill are noteworthy. First, it defines the term “government” in the context of laws made by the legislative assembly to be the Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) of Delhi, not the elected government. Second, it expands L-G’s powers by requiring the elected government to seek L-G’s opinion, on specific matters. It is left to L-G to define these “matters” through a general or specific order. Third, it weakens the powers of the assembly by prohibiting it from making rules for its committees on day-to-day administration.These provisions contradict the 2018 judgment, which unambiguously clarifies that the council of ministers with the chief minister at its helm is the executive head of the government of Delhi. By conflating the government of Delhi with L-G, the bill blurs the distinction between the elected government and L-G. Further, by requiring L-G’s opinion before the elected government can take executive action, it effectively renders the elected government powerless. This is in direct contravention of the 2018 judgment, which decided that “requiring prior concurrence with the L-G would negate the ideals of representative governance and democracy”, thus undermining the spirit of the 69th constitutional amendment. The playbook is familiar. This is precisely how Article 370 was nullified — by interpreting the definition of government as the governor and not the elected state legislature, thus ushering in central control.At the heart of this quagmire is a fundamental federal question — is the presence of a strong sub-national government with full powers, within the geographical area of the seat of the national government, incompatible with national interest? The Balakrishnan Committee argued that as the national Capital, Delhi belongs to the nation and, therefore, cannot be given full statehood. Delhi’s unique status as a UT with a legislative assembly was the unwieldy outcome. However, global experience shows that several large megapolises around the globe, from Jakarta and Seoul to London and Paris, have had strong sub-national governments, whose mayors have gone on to become heads of government, without compromising national interest. Even countries such as Australia and the United States that have chosen a more restricted form of sub-national government have not had trouble in appropriately delineating powers in ways that enable the harmonious construction of responsibilities. Indeed over time, as Niranjan Sahoo has highlighted in this newspaper, the trend has moved towards allocating greater powers to city governments. Subsidiarity — the foundational principle of fiscal federalism — necessitates empowered sub-national governments.The challenge of governing Delhi is thus not one of first principles. Rather, it is one of politics. The degree of sobriety, political maturity and commitment to the federal principle that is necessary for a harmonious construction of responsibilities is lacking in India. Let us not forget that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is today contesting this blatant effort to divest its powers as an elected government, vocally supported the move to convert a full-fledged state into a UT through the deployment of the very same tactics. Genuine federalism has very few takers in our political culture today. Indeed, given our politics, it would appear that the concept of a UT with a legislature is oxymoronic.If passed, there is every likelihood that a legal challenge will be mounted. But SC is yet to make a determination on the constitutionality of the Union government acting to transform a state into a UT. It would seem unlikely, thus, that it would act with alacrity, when just the form of a UT is being changed.So the question before us is this. Shall we keep idealistically striving to create a more perfect Union or shall we resign ourselves to realistically accept the situation as it exists today? If diminution of states is constitutionally permissible, then perhaps one should (only half in jest) start thinking about electing L-G directly. It can even be a pilot for an eventual transition to a presidential system, in a world where states are remade as UTs. But is this what our Constitution envisages? Even more than the courts, this is a question for our political parties to answer. Yamini Aiyar and Partha Mukhopadhyay are with the Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-union-versus-delhi-act-ii-scene-1-101616330808884.html
21-03-2021||Today's||Looking back at the lockdown and India’s Covid-19 journey||Exactly a year ago, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi called for a janata curfew. The country ground to a standstill, and all activity, except essential services, stopped. The same evening, the PM had called for five minutes of clapping, beating of thalis and blowing of conch shells across the country to support health workers, police forces and people involved in essential services. This was to prepare people for what was to come. At that time, there was only frightening news from across the world. It had been established that the virus originated from Wuhan in China. The United States (US) and Europe were in a state of panic. Harsh lockdowns were imposed but casualties were rising. But the situation at that time in India suggested that the trajectory of the virus was not so bad.When the lockdown was announced late on March 24 last year, no one could have imagined that for a long time to come, they would be confined to their homes. But the pandemic was especially devastating to those who did not even have a roof over their heads. People living in the slums and chawls of the metros found themselves unemployed overnight. They had come to the cities from their villages in the hope of a better life and livelhood. All that suddenly went down the drain.And then, people began leaving the metros of Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, often on foot, covering hundreds of kilometres, disillusioned and sad. Pictures of migrants walking home were splashed across the media. Many people lost their lives on the long trek home. The government has been accused of depriving people of their jobs by imposing such a drastic lockdown. But this overlooks the fact that since health services were not adequate at that time, the government was really constrained when it came to saving people during the pandemic and had to take tough measures. A total of 536 cases of infection had been confirmed at the time of the lockdown and only ten people in a country with a population of a billion had lost their lives due to the pandemic.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, at that time, said in Parliament that people had to be ready to lose their loved ones. During those days, we saw some disturbing images from the US, of corpses being buried in spaces outside cemeteries for lack of space in these. At such a time, there were alarming scenarios about the possible trajectory of the disease in India, expressed by sceptics. Today, a year later, India’s figures have proved them wrong. The death rate in India, in particular, is much lower than in the world’s rich and wealthy economies.Could this have been possible without the lockdown?It is not that the Indian government went to sleep after imposing a lockdown. Till March 31, 2020, 183 laboratories were available for testing for the virus across the country. Today more than 2,400 laboratories are doing this. Hospitals too were not prepared for such a pandemic. During this time, PM Modi himself took command and interacted with the chief ministers of states in several rounds, encouraged health workers and kept in touch with vaccine researchers. This is why India, despite its limitations, was in the frontline of the vaccine-developing countries. Today we are providing vaccines to over 70 countries.During this period, despite political differences, the central and state governments set a unique example of synergy. For those who keep questioning the federal structure of India, this past year is a testimony to our resolve and our instincts towards unity. There may be many unfortunate examples in terms of social, economic and ethical behaviour, but there is no doubt that in the past one year, people have shown an amazing ability to move forward despite an enormous amount of pain and suffering. It is true that Covid-19 has dealt us a drastic economic shock, but it is also a fact that the Indian economy is about to come out of the recession faster than many other economies.But this process will be able to gain momentum only when our world is completely free from the clutches of Covid-19. It is impossible to predict any timeline for this. The pandemic is an unpredictable creature in many ways. To cope with this, it is necessary to follow all standard operating procedures. Ever since the vaccine drive began, people have dropped many preventive actions they were observing earlier. Among these are social distancing, wearing masks, and washing hands often. The pandemic cannot be stopped only with government efforts. We have to be alert at all times until the pandemic is declared to be well and truly over. And this is not likely to happen for quite a while. Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/looking-back-at-the-lockdown-and-india-s-covid-19-journey-101616330384671.html
21-03-2021||Today's||To tackle the water crisis, women’s leadership in water management is crucial||Water scarcity has been consistently considered as one of the top five risks by business leaders in the annual global risk report of the World Economic Forum. According to the United Nations, over two billion people live in countries experiencing high water stress. India alone has 88 million people who lack access to safe water, placing the nation at the centre of this global problem. Eighty per cent of India’s freshwater is used in agriculture, making it a critical resource for the livelihoods of farmers and the country’s food security. Farmers rely heavily on groundwater through wells and tube-wells. The crisis created by large-scale groundwater extraction needs concerted and scaled-up water management efforts in rural India.The water problem runs deep, and to address it, it is crucial to identify and mobilise the right agents for change. Women constitute 37% of the agricultural workforce — with nearly 100 million involved in the sector. Several studies, as well as our institutional experience, have revealed that women spend twice the number of hours that men do, working on fields in the cropping season. With men increasingly migrating out of their villages, women are now working in farms alongside managing their homes — both of which need them to plan for and use water judiciously. Considering their high stakes in ensuring water security, women are well poised to champion change.Women engage with the issue of water in different avatars — as farmers, panchayat members, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) workers and extension workers. This makes them well-suited to leading water management programmes. For instance, apart from their presence in agriculture, women have a significant representation in governance. At least 43% of elected representatives in local bodies such as panchayats, are women. Women’s participation in MGNREGS is high and stands at almost 55%. They have also demonstrated their ability to mobilise funds from the government. In a project in West Bengal, women influenced the government to release MGNREGS funds to construct water supply structures that created an additional water potential of 7.4 billion litres and benefitted 35,000 women, Unicef’s work in India has also proved women’s prowess at mechanical work. In Jharkhand’s Lava panchayat, women formed a diverse group from across every panchayat to maintain 450 pumps. They even ran their village spare stores and met the domestic water needs of 130 villages. In this endeavour, they were more efficient and were able to resolve issues more quickly than their male counterparts. A study conducted on water supply projects in Gujarat in 2000 showed that when women were included in technical and decision-making capacities, there was a marked improvement in the impact of projects. Women have also shown an eagerness to adopt new technologies, explore sustainable farming methods and spread awareness among their families, making them excellent potential water champions. A 2017 study, which explored the role of women farmers in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals, reported that women-led collectives have driven changes in cropping practices, and demonstrated a bigger willingness to switch to organic inputs and grow climate-resilient crops that consume less water. Women have been creating consistent ripples in India’s water security efforts — the time is right to leverage them as leaders of change. This heavily-invested, yet relatively unrecognised, demographic of women farmers are likely to power the next frontier of positive change. The idea that diverse leadership teams create better and more innovative outcomes is not new. Several organisations have deployed winning diversity programmes to deliver breakthrough business results, endear themselves to an increasingly conscious set of consumers and attract the best talent. With an already strong presence of driven and aware women in agriculture, the same principles can well be the key to accelerating India’s journey towards water security.Sanjiv Mehta is chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever Limited The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-tackle-the-water-crisis-women-s-leadership-in-water-management-is-crucial-101616330144967.html
