23-03-2021||Today's||How India and Israel can lead the way on 5G collaboration||Imagine an Israeli surgeon based in Tel Aviv operating on a patient in Mumbai remotely. This is just one of the promises of 5G telecom networks, which will be characterised by rapid connectivity and near-zero latency. The 5G revolution can open new pathways beyond health-technology and faster smartphones to self-driving cars, the internet of things and virtual reality.Despite the evident opportunities, 5G deployment globally hasn’t been without challenges. Superpower competition, costly infrastructure, and slow application development are holding back development. India and Israel can, together, leverage their strengths to collaborate in areas such application development, building networks of trust, and future research and development and unleash the possibilities of 5G for their citizens.Both Israel and India boast of a strong innovation base and are focused on technology-driven development. But both have been lagging behind in terms of their 5G rollout. Yet as they begin to build their respective 5G infrastructure, it is crucial to keep in mind the example of South Korea, where insufficient application development has limited the gains from 5G. After South Korea’s rapid 5G infrastructure push, over half a million users returned their 5G subscriptions in 2020 due to the lack of relevant and attractive content and services.India and Israel have a real opportunity for cooperation to avoid this. Strong application-based technology and infrastructure, supported by government policy, will likely ease the capital investment concerns for telecom operators. Speaking at a recent roundtable discussion, Israeli Consul-General in Bengaluru, Jonathan Zadka, highlighted that Israel and India are both fully integrated into the global app economy, but more cooperation is needed when it comes to deep-tech.This is where both governments should enable entrepreneurs and innovators to work together. The creation of an Israel-India high-level task force can bring together industry leaders, policymakers, and academia to identify opportunities for collaboration. The establishment of joint Centres of Excellence (CoE) focussed on emerging technologies could be another step, permitting research and talent development. This effort can be bilateral in nature, but it can also leverage the strengths of other actors such as Taiwan, Japan, and Singapore.Such cooperation among middle powers is critical as the United States-China technology competition intensifies. US policy has primarily focused on security concerns on 5G. Washington has called on allies to join its Clean Network Initiative, which dispenses with Chinese involvement in telecom networks. Despite this, complete Sino-US technology decoupling seems highly unlikely. Nevertheless, this tense dynamic presents a strategic challenge for other states.Therefore, factors such as security, trust, and supply chain resilience must guide decisions on cooperation between India, Israel, and other like-minded states. As democracies, India and Israel should be cautious in sourcing their hardware and must work to leverage comparative advantages and mitigate risks.One approach to do this could entail creating an India-Israel-US partnership, which combines Indian software expertise, Israel’s device development capabilities, and the US’s clout in building cloud-based applications and setting international standards. The 5G era will involve a lot of visualisation, which creates opportunities for Indian software firms to take the lead. Also, focussing on AI-based security solutions along with the development of use cases in sectors such as agriculture, health care and transportation will facilitate international cooperation. Meanwhile, as a start-up nation, Israel could use its ingenuity to create devices of the future, powered on 5G and other emerging technologies. The US, finally, can leverage its application development ecosystem and its cybersecurity expertise to create new opportunities and ensure network security.Such an approach is likely to resonate well with the private sector, too. High-tech geopolitics is increasingly influencing corporate decision-making. Companies are looking to States to create pathways for the private sector to collaborate to build resilience and opportunities. A multifaceted and clearly defined 5G partnership between India and Israel could lead the way forward.Manoj Kewalramani is the chair of the Indo-Pacific Studies Programme at the Takshashila InstitutionGedaliah Afterman is the head of the Asia Policy Program at the Abba Eban Institute for International DiplomacyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-india-and-israel-can-lead-the-way-on-5g-collaboration-101616509976359.html
23-03-2021||Today's||In the heart of Mumbai, a corrupt nexus||Towards the end of the third century, bribery and abuse of power were so rampant in the Roman empire that those assigned by the emperor to check corruption started running their own protection rackets. Centuries later, the glittering metropolis of Mumbai is witness to the same sordid tale of unscrupulous politicians colluding with the unscrupulous elements in the police to run an extremely profitable extortion regime.The Scorpio found near the Ambani residence on February 25 was planted with gelatin sticks and a letter, but without a detonator. To a security professional, it was an act of extortion, without the terror angle. It was meant to intimidate the victim, arouse fear and submission. Word travels fast in the Mumbai dark underbelly and a central question immediately began doing the rounds — who is the ultimate boss to pay obeisance to? Is it possible that Sachin Vaze was allegedly the sole culprit behind this heinous act? As an ordinary senior sub-inspector, he had direct access to the police commissioner. He was also in touch with ministers, including the home minister. While facts may soon come out, it is apparent that Vaze’s alleged villainy had the sanction of the higher brass of police and the political establishment. He is been named as the main accused in the murder of the owner of the infamous Scorpio vehicle. The sheer brazenness of the crime has astounded common citizens. As the murky happenings come to light, the political brass has distanced itself, transferring the police commissioner and attributing the episode to police lapses. But the truth has a way of coming out. Now that the ex-police commissioner, Param Vir Singh, has squarely blamed the state home minister for setting extortion targets to the known encounter specialist Vaze, political bosses are doing the indefensible — shielding the minister and shooting the messenger.This is not to absolve the police leadership, which had cosied up with Vaze for quite a while till now. The alacrity with which the Televison Rating Points (TRP) case was taken up by Mumbai Police, naming Vaze as the chief investigator, hinted at personal vendetta. Arresting a TV anchor did not call for an encounter specialist. Additionally, in February, the police commissioner was acquainted with the home minister’s directions to Vaze. He should have come clean right then and may be the ham-handed attempt at extortion would have been prevented.Inducting Vaze into the police is another tale of blatant favouritism and craven submission of the babus and police leadership to the political executive. It was a committee, comprising senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, which recommended his reinstatement, with quick approval given by the political bosses. This was done in the name of shoring up police strength during the Covid-19 crisis. A suspended policeman, a murder accused, a political worker — all such inconvenient facts about Vaze were set aside. And then despite his induction for a certain stated purpose, why was he not used for Covid-19 duties? Many brave policemen died on Covid-19 duties, while Vaze grazed on greener pastures.Singh has been removed to facilitate an impartial probe, but party colleagues are protecting the home minister against whom serious allegations have been made, by no less than a senior IPS officer. The minister allegedly called junior officers for consultations, gave directions on investigations, and asked for extorting money from bars and restaurants. The minister has virtually breached all barriers of integrity and violated the oath of high office and should resign or be dismissed, pending a thorough enquiry.But the incident is reflective of a deeper crisis. No political party can afford to let go of Mumbai, the country’s financial capital, the city of dreams and mafia dons. Maharashtra is a money-minting factory for political funding in India’s electoral politics, cutting across all political lines, and Mumbai is its most productive core. According to recently published National Crime Records Bureau data, Maharashtra has topped in corruption cases for the fourth year in a row. Election after election, leader after leader, Mumbaikars have had to live with the police-politician-mafia nexus.Mumbai’s extortion case has put some politicians and policemen on tenterhooks. Once Vaze spills the beans, it will confirm our worst fears — of an enduring collusion ie politico-police-mafia nexus. An ordinary citizen can only watch helplessly while the drama unfolds, hoping for a drastic overhaul of the police set-up and political establishment. But in a country where grassroots politics is run through police thanas and tehsils, which political party will let go its firm grip on public institutions, and that too in Mumbai? The signs aren’t encouraging. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after seven years in power, lamented over the power of IAS and administrative reform in the Parliament, while the Supreme Court has been expressing anguish over police reforms for the last 15 years.Only a court directed investigation into the sordid affair will restore the faith of citizens and, in the meanwhile, we desperately need another Julio Ribeiro to helm the Mumbai Police.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer, who served as Central Information Commissioner and special director, Intelligence Bureau The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-the-heart-of-mumbai-a-corrupt-nexus-101616508717248.html
23-03-2021||Today's||NATO: India’s next geopolitical destination||When the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) leaders meet later this year, they will debate the recommendations from a group of experts (which I co-chaired) that advocates, among other things, extending a formal offer of partnership to India. Such an idea has been discussed before but has always foundered on India’s aversion to entanglement in rival geopolitical blocs. It’s time to overcome this obstacle.China’s meteoric rise has dramatically heightened India’s need for closer security relationships with politically reliable, like-minded states. As China’s aggressive actions in the Galwan Valley and other border areas demonstrate, Beijing is increasingly willing to depart from its hide-and-bide strategy to directly challenge even the largest of its neighbours. This behavioural shift is likely to accelerate as China’s military capabilities expand. Already, China spends more on its military than all of its immediate neighbours combined, and nearly three times as much as India.In these circumstances, India’s longstanding strategy of careful equi-distancing, punctuated by tilts toward China and Russia, is not viable; inevitably, New Delhi will have to undertake more deliberate efforts to counter-balance the juggernaut of Chinese power. To this end, it has already begun to deepen bilateral defence ties with Japan, the United States (US), and other regional players threatened by China, including through Quad.Becoming a NATO partner would be a natural extension of this evolution with several upsides and few risks. In the near-term, India would derive strategic-signalling value from even the appearance of drawing closer to the Western Alliance at a crucial, early phase of Beijing’s transition to a more aggressive posture. The mere fact of opening partnership talks would send the message that India’s leaders will redouble coalition-building efforts, more or less in direct proportion to Chinese aggression. The signal will hold all the more value precisely because it has heretofore bordered on geopolitical taboo.Longer-term, India would derive military-strategic benefits from partnership with the world’s most powerful alliance. While NATO partnerships do not carry the Article 5 guarantee of collective defence against armed attack, they nevertheless come with regular defence dialogues, military-to-military planning, and joint exercises that improve readiness, interoperability and predictability. In the event of a conflict, India would benefit from having prior planning and arrangements in place for cooperating with NATO and its Mediterranean partners (including Israel, with which India has a close strategic relationship) to secure its western flank and the approaches to the Red Sea.Partnering with NATO also carries technological benefits. Under a provision in the US 2020 National Defense Authorization Act, India now enjoys the same technology-sharing and cost-sharing perks as other non-NATO US allies for purposes of the Arms Export Control Act. But adding NATO partner status could also position India to benefit from possible future programmes aimed at lowering the barriers for cooperation in emerging technologies between NATO and its Asia-Pacific partners. It could also help to offset the growing concerns and negative scrutiny that India is increasingly attracting in Congress for its disproportionate reliance on Russian military equipment.Partnering with NATO would not significantly constrain India’s broader geostrategic options. Egypt and Israel are both NATO partners who maintain defence relationships with Russia. Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, and Austria are all NATO partners with long-standing neutralist traditions. NATO’s partnerships are highly customised arrangements. In India’s case, the sheer size and importance of the country may warrant a new and special category of partnership — one that combines periodic high-level dialogue, technological cooperation and defence planning for maritime contingencies.However, the obstacles to partnership are not only on the Indian side; in the past, some NATO allies have effectively blocked discussion of the matter by insisting that any offer of partnership to India be accompanied by similar invitations to Pakistan. This may have seemed attractive to some in the era when NATO militaries were mainly focused on conducting operations in Afghanistan. But with the winding down of operations there, NATO has little in common with a Pakistan that is increasingly radicalised at home and aligned with, and beholden to, China.By contrast, the case for NATO partnership with India — a large maritime democracy with concerns and interests that tend to overlap with those of the US and many European allies — has only grown more compelling as China’s rise has accelerated.For all of these reasons, NATO leaders should extend to India an offer of opening partnership talks. Doing so would signal that it is seriously evaluating all of its tools, including partnerships, according to how well they equip its members for dealing with a new era of great-power competition in which large states such as China and Russia pose, by far, the greatest threat to their security.In this emerging competition, India is a vital player in its own right and should be treated as such. But Indians should be under no illusions that a truly non-aligned path remains a viable option. Strengthening ties with NATO now, while China is still in the early phase of a shift to a more assertive posture toward both South Asia and Europe, could pay dividends in dissuading aggression and ensuring that, should China continue on its current trajectory, India has as many friends as possible in the right places.A Wess Mitchell served as US assistant secretary of state for Europe and Eurasia from 2017-2019 and as co-chair of the NATO 2030 Reflection Process. He currently serves as a principal at the Marathon Initiative.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/nato-india-s-next-geopolitical-destination-101616423938974.html
