25-03-2021||Today's||In Maharashtra, khakhi and khadi in the dock||Minister log mere peeche aur police log mere jeb mein rehte hai” (Ministers follow me, and the police is in my pocket). The Hindi film industry has a unique way of staying ahead of real-life narratives. The dialogue from the 2011 blockbuster, Singham, pits the villainous don against an honest inspector, Bajirao Singham, and forces the latter to retort in anger: “Aata majhi satakli!” (loosely translated from Marathi to mean, now, I have lost it!)Watching the political developments in Maharashtra, any right-thinking citizen would be well prompted to echo Singham’s memorable one-liner in sheer frustration. After all, when both the political and police leadership are caught in a web of egregious lies, deceit and possible criminality, it makes one wonder whether lawmakers and law-enforcers have abandoned any notion of public service, but instead become partners in a cash-and-carry private enterprise. How else is one to interpret the unprecedented war of words between the state home minister, Anil Deshmukh and the ex-Mumbai police commissioner, Param Bir Singh? The commissioner, on being transferred, suddenly accuses the minister of seeking a “vasooli” (collection money) of ₹100 crore per month from Sachin Vaze, an assistant police inspector, now arrested in the Ambani bomb scare case. The home minister, in turn, claims that the police commissioner is only trying to protect himself from being implicated in the same case in which one person, Mansukh Hiran, has been found dead. Amid these allegations and counter-allegations, here is the inconvenient truth — the chickens have come home to roost and Maharashtra’s, and dare one say, India’s politician-police nexus has been laid bare.A few years ago, a senior Maharashtra police officer Sanjay Pandey admitted as much during actor Aamir Khan’s popular Satyamev Jayate TV show while alluding to an “organised, institutionalised settlement” system by which dance bars and restaurants in Mumbai had to pay a “hafta” or fixed fee to the local police and their superiors.Which is why it is time to end this self-righteous indignation over the happenings in Maharashtra. If a police commissioner had not been transferred, it is more than likely that he wouldn’t have said a word. If Hiran’s body had not been found in the Thane creek, it is possible that the Ambani bomb case would have died a natural death, and Vaze would still be calling the shots. And if former Maharashtra chief minister (CM) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Devendra Fadnavis, didn’t have access to confidential documents, may be the Shiv Sena-led government could brazen it out. Nor can Uddhav Thackeray or Sharad Pawar distance themselves from the murkiness of this episode. After all, Vaze joined the Sena after being suspended in a fake encounter case. What was the compulsion to reinstate him in 2020 when the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) came to power, but for the fact that he was seen as a “Shiv Sainik in uniform”? And can a hands-on, veteran politician like Pawar claim that he was unaware of what the home minister might have been up to? While Fadnavis can legitimately claim to have put the Maharashtra government on the back-foot, don’t forget that he, too, presided over the same system when he was CM. Will anyone believe that the politician-policeman nexus only surfaced in November 2019 when the MVA government came to power? Indeed, can any state government claim to have made an attempt to implement the police reforms recommended by the Supreme Court in the 2006 Prakash Singh case? At the core of those reforms is the urgent need to insulate the police from political pressures, be it in transfers or investigations. But no government has chosen to prioritise police reforms. But why would any government bite the hand that feeds them? The fact is, whether it is the alleged extortion racket or the lucrative “transfer-posting” industry, an increasingly corrupted politician-police culture has corroded and enfeebled institutional structures to the point where the lines between right and wrong have been blurred. It isn’t just the street constable who seeks a bribe with impunity: The chain it appears extends from the station house officers to shockingly even Indian Police Service officers and their political bosses. Which is why heads must roll in Maharashtra and any inquiry must go well beyond the usual political score-settling. Let the guilty be identified and given exemplary punishment. To protect the trustworthy police officer and yes, the upright politician too, the chain of fraudulence must be broken. Else every furious citizen will be entitled to scream: ‘’Aata majhi satakli’! Postscript: Some of the goings-on in Maharashtra seem bizarre in tragic times (remember the state has by far the highest number of Covid-19 cases and many beat policemen have lost their lives in the pandemic). Take, for example, Pawar’s suggestion that the 92-year-old former Mumbai police commissioner Julio Ribeiro be asked to probe the allegations. Ribeiro has rightly pointed out that he is hardly at an age where he can be the lead investigator. But the fact that a nonagenarian is considered as most apt for the task reveals the deep credibility crisis that confronts an entire generation of those in khakhi and khadi. Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-maharashtra-khakhi-and-khadi-in-the-dock-101616684128935.html
25-03-2021||Today's||Cementing Bangladesh-India ties through border haats||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s forthcoming visit to Bangladesh on March 26, will, among other things, celebrate the strong and multi-dimensional economic relations between Bangladesh and India. These relations include trade in goods and services, cross-border investment, energy trade and investment, coastal shipping and river-based connectivity. One indicator of the strength of a cross-border bond is the extent of people-to-people contact, and the evidence here is remarkable: Pre-Covid-19, Bangladesh was the single largest source of foreign tourists in India, as well as the largest international market for India’s medical services. Less well-known, except perhaps in academic, policy and local circles, is the singular success story of the Bangladesh-India border haats, which are local markets that enable small-volume trading along the densely populated border. In 2011, the two nations flagged off the first of their border haats, trying to recapture the once-thriving economic and cultural relationships that had been truncated by the creation of national borders. Conceived as a confidence-building measure between the two nations, four border haats were set up between 2011 and 2015: Two in Meghalaya and two in Tripura. Initially, only local produce was permitted for trade. But subsequently, the range of items has been broadened to include goods of household consumption.Also Watch | ‘PM Modi to visit Bangladesh, hold talks with Sheikh Hasina’: Foreign SecretaryAs part of a World Bank-CUTS study team that analysed the functioning of border haats, we were surprised at how well the haats had fulfilled their original mandate and perhaps even gone beyond it. What is the secret of their success?One, haats boost the local economies around the border. They create new opportunities for all participants by increasing the income of vendors; opening new business opportunities for buyers who source from the haats and sell locally; enabling transporters to earn more on days when the haats operate; and allowing small businesses such as food joints and vehicle repair shops to set up outside the haat premises.Two, haats enable women to participate and be more visible, as compared to their near-absence in formal cross-border trade. Women are active as buyers in all haats. In the Meghalaya haats at Kalaichar and Balat, all the women buyers were also mini entrepreneurs, reselling the products they bought from Bangladeshi sellers. Much more is possible, across all haats.Three, and most important, haats have helped build trust by connecting people. Haats have not only created new bonds and friendships among people residing on either side of the border, but have also rejuvenated old family ties that were temporarily disconnected by political barriers. For example, a young woman in Srinagar, Tripura, met with her aged mother after a 13-year separation. Mitali was a young girl living in Bangladesh. After her marriage 15 years ago, she moved to her in-laws who were living in the neighbouring area, in Indian territory. When a fence came up along the Bangladesh–India border, the requirement of passports and visas stood in the way of Mitali’s visits to her parental home. The border haat that links East Madugram and Srinagar has given them a place to reconnect. Also Read | March 25, 1971: When the Indian subcontinent changedFour, the haats are not a substitute for formal trade, which means that the commerce ministries of the two countries need not fear a loss of control over cross-border commerce. A simple thought experiment makes this clear. If the purchase limit for each individual at the haats were doubled, the haat operational days increased to two days a week, and 50 haats established along the border, compared to the current four, the total trade generated would still be only about 1% of the total formal trade between the two countries. Hence, commerce ministries should rest easy about the potential loss of tariff revenue or leakages into the formal trade system.Five, haats are strongly supported by border agencies. They have reduced smuggling and contributed to a peace dividend in their localised precincts, and provided relief to the border enforcement agencies. Thus, border agencies have called for a large increase in the number of haats along the Bangladesh-India border.Given such a strong endorsement from almost all stakeholders, and the unambiguously positive impact on local communities, it is surprising that more border haats have been somewhat slow in coming. According to a press release from the department of commerce, India, 10 more border haats are in the offing. Both countries would do well to increase the pace of construction and implementation of the new haats, while also streamlining procedures and improving facilities, especially for women.The success of these border markets also prompts a more ambitious thought.Could countries with more fraught bilateral relations, such as India-Pakistan or Afghanistan-Pakistan, also pilot a border haat model, putting people at the centre of the endeavour? Could the Wagah-Attari border provide the venue for a controlled border haat experiment that could be gradually scaled up, depending on the experience? Sanjay Kathuria is Senior Visiting Fellow, Centre for Policy Research, and teaches at Georgetown University and Ashoka UniversityNikita Singla is associate director, Bureau of Research on Industry and Economic Fundamentals, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/cementing-bangladesh-india-ties-through-border-haats-101616670743252.html
