27-03-2021||Today's||The Taste by Vir Sanghvi: Seven things we forget about the Bangladesh crisis||I was at school when the Bangladesh crisis erupted. But I remember it as though it was yesterday. Sadly, the generations after ours seem to have forgotten what it was like and look at it from the prism of today’s polarised politics.This was driven home to me when a controversy broke out over the Prime Minister’s claims, made in Dhaka, that he had participated in a satyagraha in favour of the creation of Bangladesh. His supporters took the statement to mean that he had played some role in the creation of Bangladesh. And his critics pounced on his remark to point out that he had no role to play during the crisis and that he was trying to appropriate the credit that was due to Indira Gandhi.This is such a 2021 controversy that it ignores what India was really like in 1971. In fact, it was a very, very, different India.Here are some things I remember about that period.1) In an age when everything is seen in India-Pakistan terms, it is important to remember that the Bangladesh crisis was not used by the government of the day to mobilise jingoistic anti-Pakistan sentiment.Yes, the Pakistani army were the murderers of women and children --- there was no getting around that. But Indians were more concerned with the victims than we were with their oppressors.In 1971, most of India saw the East Pakistan/Bangladesh crisis for what it was: a massive human tragedy, a genocide even. The Bengalis of what was then East Pakistan were raped, murdered, tortured and thrown out of their homes. Entire villages were destroyed. Students had the blood drained out of them to meet the needs of the Pakistani army.This is what we focussed on. Not on India-Pakistan jingoism.2) Contrary to how both the BJP and Congress often portray that period, war was not India’s preferred option.Indira Gandhi spent several months contacting world leaders (often travelling to their countries to meet them) to ask them to get Pakistan to end the oppression of its Bengali population. She got vaguely sympathetic responses. But nobody did anything. Basically, the world was content to stand by and let the massacres continue.3) We had an additional problem. At least 9 million refugees from the terror in East Pakistan crossed the border into India. We gave them food and shelter. The government raised additional taxes and levies to cope with the refugee influx. The Indian people paid them uncomplainingly, not because we were concerned with the politics. But because we knew it was about being human and decent.4) We know now that a large population of the refugees were Hindus who had been driven out. Apparently, all top politicians (across parties) and civil servants knew this. But a decision was taken not to make this fact public.You can understand Indira Gandhi’s interest in not creating a communally volatile situation in India. But the opposition (even the Jan Sangh of AB Vajpayee) went along with this.Everyone recognised that when a human tragedy of this magnitude was unfolding on our doorstep, it would be madness to provoke communal tensions in India. Would that happen today? I wonder.At a time when the Bengal election campaign has become so communally polarised, we tend to forget how all Bengalis --- Hindus and Muslim – reacted as one during the massacres in Bangladesh.The Concert for Bangladesh, held at Madison Square Garden, New York which brought global attention to the situation was organised by George Harrison at the urging of his friend Ravi Shankar.Harrison wrote a song about Shankar’s feelings. “My friend came to me/with sadness in his eyes/he told me that he wanted help/before his country dies”.His country? Shankar was Indian. But he was also a Bengali. For Bengalis on both sides of the border the terror was an assault on Bengali identity (and Bengali lives). Nobody said that Muslim Bengalis were different from Hindu Bengalis. Nobody called them ‘termites’!That notion of Bengali identity is worth pondering. In 1971 there were many people with memories of the horrors of Partition. But they still identified with Bengalis across the border. Would that happen, say, with Punjabis?It may be a coincidence of timing but the Prime Minister’s visit to Bangladesh to celebrate its creation when elections are being held in Bengal may help the BJP.5) In that era, the Opposition and the government usually united on matters of foreign policy and defence. When Narendra Modi says he participated in a satyagraha, he is probably telling the truth. There were peaceful demonstrations all over India, organised by all political parties (including the Jan Sangh) to protest the terror in Bangladesh and to encourage India to formally recognise the new country. These were not anti-government demonstrations. Mrs. Gandhi even encouraged the protests to draw attention to the genocide the world was ignoring and to the depth of feeling in India.6) It was not easy for India to go to war. The United States (which had a Republican President, by the way, for those who claim that Republicans administrations are always good for India!) was bitterly opposed to India. Mrs. Gandhi was snubbed by President Nixon and according to recently released tapes, abused by him behind her back.The White House ignored the desperate messages sent by the US Ambassador to India and backed Pakistani’s military dictatorship. India was told to desist from any military action.When Mrs. Gandhi went ahead anyway, the US sent the Seventh Fleet to the region to intimidate her. Nixon continued in office till August 1974 and his hatred for India cast a shadow over the Simla summit and all the other events that followed the Indian victory.7) By breaking Pakistan into two, Mrs. Gandhi achieved the most important strategic victory in the history of independent India. But two things are worth remembering. That was a very different India. It was completely united. Not just all communities but also the entire political establishment.And second, though Mrs. Gandhi swept the assembly elections that followed in 1972, just a year after that, her mandate had begun to wither and by 1975 she could only survive by declaring the Emergency.You need peace, unity and harmony within the country to win a war. And even then, war is not enough to make people forget their domestic difficulties.For more stories by Vir Sanghvi read here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-taste-by-vir-sanghvi-seven-things-we-forget-about-the-bangladesh-crisis-101616839678618.html
27-03-2021||Today's||2021: A rupture in Tamil Nadu politics||Every election is different but the coming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu — the state goes to polls in a single phase on April 6, and the results will be declared on May 2 — are especially different.They are different because incumbent chief minister (CM) Edapaddi K Palaniswami, 66, of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), and Muthuvel Karunanidhi Stalin, 68, of the Dravida Munnetra Kazgaham (DMK) are both debutants in a way. This is surprising not just because of their age, but also experience — Edapaddi, or EPS as the CM is popularly known, was first elected to the assembly in 1989, having entered politics as a member of the AIADMK in 1974, and Stalin, was first elected to the assembly in 1989, having been elected to the general committee of the DMK in 1973. In the six assembly elections since, EPS didn’t contest one, won thrice and lost twice; Stalin lost once, and won five times (in a row). They are both debutants because their parties have never fought an assembly election under their leadership. In 2016, J Jayalalithaa led the AIADMK to a second successive win (she died in December that year); the DMK was led by party patriarch and Stalin’s father, Muthuvel Karunanidhi, who, at 92, was the party’s unambiguous leader and chief ministerial candidate (he died in 2018).Sure, Stalin led the party to a sweep in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 — the DMK-led United Progressive Alliance in the state won 38 of the 39 seats on offer — but this will be the first assembly election in which he is heading the party, although his position as Karunanidhi’s heir was settled within the party as far back as 1994 (with the exit of Vaiyapuri Gopalsamy or Vaiko), and within the family in 2014 with the expulsion of his elder brother MK Alagiri from the party. And sure, EPS, a surprise choice as CM — he was picked by Jayalalithaa’s friend and companion VK Sasikala in the scrum that followed the former’s death — quickly established himself; struck a powerful alliance with his one-time rival O Paneerselvam; expelled his mentor, Sasikala, from the party; convinced her, perhaps with some help from ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to stay away from the election; and over the past few years, has acquired the reputation of a good administrator, but will be leading his party into an assembly election for the first time.Stalin is counting on the party’s organisational strength, his dynastic advantage (yes it is real; just as it is for his son, who is making his debut this election), anti-incumbency against the AIADMK, and the latter’s significant internal issues which may have been far-too-recently resolved to make a difference in this election.EPS is hoping that his stint as CM (he has managed to come across as a bit of a people’s CM), Stalin’s lack of experience running the state, the resolution of internal differences within the party, and the blessings of India’s political hegemon, the BJP, will be enough to bring him back to power. If that doesn’t happen, Sasikala is waiting in the wings to take over. The elections are also different because for the first time since 1967, when the DMK, then headed by C N Annadurai or Anna (Karunanidhi was his deputy) came to power in the state, the elections are happening in the absence of iconic larger-than-life leaders who pretty much defined Dravidian politics for five decades. Anna died in 1969 and Karunanidhi, who had already made his name as a scriptwriter for Tamil movies, succeeded him. In 1972, matinee idol and Karunanidhi’s friend, M G Ramachandran, broke away from the DMK to form the AIADMK, which came to power in the state in 1977. From 1977 to his death in 1989, MGR and his party were invincible. After his death, the party was headed by his protégé and co-star in Tamil movies Jayalalithaa. Between 1989 and 2011, the two parties (starting with the DMK), alternated in power, till Jayalalithaa broke the cycle by leading the AIADMK to a win in 2016. But none of them is around in this election. Karunanidhi was 45 when he first became CM; MGR, 60; and Jayalalithaa, 43. EPS was already the oldest first-time CM of the state when he took over in 2017. Now, if opinion polls are accurate, this distinction will fall on Stalin. It will be a generational change in the state, but 66 and 68 are not usually the ages one would associate with that term.The polls are also different because the BJP is contesting as a partner of the AIADMK in the state elections for the first time. In 2016, the party, which has always had an insignificant presence in the state, contested all 234 seats and won none (it received 2.86% of the vote share). This time, it is contesting 20 seats. The BJP has been hamstrung by its image in the state — as a North Indian party of Hindi speakers and Brahmins. It has consciously tried to move away from that image in recent times, adopting in Tamil Nadu the same strategy that worked for it in Uttar Pradesh, and which helped it get a start in West Bengal. This involves appealing to Hindus belonging to the most-backward classes and scheduled tribes, those that haven’t necessarily benefited from the politics of affirmative action (and Tamil Nadu is a case study in that), although, thanks to the state’s social development metrics, this section is still better off in Tamil Nadu than in most other states. Still, it will be interesting to see if this makes any difference.PS: Chanakya would be amiss if he didn’t mention the Congress, which is contesting 25 seats as an ally of the DMK. It ruled the state till 1967, but has since become weaker with every passing election. In 2016 too, it was an ally of the DMK, but won only eight seats, a fifth of the 41 it contested, dooming the larger partner (which won half the 178 seats it contested) to another stint in opposition. That may have been a factor in the DMK playing hardball with seats this election.letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/2021-the-rupture-in-tamil-nadu-politics-101616835097498.html
27-03-2021||Today's||The unusual tale of a Pakistani diplomat in India||To William Congreve is attributed the aphorism “Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned”. That’s also true of a spurned ambassador. Abdul Basit’s account of his three years as Pakistan’s high commissioner (HC) in India, aptly called Hostility, is suffused with hurt and smacks of revenge. No doubt, teeth are gnashing in Islamabad. They’ll soon be drowned by chortling in Delhi. The book starts with an account of how Nawaz Sharif told Basit he would be Pakistan’s next foreign secretary. But he never got the job. Nor any explanation. Delhi was the consolation prize. So, a wounded and humiliated man became Pakistan’s HC in March 2014. This sad story explains everything that followed.It’s hard to tell on whom the greater share of Basit’s wrath falls. Of Sharif, prime minister (PM) right through Basit’s tenure, he writes: “Sharif was overly inclined to pander to India unilaterally and unconditionally”. He even suggests the PM’s emotions were conflicted: “I could see that Sharif had an emotional attachment to India and Indians which, at times … went beyond his stature as the Prime Minister”. Of Sartaz Aziz and Tariq Fatemi, Sharif’s special assistants, he’s not even polite. He calls them “brazenly apologetic and improvident”. “One thing that particularly struck me was their accepting (Narendra) Modi’s contentions readily and working quickly to assuage his concerns,” he writes. “They wanted to deliver no matter what”.He doesn’t state it but the conclusion is obvious. Basit believes Sharif, Aziz, Fatemi and then foreign secretary, Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhry, were willing to compromise Pakistan’s interests. I can’t think of any diplomat who has targeted his government and colleagues so directly and brutally.However, it’s the details that I find riveting if, at times, unbelievable. It seems Sharif and the foreign office either didn’t like or trust Basit. “I was considered to be an outsider … my own Ministry would prefer to conduct relations with India through its High Commissioner in Islamabad and would not even keep me posted”. When Sharif replied to a letter from Modi, it was given to the Indian HC, not Basit, thus denying him a chance to meet Modi. When Sharif and Modi agreed to meet in Paris, Aizaz was instructed not to inform Basit. Pakistan’s PM didn’t want his HC in the loop. That happened again when Modi visited Lahore. Basit was in the country but wasn’t included in the meeting. His presence wasn’t necessary.Things came to such a sorry pass that a junior officer in Islamabad told him that “the Foreign Secretary had instructed them not to send any communication to the High Commissioner in Delhi without his permission”. Basit reveals Pakistan frequently preferred the good offices of the industrialist Sajjan Jindal. He, not Basit, arranged phone calls between the PMs, advised on prisoner releases, conveyed Modi’s messages not to meet Hurriyat, facilitated their meeting in Paris and was involved in the Kulbhushan Jadhav matter. At such times, Basit was unaware of what was happening.So, on top of the humiliation of the foreign secretaryship, Basit was repeatedly insulted by his own government and his service colleagues. Yet the amazing thing is he took it on the chin. He refused to resign. He comes across as a sucker for punishment who swallowed his honour to continue in Delhi. Why?My guess is Basit wanted to stand up to Modi at a time he felt no one else was willing to do so. He hints at this when he writes: “I … was not willing to pander to Modi at the cost of Kashmir”. He seems to confirm it when he adds he tried to convince his government “we should dispense with our delusional unilateral approach in the hope that Modi was some sort of a saint who would reciprocate and accommodate our concerns”.Basit was the least liked Pakistan HC and the most disrespected by his own government. But he wasn’t deterred by that. His book is written with “hostility” to both.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold StoryThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-unusual-tale-of-a-pakistani-diplomat-in-india-101616834557386.html
27-03-2021||Today's||For migrant workers, a year of suffering||March 25th marked the first anniversary if the national lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic. The nation was only given a notice of four hours, and panic ensued. Because incomes turned uncertain and transport services were suspended, hundreds pf thousands of migrant workers started to walk home over the following weeks. The great exodus from the cities showed the insecurity of the lives of migrant workers. Migrant workers, often, get no security from the State. Among them are brick-kiln workers who live amid the forest of tall chimneys belching smoke between Badri and Jhajjar in Haryana. The state recently announced a measure protecting jobs for citizens of Haryana but provided no protection for the migrants. I reported on the plight of the brick-kiln workers some three years ago, and went back very recently to see how they had survived the lockdown. The brick kilns are antiquated, and their business model is dependent on a plentiful supply of cheap labour. As soon as I got out of my car, a group of men, women and children who mould bricks by hand and lay them out to dry before baking gathered. They were from Bihar’s Gaya district. One small boy had no trousers, and a girl was playing with a dead mouse. The workers were housed in hovels with barely room to stand up. The walls, made of loose bricks, bulged dangerously. The tin roofs trapped the heat. Workers told me there was one hand-pump for one hundred families, no drinking water and no lavatories. Yet, they continued to live in these miserable conditions because there is no work in Gaya.There was no work between March 2020 and February 2021 in the brick-kiln; the workers earned no wages in those months because they are paid on a piece-work basis. The government’s minimum wage provides little protection. During the lockdown, employers gave each family ₹1000 every 15 days to buy food, but that money was to be deducted from their earnings when they were paid. A thousand rupees didn’t go as far as it should have, because their ration cards were registered in Bihar and they were not aware of the new provision on portability of ration cards.When I asked whether government officials came to ask about their welfare, a worker replied, “Official come but they only speak to the manager they don’t meet us.” The manager was present throughout my inteview but he never contradicted the workers. The only encouraging development I saw was a young woman teaching a large group of children, sitting on the ground under a tree. She was not a government teacher, but belonged to a civil society organisation.Why is manufacturing so heavily dependent on exploited labourers, who are effectively bonded workers? There have been campaigns against child labour and bonded labour ever since I can remember. Kailash Satyarthi won the Nobel Peace Prize for his campaigns against the exploitation of children, but children still work alongside their parents in brick-kilns. There are laws regulating the employment of migrant workers but they are not enforced. Do the bric-kilns survive because of the corruption of India’s bloated Inspector Raj ? Are brick-kiln workers perhaps ignored because they are not voters in Haryana? Then again maybe the renowned linguist, philosopher, and social activist Noam Chomsky was right when he said, ”What is striking in India is the indifference of the privileged.”The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/for-migrant-workers-a-year-of-suffering-101616834442149.html
27-03-2021||Today's||How India can meet the China challenge||China’s military aggression in Ladakh, which continues to date, led many of us to ask: How does India respond to and meet the China challenge? Based on our discussions at the Pune International Centre (with Raghunath Mashelkar, Vijay Kelkar, Ganesh Natarajan and Ajit Ranade), we have offered Indian policymakers our ideas in a paper titled Strategic Patience and Flexible Policies: How India Can Rise to the China Challenge.Our armed forces have responded magnificently in the immediate and near term. However, the India-China relationship is a long-term game, which is not merely about military affairs but also about economics, science, technology and innovation. One of the reasons for Chinese aggression toward India is the huge discrepancy in economic, military and national power, which has emerged between the two over the past decade. In the short-run, India will have to build balancing coalitions with like-minded countries. Quad is one example. There are three groups of countries we can contemplate for such coalitions: Major democracies of the world; countries bordering China; and India’s neighbours. The United States (US), Japan, France, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Russia spring to mind. There are roughly 20 such countries. India needs to build deep partnerships with these coalitions of nation-States, going beyond treaties and agreements to forge linkages between peoples and institutions. Education, travel and tourism, cooperation among scientists and innovators need to be nurtured. Good partnerships are grounded in give-and-take, where each country reshapes its domestic policy in ways that are favourable to the other. India will have to rise to this challenge, and go beyond being wedded to a narrow vision of strategic autonomy. There is a debate about protectionist measures that will harm Chinese exports or investments in India. A significant proportion of those moves are self-defeating. There is a case for three groups of restrictions: Limit companies controlled by the Chinese State from a controlling stake in a hotlist of sensitive infrastructure assets; steer clear of Chinese-controlled technological standards; and block surveillance of Indian persons. India must aim not for a “China less” economy, but for one in which we have “less China”.Strategic planners in Indian firms need to rethink business plans in the light of these complexities. In some areas, where China-centric sourcing and technological dependence can elevate business risk, a selective retreat from economic engagement with China, and increased emphasis upon the global market, is optimal. In other areas, India can become the dominant alternative to the China-centric supply chains of the past, addressing the desire of global firms to reduce their exposure to China.We visualise the distinct possibility that India can roughly match China’s strength in about 20 years. This is not wishful thinking, and it is not predicated upon China stumbling in its current growth path. It requires reversing the Indian growth malaise of the post-2011 period and foundational change in public policy frameworks around three main ideas: Decreasing the scale of government micro-management of the economy, slowing and reversing what is currently an expanding administrative State; and countering the growing erosion of the rule of law.A critical element of the journey lies in innovation policy. India needs to match and improve upon China’s achievements in fostering research institutions and intellectuals that inhabit them. By 2047, if we can maintain 8% GDP growth per annum, then India will be a $64-trillion-dollar economy in Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) terms. In the same period, if China grows at 5% per annum, it will be a $86-trillion economy in PPP terms. In other words, the current mismatch will reduce significantly.Becoming an advanced economy has always been India’s objective. What has changed in recent years is Chinese hostility, which has given fresh urgency to solving our growth malaise, learning how to be a mature market economy located in a liberal democracy. The judicious use of self-reliance (atmanirbhar), grounded in self-confidence (atmavishwas), where a confident India engages with the world without insecurity, forms alliances with like-minded countries, and leverages democracy and a skilled workforce to good effect, is the path through which the China challenge can be addressed.Gautam Bambawale is a retired diplomat and served as ambassador to China. Ajay Shah is a research professor of business, Jindal Global University. Both are associated with the Pune International Centre. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-india-can-meet-the-china-challenge-101616834319012.html
