28-03-2021||Today's||How the budget session let down the spirit of parliamentary democracy||Poor planning and check-marking of the law-making process are the troubling highlights of the budget session of Parliament. These are not new in the highest legislative body’s functioning. But they are now bordering on becoming routine.Last year, the pandemic derailed parliamentary functioning. So after a hiatus of four months, Parliament convened at the end of January for the budget session. The plan was for the two Houses to meet for 33 days. Instead, the session was cut short to 24 days. Political parties joined hands, asking for curtailing the session to campaign in the upcoming five assembly elections.Ideally, the parliamentary calendar should be sacrosanct and its dates planned in advance. And this requires planning on part of the government, which is entrusted by the Constitution with convening Parliament. The approximate time-frame of assembly elections is known well in advance. For example, the tenure of the Punjab, Goa and Manipur assemblies will end in March next year. So elections will take place in these states in February and March 2022, clashing with next year’s budget session. So the dates for the session can be decided now and such planning will ensure that the sittings of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha don’t have to be cut short.Since campaigning was heating up in the second half of the budget session, the benches in the two Houses were empty. Several Members of Parliament (MPs) did not turn up in Question Hour to get responses from government ministers. Average attendance in the Lok Sabha dipped to 71% and in the Rajya Sabha to 74%.But this careful planning of the parliamentary calendar has been missing in successive governments. In 2001, during the term of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government, the budget session was cut short by eight days due to state elections in five states. Again in 2011, the budget session had to be cut short because of state elections during Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s tenure.Government’s legislative business also suffered because of the absence of planning. Last October, when Parliament was not in session and immediate action was required, the government used its ordinance-making power to set up a commission for air quality management for the national capital region. The ordinance was brought in because immediate action was required. But during the budget session, the government missed the deadline for getting parliamentary approval for the commission. As a result, the commission had to be disbanded. The government was also planning to introduce 19 new bills during the session. But, by the end of the session, it could only bring 13 bills before Parliament.The other worrying aspect of the session was the lack of scrutiny of government legislation in Parliament. Since laws have a large impact on society and address legal and policy issues, they require careful consideration by subject-specific parliamentary committees. A short three-page amendment to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act passed during the session illustrates this point. Introduced last year in March, it increases the period in which abortions may be carried out to 24 weeks (age of the foetus) . It has implications for abortions for victims of sexual violence after the 24-week period. The law requires abortions to be performed by doctors with specialisation in gynaecology or obstetrics and there is a shortage of such doctors in rural areas. So it also raises the issue of access to safe abortions in rural areas.Scrutiny by a committee, with inputs from the government and other stakeholders, would have ironed out these issues. So far, in the Lok Sabha, 11% of the bills passed by Parliament were examined by a subject committee. In the budget session, the government turned down multiple demands for sending bills to committees and it took Parliament an average of 10 days to pass the 11 bills.The session saw Parliament doing a lot of work. But effective legislatures are measured by their outcomes and not by their output. It is time for the government and Opposition parties to prioritise their legislative responsibilities. Because better outcomes are a result of careful planning and robust mechanisms of scrutiny. Such measures will affirm peoples trust in Parliament and strengthen the foundation of our democracy.Chakshu Roy is the head of legislative and civic engagement, PRS Legislative ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-the-budget-session-let-down-the-spirit-of-parliamentary-democracy-101616939685443.html
28-03-2021||Today's||The degeneration in governance systems||A girl from a sleepy town of Uttar Pradesh was selected for the Indian Administrative Service (IAS). Her first assignment was that of a joint magistrate. One day, when she went to her office, she found a sealed envelope filled with currency notes. She summoned the chief clerk to her office who said this was quite normal and would come in every month. She returned the envelope but the clerk insisted that this was par for the course.Shocked by this incident, the young woman sought advice from a senior officer. This is all part of the system, said the official, those who follow this dastoor and dastoori (convention and kickback) face no problem. The lower strata of our administrative system is politically so powerful that the rule of law cannot be implemented so easily, it would seem. Years later, the same officer achieved a higher position in the state. She had set new standards of this kind of dastoor and dastoori during her long tenure.In the early days of my career, this story used to surprise me. However, later this surprise turned into a growing belief that there are key elements of continuity in government systems, irrespective of the political party in office or which officer is at the helm.This is what the allegation by Param Bir Singh, ex-police commissioner of Mumbai, has proved. He had alleged that the home minister of Maharashtra had not only given the target of raising ₹100 crore per month to the suspended inspector Sachin Vaze but had suggested ways of achieving this. Param Bir Singh had sought a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into these allegations from the Supreme Court (SC), which was rejected. For context, remember, a few months ago, he had asked that the Mumbai Police should investigate the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.There have been other instances of officers raising their voices against perceived injustices. In 2003, Bihar’s then director-general of police, DP Ojha, was removed from his post by then chief minister Rabri Devi. He was determined to take action against criminal elements aligned to the ruling party of that time. While in office, he even called those in power “herds of devils and criminals”. When Ojha was removed, there was great sympathy for him. He contested the election as an independent candidate but got very few votes. What he did not seem to have understood is that honesty is not a quality that translates into political success.A similar story is one of a 1991 batch IAS officer Ashok Khemka. He often clashed with those at the helm of power as a result of his honesty. This Haryana cadre officer had often been at loggerheads with the chief ministers in his three-decade-long career, which resulted in 53 transfers in 28 years. The current Manohar Khattar government in Haryana has transferred him several times.Ojha and Khemka may have devoted their lives to dealing with the game of dastoor and dastoori, but there are many officers who have accepted this. Some of them have been prosecuted for this. Three IAS officers, including the then coal secretary Harishchandra Gupta have been convicted in the coal scam. Harishchandra Gupta was the district magistrate of Allahabad in 1982. At that time, he was considered a good and efficient administrative officer. As a young reporter, I observed his work closely and I felt at that time that he would later make a name for himself and one day be considered a great officer. The events which followed came as a shock to me.I would like to give one more example of how far our system can go to hide its shortcomings. After the Mumbai blasts, a committee headed by former home secretary NN Vohra prepared a report about the nexus between criminals, bureaucrats and politicians. Only 11 pages were made public two years later, of the 110-page report submitted in 1993. When pressure was exerted on the government to make the entire report public, it moved to the SC. The court held that the government was not obliged to disclose the report. It also expressed the expectation that the government would implement its recommendations seriously. It has been 28 years since then but that report has been lying in an anonymous corner of a government record room. It would seem that officers and politicians have forgotten all about it.Recall the riots in the United States on May 25, last year after the killing of George Floyd by a White police officer. During that time, the then President Donald Trump sent a provocative tweet. Responding to this, the Houston police chief Art Aquedo said, “Please, if you don’t have something constructive to say, keep your mouth shut.”If Param Bir Singh had heeded the spirit behind the message and spoke up, while holding the post of police commissioner, he too could have been a part of a hall of fame of the finest officers.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-degeneration-in-governance-systems-101616939683079.html
28-03-2021||Today's||Suez crisis and the fragility of global trade||The closure of the Suez Canal, one of the world’s most critical water bodies, due to a large container vessel, the MV Ever Given, running aground on March 23 while in transit, has caused enormous disruption to global shipping. Sustained efforts by the Suez Canal Authority (SCA) and the Egyptian government to dislodge the vessel and refloat it have been less than successful.More than 300 ships waiting to cross the Suez that connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Seahave piled up on either side of the canal. On an average, 50 ships transit the Suez every day and, as per SCA, in 2020, nearly 19,000 vessels with a net tonnage of 1.17 billion tonnes transited the canal, which is the second-highest load in the history of the Suez. The value of goods shipped through the canal is estimated to be $9.5 billion daily — the MV Ever Given, for example, was laden with cargo worth $1 billion. Annually, this is about 8% of global trade and the canal generated $5.3 billion in revenue for the Egyptian exchequer in 2017.The origins of the Suez Canal go back to the ancient period and the first waterway was dug during the reign of Senausert III Pharaoh of Egypt (1874 BC). However, this rudimentary canal was abandoned due to silting and reopened several times in the intervening centuries. The modern Suez was built in the mid-19th century through efforts by the French and opened for navigation on November 17, 1869. This was a tectonic development for global maritime connectivity and impacted colonial history in a definitive manner. The rise of the British Empire was enabled considerably by this canal. Since its inauguration, the Suez has been closed five times — the longest period being the eight years from 1967 to 1975 during the Arab-Israeli conflict.The current closure will be very expensive for global trade — the shipping industry and insurance companies — and it is estimated that the loss per hour is almost $400 million. Some positive movement is being reported, and it is hoped that the Suez will soon be open for transit. In the event that the MV Ever Given remains wedged across the breadth of the canal for a longer period, the negative impact on the intricate and delicately balanced global supply-chain and oil prices will impose additional costs on the customer globally.This aspect points to the fragility of global trade. While the worldwide logistic management chain has acquired a high degree of efficiency by way of manufacturing goods to tight schedules and keeping inventory/warehouse/shipping costs to the bare minimum, even while ensuring timely delivery to the customer, an unforeseen accident such as the Suez closure can lead to a cascading downstream disruption of trade with attendant economic consequences. This is bleak news in a Covid-19-scarred world.The Suez along, with the Panama (that links the Pacific and Atlantic oceans), are the two most critical canals in the global maritime domain along with the Volga-Don and the Grand Canal (China). Each canal has its own navigational challenges and protocols, and in most cases, local pilots are deployed for every ship to ensure safe passage. Tug boats are used to enable the safe passage through restricted waters, and as the history of the Suez demonstrates, the kind of canal closure related to the MV Ever Given is an exception.While the exact cause for the current accident is yet to be ascertained, preliminary reports suggest that very strong wind conditions that occur often in the region may have exacerbated the complex transit of a large vessel. In shallow waters, when a heavy vessel displaces water, it is not replaced immediately as would be the case in deeper waters and a partial vacuum occurs near the propeller. Steering behaviour can then become sluggish and this is compounded by what mariners refer to as “smelling the ground” when a ship in a channel nears a shoal and then lurches from one side to the other, making it difficult to navigate.Whatever the final verdict about why the MV Ever Given ran aground, it would be fair to surmise that the causes would be a mix of material failure, human error and unanticipated local conditions. Given the scale of the consequences — both fiscal and supply-chain disruption — the need to objectively review existing procedures and protocols specific to the Suez merits the highest priority.Incidentally, the crew on board the stricken MV Ever Given are all Indians and while the resilience of merchant ships and maximum profit orientation of the shipping industry are under scrutiny, the welfare of the seafarer in these times merits policy review. Working conditions at sea for the crew are very exacting and this is an issue that warrants empathetic attention even as global attention is focused on ensuring that the Suez Canal is navigable again. Commodore C Uday Bhaskar (rtd) is director, Society for Policy StudiesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/suez-crisis-and-the-fragility-of-global-trade-101616939623003.html
