30-03-2021||Today's||A case for environment-friendly sanitary pads||The Centre has introduced a scheme for the promotion of menstrual hygiene among adolescent girls in the age group of 10-19 years old in the rural areas. The objective is to increase the use of high-quality sanitary napkins and ensure their safe disposal. The scheme was initially implemented in 2011 wherein a pack of six sanitary napkins called “Freedays” was provided to rural adolescent girls.From 2014, funds are being provided to states/Union Territories under the National Health Mission for the decentralised procurement of sanitary napkins packs for provision to rural adolescent girls at a subsidised rate of ₹1 for a pad. Considering that less than 50% of women in the target group are using sanitary napkins, the efforts of governments to promote the use of sanitary napkins are commendable. According to the Menstrual Health Alliance of India, the country has 336 million menstruating women, of which only 121 million or 32% use sanitary pads.It was only after Purnima Khandelwal, founder of Plastic-Free Period Campaign and a feisty sustainable menstruation crusader, drew my attention to the obverse side of the problem, did I realise the environmental consequences of this policy.The sanitary pads commonly used by women from all classes contain super-absorbent polymers (SAP), which don’t decompose. They gradually break down into what are known as micro-plastics, which contaminate soil, water and air. They also enter the food chain injecting toxins into the food humans and animals consume. Two of the ingredients used in commercial non-biodegradable menstrual napkins also have serious health consequences for women. These are dioxins that are used to bleach the absorbent core and responsible for side-effects in the body such as pelvic inflammatory disease, ovarian cancer, immune system damage, impaired fertility and diabetes.Now imagine if the number of menstruating women who use commercial sanitary pads containing plastics is doubled, taking it to 242 million (still far short of universal coverage). This would increase the number of sanitary pads requiring disposal, in some form, to 24 billion annually. Whereas in the urban areas, these mostly reach landfills, in the rural areas, these would are either burnt or buried in some form of pits, the two methods recommended in the guidelines issued by the Government of India for the promotion of menstrual hygiene. The ecological damage caused by this will have far-reaching consequences and the government may have to spend much more in cleaning up the mess their short-sightedness in pushing the use of plastic containing sanitary napkins would create. A single commercial sanitary napkin takes 500-800 years to decompose. On an average, a woman could use up to 10,000 sanitary pads from menarche to menopause.A 2017 report by Euromonitor, a market research company, revealed that the Indian feminine hygiene product market was valued at $340 million and was expected to reach $522 million by 2020. As the use of sanitary pads increases rapidly, the value of the product market would also rise substantially. But, at present, there is no incentive to point the market towards environment- and health- friendly bio-degradable sanitary pads.Although several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have been producing such products through women self-help groups (SHGs), it is not to scale. Network units producing and marketing at commercial scale are not inclined to invest in research and development (R&D) for more cost-effective and environment-friendly sanitary pads. Government purchases, in very large quantities, mostly from network units, are pushing them to scale up their production capacities — but of pads containing plastic.Mass education as part of the menstrual hygiene programme has produced some widely accepted but flawed assumptions — that the use of cloth, as has traditionally been done, is unhygienic; the use of sanitary pads offers hygienic means for managing menstruation under all conditions; all types of sanitary pads available in the market are safe for use; and menstrual waste generated through sanitary pads is efficiently managed through current waste management infrastructure.These assumptions can easily be challenged. For instance, with proper training on cleaning, washing and drying, cloth pads are safer than commercial pads. It is also not true that the current solid waste management system, which is extremely poorly managed in the urban centres and is virtually non-existent in rural areas, is adequately addressing the issue of menstrual waste disposal.There is an urgent need for course correction through effective policy interventions. The government must create a gender-inclusive platform for continuous dialogue and consultation on key issues with experts and civil society organisations and find sustainable and effective alternatives to pads containing plastics. It is also important to correct the incentive system to nudge the market towards affordable biodegradable and reusable pads.As a start, central and state governments must announce that from April 1, 2023, purchases they make shall exclude pads containing plastics. This will allow network manufacturers and others to plan their production lines in accordance with the timelines. A special “disposal cess” should be imposed from FY2023 on pads containing plastic to penalise producers and make them pay for scientific disposal of the pads. The government should also amend the existing frameworks under the Swachh Bharat Mission to provide for detailed guidelines for appropriate disposal methods to remove ambiguity. SHGs, under National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) and National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM), could be encouraged and provided incentives for propagating segregation at source and ensuring disposal of menstrual waste in a scientific and environment-friendly manner.Arvind Mayaram is former finance secretary of the Government of India (2012-14) and currently serves as vice-chairman, Rajasthan Economic Transformation Advisory CouncilThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-case-for-environment-friendly-sanitary-pads-101617113330182.html
30-03-2021||Today's||It is time to reimagine the Indian Ocean||The United States (US) secretary of defence, Lloyd Austin’s recent visit to India underlined the strategic importance of Delhi in Washington’s Indo-Pacific engagements. Although the US and India did not sign any specific agreements during the visit, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Austin provided, with their brief statements, a glimpse into the areas of collaboration that lie ahead.For the maritime domain, the interesting takeaway was the specific mention in Singh’s remarks to “pursue enhanced cooperation between the Indian military and the US Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and Africa Command”. On Twitter, Austin mentioned the western Indian Ocean as a region for collaboration (in addition to the Indo-Pacific) after his meeting with external affairs minister, S Jaishankar. Underlining the need to work with the three US combatant commands, and referring to the western Indian Ocean, is an acknowledgement of the bureaucratic division of the ocean and the need to work through its imaginary divisions. It is also a nod toward the importance of the African coast within the Indian Ocean framework, a geographic reality often lost amid South Asia and West Asia’s geopolitics.Washington is not alone in engaging the Indian Ocean in silos; Delhi’s political class, too, has divided the ocean into many sub-regions. Traditionally, India draws a line with Mauritius and Seychelles as its areas of strategic collaboration in the Indian Ocean. In terms of sub-regions, the priority is in the northern (Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal), and eastern Indian Ocean (Andaman Sea and Straits of Malacca). The Indian Navy, on the other hand, defines the region in its entirety as its area of responsibility from the coast of Malacca to the eastern coast of Africa. While India has begun to rectify this division of the Indian Ocean, especially with the establishment of the Indian Ocean division in the ministry of external affairs (MEA) in 2016, the western Indian Ocean and the eastern coast of Africa still continue to be in the maritime periphery in Delhi’s official worldview. To place this in context, Beijing’s first overseas military base was set up in the western Indian Ocean, in Djibouti in the Horn of Africa. Russia too recently acquired a base in Sudan, on the Red Sea coast, between the Suez Canal and Bab-el-Mandeb — a strategic chokepoint in the Indian Ocean. Beyond the anti-piracy mission, India’s presence and maritime engagements with the African coast, however, have been largely ad hoc.Since Independence, India has enjoyed an advantageous position in the Indian Ocean, primarily accorded through its geography. The lack of direct competition after the end of the Cold War allowed India to continue with its limited maritime approach while retaining the role of a key “Indian Ocean player”. In reality, Delhi ignored and misunderstood the geographic importance of its maritime environment. In comparison, Beijing has consistently aimed to improve its diplomatic, political and military engagements in the region from Sri Lanka to the Comoros, spanning the Indian Ocean in its entirety. Through the Maritime Silk Road, part of China’s Belt and Road initiative, Beijing engages with littorals and islands across the Ocean. Over the years, Beijing has undertaken missions and activities to show both its interest and ability to emerge as a key player in the Indian Ocean — from the 2014 submarine docking in Colombo and assisting Maldives in its 2016 water crisis to establishing its military base in Djibouti in 2017.Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Indian Ocean islands (Sri Lanka, Mauritius and Seychelles) in 2015 was the first visit by an Indian leader in over three decades in an attempt to re-engage with the Indian Ocean. While the current government has adopted a more active outlook toward the maritime domain — encouraged by China’s increasing presence — there are challenges in fully understanding and leveraging India’s potential in the Indian Ocean.India’s reorientation toward the maritime domain has been not been easy, with generations of foreign and defence service officials focusing and training on continental issues. That the Indian Navy is allotted approximately 14% of the defence budget speaks clearly to the defence establishment’s priorities. While this is not to discount Delhi’s continental troubles, seen in recent crises such as Doklam and Ladakh, there is a need to understand the importance of maritime geography and its link to India’s strategic interests and growing competition in the region. While MEA appears to be undertaking a more active approach in correcting this negligence, the defence establishment too has to match foreign policy engagements.The Navy’s priority is maritime domain awareness, which translates into being aware of all movements, under, on and over, the sea. In order to prepare for emerging new threats, being aware is the first step in formulating policies. However, Delhi continues to struggle in working with the Indian Ocean as one region. For example, Madagascar and the Comoros were excluded from MEA’s Indian Ocean division until December 2019. India continues to exclude the two countries from its Indian Ocean Coastal Surveillance Radar Network — aimed at increasing collaborations and information-sharing with the region. There is also no defence attache in either of the countries or accredited from neighbouring islands covering military developments around those waters. With a limited footprint on the African coast, the western Indian Ocean remains a blind spot in Delhi’s Indian Ocean engagements. If China indeed is emerging as the key competitor to India’s interests in the Indian Ocean Region, there is a need to reframe our mental maps and view the Indian Ocean as one continuous space, and understand regional dynamics better.Darshana M Baruah is an associate fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington DC, where she leads the Indian Ocean initiativeThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/it-is-time-to-reimagine-the-indian-ocean-101617111891839.html
30-03-2021||Today's||Due to its 2012 blunder, India’s Cairn challenge at The Hague is likely to fail||Towards the end of 2020, an investor-State dispute settlement (ISDS) arbitration tribunal, in a case involving the British oil and energy giant, Cairn, and the Republic of India, found India guilty of having violated the India-United Kingdom (UK) bilateral investment treaty (BIT). The dispute arose when the Indian government, armed with the retroactive 2012 amendment in the Income Tax Act, demanded that Cairn pay taxes on the alleged capital gains it made due to a 2006 internal corporate restructuring. The tribunal held that India’s conduct breached the fair and equitable treatment (FET) provision of the India-UK BIT, and ordered India to pay more than $1.2 billion to Cairn.Although an ISDS award is binding on the parties, it does not bring the dispute to an end. There are two more obstacles. First, the award could be challenged at the seat of arbitration. Second, the host State could contest the enforcement of the ISDS award in its jurisdiction or in any other jurisdiction where the investor tries to enforce the award.India has challenged the award in a court in The Hague — the seat of arbitration. The award can be contested on limited grounds such as procedural irregularities or jurisdictional matters. India’s challenge is based on the ground that the ISDS tribunal lacked jurisdiction. India considers that taxation matters are outside the scope of the application of BIT. Therefore, the case brought by Cairn falls outside the subject-matter scope of the tribunal.While India has a legal right to challenge the award, this challenge is likely to fail. As the Cairn tribunal has explained, the dispute between Cairn and India is not a tax dispute but a tax-related investment dispute. The tribunal held that a tax dispute is a row related to the taxability of a specific transaction. On the other hand, in a tax-related investment dispute, the tribunal’s task is to determine whether the host State has violated the substantive protection standards given in BIT by exercising its authority in the field of taxation. In other words, the question was whether the manner in which India taxed the 2006 transactions, including the application of the 2012 amendment, fell short of the substantive standards given in BIT or not.India’s jurisdictional challenge will fail also because tax-related matters are not excluded from the purview of the India-UK BIT. Taxation matters are listed as an exception in Article 4(3) of the India-UK BIT only for two substantive standards — most-favoured nation treatment and national treatment. Taxation-related sovereign measures could still be tested on the touchstone of other substantive standards in BIT such as FET provision.The Indian government is correct in asserting that taxation powers are an indispensable part of a country’s sovereign power. However, this does not mean that the exercise of this power cannot be a subject matter of arbitration unless BIT unequivocally excludes taxation matters from its ambit. The very purpose of having a BIT is to impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of sovereign powers, including taxation that may affect foreign investment.Cairn has already initiated proceedings to enforce the ISDS award in several jurisdictions. It is eyeing the possibility of attaching Indian assets in these jurisdictions, including the assets owned by Indian public sector undertakings, to recover the money. All this is a horrible advertisement for India’s reputation as an attractive destination for foreign investment and as a country governed by the rule of law. India will definitely resist the enforcement of the award in foreign countries, citing the fact that it has challenged the jurisdiction of the tribunal or by invoking sovereign immunity. However, these measures, at best, will help India in buying time, not solving the problem. To put an end to this dispute, India should comply with the ISDS ruling and undo the horrendous error made in 2012 by making the amendment in the Income Tax Act prospective in nature.Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor at the South Asia University’s faculty of legal studiesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/due-to-its-2012-blunder-india-s-cairn-challenge-at-the-hague-is-likely-to-fail-101617111890763.html
