04-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad initiates works for air quality improvement, pollution reduction||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has initiated work to improve air quality in the district using funds worth ₹60.5 crore allotted by the fifteenth finance commission. The funds were approved in December last year; however, it is unlikely that residents will feel the effect of the project this winter season as, according to officials, it is likely to be completed by the end of the current financial year or, at the earliest, the end of December this year.Every year, during the winter season, the district usually sees a spike in air pollution.Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said that the fifteenth finance commission had allotted ₹121 crore last year for air quality improvement and solid waste management, and they will devote equal amounts of ₹60.5 crore each to both.A district-level committee of officers has also approved the plan under which the Ghaziabad municipal corporation gave its nod to detailed infrastructure improvement measures.“We have completed all the tenders for air quality improvement, and several work orders have also been issued. More work orders will be awarded soon. The works are likely to be completed by the end of the current financial year, but we are expediting projects and it is likely that we may complete these by end of December this year,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.To improve air quality, the corporation plans to pave dusty road patches with greenery and stones and add more greenery to 200 existing parks.The corporation will also devote funds to develop a city forest on 32 acres of land near the New Bus Adda Metro station.Ghaziabad will also get 30 big air filters, which the corporation has decided to install in major markets and commercial areas to help reduce pollutionThe corporation also plans to procure six more anti-smog guns, each with a capacity of 6,000 litres.“We are also initiating a project in Vasundhara zone, which comprises localities such as Kaushambi and Vaishali. Under the pilot project, we plan to introduce e-vehicles for the lifting and transportation of daily solid waste. So, this will also improve conditions,” Tanwar added.However, the project has already been delayed due to the pandemic situation.According to government data, Ghaziabad is listed among 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh with high levels of air pollution.Cities are declared non-attainment if, over a five-year period, they consistently do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for PM10 or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide).“This year, too, we are in the process of chalking out the action plan for winter and will add more pollution hotspots to the existing list. We also plan to prosecute contractors who have not completed infrastructure works such as road repair and construction on time. Such incomplete works are aiding air pollution,” said Utsav Sharma, regional office of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board.Environmentalists said that the delays are a regular feature of plans which need immediate attention.“If the works are going to be completed by the end of the financial year or even by the end of December this year, there will be no relief from air pollution this winter either. Ghaziabad has been recording high air quality index readings in the severe category for the past several winters. External factors such as stubble burning will also aid pollution,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-initiates-works-for-air-quality-improvement-pollution-reduction-101633372149092.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 18 new Covid cases, 1 death||One more Covid-related death was reported in Punjab on Monday, while 18 new cases took the infection count to 6,01,739, according to a medical bulletin.The death toll due to coronavirus in the state rose to 16,521.Among the new cases, Jalandhar reported three, followed by two each in Amritsar, Kapurthala and Patiala, as per the bulletin.The number of active cases is 272.Thirty-more people recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 5,84,946, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-18-new-covid-cases-1-death-101633372091343.html
04-10-2021||Noida||Siblings killed in accident in Greater Noida’s Dadri||A 23-year-old woman and her 21-year-old brother were killed after a speeding truck hit the motorcycle they were riding in Dadri on Monday. The victims were identified as Shruti and her brother Priyanshu, residents of Kemrala village in Dadri. The incident took place near Mihir Bhoj PG College when Priyanshu was taking Shruti to a private hospital for treatment. The victims’ father, Ramveer Bhati, who runs a grocery shop in the village, has lodged a complaint against an unidentified truck driver at Dadri police station. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO) of Dadri police station, said that a speeding truck hit the victims’ motorcycle from behind. “The truck ran over the two persons, who received critical injuries. Local people informed police and a team reached the spot. The siblings were rushed to a private hospital where the doctors declared them brought dead,” he said. The truck driver abandoned the vehicle and managed to escape after the accident, police said. “We have registered a case against an unknown truck driver under Section 304-A (death due to negligence) and Section 279 (rash driving) of IPC. We are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed in nearby areas to identify the suspect. We will soon arrest him,” the SHO said. The bodies have been sent for a post-mortem and medical reports are awaited. According to police, Priyanshu completed his class 12 while Shruti had done postgraduation. Priyanshu was the only son and the youngest among four siblings, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/siblings-killed-in-accident-in-greater-noida-s-dadri-101633371969261.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man who killed wife in Punjabi Bagh, went into hiding, arrested||A man who allegedly murdered his wife in Punjabi Bagh last month and went into hiding, disguised as a sadhu, in Madhya Pradesh, was arrested from the Morena railway station, Delhi police said on Monday.Police said they were on the lookout for the man since the murder on September 16.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said they were informed about the murder by the victim’s sister, with whom she was staying in the Punjabi Bagh house. The woman had succumbed to her injuries at the Agrasen hospital. According to police, the suspect allegedly beat his wife, who came to Delhi last year and was working at a local factory, to death with a spade and fled the house.“The accused, who is the woman’s husband, had fled the house. He worked as a security guard and had come to Delhi about 10 days before the incident. We immediately formed teams and started probe in the case. Police conducted raids at his village in Madhya Pradesh and also the house of his relatives but he wasn’t there,” said DCP Goel. After an enquiry at his former workplace in Pune, police learned that the suspect was previously married and that his then wife had died by suicide. Police also found that she had filed allegedly filed cases of domestic violence and assault at the Umri police station in Madhya Pradesh.“Through technical surveillance, we learnt that the man was hiding near the Morena railway station. Our teams initially checked every hotel and platform at the station. It was during this search that police found him disguised as a sadhu. He was arrested from the spot,” added DCP Goel.Police said they have brought the 50-year-old man to Delhi and are questioning him at the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-who-killed-wife-in-punjabi-bagh-went-into-hiding-arrested-101633371909068.html
04-10-2021||Noida||Forest dept names former Ghaziabad mayor in tree-felling case||The officials of the divisional forest department said on Monday that they have registered a case against former city mayor Ashu Verma and his gardener under the provisions of the Tree Protection Act, 1976 for chopping down four full-grown Alstonia trees without permission.The trees were growing in front of a vacant house next to Verma’s in Sector 9, Raj Nagar. According to the forest department, it is an offence to fell full-grown trees without its approval.Officials of the department said that the felling took place on September 30 and came to light on October 1 after environmentalists visited the spot upon information and complained to the forest department.“We registered a case under provisions of the Tree Protection Act, and it figures the names of Ashu Verma and his gardener. The trees which were found chopped down at the site are estimated to be about 15 years old and we could find only a few feet of their main trunks at the spot. The provisions of the Act stipulate financial penalty, and its quantum will be decided later upon investigation,” said Ashok Gupta, officiating forest ranger.“For now, we have seized the logs of wood which our team found at the spot,” he added.Verma, however, denied his involvement and said that he cannot be held responsible for what happened outside his neighbour’s house.The former mayor, on October 1, had said that his neighbour’s house was empty and sealed.“I have no involvement with what happens outside my neighbour’s house. I am a political person and often have to travel outside the city for different works. In fact, I got about 200 trees planted this monsoon season and many of them were procured from the forest department,” Verma said.“I will meet the forest department officials since they have held me responsible for the incident... they must prove it with evidence,” he added.Environmentalist Akash Vashishtha, a lawyer and resident of Raj Nagar, had visited the spot on October 1 upon information and briefed the forest department.“The office of the forest department is about a kilometre away from the site and they had no information. Now, after having registered a case, the officials must investigate and act in accordance with the law. The city’s forest cover has hardly shown improvement and the city also suffers from high levels of air pollution, so it is imperative that people should save and protect trees,” Vashishtha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/forest-dept-names-former-ghaziabad-mayor-in-tree-felling-case-101633371849114.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||20-year-old beaten up by residents over suspicion of theft in outer Delhi, dies||A 20-year-old man died after he was allegedly beaten up by a group of people on the suspicion of theft in outer Delhi’s Kirari Suleman Nagar near Aman Vihar in the early hours of Monday, police said.The body of the man, identified as Vishal Singh, has been preserved at the Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital’s (SGMH’s) mortuary for autopsy. The police have written to the Delhi government to constitute a panel of doctors for conducting the post-mortem examination, senior police officers said.“The exact reason behind Singh’s death will be ascertained once the autopsy is done. Further legal action in the matter will be taken accordingly,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh.DCP Singh said around 5am Monday, the Sultanpuri police station received a call wherein the caller informed the police that a “thief” was caught from Kirari Suleman Nagar. A police team was sent there to verify the information. The team learnt from locals that the thief had entered a house in the neighbourhood.“When the occupants of the house woke up on hearing some sound, the thief allegedly jumped off the terrace of the house, in a bid to escape. He was allegedly caught and assaulted by the public. The injured man was shifted to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead. There were no visible injury marks on his body. It is being ascertained whether the man died of the alleged assault or due to the fall from the terrace,” said DCP Singh.A case of house trespass and attempt to theft was registered on the complaint of the house owner, Sumit. No case was registered in the alleged assault case, as the autopsy report is still awaited, the police said.A month ago, a 25-year-old unidentified man died after he was tied to a tree and beaten up by a group of people on the suspicion of theft in outer Delhi’s Narela Industrial Area. Two men were arrested in that case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20yearold-beaten-up-by-residents-over-suspicion-of-theft-in-outer-delhi-dies-101633371789223.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to HC: Will update portal to register Muslim, Christian marriages||The Delhi government on Monday informed the Delhi high court that it will issue administrative instructions within two months to update its web portal with the necessary options to register online both Muslim and Christian marriages.Justice Rekha Palli was informed by advocate Shadan Farasat, additional standing counsel for the Delhi government, that the online software for marriage registration currently has option to register only marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and the Special Marriage Act (SMA).Farasat said he is writing to the revenue secretary to make the changes across the board as this is a frequently encountered problem.Farasat’s submissions came while the court was hearing a plea by an NGO, challenging the practice of registering Muslim marriages under the Special Marriage Act (SMA) instead of the Compulsory Registration Marriage Order, which allows for the registration of the alliance as soon as it is solemnised.The petition, filed by the NGO Dhanak for Humanity, and individual petitioner Mohammad Adnan, has contended that despite being a religious union and not an interfaith wedding, Muslims were being subjected to a 30-day notice period -- to call for objections to the union -- under the Special Marriage Act.The plea said Adnan and his wife came from their home town to Delhi to solemnise their marriage and was subjected to the 30-day notice period under the SMA.The plea contended that this violated the fundamental rights of the parties concerned and the requirement of 30-day notice period under the SMA was very cumbersome to persons who came from another place.On the last date, the court had granted time to the Delhi government to take instructions on the matter.On Monday, the Delhi government counsel said the couple can get their marriage registered after filling a form, which he would supply within the course of the day.Farasat further assured the court that this problem will also be examined and appropriate administrative directions will be issued in this regard within two months. Taking note of the submissions, the court disposed of the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-hc-will-update-portal-to-register-muslim-christian-marriages-101633371729169.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Opposition leaders stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri on day of detentions||The battle lines between the Uttar Pradesh government and Opposition parties were drawn on Sunday night after eight people were killed in violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh , resulting in a situation which saw a spate of detentions on Monday.Many of the Opposition leaders from UP and other states announced that they would leave for Lakhimpur Kheri, setting the stage for high-tension drama that unfolded quite predictably.For instance, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra landed at Lucknow on late Sunday evening. Soon, she attempted to head to Lakhimpur Kheri with a team of leaders and a large contingent of party workers despite being detained at her Lucknow residence, the Kaul House.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra made an abortive attempt to leave his house for Lakhimpur Kheri around the same time. Aam Aadmi Party MP and UP in-charge Sanjay Singh too made a bid around midnight. He was detained in Sitapur and sent back.Some other leaders had announced that they would go to Lakhimpur Kheri Monday morning.They included Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary, Chattishgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder S Randhawa. Besides, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced she would send five Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs to Lakhimpur Kheri.Amid rain at night, Priyanka broke the police cordon around her Lucknow residence and walked out, locked horns with police on duty, boarded her car and proceeded towards Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the victims’ families. However, police stopped her at several spots, including allegedly by blocking the path with trucks, but her motorcade managed to cross the hurdles. Priyanka had a heated altercation with the police and she even warned them till she was finally stopped at Hariya in Sitapur district near Lakhimpur Kheri around 2am. There, she was detained and sent to the PAC guest house. Many of her video clips made by Congress workers went viral all through the night and the next day, showing her travel, altercations and sweeping the floor with a broom in the room where she was detained.Chandrashekhar Azad of Bhim Army, who did not have a convoy like the other leaders, managed to sneak into Lakhimpur Kheri and reached the spot by dawn.The police had a tough time on the road from Lucknow to Lakhimpur through the night and the day.Around midnight, the Lucknow police began barricading Lucknow’s Vikramaditya Marg that houses Akhilesh Yadav’s residence and the Samajwadi Party headquarters.To prevent him going, the police allegedly made some transporters block the road at both ends by parking trucks across. The trucks were allowed to leave when the anti-riot force in large numbers were deployed all around Akhilesh’s house and the SP office.Akhilesh Yadav made an attempt to drive off at around 8 am, but was stopped. Soon afterwards, some unidentified persons set a police jeep on fire. While the police held SP workers responsible, Samajwadi Party blamed the police for the fire. Around 10am, a large crowd of SP workers with party flags gathered near the cordoned off area.Akhilesh, along with SP national general secretary Ramgopal Yadav, sat on the road outside his residence and shouted anti-government statements.Within in half-an-hour, the police detained him and sent him to the Eco Gardens (built in BSP chief Mayawati’s regime) nearly 5 km away. He was released from detention around 5pm.Many SP workers clashed with police. The police resorted to a lathicharge and packed several of them into buses to Eco Gardens. While in the vehicle, Akhilesh tweeted: “All party workers and leaders should sit on dharna wherever they are.”Samajwadi Party and Congress leaders protested in almost all the districts across the state. The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) protested largely in the western UP districts. Around two dozen RLD leaders, including its state president Masood Ahmad, were detained near Bakshi Ka Talab on the outskirts of Lucknow.Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia chief Shivpal Yadav managed to leave his house through the backdoor while the police were focusing on Akhilesh’s house and the SP office.His convoy sped off but the police later intercepted it and detained him at the Lucknow police lines. He was released hours later.Punjab deputy chief minsiter Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who took the road route to Lakhimpur Kheri from Punjab, was detained by UP police immediately on entering Saharanpur. Earlier in the day, he was denied permission by the UP government to reach Lucknow by air.UP cabinet minister and government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh, in a statement, said: “We are taking the matter seriously and it is under investigation. CM has said the culprits will be punished. The Opposition is using the incident for political tourism and political competition as polls are around the corner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/opposition-leaders-stopped-from-going-to-lakhimpur-kheri-on-day-of-detentions-101633371672176.html
04-10-2021||Noida||Lakhimpur Kheri aftermath: Heightened police checking causes jam on DND Flyway||A number of people were stuck in traffic jam on the DND Flyway on Monday morning as police set up barricades to check vehicles in the wake of protests at several places in the city over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The Noida police diverted the Delhi-bound traffic to Chilla border and the traffic movement remained slow between 8am and 11am, officials said. A police team headed by deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ganesh Prasad Saha reached the spot and tried to ease the situation. Saha said that the Delhi Police had set up barricades on their side at the DND Flyway. “The Noida police also put up barricades to check vehicles entering Noida due to security reasons. This slowed down traffic movement at the DND Flyway. We soon diverted the traffic to the Chilla border. However, due to high volume of traffic, the vehicular movement was slow at Chilla border too,” he said. Brajesh Sharma, a resident of Antriksh Golf View 2, Noida’s Sector 78, said that he was stuck in jam for 50 minutes while going to Delhi. “Police personnel were randomly checking vehicles. This led to a massive jam on the DND Flyway,” he said.Several commuters took to social media to enquire about the traffic situation. Ashish Jain, a commuter, tagged Noida traffic police in a tweet, seeking information about the expected time by which the jam would end. The officials also said that the Film City road (Noida-Greater Noida side) remained congested as the workers were fixing streetlights. Meanwhile, several groups of farmers and members of opposition parties protested at several places in the city over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including farmers, were killed on Sunday. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ambawata) held a protest outside the Noida city magistrate’s office. Rajesh Upadhyaya, Gautam Budh Nagar district president of the BKU faction, said that the farmers are pained over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “The government is behaving as if farmers are their enemy. We demand compensation to the deceased farmers’ kin and jobs to their dependents,” he said. Another group of farmers also protested at the district collectorate in Surajpur. Deepak Vig, president, Noida unit of Samajwadi Party, also led a protest outside the city magistrate’s office. “Our leader Akhilesh Yadav has been illegally detained when he was trying to reach Lakhimpur Kheri. The party workers are angry over the issue. The government is muzzling the opposition in the state,” he said. Shahabuddin, Noida president of Congress, said that his party workers protested at the city magistrate’s office. “We made a sit-in protest and demanded immediate release of party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. A police team reached the spot and detained us. Nearly 17 party workers were later released from police station,” he said. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said some protesters were detained from the spot. “They were released later. No case was registered against them,” he said. Uma Shankar Singh, Noida city magistrate, said that he has received the memorandums from different groups over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “We will forward these memorandums to the government. The protest was peaceful,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/lakhimpur-kheri-aftermath-heightened-police-checking-causes-jam-on-dndflyway-101633371669021.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Finding nothing to steal, snatcher injures labourer in Ludhiana; held||A man, who was reportedly under the influence of drugs, injured a construction worker with a sharp-edged object after he found that he had no valuables on him in Dugri Phase-1 on Sunday. The victim’s colleagues restrained the accused, Ashu of CRPF Colony, and handed him over to the police. The victim, Avidhesh Kumar of Roop Nagar, said he was preparing a cement mix at a construction site in Dugri Phase 1 when the accused demanded money from him. On finding that he neither had money nor a mobile phone, the accused assaulted him with a sharp-edged object. Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 379B (theft) and 511 ( attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment ) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finding-nothing-to-steal-snatcher-injures-labourer-in-ludhiana-held-101633371369035.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Habitual criminal snatches service pistol, shot at in counter fire||A 28-year-old alleged habitual criminal was shot at in counter fire by police in the early hours of Monday after he allegedly snatched the service pistol of a policeman and fired at the police party that had taken him to a wooded area in outer Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy to recover a firearm that he had used to fire at his neighbour on Sunday.Police said the suspect, Sameer alias Nawab, who was previously involved in 22 crimes, was arrested in the cases – attempting to kill his neighbour over a personal enmity and the attack on the police party.Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Brijender Kumar Yadav said that on Sunday, one Saidul, alias Hawara, filed a complaint regarding firing at him by his neighbour Sameer, over an altercation that the suspect had with his father. Saidul survived the bullet fired at him. A case of attempt to murder was registered and the suspect was caught within 16 hours of the crime, police said.Sameer’s interrogation revealed that he had hidden the firearm in a forested area in Bhalswa Dairy, following which a police team took him to the spot to recover the weapon. The pistol, with four cartridges in the magazine, was recovered, said the DCP.“The team was busy in the recovery when Sameer snatched a policeman’s service weapon and fired at the police party in a bid to flee. Our team members responded and fired two rounds, first a warning shot in the air and the other him on his leg. Sameer was subsequently overpowered,” added DCP Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhihabitual-criminal-snatches-service-pistol-shot-at-in-counter-fire-101633371308848.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||100-year-old building collapses in Kalbadevi in south Mumbai, passerby dies||A 61-year-old man was declared dead after a ground-plus-four building collapsed in Kalbadevi area of south Mumbai on Sunday. The incident was reported at 10.35pm, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management cell said.The building, which was around 100 years old, was declared dilapidated by the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada). The authority, which owned the structure, had also issued a notice to the tenants to vacate the building. However, the tenants did not move out. According to Mhada officials, after the toilet on the ground floor developed cracks, the building tilted, following which around 20 tenants of the building vacated the structure on Sunday around 5.30pm.According to Mhada officials, around 10pm, the dilapidated Khanderaowadi Building Number 5 came down crashing down on a passerby who was talking on phone. The man, identified as Sundara Saw, was rushed to Sir JJ Hospital, but was declared dead on arrival.Local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Aakash Raj Purohit said a major tragedy was averted as the building was evacuated in evening. “After a part of the toilet collapsed, the fire brigade and police were called. There were around 20 people inside the building and all of them were evacuated by the fire brigade. Also, one family from a nearby building was moved as a safety measure,” Purohit said.While he claimed that Khanderao Building Number 5 was around 50 years old, Mhada has maintained that the structure is close to around 100 years old. “The entire building was occupied by commercial labourers who do gold polishing and make jewellery,” Purohit added.However, Mhada said that of the 20 tenants, only one was officially commercial, and the rest were residential tenants. Arun Dongre, chief of Mhada’s repair board, said, “The building was around 100 years old and had 20 tenants of which one was a commercial tenant. Thankfully, we had evacuated all those inside the building around four hours before the collapse, averting a major incident. Another nearby building, which is also a ground-plus-four structure, has also been vacated and residents in other neighbouring buildings will also be evacuated, if required.”Meanwhile, there are over 14,000 dilapidated buildings in the city, of which a majority are in south Mumbai. Every year, a pre-monsoon structural audit is conducted by both BMC and Mhada. Earlier, this week Mhada had said that it has issued notices to 21 ‘extremely dangerous buildings’ in south Mumbai. Around 717 tenants in these 21 buildings have been asked to vacate their buildings on an immediate basis. Those who vacate their buildings are accommodated in transit camps on a temporary basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/100yearold-building-collapses-in-kalbadevi-in-south-mumbai-passerby-dies-101633371129112.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors in Maharashtra call off strike||The Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) called off their state-wide strike late on Monday evening after a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The doctors were assured a special incentive for their contribution during the pandemic and better upkeep of the hostels but their other primary demands were put forward for deliberations. The state-wide strike began on Friday after a series of meetings between MARD representatives and state government officials. MARD had put forward three primary demands – waiver of academic fees during the pandemic year, non-deduction of the tax deducted at source (TDS) from the stipend and better upkeep of the hostels. A media statement issued by MARD said that fee waiver was not possible due to technical reasons. However, the state has decided to discuss this issue with experts from the field. “The TDS issue will also be discussed by appointing a chartered account,” it said. As far as the special incentive is concerned, the state has agreed to deliberate and come up with an amount, which is likely to be paid from the beginning of the pandemic in 2020.“The resident doctors in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run hospitals already get Covid-19 incentive. The resident doctors in state government hospitals should also get it now,” said Dr Madhav Bhondave, a third-year resident doctor from state-run Sir JJ Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-in-maharashtra-call-off-strike-101633371071464.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Union petroleum minister says UP implementing projects faster||Union petroleum and natural gas minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said the UP government was implementing various development projects on a faster pace vis-à-vis the previous Samajwadi Party government in the state.“Uttar Pradesh is doing well in urban mobility sector. Out of 82 km operational metro rail in the state, 67 km has been commissioned during the tenure of Yogi government. Another 131 km is under construction. This includes 82 km Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System to be ready by June 2025,” Puri said here.Puri said the trial run of Kanpur Metro on 9.5 km route from IIT Kanpur to Motijheel section was likely to start by next month and its inauguration may take place by December. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to watch Ayodhya’s masterplan and futuristic model of the temple town and will also launch 75 urban projects in Lucknow on Tuesday. Puri, who is also Union housing and urban affairs minister, listed Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, PM Swadhini Yojana and SMART City scheme to make his point that Uttar Pradesh was among the top performing states.Asked about the PNG connections, he said 22,000-km pipeline was being laid against a target of 35,000-km pipeline. He said about 4,000-km pipeline will be laid in the current financial year. About Lucknow, he said more PNG connections would be given expeditiously in the state capital in coming months. Puri said only 72,000 piped natural gas (PNG) connections had been given in Lucknow against a target of 4.9 lakh connections by 2022. He said the target would be achieved by giving expeditious connections.Puri said the number of LPG retail outlets had gone up significantly in the state. He said there were only 6,043 retail outlets when the Yogi government was installed and that the number had gone up to 9,810 now. He said the LPG distributorship had also increased by 33 percent. Puri said the number of compressed natural gas (CNG) stations had gone up to from 115 in 2017 to 502 now. Puri will also distribute free gas connections to beneficiaries of Ujjwala scheme on Tuesday.In Lucknow, there were 12 CNG stations earlier and this number had gone up to 37 now, he said. He gave statistics about how the number of LPG connections had gone up and said in areas like Lucknow the saturation was nearly 100 percent. He said more connections were being given under unsaturated areas. Puri said three refills were given free under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana and the beneficiaries were getting their LPG cylinders refilled.He said UP was the first state to have come out with its own civil aviation policy. The minister said Airports Authority of India had spent ₹2000 crore on different projects in the state. He said UP had four airports before installation of the Yogi government and out of them only two were being regularly used. Puri said UP now had eight operational airports. He said Kushinagar airport would soon be inaugurated while an international airport was coming up at Ayodhya. He said flights had now started to smaller cities under the UDAN scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/union-petroleum-minister-says-up-implementing-projects-faster-101633370950282.html
04-10-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh:Power engineers begin agitation, wear black armbands||LUCKNOW: Power engineers in Uttar Pradesh started their phased agitation by wearing black armbands all day and holding demonstrations in various cities, including the state capital, in the evening on Monday to protest against the alleged harassment by the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) management and to press their other demands.“We will begin work-to-rule from October 18 and indefinite work boycott from October 26 if the harassment continues and our other demands are not met,” said Prabhat Singh, general secretary, Abhiyanta Sangh.“We have served a notice on the UPPCL management, warning that engineers will be forced to resort to a direct action if any of them was harassed or penalised during the agitation,” he added.Their main demands include the withdrawal of FIRs registered against engineers for holding protests in Varanasi and other places in the past, restoration of the old pension scheme for all the engineers recruited after 2000, termination of privatisation of Greater Noida and Agra franchisee agreements and unification of all energy corporations into one entity.However, the engineers’ current agitation is also being seen as a tactic to build pressure on the management in view of 23 engineers facing charges of committing illegalities in issuing temporary electricity connections in favour of builders in Noida and Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-power-engineers-begin-agitation-wear-black-armbands-101633370709165.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Cops probe role of jailed gangster in firing at Delhi realtors’ office||New Delhi: The firing, assault, and vandalism at the office of two property dealers in south Delhi’s Aya Nagar on Friday was allegedly executed on the directions of jailed gangster Rohit Chaudhary to get hold of a disputed plot, some part of which were in the alleged possession of the two realtors, police said on Monday after arresting four more suspects in connection with the crime. Investigators said they will now secure the custody of Chaudhary, who is presently lodged in Tihar jail, to question him in connection with the case.Among the latest arrests by the crime branch team between Saturday and Sunday includes 36-year-old habitual criminal, Rajesh alias Rawan, who was wanted by the crime branch in a case registered under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) this year. Three others were arrested by the Fatehpur Beri police on Saturday. At least two more suspects are yet to be nabbed, police said.On October 1 around 6.30pm, a group of 9-10 bike-borne men carrying iron rods, sticks, hammers and firearms arrived at the office of property dealers, Jaiveer and Mahesh, in Aya Nagar and started assaulting Jaiveer, said deputy commissioner of police (crime and legal cell) Rajesh Deo.“As Mahesh tried to rescue Jaiveer, the attackers rushed to assault him. However, Mahesh locked himself inside the office. The attackers vandalised the door and windows using the rods and hammers. While leaving the place, the assailants fired at least two shots but nobody was hurt,” said the DCP.The next day, the Fatehpur Beri police arrested Vishnu Chaudhary, Rahul Rawat and Ashu Tanwar, all residents of Aya Nagar. On the same day, DCP Deo said, the crime branch team received information that the main suspect, Rajesh aka Rawan, was trying to flee Delhi.Accordingly, a trap was laid and he was arrested on Saturday from near Kherki Daula toll plaza in Gurugram while he was driving a Swift car. His interrogation led to the arrest of Shashi Lala, Shivam and Sumit, said Deo.“Their interrogation revealed that Rohit Chaudhary had sent a message to Rajesh to meet his brother, Vishnu Chaudhary, and uncle (name not revealed) to kill the property dealers who were in possession of the disputed plot in their village. Rajesh arranged his associates and directed them to execute the plan,” added DCP Deo.In March this year, Chaudhary, who figured in Delhi Police’s list of top 10 most wanted criminals and carried a reward of ₹4 lakh on his arrest, was arrested along with his associate following a gunfight with a crime branch team near Bhairon Marg in central Delhi. Chaudhary, who was shot in his leg, was wanted in many cases including that of MCOCA, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-probe-role-of-jailed-gangster-in-firing-at-delhi-realtors-office-101633370588997.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Lakhimpur violence: 95 detained for protesting outside UP Bhawan||Ninety-five people, including 25 women, belonging to various political parties and student organisations were detained on Monday for allegedly holding a protest outside the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Bhawan in Delhi to express their anger over Sunday’s violent clashes in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed. The detained protesters were taken to the Mandir Marg police station, from where they were released in the evening.A case was registered for violating Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which prohibits public gathering of four or more people in a specified area, and for defying the Covid-19 guidelines of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that has banned all types of protests, political and religious gatherings in Delhi, said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav. He said no permission was sought for holding the protest outside UP Bhawan.Police said between noon and 2pm on Monday, nearly 300 members and activists of political and students organisations such as Indian Youth Congress, Samajwadi Party, Students’ Federation of India (SFI), and the All India Students Association (AISA), among others, gathered outside UP Bhawan on Sardar Patel Marg in Chanakyapuri and raised slogans.“Even after repeated warnings regarding the imposition of Section 144 in the area and the DDMA guidelines, the protesters did not leave. A total of 70 men and 25 women were detained and taken to the Mandir Marg police station. They were later released,” said DCP Yadav.Delhi Congress leaders said two demonstrations were held on Monday against the murder of farmers in Lakhimpur and the arrest of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, who was on her way to visit the families of the slain farmers. According to the party, over 200 members and supporters participated in the two protests. “Farmers have been protesting for the past 10 months, demanding the repeal of the three anti-farmer laws passed by the BJP government, but due to the arrogance of PM Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, high-handed attacks were mounted on the food providers of this country, the humble farmer, to show their political might,” said Anil Choudhary, Delhi Congress chief.He further said, “Under the Modi and Yogi governments, democracy has been murdered and citizens have lost their right to raise their voices against injustice, and despite the Supreme Court taking cognizance of the farmer agitation, and directing the central government to find a solution to the crippling of the borders, the Modi government has not yet acted.”Congress leaders also stressed that the party will continue to support the demands of the farmers and will also continue their protests against the BJP government for their apathy to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lakhimpur-violence-95-detained-for-protesting-outside-up-bhawan-101633370289339.html
04-10-2021||Other||36 teachers booked in Assam for getting appointed in govt schools using fake certificates||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Assam Police has registered against 36 teachers for allegedly getting appointed in government schools using fake and forged certificates, officials informed on Monday. According to the police, the case has been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for criminal conspiracy, forgery and cheating against the teachers who got appointed in the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) area of the state. As per a press release, the accused generated forged teacher eligibility test (TET) certificates and submitted them to the director of education in Kokrajhar and got appointments in schools of BTR. Based on an initial inquiry, which revealed the allegations of wrongdoing by the teachers to be genuine, the police acted on the directions of chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and registered the case. Raids were carried out at various places on Sunday to trace the accused, the release said. “Several accused have been brought to the CID headquarters in Guwahati from various districts of Assam for interrogation and verification of documents,” the release said. The investigation conducted so far revealed that forged TET certificates were submitted by the accused to portray as if they had qualified even though the accused failed the test. In some cases, fake roll numbers have been used and in some cases roll numbers of successful candidates were misused by unsuccessful candidates for generating forged certificates. “The candidates have dishonestly and fraudulently obtained appointment letters thereby causing long term impact on the state’s education system which will adversely impact the careers of several innocent students,” the release said. The TET qualification is the minimum criteria required in India for a person to be eligible for an appointment as a teacher for Classes 1 to 8. It is mandatory for teaching in government schools. The TET examinations are conducted by both the Centre and states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/36-teachers-booked-in-assam-for-getting-appointed-in-govt-schools-using-fake-certificates-101633370113400.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Fresh Covid-19 cases: UP reports 16, Lucknow 8||Uttar Pradesh reported eight fresh Covid-19 cases out of the total sixteen new cases reported in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. According to the data from the state health department, Lucknow on Sunday had reported just one fresh case. The total active Covid-19 cases under treatment in Lucknow are 33 now.Among the fresh cases, three are children, four residents of Cantonment area and one from Aliganj area. Among the children one was going to school and so samples of other students and staff had also been taken, said a senior health official. “Also, samples of the confirmed Covid-19 patients have been sent for genome sequencing,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fresh-covid-19-cases-up-reports-16-lucknow-8-101633370110156.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||UP to showcase best development models at urban conclave||From One District One Product (ODOP) to One City One Operator (OCOP) scheme, from community-led decentralised solid waste management programme in Saharanpur to plastic waste to fuels plant of Prayagraj municipal corporation, the Uttar Pradesh pavilion at the three-day urban conclave would showcase the best urban development models in practice across the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi would inaugurate the event in the state capital on Tuesday. He would also dedicate 75 urban development projects worth ₹4,737 crore on the occasion. In PM’s presence, the state’s urban development department, which is hosting the conclave being attended by urban development ministers from across the country, intends to showcase how UP cities have begun leveraging technology for greater good. After the inauguration, a session would be on UP’s emerging urban landscape. “We will also share best practices from one another,” said state’s urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopal’. On display would be technologies and systems that smart cities possess like integrated command and control centre (ICCC), variable message signboards, environmental sensors to provide real time data on air quality, vehicle tracking system (real time monitoring of city buses, ambulances, solid waste collection vehicles) red light violation detection, automatic number plate recognition (one where specialized camera reads the registration number of vehicle violating traffic rules). The directorate of urban transport will also be displaying electric buses that would be operating on a public-private-partnership (PPP) and gross cost contract (GCC) mode of contract in which the bus operator would be paid on a per kilometre basis for operating the fully air-conditioned buses.“These buses, meant for several UP cities, and to be virtually flagged off by the PM would be equipped with advanced intelligent transport system technology that includes CCTV and panic button among other things,” an official said. The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) would be presenting the houses built for the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) using techniques like autoclaved aerated concrete block (AAA) in place of red bricks. Modi would also be interacting with some beneficiaries of PMAY scheme. He would also digitally hand over keys to an estimated 75,000 beneficiaries from across 75 districts of the state. “The Ramgarhtal state of the art water sports complex with capacity to organise rowing, canoeing and kayaking tournaments to supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems project, displaying multivariable control that can analyse operational parameters of water supply projects or Lucknow’s canal project that includes 120 million litres per day sewage treatment plant project or for that matter Agra’s Gangajal water supply project that intends to provide long term solution to the city’s drinking water problems are among the many things that would be on display at the UP pavilion,” an official of the urban development department said. Also, UP’s one city one operator (OCOP) project, where the operation and maintenance of STPs is transferred from Jal Sansthan and UP Jal Nigam to OCOP, which sublets the works to experienced private organisations that use technologies like GIS mapping and automation, would be showcased. “UP will also present its social mobilisation and institutional development component under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Urban Livelihood Missions (DAY-NULM) that mobilises the poor, mainly underprivileged women in urban areas, to improve their socio-economic status and helps them make products that are marketed online through e-commerce platforms,” an official said. UP’s pride moments *Ranked first in the implementation of smart city projects *Ranked first in PMAY (urban)*Ranked first in disbursement of loans under PM Svanidhi*Among top five states in implementation of Swachh Bharat (urban) *Among better performing states in implementation of RERA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-showcase-best-development-models-at-urban-conclave-101633370108865.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow DM: Stay indoors, avoid going to Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur||The Lucknow district magistrate (DM) on Monday issued an advisory to the commuters going to violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri and the neighbouring Sitapur, telling people to stay indoors following elaborate security arrangements, blockades and barricading on the highways. Besides, North Eastern Railway (NER) cancelled two of its trains and short-terminated two others due to the situation in Lakhimpur Kheri.“People should avoid going to Sitapur and Lakhimpur Kheri as the roads are completely blocked and barricaded,” said Lucknow DM Abhishek Prakash.While anticipating a jam-like situation and frequent demonstrations, Lucknow DM also advised local commuters to stay indoors and avoid going towards the chief minister’s residence, Vikramaditya Marg, Gautampalli, Hazratganj in Lucknow and other areas.“The force is busy in handling the law and order situation, hence there are hardly any cops on the crossings to check jam-like situations. Hence, people should stay indoors and avoid going towards CM’s residence and other important places,” he said.The Lucknow DM also said one should venture out only if it was very important.Mahesh Gupta, public relations officer (PRO) of NER’s Lucknow division, said that 05361/62- Mailani-Bahraich-Mailani passenger train and 05088 Lucknow-Mailani remained cancelled on Monday. NER also short- terminated two trains. He said the train 05086/85 Lucknow-Mailani-Lucknow was terminated at Sitapur and returned from Sitapur to Lucknow. Similarly, 05009 Gorakhpur-Mailani train was short-terminated at Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-dm-stay-indoors-avoid-going-to-lakhimpur-kheri-sitapur-101633370059256.html
04-10-2021||Other||Covid 19 vaccinations: Uttar Pradesh crosses 11 crore mark||LUCKNOW The anti-Covid 19 vaccination count crossed the 11-crore mark in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, including over 2 crore second doses to the eligible beneficiaries.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath praised health workers and asked all eligible to take the jab. The CM tweeted, “Under able guidance of prime minister Narendra Modi and commitment of our health workers over 11 crore people in UP have been provided covid vaccine shield. You should also take the Jeet Ka Teeka and ensure defeat of covid. Jai Hind.”By 6 pm 11,07,15,717 doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine had been administered including 8,82,91,495 first doses and 2,21,59,947 second doses, in the state. “This (over 11 core) is the maximum (number of) doses administered by any state in the country,” said a state government spokesperson.With this, at least one dose has been administered to over 60% eligible population in Uttar Pradesh that has a total 158 active Covid-19 cases under treatment. Vaccination started on January 16.“Leading among districts in the state is Lucknow with 39,41,486 doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine administered till now. Over 32% eligible population in state capital has got the second dose of the vaccine too,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.Of the 75 districts in the state, 31 do not have any active Covid-19 cases and in other 21 districts the number of active cases is in single digits. Till now 7,92,66,731 covid-19 samples have been tested in the state.In the past 24 hours, 1.36 lakh Covid-19 samples were tested and 17 new Covid-19 cases were reported. “There were no fresh cases in 67 districts,” said the spokesperson.Amethi, Amroha, Bagpat, Balia, Balrampur, Bhadohi, Etah, Fatehpur, Gazipur, Gonda, Hamirpur, Hapur, Hardoi, Hathras, Jalaun, Kanpur Dehat, Kanpur, Kasganj, Kushinagar, Lakhimpur Khiri, Lalitpur, Mahoba, Mau, Moradabad, Mujaffarnagar, Rampur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shrawasti, Sitapur, Varanasi, and Unnao do not have any active Covid-19 case.Till now, the state has reported 17,09,873 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-19-vaccinations-uttar-pradesh-crosses-11-crore-mark-101633370057809.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Congress leader tries reaching Lakhimpur posing as groom, stopped by cops||A local Congress leader attempting to reach Lakhimpur Kheri in the guise of a groom was stopped by police in Civil Lines area on Monday afternoon. At least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed in violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday when farmers were protesting against the three central farm laws. Haseeb Ahmad along with four other Congressmen-- Congress district president Arun Tiwari and workers Shakeel Ahmad, Bholanath Tiwari and Matambar Mishra, who were posing as ‘baaratis’, were taken to police station but released after a warning. They were stopped at Hot Stuff crossing in Civil Lines by a police team. On being searched, police team found a wooden plough in their car following which they were stopped from going ahead.Haseeb claimed they were stopped after local intelligence had tipped off the cops about their plans. “We were going to Lakhimpur Kheri to extend our support to the family members of the farmers who died on Sunday. Congress condemns the killing of farmers who were mowed down by the BJP leader’s son under his car. Although we are not allowed to proceed to Lakhimpur Kheri, the protest against the incident will continue,” Haseeb claimed. Many senior leaders of Congress and other parties have been stopped by police across the state while they were attempting to reach Lakhimpur Kheri in protest against the death of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-leader-tries-reaching-lakhimpur-posing-as-groom-stopped-by-cops-101633369571926.html
04-10-2021||Other||Speculations rife over Devender Singh Rana quitting National Conference||Amid speculations about National Conference (NC) provincial president Devender Singh Rana likely to part ways with the Abdullahs to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, either on October 7 or October 11 in Delhi, the latter has not yet opened up his cards. “I am still the provincial president of National Conference and whatever I will do, will be shared with media,” he told a swarm of media persons outside his Gandhi Nagar residence on Monday. Rana was the most prominent Hindu face of the National Conference in the Jammu region. He is the younger brother of Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh. Despite the massive Modi wave in 2014, Rana had won the Nagrota assembly seat on an NC ticket. “I am still the provincial president of the National Conference. What will I do and what not, will be shared with the media but I want to say again that there shall be no compromise on the aspirations of Jammu region and its people,” he said. Amid speculations, Choudhary Lal Singh, founder of Dogra Swabhiman Sangthan and former PDP legislator Surinder Choudhary met Rana at his residence on Monday. “For the cause of Jammu, we will talk to everyone… friends and guests come to meet you and to host them is my duty. So far, as the cause of Jammu is concerned, nine months ago I begged before BJP, Congress, PDP, National Conference and Panthers Party,” he said. “I talked to everyone and I am ready to talk to everyone so that welfare of Jammu is ensured and it is possible only when we keep aside our political interests and come together to contribute our bit for Jammu…for Duggar Pradesh,” said Rana. Rana was once a close confidante of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah. He said, “After all, we are from Jammu whether it is BJP, PDP, DSS, Panthers Party, Apni Party or even intellectuals, people from trade and commerce, civil society. We should put our interests behind and think about Jammu”. Rana further said, “We should strive for a narrative of Jammu, which should be by Jammu, from Jammu and for an inclusive Jammu and Kashmir”. On October 2, Rana said the people of the region were determined to end the era of despondency, deprivation and neglect by fighting for their just and legitimate rights. Party president and Lok Sabha member Dr Farooq Abdullah refused to speak on the issue saying, “I can’t say anything”. However, it has been learnt that the Abdullahs were acerbic over the ‘unpleasant’ developments in Jammu. “Rana was considered Omar’s backbone in Jammu. At the same time, the exit of an individual is not going to impact the party,” said a senior NC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speculations-rife-over-ncp-s-devender-singh-rana-quitting-national-conference-101633369390299.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||HC restrains old age home in Lucknow from evicting old couple||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has restrained an old age home from evicting an old couple residing there and restored an injunction order passed by the trial court with condition that the couple will pay monthly charges. A single judge bench of Justice Jaspreet Singh on October 1 said: “In the first instant case, noticing the fact that an elderly couple who have been abandoned by their own children and are at mercy of destiny and are residing and occupying a room in the old age home.”“If not protected against forcible dispossession, such injury cannot be compensated nor reversed, hence such injury definitely comes within the ambit of connotation of the words ‘irreparable injury,” added the court. Petitioner Rajendra Prasad Agarwal and his wife had filed a writ petition in the high court against Samarpan Varishtha Jan Parisar, an old age home, where they have been residing in room number 108 since 2016. The facility is being run by the Gayatri Parivar Trust after obtaining a lease from the Lucknow Municipal Corporation. The trial court had passed an injunction order on December 7, 2019, restraining the Trust from dispossessing the couple from old age home.Against this order, the Trust filed a civil appeal before the district judge who on October 20, 2020 had set aside the injunction order passed by the trial court and rejected the application for temporary injunction. The couple moved the high court against this order of the district judge. “The order of injunction dated (December 7, 2019) passed by the trial court is restored with the condition that the petitioners shall pay the monthly charges for their occupation inclusive of the charges for the meals and electricity at a tentative rate of ₹12,000 per month for both the petitioners at the end of every month,” said the court. “In light of the discussions hereinabove, the impugned order dated October 20, 2020 passed in miscellaneous civil appeal is set aside. The order of the trial court subject to above conditions shall stand restored,” said the court. The high court also ordered the trial court to complete the trial within one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-restrains-old-age-home-in-lucknow-from-evicting-old-couple-101633369328788.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Rajnath reaches Lucknow to attend urban conclave||Senior UP ministers and BJP functionaries welcomed defence minister Rajnath Singh when he landed at the Lucknow airport on the eve of the three-day urban conclave that would be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Lucknow’s Indira Gandhi Pratisthan on Tuesday. Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh, law minister Brijesh Pathak, women and child development minister Swati Singh, Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, lawmakers like Neeraj Bora and Avinash Trivedi and Lucknow BJP chief Mukesh Sharma were prominent among those who welcomed the defence minister. Later, Rajnath, also the Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow, headed straight to his Dilkusha Colony residence. BJP’s Lucknow media in-charge Praveen Garg said the defence minister would on Tuesday participate in the inaugural session of the urban conclave being hosted by the state’s urban development department. The PM is expected at the venue around 10.30am and the defence minister who is expected to receive the PM would reach the venue around 9.45am. After PM’s departure, Rajnath would again head back to his Dilkusha residence from where he would leave for Delhi by Tuesday evening, party leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rajnath-reaches-lucknow-to-attend-urban-conclave-101633368789083.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Mahant Balbeer Giri to be anointed as Baghambari Math head today||Respecting the last wishes Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri, seers of Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani would formally anoint his disciple Balbeer Giri as his successor and the next Mahant of the Baghambari Gaddi Math here on Tuesday.In his last will dated June 4, 2020 as well as in the purported suicide note found next to his body, which was found hanging in his room at the Baghambari Gaddi Math on September 20, Narendra Giri had named Balbeer Giri as his successor. All preparations for the “Chadarposhi” (anointment) ceremony) of Balbeer Giri have been completed and would coincide with 16th-day post-death ritual or “Shodashi” of Mahant Narendra Giri.“Huge pandals have been set up for the ceremony on which around ₹1 crore is being spent by the Math. During this mega event, favourite items of Mahant Narendra Giri would be offered as ‘daan’ and ‘bhog’ keeping with the traditions. Selected seers would apply paste of sandalwood to the new mahant and offer ‘chadar’ (decorative piece of cloth),” said secretary, Niranjani Akhada, Mahant Ravindra Puri.The ceremony would also witness a select group of seers receiving 16 items like clothes, a cloth bag, a stick, utensils, an umbrella etc, he added. For the community feast that would follow the ceremonies, 60 cooks have been engaged and over 1000 sewadars (servitors) took up their responsibilities from Monday itself, Puri said. For the ceremony, the entrance, venue and pathways have been decorated with garlands made from marigold which have been beautifully decorated along with artificial flowers. Till late evening, Niranjani Akhara secretary Ravindra Puri was busy distributing invitation cards to the guests. Apart from seers and religious heads, the ceremony would also be witnessed by senior officials of the district administration.As many as 10,000 seers from across the country are expected to grace the event. Acharya Maha Mandaleshwar (supreme head) of Niranjani Akharda Kailashanand Giri, Acharya Maha Mandaleshwar of Tapo Nidhi Shri Anand Akhada Swami Balkanand Giri besides a number of Maha Mandaleshwars (high priests) of various monastic orders including Swami Maheshanand, Swami Umakantanand, chief patron of Juna Akhada and ABAP general secretary Swami Hari Giri, ABAP vice president Swami Devendra Singh, secretary of Maha Nirwani Akhada Mahant Jamuna Puri and Kinnar Akhada’s Acharya Maha Mandaleshwar Laxmi Narayan Tripathi are prominent among those expected to attend the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mahant-balbeer-giri-to-be-anointed-as-baghambari-math-head-today-101633368248848.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath announces hike in honorarium of MNREGA workers, gram rozgar sevaks||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath government on Monday announced an increase in the monthly honorarium of MNREGA workers and gram rozgar sevaks.The increase in honorarium that will be effective from the current month meets a long-standing demand ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due in early 2022.Yogi Adityanath made this and many other announcements while addressing the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Conference in the state capital Lucknow. He also announced that an HR (human resource) policy would be brought for MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) workers like one in Uttar Pradesh State Rural Livelihood Mission within a month.“Under the defined HR policy, MNREGA workers will be entitled to 24 days’ casual leave and 12 days’ medical leave,” he said.Yogi Adityanath also announced adding many other works of the rural development department in the job chart of MNREGA workers. After this, the consent of the deputy commissioner MNREGA would be necessary before termination of the services of gram rozgar sevaks so that no one can remove them forcibly.He said that if the gram rozgar sevaks happened to be the close relatives or family members of the newly elected gram pradhan, they would be posted in the nearest vacant gram panchayat and their services would not be terminated. “Similarly, after the marriage of the gram sevika, she will be posted in the new district. Apart from this, 180 days’ maternity leave has also been announced to be implemented for all female contractual employees,” Adityanath said.The honorarium will now be ₹10,000 each to MGNREGA workers and gram sewaks, ₹15,656 to technical assistants, ₹15,156 to computer operators, ₹34,140 to additional program officer, ₹15,156 to accounts assistant, ₹18,320 to operation assistant, Rs18,320 to helpline executive, ₹9,000 to class IV workers, ₹14,100 to block social audit coordinator and ₹19,900 to district social audit coordinator.The CM said it was the state government’s resolve that the benefits of schemes be made available to the beneficiaries in a corruption-free and completely transparent manner. He said that this year the department should get work worth ₹13,000 crore done by giving 100 days’ employment to at least 20 lakh families.“If trained in a time- bound manner, women living in rural areas can play a big role in their self-reliance,” he said.Yogi Adityanath recalled how he used to receive complaints of non-payment of honorarium to gram rozgar sewaks for many years. “My government immediately sanctioned ₹225 crore and the department paid it in a time-bound manner. Similarly, in April 2020, the payment of MGNREGA contract workers, which could not be done earlier through the state level centralized pool, has now been arranged to be sent directly to their account,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-announces-hike-in-honorarium-of-mnrega-workers-gram-rozgar-sevaks-101633368008716.html
04-10-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccinations: Drive extended to 15 temples, madarasa||The district health department started vaccination drives at 15 temples across the district and a madrasa in Pataudi to complete the vaccination cycle of those who have taken the first dose ahead of the festive season, officials said on Monday.Officials said that the footfall at religious places will increase over the next few days with festivals set to kick off. On Tuesday, vaccination camps will be set up in at least six religious sites, among the 85 session sites in total. Vaccination drives are already being conducted at market areas and community spaces in both urban and rural areas to ensure that most people are fully vaccinated. Last month, a drive was also held at a gurudwara. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Our main focus is to ensure that whoever is due for the second dose, takes the dose on time and maximum part of the population is fully vaccinated. With the festive season, movement of people will increase, thereby, increasing the risk of cases and other infections. Our team is already tracking down people whose second doses are due, and we have also increased the number of vaccination sites for the same.”According to the health department records, over 83,900 doses administered over the past five days were second doses, compared to over 22,000 first doses. In September, the district task force decided to undertake vaccinations at places of worship, vegetable markets, post offices and banks, to extend the reach of the drive. The health department will also be coordinating with 1,221 residents’ welfare associations in this regard. On Monday, a total of 16,003 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district, with 4,619 people being given the first dose and 11,384 people being given the second dose of the vaccines. So far, over 3.1 million doses of vaccines have been administered in the district. On Tuesday, the first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 78 centres and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at five centres. Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic. Meanwhile, six new Covid-19 cases and 10 recoveries were reported on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccinations-drive-extended-to-15-temples-madarasa-101633367712061.html
04-10-2021||Gurugram||Atul Kataria Chowk: Flyover, underpass to open in December||Work on a flyover and an underpass at Atul Kataria Chowk is 80% complete and they are likely to open to the public by December, officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said on Monday.“The construction of the flyover is almost 80% ready and it would be opened to public by December this year. This flyover and underpass will help ease traffic congestion at this junction, which sees traffic from internal sectors, Huda City Centre and Dwarka Expressway,” Suresh Kumar Chahal, the joint chief executive officer of the GMDA, said. The project, which was approved by the state government in 2018, was initially expected to be completed in November 2019, but hit roadblocks and the deadline was moved to May 2021. However, the revised deadline could not be met as the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns hindered the completion of the project, officials said. Officials of the Public Works Department also cited a design conflict, due to the presence of a GMDA drainage box underground, which further delayed the project as the alignment had to be rejigged.A 715-metre-long flyover will be constructed from the Gurgaon Bus Stand to Kapashera, along the Old Delhi Road, and a 620-metre-long underpass will be constructed from the Sheetla Mata Temple to Maharana Pratap Chowk. Service roads and drains are also being constructed alongside. Traffic movement is normal at Atul Kataria Chowk with no routes diverted as work for the underpass is going on internally, with no disruptions on the surface. A sloping section of the Lt Atul Kataria Marg, where the underpass is being constructed, was shut for over a month from the last week of January for excavation work.The Atul Kataria Chowk is a key junction, where traffic from the border areas and older parts of the city converge. The two infrastructure projects are expected to benefit residents travelling towards the Dwarka Expressway, Gurgaon Railway Station, Gurgaon Bus Stand, Kapashera border, Sheetla Mata Temple, Signature Towers and Huda City Centre.Officials said the flyover and underpass would decongest sectors 12, 14, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10 and 17, Maruti industrial area and Udyog Vihar. Puneet Kumar, executive engineer, construction division, PWD, said, “The work would have been completed earlier but during construction of the underpass, we realised that it was hitting an underground box drain of the GMDA. We had to rework the project and ensure that the underpass did not obstruct the drain. Around 70% of the work of the underpass has been done, with the walls of the underpass being ready; we just have to put the raft for carriageway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/atul-kataria-chowk-flyover-underpass-to-open-in-december-101633367711044.html
04-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG conducts anti-encroachment drive in Nathupur village||Eight unauthorised shops and at least 50 illegal shanties were demolished by officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) during an anti-encroachment drive in Nathupur village on Monday.According to a release issued by the MCG, a team of assistant and junior engineers was accompanied by a large contingent of the police, due to a history of public resistance during anti-encroachment drives in Nathupur. However, officials said that the drive went off smoothly, without any untoward incident. The illegal shops and shanties were located adjacent to the Moulsari Avenue Rapid Metro station in DLF Phase-3, behind the offices and commercial buildings in Cyber City.“All the eight shops razed were owned by a single person. Subsequently, the team also took action to remove the slums settled on around one acre of government land. MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has given clear instructions to the joint commissioners and in-charges of enforcement teams of the four zones to check unauthorised constructions, illegal encroachments, and encroachment in their respective areas, and such drives will continue in the future,” SS Rohilla, the public relation officer for MCG, said.The MCG has stepped up its anti-encroachment drives over the past three weeks.On September 22, the MCG demolished eight under-construction structures in Satguru Enclave and Noble Enclave, areas that fall under the 900-metre radius of the Indian Air Force (IAF) ammunition depot in Sector 14.On September 22, MCG officials also demolished at least 50 illegal structures, including eateries, tin sheds, workshops, vends, and courtyards, at Bandhwari village on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road.On September 20, the MCG reclaimed 70 square yards of civic land by demolishing illegal temporary structures, shanties, junk, and building material shops in Nathupur village, after complaints were filed with the CM Window.In a related development, the enforcement team of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran on Monday carried out a demolition drive in Sector 9 and reclaimed two acres. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said that the land was notified for construction of a school but it had been encroached upon. A service centre, permanent rooms and other illegal structures were constructed. “A team of enforcement, with support of city police, carried out demolitions and cleared the land,” Lot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-conducts-anti-encroachment-drive-in-nathupur-village-101633367709945.html
04-10-2021||Gurugram||DTCP disallows gates on public roads through licensed colonies||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has disallowed construction of gates on revenue roads and 24-metre roads passing through the licensed colonies in the city, officials said on Monday.Officials said that only boom barriers can be erected and security guards deployed on these internal roads. The decision was taken last week in a meeting chaired by the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, wherein the issues of arbitrary installation of gates and hindrances to public movement were discussed.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said, “The internal roads in a colony can have boom barriers that must be manned permanently by security personnel so that movement of people is not curbed. This will ensure safety and security of residents is not affected.”DTCP officials said that a meeting was held last Friday, under the chairmanship of the deputy commissioner, to decide on applications submitted by residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) for installation of additional gates. During the meeting, it was also decided that permission would be given to the Sun City colony for the erection of a wall after demarcation of land by DTCP and forest departments, officials said.“The decision to allow construction of wall in Sun City colony will definitely help the residents. The permission for additional gates should have been given but boom barriers with manned security will also serve the purpose,” VMK Singh, a member of Sun City RWA, said. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that permission was sought by several RWAs in plotted colonies to set up additional gates but they have been told to erect boom barriers instead and man them permanently. “They were told that gates on main roads and revenue roads will not be allowed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-disallows-gates-on-public-roads-through-licensed-colonies-101633367708703.html
04-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG initiates probe into double payment for contracted works in Palam Vihar||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has initiated a probe into a double payment made to a contractor for drainage and road works in Palam Vihar. The MCG’s vigilance wing issued a show-cause notice to at least 16 MCG officials and the contractor concerned, seeking an explanation on the matter, officials said on Monday.Senior MCG officials said that although the contractor has returned the additional payment, the matter continues to be under probe.The issue of double payment was initially raised by senior deputy mayor Pramila Kablana, who is the councillor of Ward 9, where the work was undertaken. The contractor was selected in November 2018 for laying a new drainage line, setting up manholes, and building roads in Palam Vihar.After the project was completed, Kablana issued a work-satisfactory certificate to the contractor, based on which payment of ₹47 lakh was done by the MCG, officials said.“Just two months after the payment was made, the same contractor was paid ₹44 lakh by the MCG upon presenting the November 2018 work order. I was alerted about the issue and accordingly, informed senior MCG officials about the same, based on which a probe has been initiated. The MCG needs to ensure the additional payment is recovered and action is taken against the violators,” Kablana said.As per the MCG rules, payment to contractors for localised projects can be sanctioned only after the area councillor issues a work-satisfactory certificate, which essentially indicates that the work has been completed and that required standards have been met.A senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said, “Such a situation (of double payment) has never occurred in MCG’s history. There is a strong possibility that the MCG officials may have simply been negligent and sanctioned the project cost for a second time inadvertently. However, we are not ruling out the possibility of the contractor and few MCG officials being mixed up, and hence, have asked all the officials concerned for an explanation.”The official said that almost all the 16 MCG officials issued show-cause notices are from the engineering wing.MCG’s chief engineer, TL Sharma, could not be reached for comment.“If the replies of the contractor and MCG officials are deemed to be unsatisfactory, then the MCG will immediately blacklist the contractor while a copy of the matter would be sent to the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB) for suspending, terminating, or transferring the officials concerned,” a second MCG official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-initiates-probe-into-double-payment-for-contracted-works-in-palam-vihar-101633367648989.html
04-10-2021||Kolkata||Mamata to take oath of office at Bengal assembly on October 7: Trinamool||A day after Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee's landslide win at Bhabanipur bypolls, West Bengal cabinet minister Partha Chatterjee on Monday said the incumbent chief minister would take the oath of office in the legislative assembly on October 7.Chatterjee, who is also the parliamentary affairs minister, said the Trinamool Congress has “requested” West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to attend the oath-taking ceremony of the chief minister.Mamata Banerjee won the bypolls to Bhabanipur assembly constituency by a massive margin of 58,835 votes against her closest contender, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal.The announcement by Chatterjee comes hours after Dhankhar withdrew Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee’s power to administer the oath of office to the members of the state legislature. Officials familiar with the development said this was the first time a Bengal governor has taken such a step, which, they fear, is likely to escalate tensions between the governor and the speaker.An official from the state assembly told Hindustan Times that a note from Raj Bhawan reached the office of the speaker a few days before the assembly bypolls, which cited Section 188 of the Constitution, which empowers the governor to administer the oath.Chatterjee had earlier requested the governor to administer the oath to the newly elected MLAs, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, on October 7.Responding to Chatterjee's statement to the media on Mamata Banerjee's oath-taking ceremony, Dhankhar said once the bypoll results are gazetted, a call will be taken in this matter.Raj Bhawan response on the administration of Oath/Affirmation to the Members elected to the WBLA in bye-election from 159-Bhabanipur A/C, and the adjourned poll in 56-Samserganj and 58-Jangipur A/Cs held on 30 September, 2021. Once Gazetted Governor would take call. pic.twitter.com/db2tS4pdbYArticle 188 deals with oath or affirmation of lawmakers. “Every member of the Legislative Assembly or the Legislative Council of a State shall, before taking his seat, make and subscribe before the Governor, or some person appointed in that behalf by him, an oath or affirmation according to the form set out for the purpose in the Third Schedule.”ALSO READ | Alleged post-poll violence: HC pulls up Bengal govt for not compensating victimsTrinamool Congress leaders said Mamata Banerjee wants the swearing-in formalities to be completed before the Durga Puja festival, which is a week away.Mamata Banerjee, who won the Bhabanipur seat by a record margin on Sunday, needs to be sworn in as a member of the assembly by November 4 to retain the chair of the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-to-take-oath-of-office-at-bengal-assembly-on-october-7-trinamool-101633357572073.html
04-10-2021||Other||Punjab paddy procurement: ₹16.5 cr credited directly into farmers’ accounts||Chandigarh On the second day paddy procurement in Punjab on Monday, 759 farmers received payment of ₹16.55 crore for their crop procured and lifted on the Day 1. According to the Centre’s directions, this is the second season, when farmers are receiving payments directly into their accounts, bypassing the earlier system of being paid through the arhtiyas. The minimum support price for A-grade paddy this season is ₹1,960 per quintal. With government agencies procuring 43,799 tonne paddy on day two, the state government has procured 67,264 tonne for the Central Pool during the current kharif season to date. According to State Mandi Board figures, 1.02 lakh tonne paddy has arrived in the mandis, with 3,000 of these being set up. Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said, “In total, 72,474 tonne paddy has already been procured, of which private millers have procured 5,200 tonne. All arrangements are in place to ensure smooth purchase of the crop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-paddy-procurement-rs-16-5-cr-credited-directly-into-farmers-accounts-101633366508817.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Education minister warns of action after Pune students barred from school||In a shocking incident at a Pune city-based school, students who have either paid partial or no fee for this academic year were asked to return from the gates of the school.On Monday, education minister, Varsha Gaikwad through her Twitter account said that the matter will be looked into.“A detailed report of the matter will be seen. Appropriate action will be taken in this regard,” said Gaikwad through the social media platform.Sharing the details of the incident, a parent from the school, on the condition of anonymity said that around 60 students from the school were asked to return home as they failed to pay the full fee.“There were teachers present at the school gate with a list of students who had paid partial or no fee. And students who had not cleared their dues were not allowed to enter the school premises,” said the parent.Meanwhile, parents from another private school in the city approached the education department on Monday, as students were denied online education after parents were unable to pay full fees.“Despite fee reduction orders by the state government, there has been no relief for parents. Students are struggling as their online education has been stopped by schools. Education department should take some action against such schools,” said another parent, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/education-minister-warns-of-action-after-pune-school-students-barred-from-attending-classes-over-non-payment-of-fees-101633366448650.html
04-10-2021||Other||UP denies permission to Channi to visit Lakhimpur Kheri||Chandigarh The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday denied permission to Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi and deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to visit Lakhimpur Kehri after Sunday’s incidents of violence. A Punjab government spokesperson said UP home secretary had informed the Punjab civil aviation director that landing and taking off of the CM’s helicopter at Lakhimpur Kheri was not feasible in view of the law and order situation there, and also that fact that provisions of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) had been imposed. DEPUTY CM RANDHAWA, MLAs DETAINED IN SAHARANPUR After UP’s denial of permission, deputy CM Randhawa, along with some state MLAs, decided to go to Lakhmipur Kheri by road on Monday. However, the UP Police detained them in Saharanpur and took them to the Shahjhapur police post. Randhawa was accompanied by Congress state unit working president and MLA Kuljit Nagra. Other MLAs in the delegation are Parminder Singh Pinky; Barinder Singh Pahra; Kuldeep Vaid; Kulbir Singh Zira and Angad Saini. Randhawa has demanded that the perpetrators behind the Lakhimpur Kheri violence must be arrested, and has even drawn parallels of the incident with the Jallianwala Bagh tragedy for which the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government would never be forgiven. “The Punjab government would raise its voice at every forum about the incident and ensure justice for the victims’ families,” said Randhawa, also issuing an appeal to farmers to maintain peace. SAD DELEGATION NOT ALLOWED TO ENTER UPA delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra attempting to reach Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh via road was stopped at Delhi-Ghaziabad border and were not allowed to enter the state. “I am told that situation at Lakhimpur Kheri is under control, a compromise has been reached. We also did not want to create a political situation, so we decided to return,” said Chandumajra. Meanwhile, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has convened a meeting of the party’s core committee, its highest decision-making body, on Tuesday, having postponed a programme scheduled in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-denies-permission-to-channi-to-visit-lakhimpur-kheri-101633365668538.html
04-10-2021||Other||Modi should understand farmers’ sentiments, resolve issue: Sukhbir||Ludhiana Responding to the killing of innocent peacefully protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri of Uttar Pradesh, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has to respect the sentiments of farmers. He alleged that the PM’s ego had led to the killing of farmers at many protest sites. “The PM should act as the head of the family and respect the sentiments of farmers who have rejected the three agriculture laws. Not doing so will lead to further unrest in the country. The BJP government should understand farmers’ sentiments and resolve the matter at the earliest before any more lives are lost,” Sukhbir, in town to attend a road show in Ludhiana constituency said. Addressing the media at the Ram Darbar Mandir located in Sector 39 here, Sukhbir added, “A case under Section 302 (murder) should be registered with immediate effect against the culprit, Union minister of state for home Ajay Misra’s son Ashish Misra. A high-level probe must be conducted. The UP government should not protect the guilty.”There was high drama at the Jalandhar bypass during Sukhbir’s visit, when some youngsters owing allegiance to the ruling Congress surrounded vehicles in Sukhbir’s convoy and showed black flags, raising slogans against the Bada family. During his visit, Sukhbir also met a delegation of industry and dyeing associations at a local marriage palace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modi-should-understand-farmers-sentiments-resolve-issue-sukhbir-101633364648518.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Land dispute: Three held for threat call to Chandigarh journalist||Chandigarh Police have arrested three men from East Champaran in Bihar for making a threat call to a city-based journalist with an aim to grab his ancestral land. Complainant Manish Tiwari, who lives in Sector 19, had lodged a complaint about the call on September 16. Those arrested have been identified as Ramsurat Patel (66), Mohd Aftab Khan (31) and Shambhu Prasad (42), all hailing from East Champaran. Tiwari told police that he has ancestral land in Ramgarhwa tehsil in East Champran, and Patel wants to grab it. He said during his visit to his native village, Patel and his associates had even threatened him. Later, on September 15, he received a threat call. According to Tiwari, Patel also prepared forged documents of land ownership with Prasad’s help while Khan was the one who threatened him. The trio will be produced in court on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/land-dispute-3-held-for-threat-call-to-journo-101633364467798.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Fisherfolk write to Uddhav Thackeray, voice objections to coastal zone management plan||Members of the Mumbai’s fishing community who are objecting to the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) for Mumbai — which was recently approved by the union ministry for environment and climate change — wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday, voicing specific concerns and demands in the matter. While the approved CZMP has been welcomed by builders as it will open up large tracts of coastal land for real estate projects, fisherfolk fear that the plan will facilitate land grabs in and around koliwadas, and degrading fishing commons by putting them in close proximity to development activities.“We wish to bring to your notice that the MoEFCC, Govt of India, has recently approved the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) prepared by the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) for Mumbai City and Suburbs. This is a serious attack on our rights under the CRZ regime and will have far reaching negative impacts on fishing, fishing communities and the coastal environment of Mumbai,” stated Monday’s letter, authored by Devendra Tandel, chairman of the Akhil Maharashtra Machimaar Kruti Samiti.Speaking to Hindustan Times on Monday, Tandel alleged the recently sanctioned CZMP to be in violation of not only the overarching Coastal Regulatory Zone (2019) framework, but also the municipal corporation’s own Development Control and Promotion Regulations 2034 — or development plan 2034 — which is awaiting final notification.“All the koliwadas in Mumbai are supposed to be mapped and demarcated in the coastal zone management plan. This was a provision of the CRZ 2011, and remains in its updated 2019 version. In Mumbai, the koliwads have been mapped, but they have not been released for public scrutiny, revised and accordingly incorporated in the CZMP. That’s an outright violation,” Tandel explained.Community members also explained that the finalised CZMP, which will allow construction activities to take place at a distance of 50m from the high-tide line (as opposed to 500m as per the CRZ 2011 rules) will particularly endanger those parts of fishing villages which do not fall under the land revenue category of ‘gaothan’. “There are some restrictions on redevelopment in the gaothan, while parts of the koliwada falling outside the gaothan area were protected by the CRZ 2011 rules. It’s these parts, which tend to consist of koliwada ‘extensions’, which will become susceptible to redevelopment and land grabs,” said Tandel.Other fishing community leaders whom HT spoke with alleged that public consultations with Kolis and other fisherfolk were not adequately organised and publicised, as pre-legislative policy dictates. “What’s more alarming is that the revised Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) maps, which the state level coastal zone management authority approved in March this year, are not even public. We have no idea where the high-tide line has been drawn. This is a major lapse in governance which affects fisherfolk directly, whereas if you look at the parent law of the CRZ, it mandates that affected communities be taken into confidence,” said Rajesh Mangela, spokesperson of the National Fish Workers Forum and community leader from Moragaon village in Juhu. Mangela and others have also, in their letter to the chief minister, sought to keep in abeyance “all applications for CRZ clearances based on the recently approved CZMPs for Mumbai City and Suburbs” until fisherfolk’s demands are resolved.An official with the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority, seeking anonymity, responded to these allegations saying, “Both the state and the national coastal zone management authority have followed all due process and taken public feedback into account while drafting and approving the CZMPs for Mumbai city and suburbs. Aggrieved parties can approach the environment department, or any other mode of redressal they choose. Since they have addressed the chief minister I am sure their concerns will be addressed where required.”State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, in January, had written to former Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar seeking inclusion of Coastal Zone Management Plans (CZMP) under the Coastal Regulation Zones (CRZ) Notification, 2019 for the districts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg.The draft CZMP maps were prepared by the NCSCM under the Union environment ministry in 2019 for all coastal districts in Maharashtra based on the 2019 Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms. They were published on January 22, 2020. These maps use distinct colour codes to demarcate CRZ areas (I to IV), high tide and hazard line, fishing zones, intertidal areas, mangrove forests and buffer areas, turtle nesting sites, cyclone shelters, koliwadas and gaothans. These maps also identify coastal areas that can be opened up for infrastructural development.“Public hearings were then held in February to receive objections and suggestions on the previous iteration of the CZMP, which was published in January 2020. It was learnt that the main objection is with regards to the coastal mapping in which regulatory zones have been delineated. The maps were revised keeping in mind public feedback. The MCZMA gave a go ahead on these changes, and the revised plans have now received the MoEFCC’s nod,” said an official privy to the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fisherfolk-write-to-uddhav-thackeray-voice-objections-to-coastal-zone-management-plan-101633362496548.html
04-10-2021||Other||Bihar bypolls: Cong, RJD set to part ways||PATNAThe alliance between the Congress and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar seems to be over, at least for the upcoming by-elections in Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan assembly constituencies, where voting is scheduled for October 30. Upset by RJD’s unilateral decision to name the candidates for both the seats, Congress, which had unsuccessfully contested from Kusheshwarsthan in 2020 polls, has also begun searching for a suitable candidate for Tarapur constituency in Munger district after a formal go-ahead by All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, on Monday. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha, citing his conversation with Das, said the party’s nominees for both the seats would be announced on Tuesday after final clearance from the AICC chief Sonia Gandhi. “The party may reconsider its decision to contest both the seats only if RJD bows out of Kusheshwarsthan and support the Congress candidate there,” said Jha. “Former Congress legislature party leader Ashok Kumar, who is also working president of BPCC, is set to file his papers for Kusheshwarsthan seat in Darbhanga. He lost the seat to JD(U)’s Shashi Bhushan Hazari in 2020 assembly polls by a small margin,” said the Congress leader, adding that party’s deliberations were on to name a strong leader from Tarapur, where the party had fought last in 2010. In the ruling camp, the Janata Dal (United)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is firmly supporting JDU’s nominees, Rajiv K Singh and Aman Bhushan Hazari, in the fray for Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan (reserved for the scheduled caste) seats. The names of candidates were announced by state BJP chief Sanjay Jaisawal two days ago. Senior Congress leader Kishore Kumar Jha said RJD always took his party for a ride and parted ways when it found a better opportunity. “Ideology is secondary thing for RJD, which ditched the Congress in 2000, 2009 and in 2010. Still, Congress relied heavily on RJD and remained eager to sacrifice the cadres’ aspirations in the name of the united opposition,” said Jha. Kadwa MLA and AICC secretary Shakeel Ahmad Khan said RJD indulged in opportunistic politics.The relationship between the two allies worsened recently after former JNU students’ union leader Kanhaiya Kumar left CPI and joined Congress. Though RJD leaders dismissed Kanhaiya’s joining as inconsequential in the state politics, senior party leader Shivanand Tiwari took a swipe at Congress, saying it should make the former JNUSU leader as its national chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bypolls-cong-rjd-set-to-part-ways-101633362069375.html
04-10-2021||Patna||PU to begin new academic session from today||Patna University (PU) is all set to commence the new academic session 2021-2022 for various undergraduate courses from Tuesday. PU’s vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary has instructed all principals and heads of departments to organise an induction meet at their respective colleges to familiarise newly admitted students with the university’s rules and regulations.“All principals or heads of the institutions will welcome freshers and inform them about the college’s regulations so that they can maintain discipline in the college premise and also elaborate the facilities like hostel, library, laboratory and medical services so they can avail benefits,” he said.Choudhary also instructed the principals to commence regular classes for first-year students after the induction meeting.Raj Kishore Prasad, principal of BN College, said, “We have scheduled induction to meet for BSc students from 11:05 am and for BA students from 12:30 pm given Covid-19 guidelines. All students have to wear a face mask and maintain social distancing in the college campus.”Meanwhile, newly admitted students seemed excited about attending regular classes at college.Smriti Kumari, who has got admission to Magadh Mahila College, said, “I am excited to enter college life. I am confined to home since last year due to Covid-19 triggered closure of schools. I am quite relieved to know that my college will conduct regular classes as I am bored with online classes.”On August 1, PU commenced the online process for taking admission in conventional and vocational courses across its constituent colleges including Magadh Mahila College, BN College, Patna College, Patna Science College and Vanijya Mahavidyalaya.The university admitted 3504 students against the intake capacity of 4291 in three rounds of counselling while the admission window remained opened till Monday for those who missed admission during the counselling process due to any reason, said Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare. Similarly, Patliputra University is also nearing the completion of the admission process for conventional undergraduate courses, which is likely to conclude on Tuesday, followed by validation of admission by respective colleges latest by October 8, shared the varsity officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pu-to-begin-new-academic-session-from-today-101633362068159.html
04-10-2021||Other||Pappu Yadav acquitted in 32-year-old kidnapping case||MADHEPURAA special court in Madhepura on Monday acquitted former member of Parliament (MP) Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav in a 32-year-old case of kidnapping, citing want of evidence.Yadav, who is the founder and president of Jan Adhikar Party (JAP), was arrested in Patna on May 11 this year in connection with the case which was lodged at Muraliganj police station in Madhepura in 1989.“There is no evidence against Pappu Yadav and hence he is acquitted of all charges,” judge Nishi Kant Thakur said in his verdict.“Justice can be delayed but can’t be denied,” Yadav said soon after his acquittal, while thanking the huge crowd gathered outside the court. In a tweet, Yadav’s son Sarthak Ranjan wrote, “After almost five months of conspiracy, my father has been acquitted of the 32 year-old case.”The FIR in the case was lodged by Shailendra Yadav in which he had accused Pappu Yadav of kidnapping Ram Kumar Yadav and Umashankar Yadav. After his arrest in May this year, Yadav was lodged at Birpur jail in Supaul district, where he launched a hunger strike alleging that jail authorities had tortured him. On June 1 this year, Madhepura district and sessions court denied bail to Yadav. Later, the former MP was shifted to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for treatment.Earlier, the Patna high court had directed the Madhepura court to decide the case within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-yadav-acquitted-in-32-year-old-kidnapping-case-101633362009744.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||BEST fleet to be 100% electric vehicles: Aaditya Thackeray||State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday said they aim to have its Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses fleet completely consisting of electric vehicles (EV) by 2028. Thackeray was speaking at the memorandum of understanding (MOU) signing ceremony relating to Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP). The current fleet size of BEST is over 3,000, of which 386 are EV buses.The BMC on Monday signed MOU, including the Women for Climate, Cities for Forests Campaign and the e-Bus Mission. The MOUs were signed in the presence of state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and civic officials.Speaking at the event, Thackeray said, “We are one of the few cities to move towards climate friendly initiatives. This includes having women when it comes to finding solutions for climate changes, considering they are impacted in every such scenario. Following this, we are also focusing on increasing the trees in the city. It is not just about increasing tree cover in forest areas, but also in the city area. We must ensure that we involve our citizens in planting trees native to Mumbai and cool the neighbourhoods.”Thackeray further added, “The BEST currently has 386 EV buses and we are looking at 1,900 EV buses and 200 double-decker buses, converting 50% fleet to electric by 2023 & 100% by 2028. WRI India and GiZ will optimise a smooth transition for the consumer and last-mile connectivity for BEST.” The BEST also aims to set up 55 EV charging points in the city in the next three to four months followed by a mobile application for real-time updates on BEST buses by the end of December.Further, Thackeray also spoke about climate change in the form of changing rain patterns and the need for rainwater harvesting. He said, “We have seen many red alerts in the past few years, which have also included rain of around 250mm. If this is the type of rainfall, be it any city in the world, there will be waterlogging. There is nothing to lie here about it. Also, further with the adequate rainfall, we also need to focus on rainwater harvesting, considering a city like Mumbai has a lot of scope for it.”Meanwhile, at the event on Monday, the BMC also launched a logo having QR code that will be pasted outside housing societies where citizens are fully vaccinated. The logo of the same was unveiled at the hands of Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-fleet-to-be-100-electric-vehicles-aaditya-thackeray-101633362008589.html
04-10-2021||Patna||Nitish dismisses Niti Aayog’s damning report on Bihar’s health sector||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday dismissed the Niti Aayog’s report on the state’s health sector as “inappropriate” and said a formal and comprehensive reply to it would be sent to the commission. Talking to the media after his customary Janata Darbar, where people meet the CM with their grievances, Kumar questioned the modalities for the sectoral assessment of different states and alleged that the fundamentals and remarkable changes in the sectors were completely ignored in the Niti Aayog’s study of Bihar. Kumar was replying to a query on the Aayog’s recent report in which it had rated Bihar at the bottom of all the state in terms of availability of beds in district hospitals per lakh population. The report stated that Bihar has only six beds per lakh population as compared to 222 in Puducherry, 59 in Delhi and the national average of 24. “I don’t understand who and how the study is carried out? Is there any logic of comparing a poor state like Bihar with the prosperous Maharashtra? I will tell everything if I was given a chance to attend the Niti Aayog’s meeting,” said Kumar, adding there was tremendous advancement in the health sector ever since he took over as the CM. He said that nearly 10,000 people were being treated at a block-level hospital per month as against 39 in 2006. “We have launched free distribution of medicines in government hospitals, which was later followed by other states. Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) is being developed as the country’s biggest hospital in terms of bed-capacity and infrastructure. The number of medical colleges and hospitals has also increased considerably. But these things were not considered by Niti Aayog,” the CM said,adding that people of Bihar no longer needed go out for treatment now. Kumar said Niti Aayog might have come in the existence much later, but it should not ignore the progresses in all sectors, including economic conditions, made by Bihar in the past. On the issue of caste-based enumeration of the population, Kumar said that he would convene an all-party meeting after the by-elections for Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur assembly seats and discuss the way to do that in the wake of the Centre’s no to the proposal. “I still hope a consensus would be reached before deciding the fresh course of action on caste census,” Kumar said, apparently ignoring the change of stance of BJP leaders on the issue post the Central government’s reluctance to go for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-dismisses-niti-aayog-s-damning-report-on-bihar-s-health-sector-101633361948311.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kaithal: Halqa patwari suspended for poor public dealing||The halqa patwari of Kaithal’s Kalayat and Rajaund blocks has been suspended by the deputy commissioner for poor public dealing.As per information, the suspension of halqa patwari Vikas Walia was recommended by minister of state Kamlesh Dhanda. In a letter issued by the minister’s office to the Kaithal deputy commissioner, she had alleged that she was receiving complaints against Walia and had herself found his public dealing inappropriate. There were also verbal complaints about financial irregularities against him, she alleged.The patwari was also not in office when Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and Dhanda made a surprise visit at the tehsil two days ago.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Dahiya said a probe was conducted following the complaint and the patwari was suspended with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kaithal-halqa-patwari-suspended-for-poor-public-dealing-101633361290353.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai crime branch arrests man wanted in more than 125 chain snatching cases||A 40-year-old man who was allegedly involved in more than 125 chain snatching cases registered both in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, was recently arrested by the Navi Mumbai crime branch. The police have recovered 88 grams of jewellery worth ₹2.68 lakh from him.According to the police, the accused, Kiran Saha, used to get his prospective victims involved in conversations on various pretexts on roads and then run away snatching their chains and mangalsutras.Bipin Kumar Singh, police commissioner of Navi Mumbai, said, “The accused used to accost people on roads and randomly told them things such as ‘you just touched a woman inappropriately,’ and ‘you hit a pregnant woman by speeding your motorbike’. Upon hearing that, the prospective victims would get distracted and then the accused snatched their chains. Using this modus operandi, he committed more than 125 crimes in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.“In Navi Mumbai, the accused has cases registered against him in Rabale, Turbhe, Koparkhairane, and Vashi police stations. In Mumbai, he has cases against him in Vakola, Mahim, Bhandup, NM Joshi Marg, Pant Nagar and Andheri police stations. Earlier, he used to stay in a slum in Ghatkopar. But at present, he does not have any permanent address and spends most of his time in lodges and hotels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-man-wanted-in-more-than-125-chain-snatching-cases-101633357629263.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Art transcends borders and artists belong to the world||A visit to the Lahore Museum was on the itinerary of our delegation. I was looking forward to seeing it because I had been hearing about it since childhood from my father and uncles, who migrated to India after Partition. The museum is housed in an imposing building in front of Anarkali Bazaar. The imposing structure is extraordinarily tall and has departments concerning different periods of history of Punjab beginning from the ancient times. There are paintings and books related to the Mahabharata and Ramayana besides the Buddhist era, the period of Hindu rulers and the Mughal period. I was expecting that the section depicting Sikh history would be comparatively smaller as Maharaja Ranjit Singh had ruled only for 40 years, but contrary to my expectations, the department of Sikh history was among the largest. Apart from Maharaja Ranjit Singh, there was a lot of material related to the rule of Maharaja Kharak Singh, Maharani Chand Kaur, Maharaja Sher Singh and Maharaja Dalip Singh. The British era and Pakistan post-1947 were also depicted through pictures, paintings and other documents. The common factor in all the historical material was the reality of life that the rule is short-lived, and life is perishable. It goes on changing, one after the other. As we came out of the museum after spending more than two hours, we saw a number of shops selling memorabilia, but I was more attracted to a book shop. I noticed some of the books were written by famous authors, such as Shakespeare and Charles Dickens, besides Pakistani writers, including Tehmina Durani, who advocates women’s and child rights. While browsing through different titles, I enquired from the young salesman if any books by any Indian author were bestsellers in Pakistan. He gave two names: Khushwant Singh and Rajinder Singh Bedi. But as I looked around, I found that there were a large number of books on artist Amrita Sher-Gil and the museum also displayed her paintings. I noticed that some of the books on her had been published by European publishers. The books had been prominently displayed so I could not restrain my enquiry and reminded the bookseller that he had mentioned only two names of bestselling authors of India when books on the artist were in demand. He replied that Amrita Sher-Gil was not an Indian and insisted that she was a Pakistani because she lived and died in Lahore. How could she be called an Indian? I tried to correct him that she was the daughter of Sardar Umrao Singh, a Jat Sikh of Amritsar, who married a Hungarian woman. Another person listening to our conversation interrupted and added that Sher-Gil was a Hungarian as well. It’s then that an elderly gentleman, the father of the bookseller, intervened and wisely said that Amrita Sher-Gil was a citizen of the world. Art and literature transcend borders, so artists and authors cannot be confined to boundaries. He concluded that Sher-Gil belonged to every nation. Why Sher-Gil alone, artists like her belong to all nations and are citizens of the world. sarbjitchhina@yahoo.co.in The writer is senior fellow, Institute of Social Sciences, New Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/art-transcends-borders-and-artists-belong-to-the-world-101633355833730.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai crime branch arrest man for looting 35 shops, houses in 2021 alone||A 35-year-old man, who along with an accomplice allegedly looted as many as 35 shops and houses in 2021 alone, was arrested by Navi Mumbai crime branch on Sunday. So far, the police have recovered stolen goods worth ₹13.23 lakh from his possession.According to the police, the accused, Abdul Saidabkiridi Khan, and his accomplice also tried to loot two ATMs and two banks but could not succeed. His accomplice is still on the run and the police are searching for him.Bipin Kumar Singh, commissioner of police, Navi Mumbai, said, “The accused used to roam in the city at nights on a scooter and broke into shops and houses whenever they got a chance. Acting on a tip-off, our officials started following Khan in Taloja and later recovered from his scooter some tools that he used to break the locks and cut the shutters. They then arrested him from the spot.“The accused was also spotted in the CCTV footage of the ATMs and banks that he tried to loot. During interrogation, he told us about his hideouts and we recovered the stolen goods from there. Apart from Navi Mumbai, the accused has similar cases registered against him in Matunga, Govandi and Sion police stations in Mumbai.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-crime-branch-arrest-man-for-looting-35-shops-houses-in-2021-alone-101633355832527.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||NCB shows Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan’s chats to judge, gets custody till Oct 7||MUMBAI: A metropolitan magistrate court on Monday extended till October 7, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and two others, arrested with him for alleged drug abuse.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar extended the NCB custody of the three after the agency said it has recovered an intermediate quantity of drugs from one of them, and Aryan Khan was accompanying them. Besides, the court also took into consideration the NCB contention that the investigation was at a preliminary and crucial stage.ALSO WATCH | Salman Khan visits Shah Rukh Khan amid son Aryan's drugs case   NCB on Saturday night raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and busted a party where drugs were allegedly being used. The agency on Sunday afternoon arrested Aryan, the eldest son of Shah Rukh and Gauri Khan, for alleged possession and consumption of illegal drugs.The two others also arrested by NCB were Arbaaz Merchant, a resident of Bandra and a friend of Aryan, and Munmun Dhamecha, a fashion designer from Madhya Pradesh.“Khan and others were on the cruise ship where the agency busted a rave party,” NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede had said.The three, Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, were taken to JJ Hospital for a medical check-up at about 1.30pm. Doctors also took their swabs for RT-PCR Covid test. They were later taken to the NCB office and were produced before the Esplanade Court at about 3.15 pm.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh and advocate Advait Sethna, who appeared for NCB, submitted that the agency has seized Aryan Khan’s mobile phone and found several chats which allegedly show his connection with drug dealers. “It is necessary to confront all accused in the custodial remand,” Singh asserted.He said the WhatsApp chat clearly shows the nexus, contain the discussions of cash transactions of Aryan Khan. There are international transactions and further probe underway, Singh submitted.The senior law officer showed some chats to the court to allege that Aryan Khan was in touch with some unknown persons about buying charas (hashish), monetary aspects, and NCB needs to find out who those unknown persons.The investigation is at a preliminary stage and the agency needs to unravel code words used by the accused to communicate with peddlers, Singh said adding that there are several cash transactions between the accused for which they need to be confronted with each other.Advocate Satish Maneshinde, appearing for Aryan Khan, opposed the prayer for extension of custody, insisting that Aryan Khan was not involved in any sale, purchase or consumption of drugs. Nothing incriminating was recovered from the 23-year-old or anybody related to him from amongst the people on the ship, he said.He submitted that Aryan only knew Merchant, from whom 6 grams of charas was allegedly seized. Maneshinde claimed that Aryan did not know the other accused.“The agency can’t simply rely on WhatsApp chats to seek more custody, as there was no other material on record found from me or people related to me,” said Maneshinde, speaking on behalf of the actor’s son.He pointed out that Aryan was invited as a guest and therefore he did not have a boarding card, ticket and best suite on the ship was allotted to him because he was invited as a special guest.He added Aryan didn’t have any contact with organisers, dealers or any other people on the cruise. “Nothing has been found in my bag during the search,” said Maneshinde.“The NCB officers came, nabbed me and brought me to NCB office, apparently because his friend Arbaaz Merchant was allegedly found with 6 gm charas, a small quantity of the contraband material.“Nothing is seized from me (Aryan) or my friends,” Maneshinde submitted. “The contraband is seized from others who are not my friends and have no connection with me,” he added.The lawyer further pointed out that NCB officers have already downloaded Aryan’s WhatsApp chats while on the ship and claimed that I was involved in international drug trafficking. “I am not involved in any drug supply, consumption during my foreign trips,” the lawyer said.The lawyer also underlined that NCB officers had already interrogated the 23-year-old for the last 48 hours and found nothing. “I am a twenty-three-year-old with no criminal antecedents.”NCB registered a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, after officers seized 13 gms of cocaine, 21 gm of hashish, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), 5gm mephedrone, and cash worth ₹1.33 lakh at International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate Mumbai.The drug enforcement agency also arrested five others from the cruise, identified by NCB as Vikrant Chhokar, 32, Mohak Jaiswal, 28, Ishmeet Singh Chacha, 33, Gomit Chopra, 28, and Nupur Satija, 29, all residents of Gurgaon, Greater Noida and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-shows-shahrukh-khan-s-son-aryan-s-chats-to-judge-gets-custody-till-oct-7-101633354807634.html
04-10-2021||Pune||61 Ahmednagar villages to observe lockdown-like restrictions amid Covid-19 surge||Strict lockdown-like restrictions were imposed from Monday till October 13 in 61 villages having more than 10 COVID-19 cases in Ahmednagar district, some 122 kilometres from here, officials said on Monday.These villages are in Akole, Karjat, Kopargaon, Newasa, Parner, Pathardi, Rahata, Sangamner, Shevgaon, Shrigonda, and Srirampur tehsils, Ahmednagar Collector Rajendra Bhosale said."The district is witnessing 500-800 cases daily and positivity rate is over 5 percent. Therefore, directions were issued to implement precautionary measures in villages having more than 10 active cases. Since protocols were not being followed fully, we have imposed strict restrictions in 61 villages in 11 tehsils," he said in an order.As per the order, all shops, barring essential ones like medical stores, clinics, and diagnostics labs, will remain shut from October 4 to October 13, while the assembly of more than 5 people has been prohibited in these villages as well as curbs placed on entry and exit. "Emergency services, transportation of agriculture produce, other essential services have been excluded from this. Grocery shops are allowed to function between 8 am and 11 am. All religious places and schools will be shut during the period," the order further said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/61-ahmednagar-villages-to-observe-lockdown-like-restrictions-amid-covid-19-surge-101633353353142.html
04-10-2021||Jaipur||‘Papers were leaked during BJP rule too’: Rajasthan CM Gehlot on REET scandal||As the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Rajasthan alleged that test paper of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) was leaked before the exam took place, and flagged other irregularities during the exam, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday dismissed the allegation by saying the Congress-led state government managed the entire process of REET very well.Speaking to news agency ANI, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Monday that exam papers were leaked even when the BJP was in power in Rajasthan. “The news of the exam paper being out circulated whether the Congress or the BJP is in power,” Gehlot said, adding that action will be taken in the REET matter.On Sunday, BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Kirodi Lal Meena demanded the cancellation of REET and said that not only the question papers but the answer sheets were also leaked before the exam. “There is evidence that both the papers and answer sheets were leaked before the exam started. The answer sheets cannot be there at the exam centres and it can be leaked only with the involvement of a secrecy wing official,” Meena told reporters on Sunday and demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the matter.आप भीड़ इकट्ठी कर लो, भड़काने का काम करो, ये अच्छी परंपरा नहीं है, ये अगर परंपरा रही तो आगे भर्तियां कैसे होंगी?तो ये विपक्ष को समझना चाहिए कि ऐसी गलती न करें क्योंकि जब BJP का शासन था तब भी पेपर आउट कई बार हुए हैं, हमने तो रीट के पूरे प्रोसेस को बड़े अच्छे ढंग से मैनेज किया है। pic.twitter.com/VYer7VnqXBState party president Satish Poonia said that not a single exam in Rajasthan was conducted transparently in the past two and a half years. On the other hand, BJP Yuva Morcha demanded the resignation of Rajasthan’s education minister Govind Singh.Ashok Gehlot also alleged on Monday that those candidates who knew that they wouldn't pass the examination were involved in provoking people. “This is not right that such people try to gather a crowd, provoke others. If this goes on, then how will recruitment take place,” Gehlot further told ANI.Previously, education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday accused the BJP of misguiding Rajasthan’s youth over the REET and said that if any irregularities were found, the guilty would not be spared. Dostara said that during BJP’s rule in Rajasthan, cheating in exams was rampant and gangs involved in it flourished. “You also had the resources, you had the government, but you kept on sleeping peacefully. The gangs involved in cheating continued to flourish,” the education minister said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/papers-were-leaked-during-bjp-rule-too-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-on-reet-scandal-101633353592995.html
04-10-2021||Dehradun||‘Misbehaviour with Char Dham pilgrims won’t be tolerated at all’: CM to officials||Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Monday issued directions to district magistrates and police chiefs of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi where four Char Dham shrines are located, to ensure pilgrims face no inconvenience or difficulties during the pilgrimage. He said misbehaviour with pilgrims won’t be tolerated at all. Dhami issued these directions while reviewing Char Dham yatra with senior officers in which he also interacted with the DMs and police chiefs of the three districts through video conferencing. “Pilgrims should not face any inconvenience. All possible efforts will be made to provide better facilities to the pilgrims. The pilgrims should return with a good message from the state. This is the responsibility of all of us. I will be distressed if even one pilgrim faces any problem here during the pilgrimage”, he said. Dhami also appealed to the pilgrims intending to come for Char Dham yatra to register themselves on the Char Dham Board portal. The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board has so far issued over 69,000 e-passes to the devotees of other states as per the SOP. According to the Board officials, till Sunday, over 36,000 people visited Char Dham shrines. On September 17, the Uttarakhand government released a standard operating procedure (SOP) for Char Dham yatra. The main conditions for the yatra are negative RTPCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT/RAT COVID report (72 hours before) or certificate for both the Covid-19 doses (15 days should have passed after both doses) and seeking e-pass for Char Dham yatra from the website of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board. Pilgrims from Kerala, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, even if they have received both doses, are required to carry negative RTPCR/TrueNat/CBNAAT/RAT Covid-19 report (72 hours before) with them for seeking e-pass for the pilgrimage to the four revered shrines. The daily limit of pilgrims will be 1,000 for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri shrines. Kedarnath, along with Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri, are collectively called Char Dham and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Traditionally, Char Dham pilgrimage begins from the west of Yamunotri, proceeding to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year in June, the state government restricted the number of local pilgrims for the Char Dham pilgrimage. The authorities had capped the daily influx of local pilgrims, allowing only 1200 per day for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for the Yamunotri shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/misbehaviour-with-char-dham-pilgrims-won-t-be-tolerated-at-all-cm-to-officials-101633351088467.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Upward rounding off of retail bills: Overcharging or a matter of convenience?||The concept of rounding off 50 paise and above to the next higher rupee, put in practice by retail businesses, has not found favour with consumers. So for several years now, consumers have been questioning this practice and many consumers have sought justice before the consumer courts, accusing businesses of overcharging.What’s now added to the indignation of consumers is an order of the apex consumer court, holding that such method of doing away with fractions neither constitutes an unfair trade practice nor is it a deficient service. Of course, this is not the final word on the issue because the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in this case did not examine the practice per se, but confined itself to the question of quantum of compensation awarded by the lower consumer courts on such a complaint.Why should there be so much fuss over adding 50 paise to a bill , one may well ask. Well, individually, it does seem like a small amount, but to a business, it adds up to a huge profit and to consumers as a class, the loss is substantial. Businesses point out that they do round off fractions below 50 paise downwards to the nearest rupee and only fractions of 50 paise and above, upwards. So consumers do not pay if the bill has a fraction of less than 50 paise and pay a rupee only if it is 50 paise or more. But consumers are not convinced. Besides, there is no data to show that the gain to consumers from such downward rounding off is equal to the loss from upward rounding off. Also, going by consumer complaints, some businesses have tweaked their billing software to round off all fractions, whatever the amount, upwards to the nearest rupee.The concept of rounding off fractions of a rupee was first introduced by the Reserve Bank in 1991 for banking transactions. Subsequently, as 50 paise coins more or less disappeared (it is still legal tender), retail businesses also adopted it in their billing . However, this has annoyed consumers.Perhaps one of the first complaints on this issue that went up to the level of the apex consumer court was filed in 2012 by consumer Shyam Joshi, questioning McDonald Family Restaurant charging ₹53, instead of ₹52.50. The lower consumer courts awarded ₹4,500 and paise 50 to the consumer and the apex consumer court refused to entertain the revision petition of the restaurant on the ground that the amount involved was too paltry.The Delhi high court, before which the restaurant challenged this, also disposed it off with a similar comment. However, the court said none of the orders of the consumer courts in this case shall form a precedence. (WP 4713 of 2015, order dated Feb 8, 2016).This issue came up again before the National Commission in 2016 in the form of a revision petition filed by the same restaurant, challenging the orders of the lower consumer courts in Rajasthan. The commission disposed them all through a common order of July 26, 2021, the lead case being M/s Mcdonald Family Restaurant vs Nisha Goyal (RP No 1246 of 2016) and held that the restaurant need not pay any compensation as there was no unfair trade practice or deficiency in service on its part in rounding off a bill of ₹85.50 to ₹86.Admittedly, fractions are inconvenient, more so in the absence of 50 paise coins. But are consumers bearing the brunt of RBI’s decision not to mint 50 paise coins? The commission needs to examine this. Also in its order of July 26, the commission basically looked at the notifications issued by the RBI on the issue, but these were meant for banks and non-banking financial companies. In fact, whether it is the circulars issued by RBI or SEBI, or laws passed under Central Goods and Services Act ( Section 170) or Income Tax Act (Section 288 B), they are all meant specifically for those sectors and not for retail business.On the other hand, the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, that regulate retail sale of packed goods in the country, says that packages must mention maximum retail price inclusive of all taxes “after taking into account the fraction of less than 50 paise to be rounded off to the preceding rupee and fraction of above 50 paise and up to 95 paise to be rounded off to 50 paise”. So this is very different from what the RBI says to banks.It is also important to note that with the digital push given by the government, we have moved considerably away from cash payments. Much more than credit and debit cards, today mobile wallets have gained extreme popularity and are accepted by even roadside vendors. So the excuse of the disappearing 50 paise does not hold good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/upward-rounding-off-of-retail-bills-overcharging-or-a-matter-of-convenience-101633350907684.html
04-10-2021||Patna||4 of Bihar family killed in road accident early Monday morning||Four persons of a family were killed and the fifth was injured critically when the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck on GT Road near Sabarabad village under Chenari police station of Bihar’s Rohtas district in the early hours of Monday.All the victims were from a Sasaram family and were returning from Varanasi after making arrangements for marriage of a boy in the family, police said.The driver of the truck escaped and police seized the truck loaded with building material and carrying Uttar Pradesh registration number. Also read: Trainee policemen taken ill after dinner at Bihar police facilityThe deceased were identified as Diwakar Sahu, Krishna Gupta, Ashok Gupta and Gopal Prasad. Pappu Gupta, who was critically injured in the accident, has been referred to a better hospital in Varanasi for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4-of-bihar-family-killed-in-road-accident-early-monday-morning-101633350007479.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Reopening schools with determination we won’t have to shut them again: Thackeray||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said schools were reopened in Maharashtra from Monday after a lot of deliberations with a determination that they will not be shut again. He asked teachers and parents to ensure schoolchildren get a safe environment after facing the most difficult and challenging times.“On the first day of school, I am extending all the best wishes to the students, teachers, and parents. Both the students and teachers are the pillars of our future. It is very important to take care of them and their responsibility is on our shoulders. We all are united and will also have to ensure that the schools won’t shut down again,” Thackeray said in his virtual address to students and parents.“We have to take care of students as the monsoon is not over yet. Soon after that October heat will start. After every season, an outbreak of an epidemic is observed. It is very important to ascertain the difference between seasonal infectious disease and Covid-19.”Also Read: Don’t see Covid-19 third wave hitting Mumbai: BMC tells high courtThackeray said reopening schools was not an easy decision for them and that they sought guidance from a task force. He asked schools to ensure Covid-19 protocols are maintained. He suggested the teachers get tested for Covid-19 if they are not feeling well. “I want to request the teachers and parents to take up their responsibilities. The state government is with you. We are not reopening doors of schools but also for our future and development.”As Covid-19 cases are on the decline, the state reopened schools in urban areas for classes 8 to 12 students and in rural areas for classes 5 to 7. Schools were shut in Maharashtra in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reopening-schools-with-determination-we-won-t-have-to-shut-them-again-thackeray-101633347247135.html
04-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest dept ropes in hunter to kill ‘maneater’ leopard in Pithoragarh||After clamping night curfew, the Uttarakhand forest department has now roped in hunter Harish Dhami to kill the maneater leopard in Pithoragarh district. The hunter is trying to track the leopard in Bajeti, Papdev, Paun areas of the district. The leopard was declared maneater on September 25, after it killed an eight-year-old girl in Bajeti area, officials said. Vinay Bhargav, divisional forest officer Pithoragarh, said the hunter has been called to eliminate the problematic leopard which has created terror in the area. Bhargav said after the leopard killed an eight-year-old girl in Bajeti ward of the town, the forest department had installed a cage near the place. “A leopard was trapped there but after taking samples of its stool and urine we found it was not a maneater as there was no trace in the samples of it having consumed human flesh. Then we freed it in Ramnagar forests last week,” he said.He said there are two or more leopards that have been spotted in the area since the incident occurred. “I will try my best to eliminate the leopard which is attacking people here. I am already trying to track it in the affected areas”, said hunter Harish Dhami who has eliminated many leopards in the last 10 years. On September 30, the Pithoragarh administration had extended the night curfew by a week in the leopard-haunted areas of the district till October 6 after the leopard movement was again reported near residential areas. On September 23, in a bid to avoid man-animal conflict, night curfew was clamped in half a dozen villages in Pithoragarh district after an eight-year-old girl was dragged and killed by a leopard in Bajeti village adjoining the district headquarters. After this incident, a cage was installed in the village and a leopard was caught. Man-leopard conflict is a major problem in the state. Since the formation of the state, over 800 people have been killed in the man-wildlife conflict. Deaths due to leopard attacks account for nearly half of the total deaths, as per the data of the state forest department. As per the records of the state forest department, the last state-wide leopard estimation exercise was conducted in 2008, when the state reported 2335 leopards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-forest-dept-ropes-in-hunter-to-kill-maneater-leopard-in-pithoragarh-101633346468395.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man jumps into canal along with two sons in Amritsar||A 38-year-old man committed suicide along with his two sons, aged seven years and two years, by jumping into a Sultanwind canal in Amritsar. Police recovered the three bodies 13 hours after the incident on Monday. Also read: ₹45L and job for victim’s kin, judicial probe: Lakhimpur Kheri stalemate ends The incident took place on Sunday night when the father took his sons out on the pretext of treating them to ice-cream. “When the three didn’t return home for over an hour, we began looking for them. My son’s phone was switched off. But we managed to get the location traced and it was found near the Sultanwind canal,” said the children’s paternal grandfather, who is a retired policeman. “The police found my son’s motorcycle and phone near the canal,” he added. A case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC. The victim had been working in a knitting factory in Amritsar. The police are trying to ascertain the cause behind his taking the extreme step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-jumps-into-canal-along-with-two-sons-in-amritsar-101633344727101.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Can drug busts prevent growing substance abuse?||It was the early morning of March in 2007. The kuccha road led nowhere, yet some 300 youths had found their way to a small farmhouse called “Janjeera” on the foothills of the Sinhagad fort. The promise was salvation through the mantra of “trance”. It had a great and desired effect. IT professionals, air hostesses and students from prestigious colleges had come to the rave party organised by local drug pedlars in association with international counterparts, based in Ireland. The SP (superintendent of police) level officer – who later went on to become a high-profile officer in the state police force - had allowed some journalists to accompany the police squad that busted what then was termed as a “rave” party. It had the desired effect for police as the next day’s newspapers were flooded with stories of drug haul. The latest incident involving the son of a Bollywood star in the cruise rave party that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided on Saturday night only underlines high-profile drug busts often make for great headlines. However, they may not fix the global problem of addiction. For example in Pune, from 2007, when the first big rave party was busted to 2021, not much has changed as cases of drug haul have increased as the demand for consumption. The trend in the last few years in the city is well in consonance with what is happening nationally. In 2019, Pune police had registered 119 cases, arrested 157 accused, and seized nearly three crores of narcotics substances which highest in the last 10 years, as reported by Hindustan Times in its December 25, 2020 edition. In 2020 the figure went down, but that was mainly due to national lockdown. During the year, police registered 41 cases of Narcotic Drugs, and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) in which 59 accused (2 Nigerians) were arrested including seizure of 150kg ganja, 69gms MD, 112gms charas, 368gms cocaine, totalling worth ₹40 lakh. What made the headlines during most of 2020 was the busting of a racket by neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The seizure of 20kg mephedrone (MD) in Chakan by Pimpri-Chinchwad police in October led to the exposure of a nexus of producers, distributors and transporters who were involved in the production and sale of MD weighing at least 150kg.If the police actions have increased, so is the increased substance abuse. Nationally, some 59,806 cases were registered in 2020 under the NDPS Act, according to National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB), which was enacted in 1985 when Rajiv Gandhi was the Prime Minister. Of them, 10,852 cases came from UP alone while 3,246 in overall cases were for possession of quantities lower than the threshold considered to be for personal use. If we look at the conviction rate, as many as 81% of the 14,340 NDPS cases in which trials were completed saw convictions. This is much higher than other serious crimes. The problem, many experts have noted previously, is that law enforcement agencies have focused more on catching those involved in the supply side. While only a few get caught, those involved know what does work – and how. This often leads to flourishing the trade as demand grows amid societal moral qualms. According to the Institute of Behaviour and Health in the USA, “Supply reduction is an effective tool for demand reduction because when drugs cost more and are more difficult to obtain there are fewer drug users and less demand for illegal drugs. Demand reduction is also an effective tool in supply reduction because when the number of drug users falls, drug supply falls correspondingly as the market for illegal drugs shrinks. Linking these complementary approaches maximises the impact of the national strategy on illegal drug use by attacking the drug economy from both sides.” So if law enforcers in India want to control drug misuse, they need to adopt a dual strategy of checking both, supply and demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-can-drug-busts-prevent-growing-substance-abuse-101633344246916.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri violence sparks off farmer protests in Punjab||The violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri that killed eight people, including four farmers, on Sunday sparked off protests in Punjab on Monday morning with protesters gathering at district headquarters in Amritsar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Barnala, Bathinda, Sangrur and Malerkotla on the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 32 farmer unions that is spearheading the agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws since last year. Also read: ₹45L and job for victim’s kin, judicial probe: Lakhimpur Kheri stalemate ends The SKM on Monday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, demanding the dismissal of minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni from the Union council of ministers and the setting up of a special investigation team (SIT) under the supervision of the Supreme Court into the killing of the four farmers. Farmers owing allegiance to the SKM protested outside the deputy commissioner’s office in Amritsar from 10am to 1.30pm, while police kept a tight vigil. In Sangrur, members of farmer unions, students and Congress workers held separate protests to oppose Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Sangrur, Barnala and Malerkotla districts on Monday. Over hundreds of farmers held demonstrations opposite the district administration complexes in these districts. Besides, the Congressmen burnt effigies of BJP minister Ajay Mishra in Sangrur and Malerkotla. Also, students associated with Punjab Student Union (Lalkaar), PSU (Shaheed Randhawa) and Punjab Radical Students Union opposed the incident at Government Ranbir College, Sangrur.Farmers supporting the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) tried to gherao the house of BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh near Hathi Gate in Amritsar, but police foiled the bid and put up barricades where they raised slogans against the Centre and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “We will intensify our agitation against the Centre,” said KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, who was leading the protesters. The farmers also protested at the Bhandari Bridge, which connects both parts of the holy city. “The barbaric killing of the farmers was pre-planned to crush their resistance against the authoritarian Yogi-Modi regime in UP and India,” said Rattan Singh Randhawa, a leader of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha.The protesters compared the killing with that of Jallianwala Bagh in 1919, seeking stringent action against the guilty. Students of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) also staged a big demonstration in the main campus. Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Pathankot also saw protests in major towns. Manjit Singh of BKU (Ugrahan) criticized the Yogi government from preventing farmers and political leaders from visiting the site of the violence.In Doaba too, farmers submitted a memorandum to the DCs, also demanding that Union minister of state Ajay Mishra should be removed immediately. They also sought action against the Haryana chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar for his provocative remarks. Doaba Kisan Union and Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) leaders said people must rally against the BJP to maintain communal harmony. In Bhogpur, farmers burnt effigy of the central government. In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, farm leaders said the sacrifice of farmers will not go in vain. PROTESTS PASS OFF PEACEFULLY IN MAJHAActivists of farmer unions gathered in large numbers outside the district administrative complexes (DACs) in southern Punjab for three hours to protest against the UP violence. A large number of farmers of the BS Rajewal faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union gathered outside the house of Abohar BJP MLA Arun Narang and burnt effigies of BJP leaders. Security was tightened in Barnala, Bathinda, Mansa and Ferozepur and the protests passed off peacefully. In a statement, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said the governments at the Centre and UP had adopted an indifferent stance against their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-sparks-off-farmer-protests-in-punjab-101633343406991.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Don't see Covid-19 third wave hitting Mumbai: BMC tells high court||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) told the Bombay high court on Monday that it doesn't see the much-feared third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hitting the city. The civic body based its prediction on a "smooth" vaccination drive, in which over 42 lakh people have been fully vaccinated and more than 82 lakh have received the first dose.“The work is on. It is going on smoothly. Now, there is no shortage of vaccines too. Mumbai is safe. We do not see a third wave (of the Covid-19) coming,” BMC counsel Anil Sakhare told the high court, according to news agency PTI.He also said that 2,586 bed-ridden people have so far been administered both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine while 3,942 such people have got the first jab.The arguments were made during the hearing of a petition seeking a direction to both the Union and Maharashtra governments to start door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens aged 75 and above, specially-abled people and those who are bed-ridden.The petition was filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari earlier this year.The Maharashtra government had said in August that it will initiate the drive and had started door-to-door vaccination of bed-ridden people as a pilot project.Maharashtra recorded 2,692 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, which pushed the state's overall count to 6,559,349. The tally of active cases further reduced to 35,888 as 2,716 recoveries were reported in the 24-hour span.The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is under control as the average daily cases are on a decline for the past few months. In September, the daily average of new infections came down to 3,368 cases against 4,944 in August, 7,737 in July and 10,542 in June. However, officials are still worried about the impact the festive season, spanning October and November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dont-see-third-wave-hitting-mumbai-bmc-tells-high-court-101633339307048.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal releases 10-point winter action plan to fight pollution||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday released a 10-point winter action plan for the national capital. He said that the plan will help combat air pollution in Delhi, which deteriorates during the winter season due to a number of factors, including stubble burning by the farmers in nearby states."I have been posting Delhi's air quality recordings since September 15, and we have seen that Delhi's pollution levels are in control. But since the central and neighbouring state governments have not done much to help farmers, Delhi's air quality will start deteriorating in a few days because of stubble burning," Kejriwal said while addressing a press conference.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief added that he has been requesting the central government and neighbouring states but no step has been taken to stop stubble burning and other things which have adverse impact on the national capital's air quality."Instead of playing the blame-counter blame game, we have found a solution to stubble burning. We have requested the central government to take into consideration our request and hope this alternate plan will be implemented," said Kejriwal.Here are the 10 steps listed by Kejriwal to check the pollution level in Delhi during winters:1. Stubble burning: We have prepared a decomposer (a solution) with the help of Pusa Institute. This solution, once sprayed on the crop residue will eliminate the need to burn it. Delhi government has been spraying it for free, Punjab and other states too can do the same.2. Anti-dust campaign to be strengthened: We have formed 75 teams which will survey the entire national capital and impose heavy penalty on those who are found violating the government's dust pollution norms.3. Stopping the burning of garbage: 250 teams have been formed for this.4. Ban on firecrackers5. Installation of smog towers: These towers have shown good so far and they will continue to analyse results before taking a call to install more such structures.6. Monitoring of pollution hotspots using app7. Green War Rooms are being strengthened. Kejriwal said that the Delhi government has hired 50 environment engineers.8. The Green Delhi app is being constantly monitored. Public is also encouraged to use it and lodge complaints of any violation, said Kejriwal.9. Eco waste park: This is the first such park being constructed in the country, said Kejriwal. Twenty acres of land has been allotted for the project.10. Vehicular pollution: The AAP chief said that steps are being taken to minimise traffic jams to reduce the emissions caused by cars and other vehicles. The chief minister said that 64 congestion points have been identified across Delhi and steps will be taken to control traffic and resultant pollution here. “We have also intensified checking for Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates and are cracking down on diesel vehicles older than 10 years,” Kejriwal added.Before listing the 10-point approach, Kejriwal also talked about the work done by his government to bring the pollution level down in Delhi:1. Delhi has provided 24x7 electricity. This has controlled the use of thousands of diesel generator sets that used to run in the city.2. We are focussing on bringing down the level of dust pollution, said Kejriwal, adding that Construction sites are being monitored regularly.3. Eastern and Western Peripheral Expressways have helped control the number of trucks coming into Delhi.4. Two coal fired thermal power plants have been shut down5. 100% conversion of industries to PNG6. Tree transplantation policy was brought in by the Delhi government to reduce the number of trees being cut for construction projects7. Green Delhi app is operational where people can lodge their complaints8. Green war room has been made, where the pollution levels in Delhi is being constantly monitored.9. Graded Response Action plan was implemented in Delhi on the directions of the supreme court10. Electric vehicle policy was implemented in the cityPollution in DelhiDelhi was the most polluted capital city in the world in 2020 for the third consecutive year, according to a report by a Swiss group that ranked cities based on their air quality measured in terms of the levels of ultrafine particulate matter (PM 2.5) that can enter the organs and cause lasting damage.The World Air Quality Report, 2020 by IQAir that was released globally in March this year showed that Delhi recorded an annual average PM 2.5 concentration of 84.1ug/m3.Delhi was also ranked the 10th most polluted of the 50 cities from where data was analysed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-arvind-kejriwal-releases-10-point-winter-action-plan-to-fight-pollution-101633331436099.html
04-10-2021||City||‘To express solidarity...’: Punjab CM Channi says leaving for violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri in UP||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday vowed to visit Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh “in solidarity with bereaved families of farmers,” even as the UP government stopped politicians from entering the violence-hit district.Also Read | Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhmipur Kheri, 6 taken into custody“Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, I'm leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri to be with my brothers and sisters in this hour of grief. I've also sought permission from the UP government to allow landing/taking off of the chopper at the site,” Channi tweeted. Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, I'm leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri to be with my brothers and sisters in this hour of grief. I've also sought permission from UP government to allow landing/taking off of chopper at the site.In view of the Punjab CM's decision, the director of the state government's civil aviation department wrote to UP additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi, seeking permission for Channi's chopper to land and take off.  The official also requested that adequate arrangements be made to ensure the Punjab CM's meet with the concerned families.Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union min Ajay Mishra, son booked for murderEarlier in the day, Awasthi wrote to officials at Lucknow's Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport, instructing them to not allow planes of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to land. Also Read | Baghel slams UP govt for denying him permission to land en route to LakhimpurSeveral politicians who tried to enter or leave for Lakhimpur Kheri were detained our put under house arrest by the police, including Congress' Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party leader Satish Chandra Mishra etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-express-solidarity-punjab-cm-channi-says-leaving-for-lakhimpur-kheri-in-up-101633328371476.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Seven DCs among 24 IAS, 12 PCS officers transferred in Punjab||In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the Punjab government has transferred 24 IAS and 12 PCS officers, including seven deputy commissioners. Babita has been posted as the new deputy commissioner (DC) of Fazilka, and Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu will be the new Bathinda DC, while Harish Nayar will be the new Moga DC, Sandeep Hans the Patiala DC, Kumar Saurabh Raj the Barnala DC, Harpreet Singh Sudan the Muktsar DC and Vishesh Sarangal the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar DC. Also read: Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhmipur Kheri, 6 taken into custodyIAS officer Anurag Agarwal has been posted as additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner, taxation, replacing A Venu Prasad, who has been given additional charge of chairman-cum-managing director, Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL), along with the post of CMD Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) that he was holding. Principal secretary, finance, KAP Sinha has been given the additional charge of principal secretary, power and new and renewable energy sources. Krishan Kumar has been given additional charge of secretary, higher education and languages, along with secretary, NRI affairs, and managing director, Punjab infrastructure development board. Ajoy Sharma replaces Kumar as the new education secretary with additional charge of sports and youth services. Tanu Kashyap technical education director, while Dilraj Singh is new agriculture secretaryTanu Kashyap is director, technical education and industrial training, while Dilraj Singh is agriculture secretary and Mohammad Tayyab is chief executive officer, Punjab Waqf Board, with additional charge of director, treasury and accounts, and special secretary, expenditure, and special secretary, vigilance. The services of Neelima have been placed at the disposal of the department of housing and urban development for posting as chief administrator, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). Tej Partap Singh Phoolka has been posted as joint development commissioner, integrated rural development, in addition to commissioner, NREGA, and ex-officio special secretary, rural development and panchayats. Kumar Amit is special secretary, personnel, with additional charge of managing director, Punjab Small Industries And Exports Corporation (PSIEC). Puneet Goyal is the new director, local government, and MK Aravind Kumar is the director general, employment generation and training, with additional charge as special secretary, employment generation, mission director, Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission, and mission director, Punjab Skill Development Mission. The services of Shena Aggarwal have been placed at the disposal of the department of local government for posting as commissioner, Pathankot municipal corporation. The services of Rishi Pal Singh were placed at the disposal of the housing and urban development department to be posted as the chief administrator, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), and Sandeep Rishi was posted as additional chief administrator, GLADA.Rajesh Tripathi is addl secy, IT, while Geetika Singh is ACA, PUDAAmong the Punjab Civil Service officers, Rajesh Tripathi has been posted as the additional secretary, information technology, Amit as secretary, regional transport authority, and Jyoti Bala additional DC (general), Malerkotla, in addition to ADC (urban development). Geetika Singh goes to the housing and urban development department as the additional chief administrator (policy), Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (Mohali). Poonam Preet Kaur has been posted as the joint commissioner, Ludhiana municipal corporation, while Ravinder Singh is the new Morinda SDM; Rajesh Kumar the new Amritsar-II SDM with additional charge of SDM, Lopoke; Deepak Bhatia the new Ajnala SDM with additional charge of Majitha; Paramjit Singh–III the SDM of Chamkaur Sahib; Khushdil Singh the secretary, regional transport authority (RTA), Patiala, with additional charge of SDM, Rajpura; Arshdeep Singh Lobana as RTA, Amritsar; and Balwinder Singh as RTA, Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-dcs-among-24-ias-12-pcs-officers-transferred-in-punjab-101633329666171.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||#WorldHabitatDay: Climate action can’t wait, say NCR’s young eco-activists||New Delhi Growing up in Delhi-NCR made teen changemaker Aditya Mukarji see “climate change at its worst”, and gave sustainable fashion entrepreneur Kriti Tula a “reality check about the fast changes in climate conditions” as she, like others, struggled to see blue skies over the Capital. They are two of the 17 young climate leaders chosen for the UN in India’s new climate campaign ‘We The Change’ to showcase innovative solutions in the run-up to 2021 UN Climate Change Conference (COP26) in November. On World Habitat Day, today, the two eco-activists talk about doing their bit for the planet.At 17 years of age, Mukarji has campaigned against single-use plastics, such as straws and cutlery, in the hospitality space, including Khan Market restaurants. His crusade began with a video of vets pulling a plastic straw out of a turtle’s nose. Being a Gurugrammer also shaped his activism. He explains, “Air pollution is now a constant problem. We started living with masks way before the pandemic started. We have waste management issues as well as people don’t practise proper waste segregation.” Meanwhile, Tula’s efforts are focused on recycling resources. The 33-year-old, who makes products from garment manufacturing waste, says, “It may seem small or tedious, but given the huge environmental costs of [mainly fast] fashion — from water guzzling cotton crops to unsustainable levels of cloth production — it can make a great difference.” Both youth activists feel the need for greater participation to make real progress against climate change. While Tula feels it is hard to see “any real change if people with capital don’t commit to build better businesses”, Mukarji believes if “two or more generations work together, there’s nothing we can’t achieve”.Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/worldhabitatdayclimate-action-can-t-wait-say-ncr-s-young-ecoactivists-101633326845622.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Water supply to be hit in parts of Mumbai for 3 days. Details here||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced cut in water supply in a few areas of the city in the coming days. According to a statement from the civic body, Parel and Naigaon will face restricted water supply on October 5 (10am) and 6 (10am), while Andheri and Vile Parle will face cuts in water supply on October 6 (10am) and 7 (till 10am).The decision to curtail the water supply has been taken due to routine maintenance work undertaken by the BMC.The BMC has requested citizens living in these areas to store adequate water.The civic body said that water supply will be cut completely in some areas, while others will receive the supply at a low force.The BMC has been undertaking routing maintenance work to ensure the city keeps receiving good quality of water in sufficient amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-parts-of-mumbai-for-3-days-details-here-101633325834595.html
04-10-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police to start inspection of pandals||Less than a week before the Durga Puja begins, the Kolkata Police will start inspecting the Puja pandals from Monday to check whether the curbs imposed by the Calcutta high court were being followed.On Friday, the court banned the entry of visitors into the pandals to check the spread of Covid-19. The puja committees need to put up barricades - 10 metres from the outer end of the big and five metres from the smaller pujas – to make the pandals a no-entry zone for visitors.A team led by a joint police commissioner will visit around 18 of the biggest puja pandals on Monday. Many of these pujas are patronised by ruling Trinamool Congress leaders and ministers.“It would be a joint inspection by the police and other agencies such as the fire brigade and power supply corporation. On the first day, the team would visit around 18 puja pandals,” said a police officer.While at least 36,000 community pujas are held across the state, in Kolkata alone, 2,500 are held by various clubs. These are just the clubs that are registered with the state government. This apart, there are pujas held in housing societies and residences. Around 1500 pujas are organised by women.Durga Puja is the biggest festival in West Bengal. Even though the five-day Puja starts this year from October 11, the festivity starts much before, and it extends for more than a week every year. Mahalaya this year would be held on October 6 and the immersion process would continue till 17.Also Read: Mamata Banerjee logs record win in Bhawanipore bypoll; BJP loses on 2 more seatsThe high court, while hearing a plea seeking curbs during the festive season to prevent a surge in Covid-19 cases, said that all the restrictions that were imposed by the court in 2020 will remain this year.“The puja committees have been asked to make their pandals as open and possible so that pandal hoppers may have a glance of the Goddess and the decorations from outside without crowding. The committees have also been asked to share their plans for crowd management during the peak hours,” said a second police officer.Thousands of people from adjoining districts come to Kolkata during the puja days for pandal hopping.In October 2020, just 72 hours before the Durga Puja started, the high court banned the entry of visitors inside pandals. The court also put a cap on the number of puja committee members who could enter the pandal – 45 for big pujas and 15 for smaller ones. Anjali, the offering of flowers to the Gods and Goddess and Sindur Khela, a ritual in which married women smear each other’s face with vermillion before immersion, was also banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-police-to-start-inspection-of-pandals-101633324565599.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union min Ajay Mishra, son and others booked for murder||Uttar Pradesh police said on Monday they have booked Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra and others for murder and other charges based on the complaint lodged by farmers in connection with Sunday’s violence in the state’s Lakhimpur district. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police (SP) Vijay Dhull said the first information report (FIR) was filed under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 for murder, 120-B for criminal conspiracy and 147 for rioting at Tikunia police station.As many as eight people were killed as violence erupted after a car hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, according to police. They said that four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy and four others who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death. The incident was reported minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was to visit the area. The farmers were protesting against the three central farm laws.Also Read | ‘On expected lines’: Priyanka arrested, claims youth Congress leader Srinivas BVSamyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of dozens of farmers unions, issued a statement alleging that one of the four farmers was shot dead by Ajay Mishra Teni's son and others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. The minister, however, said that his son was not present at the spot and only the jeep owned by him ferrying BJP workers were there. "My son wasn't present at the spot. There were miscreants who attacked workers with sticks and swords. If my son would've been there, he wouldn't have come out alive,” he told ANI.Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Opposition looks to corner govt, Yogi vows justice“During the Lakhimpur Kheri visit, our workers came to receive us amid farmers' protest. Some miscreants from agitating farmers started stone pelting on the car and injured our driver. Due to this, our car got imbalanced and 2 people died coming under it. After this, our 3 workers were killed and cars were set on fire," Mishra said. "They've killed people and damaged and torched cars. We have video evidence," he added.He said that "four of our (BJP workers) workers were killed" and asserted that cases under section 302 will be lodged against the culprits.Also Read | Akhilesh Yadav put under ‘house arrest’ ahead of Lakhimpur Kheri visitMeanwhile, Lakhimpur Kheri district administration and police were holding talks with farmers' leader Rakesh Tikait, who reached Lakhimpur Kheri late on Sunday, to end their protest and allow the bodies of the victims to be sent for postmortem examination.Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate AK Chaurasia said he has received a memorandum from farmers, demanding the dismissal of Union minister Mishra, registration of FIR based on their complaint, payment of ex gratia and government jobs to the family of the deceased. He said they also demand judicial probe into the Sunday incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-union-min-ajay-mishra-son-booked-for-murder-101633317955032.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, 7 others in court today. What his lawyer said||Eight people, including actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for possessing drugs after a late-night raid on a cruise ship will be produced before a court in Mumbai on Monday after their medical examination, officials have said. On Sunday, Aryan Khan and two other accused—his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha—were produced before a magistrate’s court which has remanded them to NCB custody till Monday. Nupur Satija, Ishmeet Singh Chadha, Mohak Jaiswal, Gomit Chopra and Vikrant Chhokar are the other accused.The 23-year-old Aryan Khan was arrested on Sunday afternoon for alleged possession and consumption of illegal drugs. The NCB has registered a case under several sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, after officers seized 13 gm of cocaine, 21gm of charas or hashish, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), 5gm mephedrone and cash worth ₹1.33 lakh at International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate Mumbai.Also read | NCB looking at bigger ‘Bollywood connection’ in cruise ship rave party caseAryan Khan’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said in the court he was invited to the cruise party. “However, he did not have a boarding pass. He didn't have any seats or cabins there. Secondly, according to the seizure, nothing has been found in his possession. He is arrested only based on chats,” Maneshinde said. Maneshinde has said he will file Aryan Khan’s bail application on Monday before the regular court.The NCB raided a Goa-bound cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on Saturday night and busted a party where drugs were being used. “Khan and others were on the cruise ship where the agency busted a rave party,” NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said.Also watch | Aryan Khan drugs case: How officers went undercover at 'rave party'A Delhi-based event company is believed to have organised the parties on passenger cruise ships on October 2, 3 and 4. The cruise ship was scheduled to go to Goa on Saturday night and return to Mumbai by Monday.The NCB also recorded the statement of Jurgen Bailom, the president and CEO of Cordelia Cruise. “The agency called us to understand the procedure of crew operation and we are cooperating with the NCB. There were around 1,000 passengers when the ship left from the Mumbai coast,” Bailom said. “Our ship has not been detained, it has gone for its destination and will return on Monday. We were not aware of the guests who were on the ship as organisers are different,” he added.Also read | Raid on cruise ship attempt to divert attention from Mundra port seizure: CongThe NCB chief SN Pradhan said on Sunday that the bureau is looking at a 'Bollywood connection' and a larger nexus of narcotics. "There is a Bollywood connection and we are investigating all angles of the case. We are looking at the main supplier and the entire cartel behind this drugs case," Pradhan told PTI, adding that the agency will "carry out its probe in a professional manner".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shah-rukh-khan-s-son-aryan-khan-7-others-in-court-today-what-his-lawyer-said-101633316063017.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky but no rain forecast for Monday in Delhi||Delhi is likely to experience partly cloudy skies on Monday as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts no rain for the national capital on Monday. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 35 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 36.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday which is two degrees above normal and the minimum temperature was 26.3 degrees Celsius – five notches above normal.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6 am stood at 101. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 105, which is also in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Also Read: Swachh rankings to take Delhi civic bodies’ Covid response into accountOn Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category with PM10 as main pollutant because of dry air coming from north-west of India along with local dust resuspension. With persistence of similar condition, AQI will remain in moderate category for the next three days.” Resuspension refers to the removal of deposited material from the ground to the atmosphere as a result of wind, traffic, soil cultivation, and other activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-but-no-rain-forecast-for-monday-in-delhi-101633313884313.html
04-10-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand high court to resume physical hearing of cases from today||Physical hearing of cases in Jharkhand high court will resume from today, three days after district courts in the state began physical hearings, in line with directions issued by the high court’s registrar general last week. Hearings were taking place virtually in courts since March last year when the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hit.“It has been ordered that the district courts and high court shall resume hearing cases physically from October 1 and 4 respectively,” Gautam Chaudhary, the high court’s registrar general, noted in an order issued on September 30. The order was issued after a decision was taken in this regard at a meeting of the core committee of HC judges, which was also attended by Ritu Kumar, president of Advocates Association, who was present virtually.During physical hearings, Covid-19 protocols such as maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks will have to be adhered to, Kumar said after the meeting.According to a report in the Times of India, the move will benefit as many as 35,000 advocates, adding that the high court had been constantly monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the state. Recently, it also directed 50 per cent district courts to hold hearings in a “hybrid” mode, i.e., work both physically and virtually.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-high-court-to-resume-physical-hearing-of-cases-from-today-101633309084988.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra schools to open from today: Check SOPs here||Schools across Maharashtra will open from Monday for Classes 5 to 12 in a phased manner. In rural areas, physical classes will resume for Classes 5 to 12, while in urban areas in-person education will restart for those in Classes 8 to 12. Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Sunday effective coordination between education, health departments and local administration will have to be maintained for a smooth transition of teaching-learning activities to offline classes. “Though schools will reopen in the entire state, there is no compulsion for students to attend physical classes. Consent of parents will be necessary if they want to attend," the minister added.Gaikwad held a review meeting with the state education department on Saturday. “With schools reopening Monday onwards, held a meeting with senior education department officials, education officers across the state to assess preparedness. Officials gave some welcome suggestions during the meeting. These will surely help,” Gaikwad later tweeted.The decision was taken after consulting health officials and the state government's Covid-19 task force. More than 70 per cent of parents wanted schools to reopen, Gaikwad said last month, reports news agency PTI.Maharashtra on Sunday reported 2,692 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 41 fatalities, the state health department said. The new additions pushed Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally to 65,59,349, the death toll to 1,39,207 and the number of recoveries to 63,80,670, it said, adding that the state is now left with 35,888 active cases.Check the latest SOPs here:1. It is not mandatory for students to attend physical classes and if they do, they will have to bring consent letters from parents. “Though schools will reopen in the entire state, there is no compulsion for students to attend physical classes. Consent of parents will be necessary if they want to attend," Gaikwad said last month.2. Staggered school hours, social distancing inside classrooms, setting up school health clinics are some of the suggested SOPs the Maharashtra government has set.3. The school education department has given the powers to implement the decision as per local conditions to district collectors. Every school will have to conduct a parent-teacher meeting and apprise parents about precautions as well as the immediate steps to be taken by the school administration," Gaikwad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-schools-to-open-from-today-check-sops-here-101633305225939.html
04-10-2021||Patna||RJD’s decision to field candidate in bypoll latest flashpoint in ties with Congress||Fissures within the Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) in Bihar appeared to widen on Sunday after the Congress expressed “shock” over ally Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s decision to field a candidate from Kusheshwarsthan seat for the upcoming bypoll on October 30.The Congress insists that the seat was allocated to them as part of the deal among opposition parties during the 2020 assembly elections. Hours after the RJD listed its candidates for bypolls to both Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur assembly constituencies, the Congress said it was also contemplating fielding its nominees for both seats for the elections.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha told HT: “The announcement came as a shock to the (Congress) party as we were following the coalition dharma and was preparing for Kusheshwarsthan seat, which was allocated to the Congress under the seat adjustment among the opposition alliance during the 2020 assembly elections,” Jha said.The BPCC chief said the party has almost finalised its nominees for Kusheshwarsthan assembly seat in Darbhanga, which is reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates, and that consultations are underway to finalise the nominees for Tarapur constituency in Munger district. “However, the final decision on naming the candidates would be taken by the party high command who has been apprised about the developments, post the RJD’s decision to field its nominee on both the seats,” he said.State RJD chief Jagadanand Singh announced that Bhagalpur-based party leader Arun Kumar Sah and Ganesh Bharti Sada would contest the by-elections from Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan seats, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjds-decision-to-field-candidate-in-bypoll-latest-flashpoint-in-ties-with-congress-101633301175066.html
04-10-2021||Other||Hooda, Surjewala visit grain markets, slam govt for delay in paddy procurement||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala have slammed the government for not procuring the paddy lying in mandis for the past couple of days. Hooda said it is clear that the government doesn’t want to procure farmers’ produce on MSP, which is why they are imposing several conditions and repeatedly changing the procurement schedule. Hooda visited several grain markets in Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panipat districts and interacted with the farmers, arhtiyas and labourers. He said the mandis are flooded with paddy and there was no space in most of the grain markets due to delayed procurement. “Farmers are forced to sell their produce to private agencies below MSP due to lack of government buyers,” he added. “Farmers are being harassed on the pretext of e-portal registration and high moisture content,” said Hooda. Interacting with reporters after visiting the Jind grain market, Surjewala said paddy is lying in the open as government has failed to initiate the procurement process. “The government has not been procuring paddy in the name of high moisture content. If it rains, who will be responsible for the grains getting soaked? The government has decided to reduce bajra procurement by 80%, besides reducing the rates of labour per bag from ₹12.76 to ₹8.56,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hooda-surjewala-visit-grain-markets-slam-govt-for-delay-in-paddy-procurement-101633301103395.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vaishno Devi shrine board CEO takes stock of arrangements||Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDSB) has geared up to make elaborate arrangements for the facilitation of pilgrims who are expected to visit the holy cave shrine during Navratras beginning from October 7. The board also took stock of protection and rejuvenation of Banganga.Shrine board CEO Ramesh Kumar visited the track and reviewed the arrangements besides launching a special sanitation drive. He also inspected the bathing ghats on the Banganga rivulet and stressed on early completion of the desilting and renovation process. He reiterated his directions to make maximum use of pilgrim-friendly technological interventions to promote protection of the environment and ensuring sanitation and perfect cleanliness in the shrine area. The CEO also emphasised on making the track plastic and polythene free and proposed use of biodegradable corn starch-based polythene as a possible substitute for the environmental preservation.He also reviewed the arrangements which have been put in place for ensuring enforcement of all precautionary measures vis-à-vis Covid protocols and guidelines.He said that all routes leading to the holy shrine are fully maintained for the smooth movement of pilgrims apart from ensuring sufficient supplies of provisions, food, and water along the track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaishno-devi-shrine-board-ceo-takes-stock-of-arrangements-101633301042648.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh row over presence of Punjab CM Channi’s son at official security meet||Fresh controversy broke out in the Punjab unit of Congress on Sunday, after chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s son, Rhythmjit Singh, was seen seated at an official meeting convened to discuss the law and order situation.The high-level meeting, chaired by Channi, was attended by senior police officials, including the Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. Sahota, a 1988-batch Indian Police Service officer, was given the additional charge of Punjab director general of police on September 25.The viral pictures of the meeting, however, triggered sharp reactions from the BJP.“The Chief Minister is well aware of ‘governance rules’ as he is a former minister and a three-time MLA. The credibility, dignity while respecting the rules of the constitution should always be maintained,” said state BJP president Ashwani Sharma.He also attacked senior bureaucrats for allowing the CM’s son to remain seated in the official meeting. “It is unfortunate that senior bureaucrats, well aware of rules and norms, allowed this error to happen.”Cabinet minister Pargat Singh, who holds the sports portfolio, was also among the attendees.According to experts, the presence of a family member of the chief minister or that of any minister is in violation of the Rules of Business of the state government. Such a scenario, they said, violates the Official Secrets Act, as sensitive matters, which the CM and ministers take oath to keep confidential, are taken up in official interactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-row-over-presence-of-punjab-cm-channi-s-son-at-official-security-meet-101633300704388.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: RSS chief stresses on nation-building||On the concluding day of his four-day visit to Jammu, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat addressed workers through online mode from Keshav Bhawan, the headquarters of J&K RSS at Ambphalla.Workers from 989 places joined the virtual meeting across the UT. Bhagwat guided them different topics ranging from the formation of the RSS to the expansion of its network across the globe. He emphasised on personality building, organisation setup, nation-building, and challenges before the nation.Bhagwat said in 2025, the RSS is going to complete 100 years of its formation and there is a need to accelerate activities of the organisation to mark its centenary celebrations.He said the target of the ‘swayamsevaks’ should be to reach every household when it will celebrate its centenary four years later. Stressing the need of strengthening the organisation, he said that real unity is the real strength. “Our strength will be realised only through our unity. We have to remain united,” he said. Bhagwat said, “We have to keep in mind that we have to organise the whole Hindu society that can make India a vishwa guru. India should be at the forefront in every field and we should also be in a position to lead the whole world. We have to create such a country and it should be our ultimate target. The work has just started, not finished.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-rss-chief-stresses-on-nationbuilding-101633300622841.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bring grains only after cleaning, drying: Haryana government to paddy farmers||Haryana government on Sunday urged the farmers to bring their crop to the grain markets only after drying, cleaning and reducing the moisture content. “No farmer will have to face any problem during paddy procurement,” the spokesperson said, adding electric grain cleaning machines have been made available at the grain markets to clean and absorb the moisture in the paddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bring-grains-only-after-cleaning-drying-haryana-government-to-paddy-farmers-101633300202637.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||102 fresh Covid cases detected in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 102 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 195 with active cases reaching 1,201. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 532 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 128 and 97 such cases, respectively.Officials said with 53 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 11 cases in Budgam district. As many as 18 districts had no or single-digit cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,24,164, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.29%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,29,789 and the death toll stands at 4,424.67 test positive in HPHimachal logged 67 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,19,400. No fatality was reported and the death toll remained 3,665.Among the fresh cases, 15 were reported in Una, 11 in Kangra, 10 each in Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Mandi, seven in Shimla, three in Solan and one in Kullu.The active cases have come down to 1,472 while recoveries reached 2,14,246 after 153 people recuperated. Kangra is still the worst-hit district with a total of 49,065 cases reported till date, followed by 30,993 in Mandi and 27,246 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/102-fresh-covid-cases-detected-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101633300082651.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid warriors in Jammu and Kashmir to get weightage during recruitment of healthcare staff||Jammu and Kashmir L-G Manoj Sinha on Sunday said that Covid warriors will be given due weightage in the recruitment process of healthcare workers.Sinha made this statement when he extended for another three months the engagement period of protesting nursing staff , whose contract period had expired.He met the health workers separately at Government Medical College in Jammu and Raj Bhawan in Srinagar. The governor assured the health workers engaged on contract that new positions of paramedical staff would be identified and advertised soon. “We are indebted to health workers who have been on the forefront in the fight against the pandemic. They always go much beyond their call of duty to save precious human lives. I salute their courage and selfless service,” he said.The L-G, during the meeting at Raj Bhawan, told the senior officials that vacant nursing staff positions in the UT should be identified as soon as possible and recruitment process should be initiated to benefit the health workers.“Our health workers worked tirelessly and they deserve high praise,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-warriors-in-jammu-and-kashmir-to-get-weightage-during-recruitment-of-healthcare-staff-101633299783949.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Residential universities in Haryana to continue with online classes||Within hours after allowing residential universities in the state to hold in-person classes, Haryana government on Sunday reversed its order and directed the universities to stick to conducting classes online till further orders. “This is in modification of...order...dated October 3, 2021...Fully residential universities in the state are directed to continue conducting classes online till further orders. Matter will be reviewed after some time to decide whether classes in the physical mode will be allowed,” said chief secretary Vijai Vardhan in a fresh order.Extending the lockdown--Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana--till October 18, the chief secretary in the “corrigendum” asked the administration of the fully residential universities to get all students, faculty members and staff fully vaccinated and share the progress with the concerned departments.Earlier, on Sunday afternoon Haryana government had allowed residential universities in the state to hold in-person classes, provided they ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. A fortnight back the state government had allowed colleges and polytechnics to reopen for students while deferring the decision to start physical classes in residential universities till October 15. The state government has already restarted classes in schools from Class 1 to 12. Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) have been permitted to open for students with 100% attendance, with strict adherence of requisite social distancing norms. As per the order, the department of skill development and industrial training, Haryana, will release guidelines for implementation of these orders immediately. As festivities will follow one after the other in the coming months till December, the state government has said this is a critical period and cautioned people against the tendency to violate Covid-appropriate behaviour during festivals. Directing the deputy commissioners (DCs) to implement the orders strictly, the government has also allowed the DCs to invoke the provisions of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) of 1973, if necessary, for the enforcement of social distancing measures. The order says any person violating lockdown-related measures will be liable to be proceeded against and that all other relaxations permitted earlier will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/residential-universities-in-haryana-to-continue-with-online-classes-101633299782359.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Abhay Chautala is INLD’s candidate for Ellenabad bypoll||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) on Sunday announced that the party’s general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala will be its candidate for the Ellenabad bypoll, which is scheduled for October 30.Locals had reportedly held a panchayat at Chopta village of the constituency and asked the INLD to field its senior leader Abhay Chautala, who had resigned from the seat on January 27 this year in favour of farmers protesting against the three farm laws.Ellenabad is considered to be the bastion of OP Chautala.Abhay Chautala, who had shot to limelight after winning Sirsa’s Rori assembly seat in 2000, had secured victory from Ellenabad seat in a bypoll in 2010. He later won the same seat in 2014 and 2019 assembly polls.INLD supremo and former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala said farmers and other sections of the society are trying to get rid of the BJP-JJP dispensation and INLD will ensure that the security deposit of all candidates fighting against their nominee is forfeited. “INLD’s win will underline the simmering anger against the three farm laws among the farming community,” said the INLD supremo.After attending the mahapanchayat, Abhay said people of his constituency have invited him and asked him to contest the bypoll. “Hundreds of people gathered here to repose faith in me. We will win this seat with a thumping majority. I have an emotional connect with the people of my constituency. This bypoll will be a referendum against the three farm laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/abhay-chautala-is-inld-s-candidate-for-ellenabad-bypoll-101633297382339.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar, Dhankar to decide BJP candidate for Ellenabad||The election committee of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s on Sunday authorised chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar and state party chief OP Dhankar to finalise the candidate for the October 30 Ellenabad bypoll even as the high-powered 11-member panel discussed 17 probable candidates. In a related development coinciding with the state BJP’s poll panel zeroing on the party nominee in Chandigarh, Govind Kanda, who is elder brother of Gopal Kanda, the lone MLA of the Haryana Lokhit Party, joined the BJP in Sirsa. Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda has been supporting the BJP in the Vidhan Sabha. Asked if Govind Kanda is in the ticket race for the bypoll, Dhankar remained evasive. He said the BJP will field the candidate who will be a joint nominee of the BJP-JJP coalition for the Ellenabad bypoll. Dhankar said he will meet the leaders of the coalition partner soon to discuss bypoll-related issues. Among the prominent BJP leaders present in the meeting on Sunday were Khattar, Dhankar, former cabinet minister Ram Bilas Sharma, education minister Kanwar Pal, Sirsa Lok Sabha MP Sunita Duggal and Sirsa district BJP chief Aditya Chautala. Dhankar said the poll panel members discussed in detail the candidature of 17 probable names. Responding to a question, Dhankar reiterated that Ellenabad bypoll is an opportunity for the BJP to wrest this seat and challenge Indian National Lok Dal’s Abhay Chautala who had previously won the seat by a margin of about 12,000 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-dhankar-to-decide-bjp-candidate-for-ellenabad-101633297142493.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder’s announcement to quit Congress shameful: Punjab minister Sukhjinder Randhawa||Newly appointed Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday termed as “shameful” the announcement of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Randhawa, who visited his constituency of Dera Baba Nanak for the first time after becoming the deputy CM, said, “The Congress has had many big leaders like Partap Singh Kairon and Darbara Singh who devoted their entire life to the party and the country. The party gave Captain Amarinder everything in little over 20 years after he rejoined it. He should not degrade himself by making such statements.” The minister, who took out a roadshow, said, “Amarinder rejoined the Congress in 1997 when my father was the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president. Next year, he took reins of the party’s state unit and has held key posts since.”The government, he added, was working to resolve the issues of the Bargari sacrilege, police firing, drugs and electricity on priority. “We will come up with results soon. And there will be no discrimination with anyone,” he claimed. Randhawa said some leaders were questioning the appointments of certain officers but the government will ensure that they perform their duty with integrity. “We will not tolerate any negligence. But those who have committed wrong will not be spared,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-s-announcement-to-quit-congress-shameful-punjab-minister-sukhjinder-randhawa-101633296901939.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar asks party workers to wield sticks, kicks up row||Stirring a controversy in the backdrop of ongoing farmers’ agitation, Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday asked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s kisan morcha workers to raise groups of kisan volunteers in northern and north-western districts who can “pick up sticks”. The controversial remarks seen in a video, which went viral on social media platforms, are likely to create a storm. The reference was evidently aimed at the protesting farmers who have been chasing the ruling BJP-JJP leaders and disrupting their visits and events. “We will have to encourage upcoming farmer groups... In every district, particularly the northern and north western districts, we will have to raise groups of 500-700 kisan volunteers... And then Sathe Shathyam Samacharet (tit-for-tat). Pick up sticks,” Khattar was purportedly seen telling the workers in the video who were heard laughing at his comments. Responding to a remark by a person in the gathering (which was not audible), Khattar further told the gathering not to worry about jamanat (bail) after picking up the sticks. “If you spend a couple of months.... you will become a leader. You will learn much more than these meetings and become a tall leader. Your name will get etched in history,” he said in a reference to doing time in jail. A government official said that the chief minister’s remarks were shown selectively in the viral video. “The video lacked perspective and is misleading. It was an internal meeting of the party workers. The CM told them to oppose wrong actions but by maintaining discipline. In fact, the CM told the party workers to maintain discipline and not to take law in their hands,” said an official. Former BJP MLA Sukhwinder Sheoran, who was present at the BJP kisan morcha meeting at Khattar’s residence on Sunday, said that remarks regarding raising kisan volunteers were only aimed at countering the propaganda about the three central farm laws. The remarks drew criticism from the opposition parties. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala, in a tweet, said that rule of law cannot be maintained in the state if the CM himself speaks about inciting violence and breaking law and order. “The anti-farmer face of the BJP stands exposed. It’s time to get rid of this government,” Surjewala tweeted. Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja said, “The remarks of the Haryana CM are shameful, highly improper and condemnable. Instead of helping farmers, the CM is making highly provocative statements. What will be the fate of the state when the CM will make such instigating remarks and advise people to pick up sticks… Will our people and farmers tolerate this?”Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar also tweeted: “In his ‘call to arms’ Sh @mlkhattar has not only bared the fangs but also the ‘true colours of BJP’. Hope Supreme Court is taking note.”The fresh controversy with the “sticks” remark has come after an IAS officer posted as Karnal SDM was, in August, seen telling cops to hit the farmers on the head if they try to disrupt a BJP event. The remark and a police lathicharge at a toll plaza in Karnal fueled protests by farmers unions. The farmers relented after the government set up a commission of inquiry to probe the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-asks-party-workers-to-wield-sticks-kicks-up-row-101633296722074.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Preventive health checks mandated for Delhi cops||Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP), making the annual preventive health check-up of all police personnel above the age of 40 and upto the ranks of DANIPS (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu Police Service) officers and multi-tasking staff (MTS) mandatory and part of their annual performance assessment report.The annual confidential report (ACR) as well as the annual performance assessment report (APAR) of the police staff above the age of 40 will be considered incomplete if “annual health report is not attached with it while submitting them before the competent authority.”The police chief has also announced that like all the ‘Class-A’ officers, the other personnel will also be able to get their “comprehensive investigations and diagnostic tests” done at any Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) empanelled hospitals at ₹2,000 for male and ₹2,200 for female staff or the rates revised from time to time by the central government.Senior police officers said the decision was taken keeping in mind the welfare of the police staff and the long duty hours that they have to put in because of which they suffer from various occupational health issues and lifestyle related diseases.They said suboptimal health status has an adverse effect on the efficiency of the police personnel, apart from an adverse impact on policing. To maintain requisite fitness and alertness among the police personnel, it was important to implement an annual health check-up scheme for Delhi Police staff above the age of 40.“While IPS officers were already availing this facility, now multi-tasking staff and police staff up to the ranks of DANIPS officers will also be covered under the same scheme. It would help in early detection of any health-related ailments for timely curative measures. The step would also help monitor the health status of personnel. It is a big welfare measure that will surely boost the morale of the police force,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.In the standard operating procedure released on September 1, Asthana has mentioned that smooth implementation of the scheme and identifying and shortlisting the CGHS empanelled hospitals will be the responsibility of head of offices (HOOs) of each district and unit.As the nodal officer, one assistant commissioner of police (ACP) in each unit has been tasked to prepare a list of personnel above the age of 40, who would be sent for medical examination on prescribed dates to the identified hospitals. The ACP will also have to keep an updated record of the scheme in a register for the perusal of senior officers.“The HOOs may permit the officials to go for conducting their preventive health check-up on specified days and no leave (CL or EL) shall be deducted for their absence from office...In case one is not in a condition to get his or her preventive health check-up conducted on any day during the monthly slot allotted to him or her due to leave, illness or any emergent reason, the HOOs may consider postponing the date in the same or next month on a case-to-case basis after verifying the genuineness of the case,” said the SOP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/preventive-health-checks-mandated-for-delhi-cops-101633296322661.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers to protest outside DM offices across country today against Lakhimpur incident: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has called for a protest outside the offices of district magistrates and divisional commissioners across the country on Monday over two SUVs allegedly running over protesters in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, farmer leaders Yogendra Yadav and Darshan Pal Singh said on Sunday. They also demanded a probe into the incident by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court and not by the Uttar Pradesh administration. “To express our agitation against Sunday’s incident, the SKM calls for a protest outside the offices of district magistrates and divisional commissioners across the country between 10am and 1pm,” Singh said. The farmer leaders alleged that Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son was in one of the SUVs. “We demand that Union minister of state for home and Khiri MP Ajay Kumar Mishra be immediately dismissed from his post. A case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC should be registered against the minister’s son and other goons,” Singh and Yadav said at a virtual press conference. They claimed that at least four farmers were killed in the incident and appealed to the protesters to maintain calm. The SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, is spearheading a protest at Delhi’s borders against three agriculture laws of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-to-protest-outside-dm-offices-across-country-today-against-lakhimpur-incident-skm-101633296542095.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hindu outfit demands arrest of actors Jassie Gill, Surbhi Jyoti for hurting religious sentiments||Leaders of a Hindu outfit, Shri Hindu Takht, on Sunday said they will fast unto death until actors Jassie Gill and Surbhi Jyoti, who have headlined the web series Kya Meri Sonam Gupta Bewafa Hai? were arrested for hurting religious sentiments. Alleging that the actors had used derogatory language against Hindu gods in the web series, they threatened to block traffic at the at Jagraon Bridge on October 5, unless action was taken against them. The protesters said they had filed a complaint against the actors around 15 days ago, following which an enquiry was marked to the additional deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti. However, even after two weeks the police did not initiate an investigation.Shri Hindu Takht state president Varun Mehta said, “Rohit Bhutto district president of the organisation had staged fast unto death against police action and if action was not taken, they will intensify the protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hindu-outfit-demands-arrest-of-actors-jassie-gill-surbhi-jyoti-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-101633296482166.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Procurement begins, but no end to worries of farmers in Haryana||Though the Haryana government claimed to have started paddy procurement on Sunday, there was no end to farmers’ worries as large quantities of the grain awaited procurement despite arriving in the mandis.As per reports, procurement agency officials visited different mandis across the state but did not procure the paddy, barring from a few farmers, due to high moisture content.A commission agent from Kurukshetra’s Ladwa grain market said, “We have around 800 quintals of paddy lying in our shop but not even a single grain was procured on Sunday.”Chaos outside mandis as farmers turn up without registrationLong queues of tractor-trailers were seen at the entrance of the mandis since morning as farmers turned up without prior registration on the e-kharid portals. Due to this, they had to wait for several hours to get temporary gate passes. As per the laid down procedure, SMSes were sent to registered farmers, inviting them to the mandis on a pre-scheduled date and time for procurement, but many turned up without registration as started pressuring the administration officials to let them in.Jashmer Singh, a farmer from Ladwa, said, “I had brought my produce on September 19 as the government had earlier announced to start procurement from September 25 but later postponed it. Now, they should procure our produce on priority as we have been waiting here for more than a week.” Scheduled procurement is a pre-condition for direct payment of the minimum support price (MSP). Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board chief administrator Vinay Yadav said fresh directions have been issued that farmers who have brought their produce to mandis without registration will have to obtain an invite or schedule on the e-kharid portal. “Meanwhile, to avoid long queues outside mandis, temporary gate passes have been issued to farmers but procurement will take place only as per schedule,” he added. Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board’s zonal administrator Gagandeep Singh said, “Procurement has started in all grain markets of Karnal as per schedule. If a farmer has missed their scheduled procurement slot, then alternative arrangements will be made as per the government’s directions.” Meanwhile, light rain in different parts of Ambala caused some worry though farmers said they were able to sell their produce in a hassle-free manner. Ambala deputy commissioner Vikram appealed to farmers to bring their crops as per schedule to avoid any problems. The state government has set a target of procuring around 60 lakh MT of paddy from around 200 purchase centres this year. But officials associated with the agencies say that procurement may exceed the target due to an increase in the area under cultivation of parmal varieties. As per official data, over 40% of area under paddy cultivation, that is 5,84,000 hectares, is growing the parmal varieties.According to commission agents, the delay in procurement and lifting may create a glut in mandis. Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni has demanded that the order for scheduled procurement in all mandis is withdrawn. He also said that the government should increase the per acre limit from 25 quintals. In a videos message, Charuni also asked farmers to break the gates of the mandis if the officials do not allow them to enter the grain markets in the name of schedule or gate passes. (with inputs from Bhavey Nagpal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/procurement-begins-but-no-end-to-worries-of-farmers-in-haryana-101633296302117.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi says rulebook will decide new police chief after Sidhu rakes up issue again||Chandigarh/Morinda Hours after Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu again demanded removal of director general of police (DGP) IPS Sahota and advocate general APS Deol from his own party’s government, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday said the new police chief would be appointed as per the laid-down procedure. Channi said his government had already forwarded the names of IPS officers with 30 years of experience to the central government and was waiting for the panel of three names from them. “Thereafter, the name of the new DGP will be finalised in consultation with the PPCC chief (Sidhu), all ministers and MLAs. I have told Sidhu Saab and he already knows the names of the police officers,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a government function in Morinda. The state government has sent the names of 10 IPS officers to the Centre. The chief minister’s statement was in response to a query on Sidhu’s repeated demands, which he reiterated on Sunday, for removal of AG and DGP appointed by the new administration. Sidhu, in a tweet, said the AG and DGP must be replaced otherwise they (ruling Congress) would have no face. “Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG/DG appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face!! (sic),” he posted on the microblogging site. Sidhu had sent his resignation from the state chief’s post to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who did not accept it, a few days ago, raising questions over the two senior appointments and “tainted leaders”. The appointments of Sahota and Deol were said to be the last straw leading to his resignation as his choices for both these posts were ignored. Sidhu has minced no words in his opposition to Sahota which stems from the fact that the IPS officer had led the first SIT constituted by the then Akali government to probe the 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases. Sahota had claimed to have cracked the case and even addressed a press conference, stating that the Bargari sacrilege incident was “a handiwork of some foreign handlers”. However, his claims of purported “foreign handlers” later fell flat. The Punjab Congress chief, in a video last Wednesday, claimed that “those who tortured kids to give clean chits to the Badals were now being given plum posts”. Though Sidhu and Channi then had a meeting on Thursday to discuss their differences and agreed to set up a coordination committee under a central leader for prior consultation on all major government decisions and appointments, their two-hour-long discussion does not seem to have had the intended effect as the state party chief continues to be in a sulk. The delay in setting up the coordination panel has also not helped. On the issue of retiring government employees above 58 years, Channi said any employee who has attained the age of 58 would not be allowed to serve anymore so that the youth could be given a chance for government jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-says-rulebook-will-decide-new-police-chief-after-sidhu-rakes-up-issue-again-101633296183589.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||People of Punjab won’t forgive Amarinder if he quits Congress: Minister Raja Warring||Newly inducted Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Sunday said that former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should not leave the Congress as the people of the state had showed faith in him in the 2017 assembly elections being a part of the party. Warring, who was in Ludhiana to initiate a cleanliness drive at the local bus stand, said, “People of Punjab won’t forgive him if he leaves the Congress. He should not let them down. He is our senior leader and we all have a lot of respect for him. Also, the party has lots of expectations from him. He should resolve the internal issues or rather ignore them and think in the interest of the party.” Joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or floating his own party won’t be a good option for Captain, the minister claimed. Warring, who is considered close to Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, dodged a question whether the latter has landed the party in trouble. Sidhu recently tendered his resignation as the state party chief. “He (Sidhu) is a loyal soldier of the Congress and will continue to work for the betterment of the party,” the minister said. On chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Warring said, “He is doing a great job and will sail the party to victory in the upcoming elections by working in the interest of the people of Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/people-of-punjab-won-t-forgive-amarinder-if-he-quits-congress-minister-raja-warring-101633296181067.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Portal to lost aesthetics||Eighteen little squares are sculpted into each of the door’s two kiwaars, the shutters. A metallic chain is attached at the top. The side jambs—the chaukhat—are carved with intricate patterns. A taak—an arched niche, rarely seen in contemporary architecture—is scooped above the door, and two others are on the sides.This old-fashioned work of art must be located somewhere in an Old Delhi gali?No.This is Gurugram, the Millennium City of cloud-kissing high-rises, of malls, multiplexes, beer pubs, penthouses and multinational headquarters. But of course, the door is slightly removed from this promised land. The place is tucked away in the older part of Gurugram, in Sadar Bazar where there are no towers.This afternoon, hawkers and bazar shoppers are going past the doorway without throwing even a cursory look, as if it were just another boring piece of architecture. To add to the indifference, bikes are parked in front of the door. A tailor working nearby explains that the building is a private property, though it stays locked most of the time, with nobody inside. One anyway doesn’t need to bother about the antecedents of the building, which isn’t half as impressive as the door. It’s the wooden portal that stands out like a museum exhibit, looking completely out of place from the rest of the environs.The door is painted white. The wooden strips on either sides are carved with three separate designs, running from top to bottom. One of them consists of a decoration of flowers. The strap at the top is also patterned with flowers. The petals are indicated by a few dashes drawn inside each of these tiny oval figures, representing an individual bloom. These dashes make every flower resemble a human face—a dash at the bottom is like a smiley in one case, a sad emoji in another.A curly-edged arch possessively runs above the doorway, as if to shield it from rain and sunshine. The three taaks should have claimed attention for their exquisite wavy-shaped outlines, but the extravagant door makes them look like plainly-dressed cousins from the village.If you gaze upon the door from across the road, the panoramic perspective gives it a comical touch. The adjacent walls are in shabby yellow, making the white door look like frosting on a cake.And now another biker parks his bike in front of the doorway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-portal-to-lost-aesthetics-101633295998421.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||After seeing off son at Delhi int’l airport , Ludhiana family returns to find house burgled||A family that had been out of town since September 30, returned to find their home ransacked by burglars on Saturday. The complainant, Ritu Pal, said the accused had scaled the boundary wall to enter the house and had got into the bedroom by breaking open the window. The accused had decamped with ₹2.45 lakh cash, and gold and diamond jewellery, including two gold sets, one gold chain, one pendant, one gold ring, one diamond ring and a pair of diamond earrings.Pal said her elder son lives in Australia and her younger son was also moving abroad. Therefore, she, and her daughter-in-law and some relatives had gone to drop him at the Delhi International Airport. They left from Ludhiana on September 30. However, the flight was delayed, after which their stay in Delhi was extended. The complainant estimated a loss of around ₹7 lakh. Assistant sub-inspector Om Prakash said CCTVs were installed at the house. However, the accused took the DVR with them.A case was registered under Sections 457 (house trespassing) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-seeing-off-son-at-delhi-int-l-airport-ludhiana-family-returns-to-find-house-burgled-101633296001743.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Swachh rankings to take Delhi civic bodies’ Covid response into account||Future Swachh Bharat rankings will assess the municipal bodies of Delhi on their response to the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly the vaccination of sanitation workers and insurance cover and protective gear provided to them, senior civic officials said.But that’s not all: the overall assessment will also factor in the training provided to workers in dealing with epidemic-related emergencies and providing fair compensation to the dependents of municipal workers who have lost their lives in the line of duty.Sanitation workers were the worst-hit by the pandemic among the municipal staff. Of the 94 officially reported deaths among civic staff due to Covid, 49 were of safai karamcharis.The Swachh Survekshan is an annual national survey to assess cleanliness and sanitation in cities and towns across India. It was launched in 2016 as a part of the Swachh Bharat Mission. Barring 2018, when the south corporation fared relatively well, Delhi’s three municipal corporations have consistently performed poorly in these rankings. In the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the East Delhi civic body was ranked 46th among 47 local bodies in its category, as the South body ranked 31 and the North DMC was at 43rd .A South civic body official from the sanitation department said that the first preparatory meeting for the 2022 Swachh Survekshan happened on September 30 where the new parameters were discussed. “Of the total 2,250 points, 200 will be awarded in epidemic response preparedness; 50 points will be awarded if more than 95% of the frontline workers have been fully vaccinated, while 30 marks will be awarded if between 65 and 80% of the staff have received both doses of the vaccine,” the official said, on condition of anonymity.The municipal corporations have also been asked to provide monthly training to the frontline workers for dealing with epidemic-related emergencies. Another 30 points have been kept for adequate compensation, making it binding on corporations to offer compensation in all cases under the national insurance scheme, official added.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation lost 21 frontline workers to Covid-19. It reported having paid ₹10 lakh as compensation to 20 of them and approving payment in the pending case. Dependents of 11 of the deceased have also been provided jobsThe five local bodies of the city, including the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and Delhi Cantonment Board, will also be assessed on gear provided to sanitary workers such as personal protective equipment, fluorescent jackets, gloves and boots.In the past year, several sanitation unions have flagged the issue of lack of protective equipment during the pandemic. Deepak Pihal who heads Nigam Karamchari Ekta Manch, a union of sanitation workers, said that while most of the workers have been vaccinated, no significant progress has been made in terms of providing protective equipment or training. “Since the onset of the pandemic, we have been demanding that protective equipment be provided to us. But only tall claims have been made,” Pihal said.The new survey methodology also states that all sanitary workers will have to be trained in segregating waste, collecting waste from quarantined homes, and handling Covid waste. Sanitation workers’ unions say structural changes need to be incorporated to improve working conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/swachh-rankings-to-take-delhi-civic-bodies-covid-response-into-account-101633295687804.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three men slit 22-year-old’s throat at Ludhiana court complex||Three men overpowered a man facing drug peddling charges and slit his throat with a sharp-edged weapon at the New Court complex in broad daylight on Friday. The victim, Shubham, 22, was rushed to the hospital, and his condition remains critical. The Division 5 police have lodged an attempt to murder case against the three accused, including Sheru Bhapa of Khudd Mohalla, and his two accomplices, who are yet to be identified.The victim’s father, Raj Kumar of Dr Ambedkar Colony, a municipal corporation employee, said his son and his friend, Mohit, had come to the court complex to attend a hearing of the case. When they returned, the accused, Sheru Bhapa, who nursed an old rivalry with his son, and his accomplices were near their car. “While two men held Shubham, Sheru Bhapa slit his throat with a sharp-edged weapon,” he said. A case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 ( criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.The accused had fled with ease, taking advantage of inadequate security arrangements.Earlier, on September 6, a Jalandhar resident and his cousin were attacked by 10 unidentified men in the parking of the New Court Complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-men-slit-22-year-old-s-throat-at-ludhiana-court-complex-101633295642118.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi legal aid body kicks off awareness drive||The Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) on Sunday kick-started a 45-day legal awareness programme for the marginalised and underprivileged in the city by flagging off a cycle rally from Dwarka to celebrate ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’.The “Cycle Rally initiating a Journey towards Inclusiveness”, was organized by south-west DSLSA and was flagged off by justice Vipin Sanghi of the Delhi high court, chairperson of the legal aid body. Several judges from the high court and district courts rode on cycles, along with the differently abled participants on wheelchairs & e-rickshaws.“The event was translated in sign language by an interpreter to involve the hearing impaired participants of the programme,” a statement by Neha Priya, secretary south-west DSLA, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-legal-aid-body-kicks-off-awareness-drive-101633295317867.html
04-10-2021||Patna||RJD to contest both seats in Bihar bypolls, unhappy Congress says move humiliating||The Rashtriya Janata Dal will field its candidates from both Kusehswarsthan and Tarapur for the upcoming polls in the state. Following the nod for the names from RJD chief Lalu Prasad, party’s state unit chief Jagtanand Singh announced the names of Arun Shah and Ganesh Bharati from Tarapur and Kusehswarsthan respectively.The JD-U has already announced candidates for both the seats and may be part of a direct contest with the RJD. Ganesh Bharati, who was earlier in the JD-U and also served as a member of the Bihar Legislative Council, switched over to the RJD last year ahead of the Bihar assembly polls. Bharti is from the extremely backward class (Nonia community).However, fielding Bharti from Kusehswarsthan could be difficult for the Congress to digest, as former Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ashok Kumar, who lost narrowly last time to JD-U candidate late Shashibhushan Hazari, is eyeing the seat. This time, the late leader’s son Aman Bhushan is contesting.In Tarapur also, RJD has denied a ticket to former Union minister Jai Prakash Yadav’s daughter Divya Prakash, who was runners up to late ML Choudhary in 2020 and gone in for Arun Shah, who is from the Vaishya community. He will be pitted against JD-U’s Kushwaha candidate Rajiv Kumar Singh. JD-U reportedly wanted to give a ticket to late ML Choudhary’s son, but he refused to contest.“The names have been finalised after detailed consultations with winnability as the only factor. The party has gone for winnability. It is a fight to form the government in Bihar, as the mandate was for the RJD-led alliance and all the constituents of the alliance know its importance,” said a senior RJD leader.Congress leader Ashok Kumar, who was a strong claimant for the Kusehswarsthan seat that he also represented in the past, said the party was watching the developments and if required would contest both the seats going to bypolls. “I have been the claimant, as I have nurtured the seat. This is like humiliating the Congress. Our party Vice President Rahul Gandhi’s decision will be final in this regard and we are preparing for both seats,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjd-to-contest-both-seats-in-bihar-bypolls-unhappy-congress-says-move-humiliating-101633295521815.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Runaway pit bull terrorises Kharar residents, bites 12||A ferocious runaway pit bull bit 12 people, including three children, and terrorised the residents of the Sunny Enclave area in Kharar on Sunday. The victims, who are residents of Sector 124 in Sunny Enclave, Jandpur, Halalpur, and Jungian, were admitted to civil hospitals in Kharar and Mohali. Shivinder Singh, who resides in Sunny Enclave, said, “There was screaming in the street after a 16-year-old girl was bitten by the pit bull. A man went to save her, but the dog bit his arm as well.” Surjeet Singh, who was also bitten by the same dog, said he was riding his bike when he was attacked. He fell off the bike and suffered a fracture, in addition to a dog bite. He is admitted at the Phase 6 Civil Hospital. Kharar station house officer Ajit Pal Singh said, “At present, we have no information about the dog or its owner.” On Sunday, announcements were also made at gurdwaras of different villages, cautioning residents about the dog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/runaway-pit-bull-terrorises-kharar-residents-bites-12-101633295165315.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pedestrian killed in hit-and-run mishap in Chandigarh||In yet another hit-and-run accident, an unidentified man was run over by an unknown vehicle on the Sector 40/55 dividing road on Saturday night.Police said the victim, who appeared to be 25-30 years old, was found injured by a policeman on patrolling duty. He was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where he died during treatment.Police are going over CCTV footage along the road to identify the offending vehicle. Its unidentified driver has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 39 police station. The victim’s body has been kept at the GMSH-16 mortuary for identification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pedestrian-killed-in-hit-and-run-mishap-in-chandigarh-101633295163984.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kharar woman assaulted by boyfriend for refusing to sleep with his brother, friend||A 39-year-old woman was brutally thrashed by her 27-year-old boyfriend after she refused to sleep with his brother and friend at a hotel in Nayagaon on Saturday night.The accused, who lives in Nayagaon and is jobless, was arrested on Sunday.According to police, the victim, a resident of Sunny Enclave in Kharar, works for a private firm in Gurugram.In her complaint, she stated that she and her boyfriend went to a hotel in Nayagaon on Saturday evening. There, she alleged, her boyfriend, who was in an inebriated condition, forced her to sleep with his brother and friend, who were waiting outside their room.“When she refused, he beat her up and attacked her with a sharp-edged weapon. After she fainted, he dumped her outside the hotel and fled, but was nabbed on Sunday,” said Sunil Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Nayagaon.The victim was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh, after she was discovered in an injured state on Sunday morning. She was later shifted to a private hospital in Mohali. Her statement was recorded and the accused was booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before a court on Sunday and sent to three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharar-woman-assaulted-by-boyfriend-for-refusing-to-sleep-with-his-brother-friend-101633295108041.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali records zero Covid case for the first time ever||Worst-hit by the pandemic in the tricity, Mohali achieved the long-awaited milestone of no fresh Covid-19 case on Sunday, a first since the contagion started in March last year.Amid the peak of the pandemic in May, Mohali’s daily infections had shot up to 1,382 on May 10. Chandigarh logged its all-time high a day earlier with 895 cases and Panchkula on May 5 with 654 cases.Since the infections started ebbing away, Panchkula was the first to report no case on July 17, while Chandigarh reported the achievement on August 4.In more good news, after a virus-related death for three straight days, no fresh casualty took place in Mohali on Sunday. No fatality was reported in Chandigarh or Panchkula either.Only two new cases in tricityPanchkula reported no new case for the fourth consecutive day. With only Chandigarh logging two cases (Sectors 38 and 51), Sunday also witnessed tricity’s lowest single-day tally in over 18 months.At 74, tricity’s active cases also dropped below 80 for the first time in eight weeks. The UT and Mohali both have 34 infected patients and Panchkula six.Despite the encouraging figures, health experts have cautioned against losing guard, especially with the festive season around the corner. Covid-appropriate behaviour, including masks, hand hygiene and social distancing, must be followed to keep the third wave at bay.With no fresh case, Mohali caseload stayed at 68,746, including 67,645 recoveries and 1,067 deaths. Chandigarh has recorded 65,237 cases till date, with 64,384 recoveries and 819 deaths.Of the 30,738 cases in Panchkula, 30,355 have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-records-zero-covid-case-for-the-first-time-ever-101633295106899.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue soars in Mohali, 80% of this year’s cases in September alone||Even as September saw the Covid-19 cases waning in the tricity, dengue cases spiked to the highest since the beginning of the year.Mohali district has been hit the hardest, with 344, or 80%, of the 432 dengue cases all year surfacing in September alone. In contrast, 471 dengue cases were reported last year. The district also lost two residents to the viral infection in the first three days of October – a nine-year-old boy from Adarsh Colony in Balongi and a 20-year-old man from Zirakpur.Last month, too, a 35-year-old policeman from in Dera Bassi had succumbed due to the disease, taking the district’s toll to three this year.While Chandigarh and Panchkula aren’t as affected and have reported no fatality due to dengue, both also saw the cases rise rapidly in September. The month accounts for 59 (75%) of the 78 cases in the UT this year, and 65 (93%) of the 70 cases in Panchkula.Stating that the health department had increased surveillance and testing, Mohali’s district epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra said, “The maximum cases are surfacing in Phase 7, Balongi and Saidpur village in Dera Bassi. Residents are urged to take precautions as the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which causes dengue, breeds till the end of November.” Private hospitals to report all suspected casesCivil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur has asked private hospitals to gear up and cooperate with the health department to fight dengue and other vector-borne diseases in the district.According to health officials, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test facility was a must to detect dengue cases as simple card-based testing may lead to false results.Therefore, all private hospitals and labs need to report any suspected or confirmed dengue cases to the health department for immediate remedial measures. “There are three labs for confirmation of dengue fever at government hospitals in Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi,” Dr Kaur said. She also warned private hospitals and laboratories against overcharging dengue patients for tests and treatment, and said patients can contact the helpline 104 for complaints and queries.Early detection crucialHealth experts fear that the combination of dengue and Covid-19 can intensify the severity of both infections, as there is no specific drug for both, and the treatment mostly depends on clinical conditions and symptoms.“Since Covid and dengue have common symptoms, people must get tested for both the diseases as early detection can help them recover better. Covid is also not over yet and people must adhere to safety protocols,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, health services, Chandigarh, adding that no case of co-infection had so far been seen in the UT.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar urged residents to ensure vector-control measures at their houses and locality. She said the district education officer had also been told to sensitise schoolchildren regarding preventive measures in the school assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-soars-in-mohali-80-of-this-year-s-cases-in-september-alone-101633295105777.html
04-10-2021||Other||Armed forces crisis: Calls grow to remove Sajjan as Canadian defence minister||While minister of national defence Harjit Sajjan easily retained his seat in the House of Commons in the Federal elections in Canada, holding on to that prime portfolio may prove to be a challenge amid calls for his removal due to sexual misconduct crisis in the Canadian Armed Forces under his watch.Writing in the Ottawa Citizen, David Pugliese reported that Sajjan “isn’t expected back at national defence” and has been “largely seen as ineffective and, in the eyes of some critics, incompetent”.Meanwhile, the outlet Global News quoted Steve Saideman, director of the Canadian Defence and Security Network, describing Sajjan’s tenure as a “disaster”. He added: “If this government were to keep Sajjan on, it would send a strong message that they don’t care about women in the military.”National Post columnist Sabrina Maddeaux voiced the same view, as she wrote: “If Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is at all serious about changing the military’s toxic culture, when he names his new cabinet in October, there must be a new defence minister.”She added that Sajjan had “lost all credibility when it comes to the institution’s sexual misconduct crisis.”Former New Democratic Party leader Tom Mulcair echoed that sentiment in the outlet CTV: “Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan has been an abject failure in dealing with the issue of sexual misconduct in the military. Women who have courageously come forward have felt betrayed.”The Canadian Press reported recently that the calls for his ouster from the ministry will be very difficult for Trudeau to ignore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/armed-forces-crisis-calls-grow-to-remove-sajjan-as-canadian-defence-minister-101633295103270.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali mayor writes to Punjab local bodies minister demanding more powers for MC||Taking exception to only Mohali MC commissioner’s exclusion from the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act that allows civic bodies more control over building regulations, city mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu has written to the Punjab local bodies minister.In his letter to local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, the mayor stated, “At present, Mohali MC has control of building regulations at villages within municipal limits and control of other residential sectors vests with the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). In a meeting held in July this year, GMADA has already been requested to hand over the control of building regulations of the areas/sectors falling within MC limits at the earliest.”The letter said in 2013, the Punjab department of housing and urban development had issued a notification, wherein the commissioner of municipal corporations, under Section 2 of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act, was appointed as the competent authority to exercise and perform powers granted under Section 81 of Chapter 11 of the aforesaid Act.But the department, in a notification issued in August this year, appointed the commissioners of all municipal corporations as competent authority under the Act, while excluding only Mohali, the mayor wrote.Speaking to HT, he said the minister had been requested to make amendments in the August notification to include the Mohali MC commissioner under the ambit of the Act as well to allow MC more control of building regulations, such as approval of building plans, collection of non-construction fees and change of land use (CLU) permissions, in areas falling under its limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mayor-writes-to-punjab-local-bodies-minister-demanding-more-powers-for-mc-101633295101552.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab transport minister gets 50 private buses impounded in Ludhiana||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring had 50 private buses, which were parked on government land, challaned and impounded, on Sunday while he was inspecting the Ludhiana bus stand. The minister, who arrived at the bus stand at around 8.15am, initiated a cleanliness drive and checked the operations. Taking cognisance of the complaints filed by the roadways and PRTC bus operators during his five-hour visit, the minister observed that private buses illegally stabled outside the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Stand on government land were a menace and directed the local Regional Transport Authorities (RTA) to immediately impound the vehicles.Following the minister’s directions, Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairperson Raman Balasubramaniam wrote to the RTA on the spot, requesting that action be taken against encroachment of government land by private buses and observed that the LIT had spent crores on beautifying the spot where the bus stood and had also installed pavement tiles. Authorities also got the taxi stand cleared from the area.The RTA said, “Private buses are not supposed to be parked at the spot. Moreover, these buses do not pay any fee to the transport authorities. These buses ply illegally and gather passengers from outside the bus stand, which causes losses to the government.” Drivers say they pay ₹500 to park Warring also ordered the LIT chairman to float tenders for making a parking lot so that government land was not encroached. The driver of an impounded bus said, “We pay ₹500 to park the bus outside the bus stand. However, now officers are challaning us. This is an election stunt.”The minister also pulled up officials for neglecting cleanliness at the bus stand. He also asked authorities to take measures to check water accumulation at the bus stand and demanded that the contractor hired for the maintenance of the bus stand be suspended, which led to a spat between the contractor and the officials. Finally, the contractor agreed to increase the number of garbage carts and dustbins at the bus stand. During his inspection, Warring was seen picking up garbage. He warned officials that he would be carrying out surprise visits. Inquiry transport mafia Warring also called Ludhiana commissioner of police GPS Bhullar to seek action against the alleged bus mafia.A senior transport official, on condition of anonymity, said, “The government remained silent on the issue, despite numerous complaints from the local administration. It is only now when the elections are near that the government showing such sincerity”, said an official.On why nothing had been done to bring down the mafia so far, the minister said an inquiry will be launched into the matter. Warring said, “I am sure that officials were aware of it, but they did nothing. It is also possible that a minister may be hands in glove with the mafia. This is the first time I have heard of such a mafia. I will surely take action against the mafia.” “On Monday, we will issue a Whatsapp complaint number, on which people will be able to lodge their complaints regarding transport and may share the videos of any wrongdoing on the part of the officials,” said Warring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-transport-minister-gets-50-private-buses-impounded-in-ludhiana-101633294862994.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Vendors’ count by municipal bodies not realistic: NASVI||The National Street Vendors Association of India (NASVI) has alleged several shortcomings in the recently concluded surveys of street vendors by the town vending committees. They said the committees have identified only 71,347 street vendors during the survey between January 1 and September 30, 2021, adding that according to their assessment there were at least 200,000 street vendors in the capital.According to the data provided by the three municipal corporations, the North Delhi civic body has surveyed the maximum, 27,819, vendors in its six administrative zones, the south corporation counted 23,951 vendors and 19,577 street vendors were counted by the east civic body. Maximum vendors have been found in the central, south and City-Sadar Paharganj zones.Arvind Singh, national coordinator of NASVI, said not even 50% of street vendors have been covered in this survey. “The real number of street vendors in the city is at least 200,000. This is despite around 20% of street vendors leaving the city for their villages and hometowns during the pandemic lockdowns,” Singh said.He added that the surveying agencies have failed to consider street vendors in low-income areas and non-market areas. In some cases, they failed to recognize that some street vending activities occur at specific times in some areas. “If the survey teams do not visit the commercial areas at different times, they will fail to capture the real situation on ground,” he added.NASVI said that even the street vending Act recognizes that 5% of population could be engaged in street vending activities. According to the North MCD report, the civic body teams have surveyed 5,912 people in City Sadar Paharganj zone, 4,018 in Karol Bagh, 2,861 in Civil Lines zone, 5,334 in Keshav Puram zone, 5,080 in Rohini and 4,614 in Narela zone. Similarly, the south corporation has identified 8,140 street vendors in Central zone, 7,789 in South zone, 4,350 in West zone and 3,672 in Najafgarh.A senior municipal corporation official said the exercise is being undertaken through empanelled agencies in all municipal wards. “The survey report will be used for providing certificates to the street vendors so that they are regularised, and do not face eviction,” the official explained.“The survey reports will be put in the public domain and feedback will be sought,” the official said.NASVI has also written to Chief Justice of India alleging that street vendors have been excluded in places like Nehru place, Chandni Chowk, Sarojini Nagar and Lajpat Nagar. In some cases such as Chandni Chowk, the traders have also resisted the surveys citing that the areas are already declared as no-hawking zones.“Some areas were declared to be no-squatting zones by the courts in 2000 while the street vendors act came in 2014. Vendors who came after 2000 should not be permitted,” said Sanjay Bhargava from Chandni Chowk traders’ body.Jogi Ram Jain, standing committee chairman of the North Delhi civic body said that he was not aware of survey findings, and that he will look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vendors-count-by-municipal-bodies-not-realistic-nasvi-101633294616225.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Electricity bill subsidy a distant dream for tenants caught in power play with owners||This summer has been harsh for 40-year-old Amarjeet Chauhan, a footwear vendor who sells his merchandise on a pavement in northeast Delhi’s Sonia Vihar, and his family of six. Chauhan had to pay monthly power bills ranging from ₹400 to ₹1,200 between April and August for his two-room rented accommodation, which has two ceiling fans, two bulbs, a tube light, an old television set, and a small refrigerator.They cannot avail of government waivers such as not having to pay anything for up to 200 units a month, because they do not have a separate power connection, but a sub-meter instead.The entire building, which has five more families renting homes, has one power connection, with each household equipped with a sub-meter. While the owner of the house pays the power bill at the government subsidised tariff, he assesses the consumption of each tenant household and charges ₹9 per unit from each of them-- more than double the rate which discoms charge.“With incomes going down because of the pandemic, it was difficult to pay electricity bills. It would have been a big relief if we could have availed of the government subsidies and waivers,” said Chauhan’s wife Renuka, who works as a domestic help.A government scheme launched in September 22, 2019 allowed families, such as Chauhans — living as tenants with no separate power connection — to install proper electricity meters and avail of subsidies.Delhi has at least 4.9 million domestic power consumers.To install separate electric meters, the homeowners and tenants have to be in agreement. Many landlords often do not agree for a range of reasons beyond just additional income.“We live in an unauthorised colony. Ownership documents of properties here are not registered, legally. Having more than one power connection for one house can lead to legal complications in future,” said Balram Tyagi, a property dealer based in north Delhi’s Burari, who has five tenants in his own building.As the population in Delhi increased, hundreds of unplanned and illegal colonies mushroomed across the city. Despite some of them being regularised, Delhi still has around 1,900 such colonies on paper and at least five million people — roughly 25% of the city’s population – stay in these colonies.Akhil Monga, a landlord based in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, said, “When the tenants agree to pay rent, they also give their consent to pay power charges mentioned in the rent agreement. That way, it is legitimate income for the owner.”In two years of the government launching the scheme of separate electricity meters for tenants, only 1,019 tenants have installed meters, show government records. However, according to the government’s socio-economic survey released in 2020, Delhi has around 3.6 million households, roughly one-third of which occupy rented accommodations.“There is not much we can do if the owner of the house disagrees,” said Manik Kumar, a sanitation worker who lives with his family in south-east Delhi’s Tigri neighbourhood. “In our case, we tried convincing the owner of the house twice. He did not agree and told us that we could look for another house if we had a problem,” said KumarSeveral tenants said that even though their landlords agreed, they found the one-time payment of ₹6,000 too high in the light of adverse economic impact of the pandemic. Out of ₹6,000, half the amount is security deposit, which is refundable, and the other half is a non-refundable installation charge.Tenants who can avail of the government’s subsidised power rates said it is a big relief, especially amid a pandemic. “None of us had work for several months last year. Thankfully, we did not have to pay any power bills... In most months, we manage to keep the total monthly consumption below 200 units and avail of the 100% subsidy because we have a separate meter,” said Rakesh Singh, who lives with his wife and 10-year-old son in a rented accommodation at a slum in Deoli.A senior government official said: “The government has reduced paperwork and compliances to a minimum. A meter can be installed within 24 hours. But the government or discoms cannot get into disputes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/electricity-bill-subsidy-a-distant-dream-for-tenants-caught-in-power-play-with-owners-101633294290920.html
04-10-2021||Bangalore||NCB nabs gang delivering drugs disguised as Swiggy delivery agents||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has busted a drug trafficking gang, members of which were posing as food delivery agents for supplying drugs in Bengaluru and Shivamogga. This gang of seven people used the recent lockdown to deliver drugs across the two cities, according to a statement from NCB. According to Amit Gawate, zonal director of NCB’s Bengaluru unit, based on specific information on Thursday, they caught two residents of Bengaluru while they were in the process of taking delivery of eight boxes of the contraband from a courier vehicle and loading the same into a car. “A thorough examination revealed 137 kg of high-grade marijuana packed in paper packets wrapped with adhesive tapes, which was seized. Searches at the residence of one of the accused led to the recovery of ₹4.81 lakh cash. Packing materials used for retail packing of the contraband was also found,” read a statement from NCB. The NCB said that a Swiggy delivery executive who was about to deliver a parcel was also apprehended. NCB also claimed that during the lockdown, peddlers pretending to be agents of Swiggy delivered drugs in Bengaluru. “The traffickers, instead of going and buying the drugs, booked the drugs consignments through couriers, by giving addresses of non-functional shops or other business establishments,” the NCB said in a statement. “The kingpin, along with associates, was operating the drug trafficking on a large scale in Bengaluru City and its outskirts and were delivering the drugs to their consumers under the disguise of Swiggy delivery boys since lockdown guidelines under Covid-19 restrictions allowed such deliveries under service of essential commodities,” the NCB added. “This drug cartel has many Swiggy delivery boys in their drug syndicate who have mastered the drug delivery mechanism in Bangalore. The syndicate thrived especially during the lockdown and used to assure customers of doorstep delivery,” the NCB said in the statement. The NCB said it carried out searches at residential premises of another accused, and that it has recovered about three kilograms of ganja, packed in small packets with specific markings on it, and cash of ₹39,000. Follow-up action led to the arrest of four people in Shivamogga on Friday, October 1, including the man who has been handling the finances of the network, the agency claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ncb-nabs-gang-delivering-drugs-disguised-as-swiggy-delivery-agents-101633294382905.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Govt taking steps to check stubble burning, says Union minister||Ahead of the stubble burning season in Punjab and Haryana, Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Sunday said steps are being taken to manage paddy residue.Stubble burning in the northern part of the country has long been a major cause of air pollution.The minister said the Centre has been supported by Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi governments to deal with menace. Yadav, who is also the Union minister of labour and employment, was interacting with the media at Shram Bureau Bhawan in Chandigarh on the sidelines of the 101st foundation day celebration of the Labour Bureau.Outlining measures taken by the government to reduce stubble burning, he said: “Crop residue is not a waste anymore. It has economic viability as well. The NTPC and other thermal power plants are purchasing the crop residue. The government has given around ₹700 crore to these states for the higher use of crop residue removal machines.”After harvesting paddy, the main kharif crop, in October, farmers set their fields on fire to clear the crop residue before cultivating wheat and potato. Yadav said that some experiments have been conducted on the use of biological decomposition technology. “We have held meetings with states and control rooms have also been set up,” he said.The Union minister also mentioned about creating straw-based animal feed for the Kutch region in Gujarat.During the event he also flagged off the field work of the Area Frame Establishment Survey (AFES). “The ministry of labour and employment has entrusted the Labour Bureau with three major all-India surveys on migrant workers, quarterly establishment-based employment survey (AQEES) and domestic workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-taking-steps-to-check-stubble-burning-says-union-minister-101633294381479.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Auto driver among three held for snatching in Ludhiana||An auto driver, his tenent, and another aide were arrested for snatching near the Bajda T-point on Saturday night. A bike, and 15 mobile phones were recovered from them. The accused are Karnail Singh, 50, of Chaunta village, his tenant, Ritik Mishra, 22, of Gonda of Uttar Pradesh and Harish Kumar, 20, of Model Colony.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, investigation) Pawanjit said, “Acting on a tip off, we stopped the bike-borne accused for checking. The accused failed to produce documents for the bike and confessed that they had stolen the bike from a man at Seeda Road. Later, 15 snatched mobiles were also recovered.” The ACP said the accused would target labourers returning from factories and commuters travelling on isolated roads. “Karnail Singh, an auto driver, was already facing trial in a case of drug peddling and assault, and is out on bail. Mishra is a drug addict and Harish is an electrician,”said the ACP.A case was registered under Sections 379B (theft) and 411 (receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at the Meharban police station .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-driver-among-three-held-for-snatching-in-ludhiana-101633294081551.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pre-poll alliance between Captain and BJP possible: Pargat||Firing another salvo at Captain Amarinder Singh, Punjab sports minister Pargat Singh said the former chief minister’s new party will ultimately be supported by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and possibly, both will go for 2022 Punjab assembly elections with a pre-poll alliance. Pargat, who is MLA from Jalandhar cantonment, made this statement a day after he accused Amarinder of being responsible for a conspiracy to delay paddy procurement in the state.Interacting with the media at the grain market near HMV College in Jalandhar while starting the paddy procurement process on Sunday, Pargat said he was I was already saying that Amarinder was more inclined towards the BJP and the Shiromani Akali Dal. “Capt’s party will ultimately be supported by the BJP as he has already met Amit Shah. It is possible they form an alliance before the 2022 elections. He has been keeping such alliances since the beginning,” said Pargat. On the DGP appointment issue, the minister said a high-powered committee has been formed the resolve the issue. Amarinder hits back Meanwhile, Capt Amarinder on Sunday hit out at Pargat for accusing him of colluding with the BJP government at the Centre to delay paddy procurement. Calling his statement “nonsense”, Amarinder asked the newly-appointed minister if he any proof for these lies. “What nonsense? Do you really think the people of Punjab will believe I’d ever collude with @BJP4India to delay procurement? And have you forgotten it affected BJP-led Haryana too? Or are you too naïve to understand these things?” Amarinder said to Pargat in a hard-hitting tweet posted by his media adviser. The two-time former CM further said that he expected honesty from a former Indian hockey captain. “And do you have any proof for these lies? Or are you so irresponsible you believe you can get away with such trash? People of Punjab know me & know I always have & will stand with the farmers. I expect honesty from a former Indian hockey Capt,” he said in another post on the microblogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prepoll-alliance-between-captain-and-bjp-possible-pargat-101633294021453.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pick up sticks against opponents: Haryana CM Khattar||Stirring a controversy in the backdrop of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday asked Bharatiya Janata Party’s kisan morcha workers to raise groups of volunteers in northern and north-western districts who can “pick up sticks” to take on opponents.The reference was evidently aimed at the farmers who have been protesting the ruling BJP-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leaders in the state and disrupting their visits and events.“We will have to encourage upcoming farmer groups... In every district, particularly the northern and north western districts, we will have to raise groups of 500-700 kisan volunteers... And then Sathe Shathyam Samacharet (tit for tat). Pick up sticks,” Khattar was seen telling the workers, who were heard laughing at his comments in a video shared widely on social media.Responding to a remark by a person in the gathering (which was not audible), Khattar further told the gathering not to worry about jamanat (bail) after picking up sticks. “If you spend a couple of months.... you will become a leader. You will learn much more than these meetings and become a tall leader. Your name will get etched in history,’’ he said in a reference to doing time in jail.A government official said the chief minister’s remarks were shown selectively in the viral video. “The video lacked perspective and is misleading. It was an internal meeting of party workers. The chief minister told them to oppose wrong actions but by maintaining discipline. In fact, the chief minister told the party workers to maintain discipline and not to take the law in their hands,’’ the official said, requesting anonymity.Former BJP MLA, Sukhwinder Sheoran, who was present at the BJP kisan morcha meeting at Khattar’s residence on Sunday, said the remarks regarding raising volunteers were only aimed at countering the propaganda about the three central farm laws.The remarks drew criticism from opposition parties. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said in a tweet that rule of law cannot be maintained in the state if the chief minister himself speaks about inciting violence and breaking law and order. “The anti-farmer face of the BJP stands exposed. It’s time to get rid of this government,” Surjewala tweeted.The fresh controversy over the “sticks” remark has come after an IAS officer posted as the Karnal SDM was in August seen telling cops to hit farmers in the head if they try to disrupt a BJP event. The remark and a police lathi charge at a toll plaza in Karnal fuelled protests by farmers unions. The farmers relented after the government set up a commission of inquiry to probe the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pick-up-sticks-against-opponents-haryana-cm-khattar-101633293175606.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Exam held for 560 posts of SIs in Punjab Police scrapped, fresh schedule soon||Amid reports of cheating and malpractices, the Punjab government on Sunday scrapped the examinations conducted to fill 560 posts of sub-inspectors (SIs) in the police force. The police department took the decision on the directions of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The common computer-based tests to recruit SIs in four cadres (investigation, district, armed police and intelligence) were held from August 17 to August 24 at different centres in the state.A fresh schedule of the recruitment process will be notified shortly. A state government spokesperson said that complaints of malpractices were received from Mohali, Patiala and Khanna and three FIRs were registered in this regard. On September 15, the director general police (DGP) had constituted a special investigation team (SIT) led by ADGP Parmod Ban to probe the matter. “The SIT has arrested 20 accused wanted in three FIRs”, added the spokesperson. The recruitment board constituted for the recruitment had also recommended scrapping of examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exam-held-for-560-posts-of-sis-in-punjab-police-scrapped-fresh-schedule-soon-101633292821179.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Punjab CM Badal hits campaign trail, says farmers wrongly demonising Akali Dal||Five-time Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Sunday said that the protesting farmer unions were wrongly demonising the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and appealed to them to acknowledge what he termed as the party’s “contribution to the welfare of the peasantry”.At a political event in Bathinda to demand compensation for cotton growers for the loss caused due to the pink bollworm attack, the nonagenarian Akali patriarch termed Lok Sabha MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Union cabinet as their party’s commitment to fight for the cause of farmers. The 93-year-old leader made his first public appearance in Punjab in the last over two years. “When new agriculture laws were being framed, Harsimrat advised the Centre to consult the farmers before finalising them. When the Union government did not pay heed to our appeals, ours was the only party that cast a vote against the Bills on the floor of the House. She quit the ministerial position in protest. Can there be a bigger contribution n than this?” he asked the farmer associations which have been opposing the SAD events.The rally was held a month after SAD-BSP alliance was forced to shelve election campaign ‘Gall Punjab Di’ after farmer union activists created a ruckus at party president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s event in Moga on September 3.Addressing the gathering, Sukhbir said the party would gherao the residence of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi if the affected cotton farmers are not paid a compensation of ₹50,000 per acre within a week.Touching on the panthic agenda, the Badal senior said the SAD was the real custodian of khalsa (Sikhism) and Punjab heritage that understands the aspirations of Punjabis. But he was quick to vouch for the “secular credentials” of the party, saying it had always given political representation to leaders from all faiths and castes.Taking potshots at the Congress, he said, “It is a baseless allegation that then SAD government mishandled the incidents of sacrilege. The Congress should answer who was behind the attack on the Harmandir Sahib and anti-Sikh riots of 1984,” he said.The 93-year-old spoke non-stop at the rally for 35-minutes. He, however, fumbled while greeting leaders from the dais as “friends from the BJP”, the Akali Dal’s former ally for 25 years.The protest rally was well-attended but the party activists were unresponsive, a fact that was pointed out by Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expunjab-cm-badal-hits-campaign-trail-says-farmers-wrongly-demonising-akalidal-101633292462425.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bhiwani youth found dead in Zirakpur hotel||A 23-year-old man was found dead in a hotel room at Baltana in Zirakpur on Sunday.According to police, the youth, who hailed from Bhiwani, Haryana, was suspected to have died by poisoning, but an autopsy will establish the exact cause of death. The hotel alerted the police around noon on Sunday that a youth who had rented a room on Saturday was not opening the door. On reaching the spot, police opened the door and found him lying unconscious. “He was rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared him dead. No suicide note was recovered,” said assistant sub-inspector Jashanpreet Singh, in-charge of Baltana police station.The deceased’s family members had been informed and further action will be taken after autopsy, he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhiwani-youth-found-dead-in-zirakpur-hotel-101633292221287.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy procurement kicks off at 21 centres in Mohali||Paddy procurement began in Mohali on Sunday, with farmers starting to bring in their produce at 21 centres in the district.District agriculture officer Gurdial Singh said though Mohali had 30 procurement centres, for now, paddy will be procured at 21 of these and a decision regarding the rest will be taken in a couple of days. Last year, 1,54,812 MT paddy crop arrived in the district and 100% of it was bought by various government procurement agencies.This year, besides the Food Corporation of India, four state agencies – Pungrain, Markfed, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation and Punsup – will purchase the produce against a minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,960 per quintal for A-grade paddy.On Day 1, deputy commissioner Isha Kalia visited the New Grain Market in Kurali to review the arrangements.She said all sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and chiefs of all procurement agencies had been asked to personally supervise the procurement operations.Special instructions had been issued to the officials for timely payment to farmers, she said, adding that every single grain of paddy will be lifted in a smooth and hassle-free manner.The deputy commissioner appealed to farmers to bring in moisture-free grains and avoid burning stubble, which was a major environmental hazard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-procurement-kicks-off-at-21-centres-in-mohali-101633292163024.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||In 2020, Ludhiana was only city with PNDT cases||In 2020, Ludhiana was the only city where unauthorised scanning centres, where pre-natal gender determination tests are carried out, were caught operating, the National Crime Records Bureau data has revealed. Among the 34 cities surveyed, only Ludhiana had registered four cases under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT) Act, which has been enacted to stop female foeticide and balance the sex ratio in India . Of the four cases registered under the PNDT Act in Ludhiana, three had been registered by the Haryana health department, which raided the illegal sex determination centres, acting on a tip-off. The city also registered four cases under the Juvenile Justice Act, the highest among 34 cities. It tied for the top position with Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli, while two cases each were registered in Kerala’s Thissur and Tamil Nadu’s Madurai. Lodges highest cases of child labour The industrial hub also lodged four cases under The Child Labour (Prohibition And Regulation) Act, the highest among all surveyed cities; the Union Territory of Chandigarh also reported two cases, ranking second. The city also reported eight cases of child marriage in 2020. The highest cases of child marriage were reported from Faridabad in Haryana.Ranks first in state in crimes against childrenOverall, the city recorded 225 cases of crimes against children, which saw a decline as compared to the 328 cases reported in 2019 and 352 in 2018. However, the city still reported the highest crimes against children in the state. Mohali ranked second with 139 cases, while 129 cases were reported from Sangrur and 128 from Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-2020-ludhiana-was-only-city-with-pndt-cases-101633291922872.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three children drown in Mansa pond||Three children drowned in a pond at Mansa districts’ Mann Bibrian village on Sunday. Among the three victims, two were siblings. The victims have been identified as six-year-old Dilraj Singh and his brother Luvraj Singh, 9, and their friend Husanpreet Singh, 13. Parents of the deceased are labourers. Police said prima facie no foul play is suspected but the matter is being probed by the Sadar police station in Mansa. According to villagers, the children were playing when they accidentally reached from the shallow level to deep inside the pond.The bodies were shifted to the Mansa civil hospital for post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-children-drown-in-mansa-pond-101633291921377.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP deliberates on candidates for Himachal bypolls||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) election committee met at Dharamshala on Sunday to deliberate on the probable candidates for the bypolls slated at the end of this month for Mandi parliamentary constituency and three assembly segments of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai. The poll panel includes Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, Union sports minister Anurag Thakur, state party chief Suresh Kashyap, BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh, state party incharge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, BJP organisational secretary Pawan Rana, former state party chief Satpal Singh Satti, former Speaker Rajiv Bindal and party general secretaries Trilok Jamwal, Trilok Kapoor and Rakesh Jamwal. Sources said that the election committee meeting, which was underway till the filing of this report, would pick two names from each constituency, which will be sent to the party’s parliamentary board for the final approval. Earlier, while speaking to the media, state party chief Kashyap had expressed confidence that the BJP will win all four bypolls. He said the development will be the main poll plank of the party. “Jai Ram Thakur-led government has done unprecedented development in the state,” he added. He said the Congress lacks leadership and commitment. Mandi Lok Sabha seat has been vacant since the death of Ramswaroop Sharma in March this year. The Arki seat fell vacant after six-time CM Virbhadra Singh died on July 8, while the Jubbal-Kotkhai incumbent MLA Narendra Bragta passed away in June. Former transport minister Sujan Singh Pathania, who represented Fatehpur, had died in February. The election committee also held a meeting with incharges appointed for the byelections, including state industries minister Vikram Singh Thakur, power minister Sukhram Chaudhary, forest minister Rakesh Pathania, health minister Rajiv Sehjal, education minister Govind Thakur, Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur and former state president Rajeev Bindal. The incharges have suggested forming a panel to hold talks with disgruntled leaders. The BJP fears rebellion by former MP Maheshwar Singh in Mandi. He is a former three-term MP from Mandi parliamentary seat. He holds sway in some pockets. It is worth mentioning that the party has been considering the names of state Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh and education minister Govind Thakur for the Mandi Lok Sabha ticket. Besides them, Pankaj Jamwal, the BJP leader from Jogindernagar and the younger brother of BJP organisational secretary for the seven northeast states Ajay Jamwal, is also vying for the ticket. Others are CM’s close aide Nihal Chand, who was the Milkfed chairperson, and Kargil hero Brigadier Kushal Thakur. Ajay Rana, the BJP spokesperson, is also vying for ticket, besides state media coordinator Praveen Sharma. The Mandi seat is also a litmus test for Jai Ram Thakur for being his home turf. In Jubbal-Kotkhai, Narendra Bragta’s son Chetan is the front-runner among the probables. However, former zila parishad member Neelam Seraik, who also has a strong vote base, is also vying for the ticket. It would be a challenge for the BJP to prevent any rebellion as it may harm the party’s prospects in the elections. On the Arki seat, the BJP is already facing revolt by former MLA Govind Ram Sharma. The BJP is said to be unanimous on the name of Rattan Pal Singh. However, Sharma has announced to contest as an Independent, posing a challenge to the saffron party. In Fatehpur, former MP Kripal Parmar and local leader Baldev Thakur are the main contenders. If Baldev is denied the ticket, he may revolt as he has done in the past. In 2017, Baldev had secured more than 13,000 votes when he contested as an Independent and was the reason behind BJP candidate Parmar’s defeat. Another BJP rebel, former MP Rajan Sushant, is also considering to contest from Fatehpur and would only dent the BJP’s prospects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-deliberates-on-candidates-for-himachal-bypolls-101633291861382.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||JEE Advanced conducted in Chandigarh||After four sessions of JEE Main, the advanced exam for admission to undergraduate courses in various Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) was conducted on Sunday. The top 2.5 lakh candidates in the JEE Main exam were eligible to appear for the advanced exam, which was conducted smoothly in the city in two shifts. Kunal Singh, who runs a coaching centre in Chandigarh, said, “The second paper was longer than the first, and mathematics and physics were tough and exhaustive. The questions were multi-conceptual, with diverse topics weaved together, and only conceptually strong candidates will be able to clear it.”The provisional answer key will be available online on October 10. The final answer key and result is likely to be declared on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jee-advanced-conducted-in-chandigarh-101633291741368.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav: Women, kids participate in large numbers at Sukhna Lake cycle rally||Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit flagged off a cycle rally organised by Chandigarh Smart City Limited as part of the 75th Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav from Sukhna Lake to Shanti Kunj on Sunday.The rally started off at Sukhna Lake and the total route was 7.5-km long. The highlight of the event was that almost 50% of participants were women and enthusiastic participation by Junior Bicycling Champions.Speaking on the occasion, the governor said that cycling is the best way to get in shape, enjoy the outdoors and have fun while doing it. He said that by riding the cycle for 30 minutes every day, a person would build lean muscle, boost metabolism and dramatically decrease chances of acquiring heart disease.Another objective of the event was to make the participants aware about the benefits of bicycling and also to empower citizens from all walks of life to adopt bicycling in their daily routine and leave their worry of parking vehicles aside. The rally ended at Shanti Kunj, Sector 16, where the Junior Bicycle Champions were felicitated along with women participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-women-kids-participate-in-large-numbers-at-sukhna-lake-cycle-rally-101633291261227.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress a sinking ship: Former minister Vijai Mankotia||Former minister Vijai Singh Mankotia on Sunday took a dig at the Congress, calling it a sinking ship. Addressing a press conference, Mankotia, who had been lying low for quite long, said since Himachal was set for a bypoll, whatever has happened in Punjab, would impact the election outcome here. “Captain Amarinder Singh was one of the tallest leaders in Punjab. He is and will remain so. If one thinks that his resignation would not affect Himachal, he is mistaken. This episode would affect the entire north India,” said Mankotia. He said that Captain has hinted at floating a new party along with other disgruntled leaders. “In such a situation, it seems that at present the Congress is completely on its downfall,” Mankotia said, adding that Amarinder had already said that former PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was a traitor. “Due to him, not only Punjab but Himachal as well as entire country faces a security threat. Pakistan and China want to destabilise India though Sidhu. This problem should be solved at the national level,” he said.“It (Congress) is a sinking ship. Many leaders have left and others are leaving. Just about four days ago, a former Congress CM of Goa joined the TMC,” he said.“Gradually, we are heading for a showdown within the Congress. I fear there would be a vertical split in the party,” said Mankotia.He said the G-23 leaders who had sought a change in the party leadership would also take some decision sooner or later.The protest outside former Union minister Kapil Sibbal’s house was an indicator what is going to happen, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-a-sinking-ship-former-minister-vijai-mankotia-101633290542346.html
04-10-2021||Pune||20 years of GMRT: Two-day online programme organised by NCRA||On October 4, the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) operated by the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (NCRA-TIFR) Pune, will mark 20 years of existence. The GMRT was formally inaugurated and dedicated to the global astronomy community on October 4, 2001. To celebrate these 20 years, NCRA has organised a two-day online programme. Under this, highlights of scientific and engineering achievements and milestones over the years, review of the impact that the GMRT has had, future prospects for the facility, release of certain new data products, and analyses tools will be showcased in different sessions. There will be four sessions of three hours each, over two days, each having a mix of science and engineering presentations, release events, discussion sessions, and some commemorative events. “We look forward to participation of a wide range of people who have been associated with the GMRT over the years, either as planners or designers, builders or users of the facility,” said Prof Yashwant Gupta, centre director, NCRA. For details of the programme go to: https://conf1.ncra.tifr.res.in/event/8/overview||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/20-years-of-gmrt-two-day-online-programme-organised-by-ncra-101633290182034.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 25 new Covid cases||Punjab on Sunday recorded 25 new Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,01,722, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid related fatality was reported in the state of Sunday and the death toll stood at 16,520, the bulletin said. Of the new cases, 13 were reported from Fazilka, followed by three each in Jalandhar and Amritsar, the bulletin said.The number of active cases in the state stands at 286, according to the bulletin.Eighteen people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those cured to 5,84,916, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-25-new-covid-cases-101633290180797.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kharga Corps cycle rally flagged off in Ambala Cantt||A cycle expedition was organised by the Deep Striker Division to commemorate the Golden Jubilee celebrations of the Kharga Corps, which was raised in October 1971. The expedition, flagged off by General Officer Commanding Lt Gen NS Raja Subramani on Sunday, will culminate at National War Memorial, New Delhi, on October 6. Total 25 cyclists will cover a total distance of 702 km crossing Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR.Tricity schools to participate in international quiz Chandigarh Jointly hosted by Ideas That Matter, Shoolini University’s outreach team, and Faculty of Management Sciences and Liberal Arts (FMSLA), Q?riosity 2021 was launched on Sunday virtually. From the tricity, schools that will participate include Mount Carmel School, Carmel Convent School, Delhi Public School, Shivalik Public School, Gurukul Global School, Sri Guru Gobind Singh Collegiate Public School, Learning Paths School, Hans Raj School and Bhavan Vidyalaya.Ojaswini shines in IGU event Chandigarh Mohali Golf Range trainee Ojaswini Saraswat added another feather to her cap by winning the Indian Golf Union (IGU) feeder tour sub juniors’ girls E category, which concluded at the FRIMA Golf Course in Dehradun on Sunday. Eight-year-old Ojaswini had scores of 36 and 34 for a total of 2 under par 70 in the 2 day tournament where the par score for 9 holes was 36. She had 4 birdies and one eagle in the two rounds and won by a staggering 12 strokes from her nearest competitor.Sanitation workers felicitatedChandigarh Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Sunday felicitated safai mitras and frontline workers at Tagore Theatre in Sector 18 on the closing day of “Safai Mitra Amrit Samman Samaroh” organised by the municipal corporation.Punjab U-19 lads log win over KeralaChandigarh Punjab recorded a fine nine-wicket win over Kerala in their Elite Group D match during the Vinoo Mankad U-19 Trophy in Hyderabad on Sunday. Batting first, Kerala team were bundled out for 120 runs in 42.5 overs. Rohan Nair scored 25 runs off 58 balls and Omar Abubacker made 25 runs off 29 balls. Punjab completed the target of 121 in just 34.1 overs losing only one wicket.PU webinar on Gandhi JayantiChandigarh Panjab University’s Centre for Systems Biology and Bioinformatics and girls’ hostel number 4 organised a webinar to mark the 152th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Satya Pal Jain, additional solicitor general of India and former MP from Chandigarh, in his inaugural address advised participants to inculcate in themselves high moral values of non-violence, truthfulness, simple living and high thinking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharga-corps-cycle-rally-flagged-off-in-ambala-cantt-101633290060894.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Badminton coach accused of molesting minor student in Pimpri-Chinchwad, arrested||A badminton coach, 36, was remanded to the custody of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for molesting his minor pupil, 14, during practice at the Balewadi stadium over the weekend.The accused is a resident of Mhalunge, Mulshi, and was arrested 10 hours after the incident on Saturday. He works at a major badminton academy that has several students in school-going children and working professionals.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the teenaged girl who takes coaching from the accused. The complainant told the police that he sent her to the locker cabinet in the gym to put the shuttle box in one of the lockers. When she was in the locker cabinet, the man approached her under the guise of congratulating her for her performance but instead, restrained her and touched her inappropriately. The complainant told the police that she immediately pushed the coach and ran but he tried to hold her back and failed.Police sub-inspector Kiran Kanse of Hinjewadi police station said, “We have him in custody until tomorrow (Monday). The complainant ran and told her mother who brought her to the police station. We are investigating him further. So far, there is no CCTV coverage near the locker area.”A case under sections 354, 354(a) and 354(d) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with sections 7 with 8 and 9(o) with 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), 2012, was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/badminton-coach-accused-of-molesting-minor-student-in-pimpri-chinchwad-arrested-101633289880702.html
04-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police book 200 people for vandalising Church in Roorkee||The Uttarakhand police has booked 200 people for allegedly vandalising a Church in Roorkee while Sunday prayers were going on there, accusing people running it of converting locals to their faith. The accused have been booked for rioting, theft, trespassing and voluntarily causing hurt under varied sections of Indian Penal Code. The incident occurred at Solanipuram Colony in Roorkee where the Church is located. According to people offering prayers, around 10 am, a mob comprising of some women also, arrived in the prayer hall raising slogans against church missionaries. The mob, comprising of right-wing activists, alleged Christian missionaries and worshippers of carrying out religious conversion of some Hindus under the garb of charity work in the area. The mob vandalised the Church and also physically manhandled some Christian devotees and representatives who tried to calm them down and intervene. “Following the preliminary investigation, a case has been filed against 200 people. An inspector rank officer has been directed to look into the matter,” said Circle Officer Roorkee Vivek Kumar. Kumar said police has registered a case of rioting, theft, trespassing and voluntarily causing hurt under varied sections of Indian Penal Code at Civil Lines police station. Station house officer Civil Lines Amarchand Sharma said that police reached the spot as soon as they got information about the violence. He said police deployment has been done at the place with senior police officials also visiting the prayer house. N Wilson, who is associated with the Church for the past few years, denied allegations of religious conversion or any such activity happening at the place of worship.He said for the past two decades regular prayers, mass meetings and charity related activities were being carried out from the Church. Madan Kaushik, BJP state president said that religious conversion would not be allowed in the state. Kaushik also questioned the prayer house being called a church by some sections of the society. He claimed it is not a church but a residence where suspicious gatherings were being held. Congress state vice president Dhirendra Pratap condemned the hooliganism and targeting of Christians by right-wing Hindu activists blaming BJP for fuelling communal tension ahead of assembly election in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-police-book-200-people-for-vandalising-church-in-roorkee-101633289823574.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC directs Mohali admn to carry out repair works in Kansal||Coming out in support of local residents of Kansal village, the high court of Punjab and Haryana directed the UT administration to carry out necessary repair and maintenance work of basic amenities and submit the report of the work done by the next hearing date.Kansal Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association, Mohali, had filed a plea demanding repair and maintenance of basic amenities in the area. It was filed after the HC’s stay on demolition and construction activity in the Sukhna catchment area.The court observed that the indulgence sought by applicants was regarding basic amenities, which were necessary for a safe and healthy living of residents as raised within the Master Plan area, that too after taking necessary approvals and sanctions from local authorities.Applicants’ counsel submitted a short reply by the National Institute of Hydrology, as per which “the construction in Kansal village is not a hindrance in or affecting the flow of water to the lake”.It concluded that, “Under natural conditions of drainage, there is no possibility of decrease in the flow towards the lake due to construction activities.”Taking note of the reply, the judge stated that the court cannot shut its eyes to the health, hygiene and safety of the residents of Kansal area, “especially when this court stayed the demolition of constructions raised in the catchment area”.The court directed the authorities to carry out necessary and basic repair, maintenance, development works of roads, sewerage, drainage, water supply and electricity in the said area.Residents can also approach the deputy commissioner concerned “who shall initiate necessary appropriate action within a week of such grievance(s)”, the judge stated.The court has sought a report of such work on or before the next date of hearing, November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-directs-mohali-admn-to-carry-out-repair-works-in-kansal-101633289822196.html
04-10-2021||Pune||History-sheeter attacks business man in Nana peth; accused on the run||A man with a history of violent cases is on the run from the police for trying to kill a local transport business owner in Nana peth on Thursday, for refusing to give him money.“We are looking for him. He has a history of four cases of causing bodily harm. He had gone to the complainant on September 28 and asked for Rs10,000 as loan. The man refused to give him the money,” said sub- inspector (PSI) Shivraj Hale of Samarth police station, who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Jameer Shaikh (33), a resident of new Nana peth.Shaikh had come to a pan kiosk in the ED Camp chowk area when the man arrived with a sickle and started abusing him, according to the complaint.The accused landed the sickle on his head and caused a severe injury. As a result, shops in the area shut and people ran away, according to the police.Shaikh told the police that he did not know the accused well but he had come to his shop two days before the incident and asked for ₹10,000. Shaikh had refused to give him the money. He is facing past cases of voluntarily causing hurt using dangerous weapons, theft, and robbery, according to PSI Hale.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 504, 506 of Indian Penal Code along with sections of the Arms Act and the Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/historysheeter-attacks-business-man-in-nana-peth-accused-on-the-run-101633289643487.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Bharat Itihas Sanshodhak Mandal in Pune to digitise 250K rare documents||In a bid to preserve the past for posterity, the Bharat Itihas Sanshodhak Mandal, one of the oldest institutions in the city, has decided to digitalise nearly 250,000 (2.5 lakh) rare, historic documents, letters and other scripts written in Sanskrit, Marathi, Kannada, Persian and other languages that are housed in their library.The information is at least over 700 years’ old from the time of Chhattrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the Marathas, Peshwas and Shahu Maharaj and has been meticulously assembled and stored over the past many years from various parts of the country. While it has been carefully conserved till date, digitalisation will help researchers and historians take this wealth of knowledge into the future.Senior historian and secretary of Bharat Itihas Sanshodhak Mandal, Pandurang Balkawade, said, “We have decided to digitalise all our rare documents and letters available at the library. It is a five-year project as the number of documents is huge with around 2.5 lakh rare historic papers and letters. The formal tender of this work is going to be finalised within one month and then the actual work will start. It will certainly help to take these historic documents forward to preserve them in digital format for researchers ahead and to find new things about our history.”Bharat Itihas Sanshodhak Mandal was founded by historians V K Rajwade and Khanderao Mehendale on July 7, 1910. Its main building is located at Sadashiv peth next to Bharat Natya Mandir auditorium. Meanwhile, the renovation work of this over 100 years’ old building is also being planned by the management.“The building has become old and needs to be renovated so we have decided to renovate it without hampering its historic value. Nothing new will be built, only the damaged parts and some minor changes and repair works will be undertaken. The budget for this renovation will be around ₹1 crore and we are working on finalising its tender,” said Balkawade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bharat-itihas-sanshodhak-mandal-in-pune-to-digitise-250k-rare-documents-101633289461722.html
04-10-2021||Pune||1.5K driving licences suspended by Pune RTO in 4 years||The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has suspended 1,500 driving licences in the last four years in Pune. As per information released by the Pune RTO, in 2018, 685 licences were suspended, while that figure in 2019 was 505. In 2020 it was 257, and currently, in 2021, 50 driving licences have been suspended as of September 30. So a total of 1,497 driving licences have been suspended by the Pune RTO for violation of traffic rules under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act. The licence suspensions are for those who are repeat offenders and offences include driving under the influence of alcohol, speaking on a mobile phone while riding a bike or driving a car, and breaking the red light at a signal, among others.The RTO’s special ‘Vayuveg Pathak’ squads have used data shared by the Pune traffic police to track the repeat offenders.“When we receive cases from the Pune traffic police department, our squads take action. If a person is found repeatedly breaking a traffic law, then the licence is suspended,” said deputy regional transport officer (RTO), Sanjeev Bhor. “Now we have got interceptor vehicles, with which it will be easy and accurate to observe and take action against traffic violators. These modern, fully equipped interceptor vehicles will be beneficial for our flying squads patrolling the highways. With the newly introduced e-challan system tracking offences will be easier,” added Bhor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/15k-driving-licences-suspended-by-pune-rto-in-4-years-101633289160828.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Countdown to Pune polls: Civic issues plague Khadakwasla||The lungs of Pune city. That is the fast-catching on descriptor for all the hills that surround the city’s urban landscape, and as that population grows, the hills that are increasingly part of the city.The assembly seat of Khadakwasla may well be the epicentre of that ecological pattern for Pune - it has plenty of hills.One main point of discussion when it comes to Khadakwasla though, with the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) elections on the horizon, centres around the word “construction”.That is the tightrope any, and all, candidates contesting the civic elections from this seat must contend with. Sustainable development of this mega-urban settlement of Pune is at stake.A major problem in PMC wards here is the regularising of small constructions, qualified as they are, as “illegal.” Even as the state government gave permission to regularise homes built under the gunthewari scheme, PMC has not started the procedure yet. The apathy of PMC and district administration has led to illegal structures flourishing on various hills in Katraj-Sinhgad stretch, which are otherwise is ecologically rich. The lungs of the city getting clogged. The wards under the Khadakwasla assembly constituency - Warje, Karvenagar, Dhankawadi - have a mixed population - urban and rural. The area covers Dandekar bridge to Singhgad fort, Warje, Bavdhan and then it is connected to Ambegaon, Katraj road and Dhankawadi, towards Satara road. Last week, Nitin Gadkari, Union minister for highways, was in Pune to lay the foundation stone for the proposed flyover on Sinhgad road. Gadkari asked the PMC to rethink its existing design and instead a multi-level structure, which can facilitate road traffic, as well as a Metro line. Gadkari’s suggestion was apt. However, it should have come years ago and the civic body might have acted on it bringing relief to the daily traffic jams that plague the area. Known to be Pune’s entry-exit points on the south, the Katraj to Sinhgad road stretch has witnessed a massive growth in population. After its merger with PMC in 2018, when the state government included 23 villages in the municipal limits, the areas along the Katraj-Sinhgad road have seen major real estate development. For Amol Tonpe, a call centre employee, negotiating Navale bridge daily is a nightmare due to increased traffic. “I am staying at Ambegaon behind the Shiv Shrusti. There is a need for another underpass at the Katraj-Navale bridge stretch, as the existing underpass is not enough. While the service road construction is underway, it is tough to ride a bike due to the work going on,” said Tonpe (34), a resident of Sai siddhi society Its’ been two years, and the road widening work undertaken by the Central Public Works Department between Navale bridge-Katraj is on. There is no sign it will be over soon. Citizens feel service roads, currently being developed till Navale bridge, should be extended up to Warje due to heavy traffic. “I need to travel everyday towards Hinjewadi. Many IT employees like me travel on the highway, which sees movement of heavy traffic. If there are service roads, we can avoid speeding trucks,” said Chetan Desle, an IT professional, who resides in a bungalow in the area.With the Katraj-Navale bridge stretch announced as part of the national Highway, Nitin Gadkari has shown an interest to allocate funds for various projects here which include another proposed flyover at Katraj square. For years, citizens living in areas under Dhankawadi, Sinhgad road and Warje ward offices of PMC have been deprived of basic amenities like roads and planned development. Five years ago, when local residents chose BJP and NCP (Supriya Sule is the MP of this area) in these areas, many thought they will see development. However, what they have got in return is everyday traffic on streets, more illegal constructions and water cuts, despite the fact that Khadakwasla dam is located here. “We have been facing a water problem in Shivane along Sinhgad road for years. Despite assurances from PMC, there has been no improvement and we continue to face a water scarcity,” said Desle. For residents of Sinhgad road, it’s an irony that there is a water shortage despite the fact that city gets water from Khadakwasla, which is located on same stretch. Power playEarlier, this area was mainly dominated by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) although the last few elections, as the urban population increased, BJP could wrest the control in some parts. If Sinhgad road and Bavdhan are dominated by the BJP, Warje and Dhankawadi are still a stronghold of the NCP. For citizens, their problems should be tackled by leaders without looking for mileage. The residents of Satara road, up to Katraj, which is one of the most crowded entry and exit points for the city, are awaiting a proposed Metro line that recently received the PMC nod. The idea that merged with the PMC will end all civic issues, has only remained a dream, as poor road infrastructure, unauthorised hawkers and illegal constructions have not diminished. Sachin Joshi, a teacher running private coaching classes in the area said, “I live on Sinhgad road where traffic problems during peak hours happen daily. Most often, hawkers have encroached on the road which causes more trouble. The PMC needs to take action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/countdown-to-pune-polls-civic-issues-plague-khadakwasla-101633288925546.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC R-North ward launches daily Covid session online with 100 societies in Dahisar||Data from the first and second waves of Covid-19 have revealed that nearly 90% of the infected cases were recorded from high-rise buildings as compared to slums. Keeping this in mind and anticipating a third wave, the R-North ward that covers Dahisar on Sunday launched an online educational session, in which representatives of 100 societies will be sensitised about Covid-appropriate behaviours on a daily basis. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the idea behind the session is to create awareness about monsoon-related ailments which have symptoms similar to novel coronavirus.While Mumbai has not witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases over the past one month, the speculation of a third wave is not over yet. Taking advantage of this period, BMC wants to focus on raising awareness in the non-slum areas.“As the chance of a third wave still looms, we have decided to increase awareness among people and motivate residents to follow Covid-19 precautionary measures through online sessions. We have invited the representatives of the societies who will be sensitised about the ‘dos and don’ts’. Later, during the monthly review meetings of these societies, they can disperse the information to their residents,” said Dr Avinash Waydande, medical officer of health, R-North ward.With the help of the ward’s councillors, the civic health department will hold the online meeting with 100 societies on a daily basis for the next two weeks. At the end of the meetings, the representatives will be provided with PPT on all the required information. “The chairman or secretaries of the societies can use the ready-made PPT in their monthly reviews to sensitise the residents,” he added.Along with this, the ward health department will also disperse information about monsoon-related diseases in the online sessions. “Like every year, this year also, Mumbai is recording monsoon-related diseases such as dengue, malaria and leptospirosis, among others. Many of these diseases have symptoms similar to Covid-19. Thus, we want to raise awareness among people so that they don’t ignore timely diagnosis, which can delay their treatment of a possible Covid-19 infection,” said Dr Bhagyashree Kapse, assistant municipal officer of the ward.On Sunday, the ward started the programme in two batches, wherein the first 100 societies participated from Dahisar (East). “Despite being a weekend, the ward held the meeting with us for our convenience. It cleared many doubts and queries which helped provide us a better picture about Covid-appropriate behaviour. We will soon hold meetings with the residents and put up the guidelines in our society,” said Omkar Dubey from Vishnu Park Society in Rawalpada, Dahisar East where 500 residents live. “We have already ensured that all the residents above 18 years get fully vaccinated in our society,” he said.Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the ward has recorded 22,955 Covid-19 cases.As on October 2, R-North ward did not have any sealed buildings but had 51 sealed floors. BMC’s dashboard shows that the average seven-day growth rate of the ward stands at 0.04%— the lowest in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-r-north-ward-launches-daily-covid-session-online-with-100-societies-in-dahisar-101633288747805.html
04-10-2021||Other||Greater Noida: ₹24 crore tender issued for ‘smart village’ project||The Greater Noida authority has issued a tender of ₹24 crore to begin work on its ‘smart village’ project. In the first phase of the project, the civic infrastructure in 14 villages will be revamped. Authority officials said that the work on Maycha village has already been started. “For remaining 13 villages, tenders will be finalised in a month,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.Apart from Maycha, other villages in the first phase include Chapraula, Sadullapur, Tilpata-Karanwas, Gharbra, Cheerasi, Ladpura, Aminabad (Niyana), Sirsa, Ghanghola, Astauli, Jalpura, Chipiyana Khurd-Tigdi and Yusufpur Chak Shahberi.The authority has sanctioned total ₹150 crore for developing all 124 villages in the city as smart village. It has planned facilities such as drinking water supply, parks, public transport, drainage network, better roads, and Wi-Fi connectivity, among others, in these villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-24-crore-tender-issued-for-smart-village-project-101633288746609.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||High permit costs: Traders keep Manimajra Sunday car bazaar closed||After appealing to the municipal corporation (MC) authorities to charge only half of the permit cost citing lack of business in the last three months, all traders of the second-hand car market refused to open shop on Sunday and are threatening to continue the same from next week onwards if their demands aren’t met.Speaking about this, president of the Car Bazaar Dealer Association, Gulshan Kumar, said, “Our business has thinned out due to Covid and due to bad weather. The MC is asking us for ₹8,260 per ten cars as fees for setting up shop here every Sunday. We are asking that they take only half this fee owing to the hardships that the traders are facing, but they are being apathetic.”Kumar added that he will discuss this issue with the MC authorities in the coming days. “A large chunk of our customers included people who would come from adjoining states. This travel has stopped now owing to the pandemic and we have not sold any cars. It will not be financially viable for us to stay open from next week onwards if our demands aren’t met,” he said.Speaking about this, Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “Earlier in the MC house meeting, we had given a three-month waiver to the traders that they would have to pay 50% of their fees. From October, they were to pay the original amount. We have heard their issues and this will be a part of the agenda of the next House meeting.”Sharma added that they will introduce the matter asking for a similar waiver till December. However, it now depends on the House whether it will be approved or not.Before the pandemic, the Sunday second hand car bazaar had been at loggerheads with the authorities over where they could set up shop. For many years they had been working out of Sector 7, however, they were allocated space in Hallomajra village and after repeated complaints, they were able to open shop at Manimajra.“We don’t have any cover when it rains and the administration hasn’t given us any facilities here. However, we are thankful that we were shifted here from Hallomajra as it was bad for business,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-permit-costs-traders-keep-manimajra-sunday-car-bazaar-closed-101633288624068.html
04-10-2021||Noida||Noida’s Emerald Court case: SIT submits report, names 26 officials||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to investigate irregularities in the approval of building and map plans for the Supertech group’s twin tower project, in violation of building regulations, has named at least 26 former and current officials of the Noida authority in its report that was submitted to the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday. The SIT has recommended action against all 26 officials, as well as four Supertech directors and private architects. Of the 26 officials identified by the investigating team, two are already dead, 20 have retired, three are still serving with the authority, and one officer has already been suspended. Chairman of the Noida authority Sanjiv Mittal, who is heading the SIT, said, “Action should be taken against 20 retired officials as per the law and the three officials, who are in service, should be suspended. One official, Mukesh Goyal, who was a manager in the planning department, has already been suspended.” The SIT has also recommended filing an FIR against four directors of Supertech Limited, two private architects and the 24 Noida officials. The team has also directed the Noida authority to free 7,000 square metres of green area in Supertech’s Emerald housing project, which was encroached upon and merged into the housing project illegally. “We have also directed the Noida authority to act against officials, who were hand in glove with the Supertech group,” said Mittal.On August 31, a Supreme Court bench led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud directed the demolition of the twin towers part of Supertech’s Emerald Court project, over grave violations of building norms, which, the court said, was a result of “nefarious complicity” between Noida Authority and the real estate developer. Further, the bench asked Supertech to refund money to all the existing home-buyers in Emerald Court’s Apex and Ceyane towers within two months, along with an interest of 12% per annum from the date of their deposits. Supertech has approached the Supreme Court to stop the court-ordered demolition of the two 40-storey towers, saying that it has an alternative plan that could save several crores of rupees from going waste and also prove to be “beneficial for the environment”.The UP government had constituted an SIT on September 2, two days after the Supreme Court gave the demolition order. “The action has been recommended according to the provisions of the UP Apartment Act, 2010, and other rules. Now, appropriate action will be initiated according to the Supreme Court order,” said Mittal. Officials from the Supertech group refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noidas-emerald-court-case-sit-submits-report-names-26-officials-101633288504917.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Metro tunnel on Shivajinagar to Swargate stretch 75% complete||The Maharashtra Metro Railway Corporation (Maha-Metro) has completed 75 per cent of its tunnel on the Shivajinagar to Swargate underground stretch, so far.The underground stretch between Agriculture College and Swargate is part of the 16-km Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate corridor. There are five underground stations. Of these five metro stations, Maha-Metro is erecting multi-modal hubs at three stations. The underground station at Mandai is behind schedule as land was handed over to Maha-Metro in July by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC).Atul Gadgil, director of Maha-Metro said, “After crossing the Mutha river, we speeded up tunneling. At present, we have completed around 75 per cent of the work. One TBM (tunnel boring machine) has crossed Mandai and is moving towards Budhwar peth. A second TBM has started work from Swargate towards Mandai.”He added, “Stations take more time and work is going smoothly and at full speed.”The ongoing Pune metro rail had already constructed an underground tunnel of 1.6 km stretch from Agriculture College to Civil Court in Shivajinagar.Maha-Metro is carrying out the Pune Metro Rail Project, which has two corridors — one from Vanaz to Ramwadi which is an elevated line; and the other from PCMC to Swargate, which is elevated from PCMC to Agriculture college, and thereafter underground up to Swargate. The underground section is six-km long with stations proposed at Shivajinagar bus stand, Civil Court, Phadke houd, Mandai and Swargate.The total metro rail route under construction is 31km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/metro-tunnel-on-shivajinagar-to-swargate-stretch-75-complete-101633288501810.html
04-10-2021||Noida||Noida police stations to soon get cybercrime help desks||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar is likely to get a cyber help desk at every police station level soon which will resolve daily issues, and special desks at zonal levels to resolve critical incidents, police officials said on Sunday. The move is aimed at tackling the increasing cybercrime incidents in the city, they added.For now, most of the cybercrimes are handled by a specialised cyber cell, and victims who approach the local police station are often sent there.According to a senior official, several cybercrime cases are reported in the city on a daily basis, of which a majority is related to online fraud. Officials said this on the side-lines of a workshop organised to train the police officials on handling complaints related to cybercrimes.The police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar, Alok Singh, said that they are working on a strategy, under which the incidents of cybercrimes could be reported at the police station level soon, and the incidents may be moved to the next level as per the severity.“To handle the incidents, we are working on a strategy under which all three zones of the city will have cyber help desks in the first stage, and every police station will have a cybercrime help desk in the future, which will take cognisance of relevant incidents. The routine or general cyber incidents shall be resolved at the police station level, while those with relatively higher severity shall be escalated further,” Singh said.On Sunday, the Gautam Budh Nagar police held a workshop for all the DCPs and other police officers in Noida, to train and brief them on how to handle complaints related to cybercrimes. The training session, chaired by Singh, and held by a private consultant, specifically for the investigators at the police station level, focused on what should be the first response if someone reports a cybercrime-related incident.“Cybercrime incidents are on the rise, and maximum cases are related to online cheating and fraud which constitute about 60% of the total incidents. Today, we held a training session for our SHOs, investigators, etc., on the same. The session focused on several things, including how to handle the routine cybercrime incidents, basic tools on how to reach the cyber criminals, and providing relief to the victims,” Singh said.According to the officials, Noida sees several hundred cybercrime incidents in a month. “About 60% of the reported cases are routine or related to online fraud, fake IDs, and smaller transactions, while the remaining 40% are critical incidents,” said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-stations-to-soon-get-cybercrime-help-desks-101633288145606.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Pune records 80 chikungunya, 192 dengue cases in September||The number of Covid-19 cases may have come down last month but the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recorded over 122 dengue cases and 69 confirmed cases of chikungunya in the last week of September alone. September saw the highest number of confirmed and suspected cases of viral, mosquito-borne infections (dengue and chikungunya) which are now emerging as the new health challenge for the administration.As per PMC health department data, the city recorded 122 confirmed cases of dengue and 69 confirmed cases of chikungunya in the week between September 29 and October 2. Both diseases are spread by the Aedes Aegypti breed of mosquito. As of now, there are 395 and 2,073 confirmed and suspected cases of dengue, respectively; and 180 confirmed cases of chikungunya in the city. Out of the 395 confirmed cases of dengue, 192 were reported in September alone. Similarly, out of the 180 confirmed cases of chikungunya, 80 were reported in September alone. So much so that the civic body issued a total 2,084 notices and collected a total ₹1.52 lakh in fines for having conditions favourable for mosquito breeding.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC health department, said, “The PMC has conducted a city-wide survey regarding how to prevent the spread of mosquitoes. Notwithstanding, over 90% of the times, mosquito breeding spots are found inside homes namely, plates under pots, abandoned tyres and open tanks. As the monsoon progresses, climatic conditions favour the breeding of mosquitoes and so, the number of mosquito-borne infections rises in September.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-records-80-chikungunya-192-dengue-cases-in-september-101633287906718.html
04-10-2021||Other||Housing project in Greater Noida West gets ₹249 crore fund under central scheme||Nearly 1,300 homebuyers of Panchsheel Hynish -- a housing project at Sector 1 in Greater Noida West -- can now heave a sigh of relief as the delayed project has received a fund of ₹249 crore under a central government scheme, officials of Greater Noida authority said on Sunday.The fund has been sanctioned by SBI Capital under the special window for affordable and mid-income housing (SWAMIH) project scheme. The housing units in the project were supposed to be delivered in December 2018.Panchsheel Hynish is the second project in Greater Noida that has got the funding under the central scheme. In November 2020, Capital Athena -- another project in Greater Noida West -- had got ₹165 crore under the scheme to deliver 900 units by 2022.“We are trying that eligible developers get the last mile funding so that they can deliver the housing units at the earliest. Around 2,200 homebuyers will benefit from the scheme,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.Out of ₹249 crore, the authority will get ₹37 crore against the group housing land that was allotted to the Hynish project and the remaining fund will be spent on construction and delivery of the projects, the officials said.“Three new housing projects will soon get the last mile funding under this scheme. We will try for other projects too,” said Bhooshan.Officials of Panchsheel Group said that they will be able to deliver the 1,300 units by the end of next year.“We have got the fund and already started the work at the ground so that we can deliver the project by 2022-end,” said an official of Panchsheel Group, seeking anonymity.In December 2019, several developers from Greater Noida had applied for last mile funding under the central scheme announced by the ministry of finance in that year.According to the ministry of finance, the stress fund is to be given to stuck housing projects, which fulfil certain conditions such as a project should be registered with RERA, affordable or middle income category project, project has to be financially viable, project in final phase of completion, housing unit’s carpet area should not be more than 200 square metres, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/housing-project-in-greater-noida-west-gets-249-crore-fund-under-central-scheme-101633287905281.html
04-10-2021||Noida||14,000 high security number plates missing from Ghaziabad warehouse||As many as 14,000 high security registration plates (HSRPs) have gone missing from the Ghaziabad warehouse of the Rosemerta Safety Systems Private Limited. Police said they have registered an FIR against two employees of the company under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. Officials of the company said that the issue came to the fore after an audit was conducted from September 6 to 12. “The audit report was received on September 28. We are also conducting an internal inquiry into the incident. It seems to be an internal issue and not the case that some outside persons gave way to a theft incident. We questioned two of our employees, but they could not provide us with satisfactory answer,” said Ashok Verma, company’s senior manager who is complainant in the case. “Of the 14,000 number plates, about 9,500 are the front plates of two wheelers and they have not gone missing in a pair. So, there are very less chances if these plates can be misused,” Verma said. The FIR was registered at Madhuban Bapudham police station on Saturday evening. “We have started investigation in the case, and it will be taken on priority considering that the issue is related to HSRPs. We will also communicate the issue to the other agencies so that any chances of getting these plates misused are minimised,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1). The HSRPs are tamper proof as compared to the conventional number plates. In Uttar Pradesh, the transport department had set the September 30 deadline for installation of HSRPs on vehicles. However, about 600,000 vehicles in the Ghaziabad transport region are yet to install HSRPs, according to official estimates. The Ghaziabad transport region consists of four districts of Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Hapur and Bulandshahr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/14000-high-security-number-plates-missing-from-ghaziabad-warehouse-101633287548088.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Covid: September sees 23% of total vaccinations in Pune since January 2021||September saw the highest number of Covid vaccinations with 23% of the total vaccines administered since the beginning of January this year given in September alone.Of the total 10.53 million vaccines administered in Pune district, 2.437 million vaccines were dispensed in September alone. Of the 2.437 million vaccines, over a million were administered by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC); 0.452 million by the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC); and 0.921 million by Pune rural. According to the district health office, Pune saw its largest vaccination drive in September, fuelled by the steady supply of vaccine and support from public companies in the district.Pune zilla parishad chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said that the massive supply of vaccines from private companies has resulted in a shortage of syringes as most of these companies are only giving vaccines and not syringes. “However, this is a temporary shortage and the state government has permitted the purchase of syringes by the local administration to continue the drive.”Of the total 10.53 million vaccines administered in Pune district since the beginning of January this year, 4.55 million vaccines were administered by PMC; 1.96 million by PCMC; and 4.02 million by Pune rural. While Pune district has seen a massive vaccination drive which is likely to grow further in October, as of now, 85% have received the first dose while 47% have been fully vaccinated. An estimated 8.34 million are eligible for vaccines. Looking at those above 18 years of age from among the 8.34 million who are eligible for vaccines, 7.16% have got their first dose while 3.37 have been fully vaccinated.PMC has vaccinated 28,0000 through its vaccine-on-wheels initiative.As of October 3, the PMC has vaccinated 280,141 beneficiaries at 1,197 different organisations through this initiative. The beneficiaries of the vaccine-on-wheels initiative include the bed-ridden, slum dwellers and “super spreaders” such as essential service providers, elderly homes, UPSC aspirants, those aspiring to study or work abroad, actors, gym employees, sportspersons, the homeless, beggars, third gender and those without identity cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-september-sees-23-of-total-vaccinations-in-pune-since-january-2021-101633287541653.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s Covid active cases tally drop below 9,000-mark; 547 fresh cases, 2 deaths reported on Sunday||After ten months the active Covid cases count went below the 9,000-mark in the Pune district. The last time the district reported below 9,000 active cases was on November 18, 2020, when 7,977 active cases were reported by the state health department.However, Pune district continues to account for the highest active Covid cases count and account for 23 per cent of the state’s active cases.On Saturday, the Pune district reported 547 new Covid cases and two deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million out of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,802 deaths have been reported and 8,491 are active cases or patients who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 302 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 359,673 and the death toll stood at 6,793 as one more death was reported on the day.Pune city reported 159 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 517,797 and the death toll went up to 9,161 as one more death was reported on the day.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 86 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 266,748 and the toll stood at 3,499.Pune also saw 29,041 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-Win dashboard and in total 1,07,66,313. Out of which 72,49,979 are first doses and 35,16,334 are second doses. A total of 225 sites saw vaccination out of which 78 were government centres and 147 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-covid-active-cases-tally-drop-below-9-000-mark-547-fresh-cases-2-deaths-reported-on-sunday-101633287420724.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get ₹18 crore as funds under central clean air strategy||New Delhi: The national capital will get over ₹18 crore from the Centre under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) this year to cater to critical gaps in air pollution management, officials aware of the development said.This is the first time Delhi that will get funds under NCAP, a national strategy for a 20% to 30% reduction in PM2.5 and PM10 concentration by 2024, with 2017 as the base year for comparison.“Delhi will get ₹18.74 crore under NCAP. This is the first time it will be receiving funds under the programme since it started in 2019,” news agency PTI quoted an official as saying. NCAP covers 132 non-attainment cities, which do not meet the prescribed national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). These cities have been identified based on the ambient air quality data obtained during the 2011-2015 period under the National Air Monitoring Programme.According to the national ambient air quality standards, the acceptable annual standard for PM10 and PM2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre and 40 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively. In 2017, Delhi’s annual PM10 average stood at 240 micrograms per cubic metre. The targeted PM10 concentration by 2024 is 168 micrograms per cubic metre.“The national capital did not get any funds under NCAP for two years because it had other resources available -- a green cess levied on diesel vehicles above 2,000 cc -- which is deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), and a pollution tax on commercial vehicles entering Delhi,” an official in the Union environment ministry said.This time, fund availability under NCAP has improved. “Fifty cities are already getting a good amount ( ₹4,400 crore aggregate in 2020-21 and ₹2,217 crore in 2021-22) for pollution management from the Finance Commission. Therefore, the availability of funds for the remaining 82 cities under NCAP has improved. So, we decided to give some funds to Delhi, too,” the official said.A total of ₹290 crore is available for these 82 cities this year.The NCAP fund will be utilised to cater to critical gaps -- wherever there is any inadequacy of funds available from other resources. The rest of the funding is to be mobilised through convergence of schemes, the official explained.Funds for bigger projects such as management of construction and demolition waste are allocated under the Swachh Bharat Urban programme and other schemes of the central government.The Delhi government has prepared a “Winter Action Plan” to tackle air pollution in the capital. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Saturday and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce the plan on Monday.The plan focuses on 10 key issues, including stubble burning, pollution hotspots, working of smog tower and vehicular and dust pollution.The city government has already imposed a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers till January 1, 2022, and has issued detailed guidelines to control dust pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-18-crore-as-funds-under-central-clean-air-strategy-101633287300662.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi minister Satyendar Jain instructs officials to repair roads with precision||Delhi public works department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday inspected the damaged and pothole-ridden roads in the national capital and directed officials to repair them with “utmost precision” by October 20. On Friday, the Delhi government announced that a massive drive will be launched to revamp all roads under the PWD which have been damaged due to rains and other reasons.“The Delhi government is repairing all the potholes caused due to heavy rainfall. In this regard, inspected the roads with PWD officials today (Saturday). “Directed them to work with utmost precision and complete the work by 20 October as directed by CM Arvind Kejriwal,” Jain said in a tweet. According to PWD data, there are 1,357 potholes, while patch work is required at nearly 309 locations in the city.The chief minister had recently directed officials to fill potholes by October 10 and repair broken patches by October 20.PWD officials said maintenance vans will be deployed in large numbers so that every area is covered under the special drive.Officials said Jain emphasised on the importance of impact-based output and instructed engineers to maintain the pace along with keeping the quality standards in mind while repairing the roads.The PWD manages 1,260-km road network in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-minister-satyendar-jain-instructs-officials-to-repair-roads-with-precision-101633287246344.html
04-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Security scaled up at UP Gate site after violence breaks out in Lakhimpur Kheri||Senior police and administrative officials rushed to the farmers’ protest site at UP Gate on Sunday evening after at least eight people, including four farmers, died in violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri--over 400km from UP Gate -- following an agitation that was launched to block Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village, said a senior police officer from the police headquarters in Lucknow. The UP Gate protest site is crucial for farmers protesting against the three farm laws. Many of the farmers protesting here are from Kheri and adjoining districts in UP and Uttarakhand. Hundreds of farmers from UP and Uttarakhand have stayed in camps at the UP Gate protest site since November last year to press their demand for a new law on the minimum support price and a rollback of the three new farm laws. According to farmers protesting at the UP Gate, many farmers were standing with black flags in Lakhimpur Kheri when Maurya came to visit Banbirpur village. Soon, violence broke out with protestors at the UP Gate alleging that the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri were attacked when they were returning home after protesting against the deputy CM. Following the incident, several farmers’ leaders, including national spokesperson for Bharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait, rushed to Kheri as the Ghaziabad police deployed more police personnel at UP Gate to ensure the situation is under control here. “People were attacked using vehicles, and firing was also done... As per the latest reports that we have, several people have died in the incident,” said Tikait in a video recorded message. Many other leaders also condemned the incident and rushed to Kheri to throw weight behind the farmers. “Such incidents cannot be tolerated and the future course of action will be decided by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, likely on Monday. We are rushing to Kheri to stand with people who have suffered during the incident. We will urge them to observe utmost restraint and carry on their fight in accordance with the law. We demand that an FIR be immediately registered and the suspects arrested,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader and spokesperson of Samyukta Kisan Morcha. Surendra Singh, divisional commissioner (Meerut) and Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range), were among the officials who rushed to the UP Gate on Sunday evening, besides the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police of the Ghaziabad district. “We visited the UP Gate to ensure the situation here is under control and the law and order is not affected due to the events at Lakhimpur Kheri. The government will do the needful with regard to the incident. Officials will be monitoring the situation at the UP Gate,” said Surendra Singh. The Ghaziabad police also scaled up police presence at the UP Gate and are in talks with the farmers. “We held discussions with the farmers at UP Gate after the incident at Kheri. They have assured us that they will remain peaceful. Police personnel will remain in the area as usual,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).(With inputs from HTC, Lucknow)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-security-scaled-up-at-up-gate-site-after-violence-breaks-out-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101633287243852.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Class 8 to Class 12 reopens, but school buses absent in Pune||Despite the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) giving permission for school transport vehicles to ply from October 4, operators of school buses said they were unlikely to get on the road immediately.In an official order issued by the PMC on Saturday, PMC also made sanitisation of the vehicle twice-a-day mandatory. Schools reopen for Class 8 to Class 12 from Monday.Speaking about various challenges school bus owners face, Kiran Desai, secretary of Pune bus owners’ association, said, “Many students from Class 8 to Class 12 commute on their own, via cycles and private vehicles instead of buses. Students who need school buses are those from Class 1 to Class 7. Moreover, it is financially not viable for bus owners to start buses for a few students,” said Desai.He added that with higher diesel prices, school-bus fees will also increase.“Since the state government announced that schools will reopen from October 4, no parent or school has approached us to start the bus service. ThepPast 18 months have been very challenging for us as there has been no income for many drivers,” said Desai.Sachin Panchmukh, vice-president of the School Bus Association, said that there is no respite for drivers, caretakers and owners of school buses.“The government has constantly neglected us. All businesses are functional, as hotels, vacation spots are open. Only schools were shut. And we are suffering the most because of the pandemic. Our buses have not been running for more than 18 months now. Each bus alone needs maintenance, insurance and other important repairs and owners don’t have the money for that. In such a scenario, how can we start bus service for students?” said Panchmukh.95 per cent of schools ready to reopenSpeaking about the reopening of schools from October 4, Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune District Principals’ Association said that around 95 per cent of schools are expected to start from Monday.“Schools are all geared up with sanitisation and are following Covid protocols to ensure safety of the students. We are hoping to see a good turn out on Monday. School buses are also instructed to be sanitised twice a day, with only one child occupying one seat. Schools will have to keep a check on sanitisation of buses and relevant instructions will be passed by them to the drivers and caretakers,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-8-to-class-12-reopens-but-school-buses-absent-in-pune-101633287180632.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Just 1.2kg wheat in SDMC dry ration kit for civic body schools||Several councillors of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) have flagged drawbacks in the distribution of dry ration kits in lieu of cooked mid-day meals in schools, pointing out that the 1.2kg of unprocessed wheat provided as part of the monthly kit is too little for families to take to the flour mill.The chairman of the standing committee confirmed the problem and said they will “find a practical solution” soon.As the municipal primary schools are still closed for physical operations due to the ongoing Covid pandemic, the students are provided ‘dry ration kits’ --consisting 1.13 kg rice, 1.2 kg pulses and 1.2 kg wheat each month in place of the mid-day meals. South corporation runs 521 municipal primary schools where around 2.5 lakh kids are currently enrolled.“The meagre quantity of wheat being provided in these kits has made it laughable... We understand rice and pulses can be used directly for cooking but what will parents do with 1.2kg of wheat? Should they take it to flour mill? Isn’t it a cruel joke?” said Suresh Kumar, the representative from Khanpur ward and a member of standing committee.Kumar, a councillor from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said he flagged the issue during one of the standing committee meeting deliberations of the municipal corporation.“They can’t use this wheat; a four mill operator will not even take it. We should provide at least five kilos of wheat flour,” said Kumar.Representatives from teachers’ association said that the problem did not arise earlier as ration was delayed for months and it was distributed in bulk after 5-6 months.Vibha Singh, the vice president of Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh, a municipal teachers association, admitted that 1.2 kg of wheat is impractical. “The cost of grinding a kilo of wheat is at least ₹10. We should try to provide ration for several months in one instalment,” she opined.Kuldeep Khatri, who heads the Nagar Nigam Shikshak Nyay Manch, another teachers’ body, said that instead of providing such small amounts of rations, the administration should think about implementing direct cash subsidy transfer.A senior official from the SDMC education department said that ration is being distributed as per the guidelines and that a solution will be worked out before the next committee meeting.Col (retd) BK Oberoi, the standing committee chairman of the south corporation, said that this is a genuine problem “We will take up the matter with the education department to find a solution. We agree that flour should be provided and if it is necessary, we will get the wheat processed on our end. We are trying to find a practical solution to this problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/just-1-2kg-wheat-in-sdmc-dry-ration-kit-for-civic-body-schools-101633287003084.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest four who wanted to kill gangster Tillu||Delhi Police’s special cell has arrested four members of three separate gangs who, the police claimed, were planning to kill gangster Tillu Tajpuriya, officials aware of the matter said on Sunday. The arrests came a week after gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi was killed in a shootout inside a courtroom at Rohini courts complex on September 24. Police suspect Tajpuriya to be the main conspirator in the case. Officials said the arrested persons are members of Gogi, Lawerence Bishnoi and Ashok Pradhan gangs, and carried an aggregate reward of ₹4 lakh on their arrest. Police said they were involved in almost 15 cases of murder and over 30 cases of attempt to murder, robbery, carjacking, extortion, etc. in Delhi/NCR, Haryana, Punjab and UP.Special cell officers said after Gogi’s death, gangs active in Delhi-NCR are forming alliances around Gogi and Tajpuriya’s gangs. While Gogi’s gang has formed an alliance with Kala Jathedi, Lawrence Bishnoi, Sampat Nehra, Ashok Pradhan, Hashim Baba gangs, Tajpuriya’s gang is being supported by groups of Neeraj Bawana, Sunil Rathee, Naveen Bali and Nasir.Police identified the four arrested suspects as Anuj, Harsh, Sagar Rana and Sumit. They said they had come to Delhi to kill Tajpuriya to seek revenge for Gogi’s murder. “They were also told to target members of Neeraj Bawana and Naveen Bali gang,” deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said.DCP Yadav said with the recent turn of events, a dedicated team of special cell was looking at movement gangsters. Based on surveillance of some gangsters, the police got to know that members of Gogi, Bishnoi and Pradhan gangs will come to Prahladpur or Khera village on Friday. “The police team intercepted a car carrying the four gangsters, when it was going from Prahladpur to Khera village. The criminals opened fire at the police team,but were later caught,” said DCP Yadav.A case under section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 307 (punishment for attempt to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and sections of the Arms Act was registered by the Special Cell.DCP Yadav said that the accused people are being interrogated for their involvements in other cases and efforts are being made to arrest their associates. “The accused persons were produced before the concerned court and have been remanded to ten days police custody. Concerned police stations have been informed regarding their arrests and further investigation is in progress,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/week-after-gogi-shooting-delhi-police-arrest-four-who-wanted-to-kill-gangster-tillu-101633286880581.html
04-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Residents protest dumping of solid waste at Galand||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) is facing opposition from residents of Hapur’s Galand and nearby areas against dumping of solid waste at a site in the village. The villagers said that they will not allow solid waste dumping at the site proposed for construction of waste-to-energy plant for safe and scientific disposal of solid waste in Ghaziabad.The villagers on Saturday stopped GMC vehicles which arrived with truckloads of solid waste, and drove those away. According to GMC officials, the 45-acre site comes under the jurisdiction of the corporation, but “physical possession” of the site is still with the farmers.In 2019, the Uttar Pradesh government had given the project of developing a waste-to-energy plant at Galand to a Netherlands company, but the project is yet to take off.“People from Galand and nearby villages of Masuri, Nahal, Piplehda, and Dabarsi will continue the protest, if the solid waste is dumped at the site. If the corporation wishes to develop anything else, we will not protest. The site is close to our Abadi land and also nearby schools,” said Sanjay Khori, village head, Galand.“We want a peaceful solution to this problem, and we will not hesitate to take legal recourse if our voices are not heard,” Khori added.The GMC moved to the site at Galand after it faced opposition to dumping activities at a site in Raj Nagar Extension (RNE), where the residents have been protesting the move for almost two years.“Solid waste is being dumped at several places in Raj Nagar Extension. The activities have led to unhygienic conditions in the area, and the RNE residents will continue to oppose this... We have also moved a petition with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) last week, and it got registered. After it is admitted, we will continue our legal battle against the activities of the corporation,” said Vikrant Sharma, a lawyer and resident of RNE.In September this year, the GMC decided to move the dumping of solid waste from RNE to Galand. The officials said that the daily solid waste -- about 200 metric tonnes -- from Kavi Nagar and Vijay Nagar zones was taken to RNE, but the residents objected to the activity.“Now, the Galand residents are also opposing this activity. The 45-acre land belongs to the corporation, but at present the site has no boundary wall. The farmers, who have not given physical possession of the land yet, still use it for agricultural purposes... One of our garbage processing factories at Ret Mandi in Nandgram will be operational in October this year. Arrangements will be made to take solid waste to the site for processing... We will seek help from the administration in getting the issue resolved at the earliest,” said Mithilesh Kumar, city health officer of GMC.GMC commissioner MS Tanwar could not be reached for comments on Sunday.The city generates nearly 1,200 metric tonnes of solid waste daily.In January 2019, the NGT-appointed UP solid waste monitoring committee had banned dumping of solid waste at the city’s only major landfill site at Pratap VIhar. According to the officials, the Pratap Vihar landfill site consists of nearly 4.5 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste, and further dumping is banned. They estimated that the ongoing bio-remediation activity at the Pratap Vihar site is likely to be completed by March 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-residents-protest-dumping-of-solid-waste-at-galand-101633286763054.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC to consider Covid as grounds to refund community hall fees||Many people, who pre-booked community halls run by the municipal corporations for dates that coincided with the lockdown that lasted from April to June this year for different purposes, have been facing problems in getting the refund of their booking amount. According to the existing policy, the booking amount can only be refunded in case of a death or due to announcement of elections. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to amend the refund policy and will now consider pandemic as a factor for returning the booking amount. The municipal commissioner will be authorized to take such decisions in future so that the same bureaucratic hurdles, in terms of amendment of entire policy, are not required. The standing committee of the SDMC has also decided to refund the current outstanding amount of ₹11.95 lakh taken for the 71 bookings that were made between May 9 and June 26 this year. Chairman of the standing committee Col (retd) BK Yadav said a proposal recommending 100% refund was cleared by the committee as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority imposed a lockdown and banned all types of gathering. “We have also amended the refund policy. The municipal commissioner will be able to refund the booking amount in future, if any such conditions arise due to the ongoing pandemic,” said Yadav. The SDMC operates 94 community halls spread over four administrative zones.A senior municipal official explained that according to the existing policy of the corporation, 100% refund of booking charges can be made only when there is a death in the family which has made the booking or when the bookings are cancelled due to elections. “The law department was consulted on the issue as the parties which made the bookings are asking for a refund as they did not use the community halls on account of the lockdown. The law department stated that a fresh policy was required to be filed by the corporation,” said the official requesting anonymity. According to the data furnished by the civic body’s community services department, 29 bookings of community halls were made in the central zone during the lockdown, 12 in the south zone, 16 in the Najafgarh zone and 14 bookings were made in the west zone. The DDMA put restrictions on gatherings via on order dated May 9 which said, “There will be complete prohibition on organizing any marriage ceremony at public places, marriage halls, banquet halls and similar places. The event may be organized in court or at home where not more than 20 people will be allowed to participate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sdmc-to-consider-covid-as-grounds-to-refund-community-hall-fees-101633286700649.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Battle for Taljai hill: Do not hold development to ransom when “destroying” an ecological sanctum||Hills in and around Pune are a matter of pride and love for Punekars. These hills, covered with greenery and rich biodiversity, and work as lungs for the city. They absorb pollution and help make the city a pleasant place to live in. Over the years, we have seen frequently that the hills are being targeted under the schemes of “development”. Taljai hill is no exception. The recent proposal of “development” of over a hundred acres of Taljai hill has met with fierce opposition from local citizens of the Sahakarnagar-Taljai area and the environmentally-conscious citizens across the city. Tight from the onset I would like to emphasise that we are NOT against development. But, we do question the intentions of the government and the policymakers. I grew up in Sahakarnagar, and over the years I have seen the degradation of the Taljai hill. Wide concrete roads were built, food stalls were installed, buildings were constructed. Unfortunately, despite the opposition by the locals and the concerns raised by the environmentalists back then, these projects were pushed through by the decision-makers, without wider public consultations and participation. The recent proposal is outrageous for many reasons. The first and foremost concern is that the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of this proposal has NOT been made public yet. The proposal is already on the Standing Committee’s agenda, and still, the public at large is kept in the dark about the plan. This looks extremely suspicious. Hence, the issue is not only about the environment, but also about the governance, lack of transparency, and lack of public participation. Now let’s see what exactly is proposed in this new plan for Taljai. Construction of a food plaza, parking areas, a sports complex, another sports complex for women, schools, and an adventure park are the projects which will directly result in the concretisation of a large area. Different kinds of gardens are also a part of this proposal. The whole project will first destroy the existing natural ecology and biodiversity on the hillslopes and then the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will spend a lot of money on tree plantations, landscaping and maintaining the gardens. This is exactly like cutting down trees and then installing wooden artificial nests for birds! Now let’s address the question of “development”. Here, I would like to reiterate that the citizens are NOT opposing sports complexes and schools, but they are opposing these projects on Taljai hill. The location is the problem, not the proposed infrastructure. For public utilities like schools, gardens and grounds, the city Development Plan has reserved land called amenity spaces. There are about 270 spaces in the city which are still unused. The total area of these unused spaces is around 123 acres. Imagine converting even 2/3rd of this area into urban forests and gardens. The city will have an additional green area without touching the already existing ecology and biodiversity. Instead of spending Rs120 crore on the proposed Taljai project, the PMC needs to focus on using that money to develop those amenity spaces for schools, gardens, playgrounds, urban forests. Most of the amenity spaces do not have a rich biodiversity like the one on Taljai. So converting those into urban forests is a far better idea than destroying an already existing ecology. To summarise, we demand transparency in the processes of such projects, wider public consultations and participation, deeper analysis of the environmental impact and alternatives, and making these findings public. The real battle is not between the environment and development; but it is between transparent, inclusive governance and sustainable development on one side, and arbitrary ideas of governance on the other. We must save Pune’s hills to save Pune. This is a long and complex battle and I’m sure that the citizens shall endure it. The writer is a resident of Sahakarnagar.- As told to Prachi Bari||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/battle-for-taljai-hill-do-not-hold-development-to-ransom-when-destroying-an-ecological-sanctum-101633286649502.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Public Action Committee demands scrapping of proposed industrial park in Mattewara forest||Members of the Public Action Committee (PAC) for Sutlej and Mattewara forest organised a discussion on Sunday on the development model for Punjab in the context of the modern industrial Park proposed by the previous Amarinder Singh government on the flood plains of Sutlej river near Mattewara forest. Colonel CM Lakhanpal of Sangharsh Committee, said, “Developing factories that destroy natural resources and poison rivers in Punjab are seriously impacting the health of people and calling it development is grossly misleading. Environmental destruction has been packaged and sold as development in a clever manner to fool people, so that even those drinking polluted water from Sutlej, which is already toxic due to Buddha Nullah, do not oppose the industrial park.”Gangvir Rathaur of Aalmi Punjabi Sangat said, “The Bhakra dam is almost 70 years old and will soon need to be repaired to ensure safety. Keeping floodplains free from encroachments and construction will be even more important then, as the dam will not be able to regulate water flow completely during the maintenance period.”Kashmir Singh, a resident of Sekhowal village, is along with other villagers not only protesting against the industrial park and state government for taking away their land, but also fighting a legal battle in court. He said, “In the name of development, an attempt has been made to grab 416 acres of arable land of Sekhowal village during the tenure of Amarinder Singh government, which if successful will force the farmers of the village to become daily wagers.”Barjinder Singh of Naroa Punjab said, “Water resources of Punjab are being polluted and destroyed and to stop this mindless destruction, people of Punjab have to stand up against such misuse of state power by powerful but corrupt and selfish politicians and bureaucrats.”Dr Amandeep Bains of RBS Roots, said, “The key players in this industrial park scheme drawn up by the Amarinder government have been ousted from power. The Channi government should immediately reject this anti-people and anti-environmental plan. Political parties should give prominent place to environmental issues in their manifestos and help shift Punjab towards sustainable and pollution free development. “Kapil Arora, an environmental law expert and president of the Council of Engineers, appealed to all MLAs and MPs from Punjab to raise their voice for the scrapping of this scheme, which is detrimental to the environment of Punjab, Mattewara forest, Sutlej and the health of Punjabis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/public-action-committee-demands-scrapping-of-proposed-industrial-park-in-mattewara-forest-101633286524452.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Metro, traffic to run on same flyover on Pink Line link||A three-lane flyover and Metro viaduct will run parallel on a common structure that is being constructed by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) along with Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD) at Soorghat in north Delhi.The integrated elevated structure will be constructed parallel to an existing single-lane flyover on the Outer Ring Road. An underpass will be constructed under the integrated structure for vehicular traffic going towards Signature Bridge, said DMRC officials.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “In this first-of-its-kind engineering marvel, integrated portals (structure) will be erected on which a flyover as well as a Metro viaduct will be placed. On these portals, the road flyover and the Metro viaduct will rest and run parallel to each other for a length of (approx.) 450 metres.”The integrated structure is part of DMRC’s 12km-long under-construction Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor, which is being constructed under Phase-4 expansion plan. The corridor is part of the Pink line (Majlis park-Shiv Vihar corridor).According to the plan, a total of 21 portals (each portal will have two piers) with average width of 26m and a height of 10 metres will be constructed. The Metro viaduct and three-lane flyover will be 10.5m and 10m wide respectively. The flyover will run adjacent to the existing single flyover between Wazirabad to ISBT Kashmere Gate near Soorghat.“Delhi Metro will construct the portals and the Metro viaduct over it and PWD will erect the superstructure for flyover on the already constructed portals in future,” said Dayal.A senior PWD official said, “We have tied-up with DMRC for the project. We have sent the project proposal for financial approval.”In a bid to provide smooth passage to vehicular traffic coming from north Delhi towards Signature bridge, DMRC has decided to construct an underpass. The underpass will merge with the road on the other side of Najafgarh drain on the Outer Ring Road.The Delhi PWD has been planning to construct another single-lane flyover near the existing one to ease congestion on Outer Ring Road. The DMRC and Delhi PWD decided to integrate the project to expedite the construction work and also address construction related issues, said a DMRC official.This is not the first time that PWD and DMRC have collaborated on engineering projects. As part of Phase-4, DMRC is already constructing two integrated double decker flyover-cum-Metro viaduct projects. In these two projects, the Metro viaduct and flyover will be constructed on single piers at two different levels. A 2.4km long flyover-cum-viaduct will be constructed on Mehrauli Badarpur road as part of the Aerocity -Tughlaqabad corridor.But at Soorghat, the two modes of transport will run parallel to each other. DMRC officials said that they plan to complete the project by December 2023.Once the 12km-long Majlis Park – Maujpur corridor is completed, the Pink Line will be the first ever ‘ring corridor’ in India with a length of about 70km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-traffic-to-run-on-same-flyover-on-pink-line-link-101633286521935.html
04-10-2021||Pune||Battle for Taljai: One hill, two separate areas – do not confuse Taljai project with Pachgaon Parvati||It is unfortunate that opposition to the proposed Taljai development project by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not been completely informed, and I, as the project architect of this planned project, am saddened. Environmentalists should get proper information about this project, after which their doubts will be resolved. This is because the objections raised by environmentalists in the Sahakarnagar area are not applicable to the Taljai development project, but to the adjoining Pachgaon mountainous area.Pachgaon Parvati is a separate part, with a forest area of about ,600 acres, with 107 acres coming under the jurisdiction of the PMC, where the PMC is proposing to set up the Taljai development project. The Sadu Shinde Cricket Stadium has already been set up on five acres owned by the PMC, where completely natural soil has been used.The proposed 107-acre project currently has nominal large trees, which will also be maintained in the planned project. Apart from this, cement concrete will not be used and only soil will be used to preserve the nature. Also, the proposed 107-acre project will plant more than 10,000 native trees, so it is certain that a large number of birds, butterflies, will find their home here.Opponents of the Taljai development project should note that JCBs are working in the area and many of the trees that are being cut down do not fall under the Taljai development project. Environmentalists must consider that the 107-acre development project on the Taljai hill of the PMC has not yet been approved by the Standing Committee and the General Body.The Pachgaon hill area of the state government is nearby, where deforestation has nothing to do with the Taljai development project and the PMC has nothing to do with it. Some environmentalists have warned that the use of JCBs and deforestation will destroy the habitat of peacocks. If peacocks are disappearing, it is definitely a matter of concern. However, peacocks are in the 600 acres under the forest department of the state government, and not in the Taljai development project area.Some vested interests are claiming that the Taljai Development Project and the PMC’s 107 acres, and the state government’s Pachgaon Parvati, about 600 acres of forest land, are one and the same. The proposed Taljai development project will be fully committed to nature and will be in line with the socio-environmental role of citizens.I would like to clarify here that those who oppose the proposed Taljai development project should study the Micro Development Plan (DPR) submitted by the PMC to the Standing Committee. They will notice the difference between the two areas. In this regard, the opinion of other experts should be known and they are aware that the Taljai development project and the Pachgaon hill area are different.Everyone is expected to support this eco-friendly project to enhance the natural beauty of the area. In this context, Taljai development project should be understood and its area should be understood. As the project architect, I will take the initiative and request the corporation administration to hold a meeting with the administration of the PMC. I am appealing to those who are currently opposing the project to also participate in this meeting. I am also confident that the constructive suggestions of citizens regarding this proposed project will be welcomed.The project, which is a landmark in the area, is being discredited for no reason, and I fear that the vested interests of a handful of stakeholders will be served. The proposal currently before the Standing Committee will come up for discussion after a period of scrutiny. Even then, these environmentalists should participate in it.I request the citizens not to link the Taljai development project with the forest lands of the state government and the ongoing activities there. This project will be the pride of Pune and it will be 100 per cent environmentally friendly. There is no concrete construction or use of cement concrete.- Uplekar is project architect, Taljai development project - As told to Prachi Bari||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/battle-for-taljai-one-hill-two-separate-areas-do-not-confuse-taljai-project-with-pachgaon-parvati-101633286340682.html
04-10-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to launch 75 urban projects in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate or lay the foundation stones of 75 urban projects or schemes worth ₹4737 crore during his Tuesday visit to Lucknow for inauguration of the three-day Urban Conclave on New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape. The number of the projects – 75 – has been chosen in sync with the current ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ being celebrated by the government on the 75th year of Indian Independence. “On the occasion, 75 best housing techniques and technologies would also be showcased,” UP’s urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopal’ said. Urban development ministers from across the country are expected at the three-day event, where in the presence of the PM, the best practices in urban development, in UP or elsewhere, would be showcased. Ahead of the PM’s visit, the entire area in and around the Indira Gandhi Pratishthaan is being given a facelift. “Prime Minister Modi will virtually hand over digital keys to 75,000 beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in 75 districts and will also interact with five beneficiaries,” said Tandon. The PM has been regularly interacting with the beneficiaries of various government schemes and in the run up to the 2022 UP polls, the BJP government has also prepared a booklet showcasing the various achievements of the Modi government at the centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in UP. Modi would also flag off 75 electric buses meant for several smart cities of UP and release a coffee table book of 75 successful projects of 10 smart cities. Tandon said the Prime Minister would be in Lucknow for nearly two hours. “After landing at the Lucknow airport, the PM would take a helicopter to the La Martiniere grounds and from there would be driven straight to the venue of the Urban Conclave. After attending the event, the PM would leave for Delhi,” Tandon said. The minister said that after the inauguration session, discussions on new and emerging technology in urban areas would also be held through seminars and webinars across four sessions. “In the following sessions, we will have a number of interesting discussions, like latest and emerging technologies and building techniques, and challenges in building houses for mid-income group. Experts would also discuss the increasing urban landscape of the state. Best practices in urban development from across the country would be discussed,” Tandon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-launch-75-urban-projects-in-lucknow-tomorrow-101633286280724.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 327 candidates appear for JEE Advanced exam||Around 327 students from Ludhiana appeared for JEE Advanced exam on Sunday.The exam was held in two shifts- Paper 1 from 9am to 12pm and paper-2 from 2pm to 5pm. Students had to attempt both papers which had questions from physics, chemistry and maths in equal proportion.The JEE Advanced merit lists will be based solely on JEE Advanced scores (paper 1 and paper 2). These candidates will get shortlisted for admission to 23 IITs across India, which have around 12,000 seatsEarlier, a total of 9.38 lakh candidates including 6.58 lakh male candidates and 2.80 lakh female candidates had appeared for JEE Main.Besides acting as screening for JEE Advanced, the JEE Main result paves way for admission to NITs, IIITs, GFTIs and other top private and government engineering colleges across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-327-candidates-appear-for-jee-advanced-exam-101633286166237.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt extends deadline for fixing plans for 24 industrial clusters||The Delhi government has decided to extend the deadline for submitting layouts for redevelopment of 24 industrial clusters in non-conforming areas (villages) in the Capital till June 30, 2022. But the issue of who will prepare the layouts has been hanging in the balance for over a decade.The decision to extend the deadline was taken in a meeting chaired by state industries minister Satyender Jain, where representatives of the 24 industrial clusters and officials of the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) were also in attendance. “After hearing the grievances of members of associations and details submitted by secretary (industries), the minister (Jain) has directed to extend the time limit up to 30.06.2022 since major changes are being done on the issues discussed in the meeting of the proposed MPD-2041,” said a government official.A senior DSIIDC official said, “The associations of industrial clusters are supposed to prepare the layouts. Due to the pandemic last year, the deadline was extended till December 2021. But as the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is going to notify the new master plan of Delhi (MPD-2041) and also because of the pandemic, it was decided to extend the deadline by another six months.”The 24 industrial clusters, which have been notified in batches since 2005, operate in areas that are part of rural villages (non-conforming areas) such as Khayala, Peeragarhi, Mundka, Hastsal, Anand Parbat etc. These clusters have been notified for redevelopment by the Delhi government as there was 70% or more industries operating in these areas.While the industrial area associations have welcomed the decision to extend the deadline, they want the government to fix responsibility for preparing the redevelopment plan of their clusters. “After hearing the grievances of members of associations and details submitted by Secretary(Industries), the minister (Jain) has directed to extend the time limit up to June 30 , 2022, since major changes are being done on the issues discussed in the meeting on the proposed MPD-2041,” said a government official.According to norms for redevelopment of clusters of industrial concentration in non-conforming areas notified in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021 in 2012, “The redevelopment scheme will have to be prepared by the concerned local body/land owning agency in consultation with the Society (to be formed by the land owners).” Vijay Virmani, president of the Delhi Manufactures’ Federation (an association of non-conforming industrial clusters), said, “The rules clearly say that it has to be done by the local bodies. We have been trying to convince the government to ask civic agencies to prepare the layout. But no decision has been taken so far.”As per the MPD-2021 provisions, clusters should have a direct approach road of at least 18m right of way; 10% area is to be reserved for surface parking, loading and unloading; 10% area reserved for infrastructure requirements such as police post, fire station, pump house etc; 8% areas reserved for parks among other facilities. Federation members said that it is not possible to convince people to give up their land for redevelopment according to the clauses mentioned in MPD 2021. Joginder Talwar, general secretary of Delhi Manufactures’ Federation, said, “The onus to prepare the layouts for redevelopment has been put on us. But the fact is that we don’t have the power to do so. We can’t force any industry owner to give up his/her land for civic infrastructure such as road widening, fire station, etc.”When contacted, a senior DSIIDC official aware of the development said, “We just want that these industrial clusters to redevelop and have essential facilities. The associations can get the layout plan prepared by civic agencies if they want. As they are the land owners, they will have to get the plan prepared.”With no firm decision on the matter yet, industry owners said they are unable to freely carry out their work as their work is dependent on extension of the deadline. Ashwani Sehgal, general secretary of Peeragarhi industrial area, said, “Our licences for factory and other permission will be renewed if the deadline for submission of layouts is extended. We want a permanent solution to the problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-extends-deadline-for-fixing-plans-for-24-industrial-clusters-101633285500596.html
04-10-2021||Mumbai||BJP declares former Shiv Sena MLA as its candidate for Assembly bypoll in Nanded district||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has declared former Shiv Sena legislator Subhash Sabne as its candidate for the Deglur Assembly constituency bypoll in Nanded district. The information was stated in a release issued by BJP’s central office on Sunday. Sabne will officially join the party on Monday.The Election Commission of India (ECI) has declared the bypoll on the seat on October 30 as it got vacant following sitting Congress legislator Raosaheb Antapurkar’s death in April. He was undergoing treatment for post Covid complications in a city hospital.“I am joining BJP tomorrow in a public event. I am not annoyed with Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray but am against the monopoly of PWD (public works department) minister Ashok Chavan in Nanded district. Chavan is trying to eliminate the Sena in Nanded,” Sabne told reporters on Sunday.He, however, admitted that his demand for party’s candidature from Deglur Assembly seat was not accepted by the Sena leadership. “I requested the party leadership to give [me] the candidature for the bypoll but he [Thackeray] wants to run the state. It is the party’s decision whether to give the candidature or not,” he said in response to a question.Sabne had lost the 2019 Deglur Assembly polls to Antapurkar by a margin of 22,433 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-declares-former-shiv-sena-mla-as-its-candidate-for-assembly-bypoll-in-nanded-district-101633285143021.html
04-10-2021||Delhi||Mohammadpur village in Delhi debates its name and past||These days the chaupal in south Delhi’s Mohammadpur village is a place of heated discussion about the origin of the village -- and how it got its name. The debate was triggered after Bhagat Singh Tokas , the local councillor, submitted in July a proposal to rename the urban village in a zonal committee meeting of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). “During the Mughal era, names of all villages were forcibly changed. The villagers’ demand to change the name of Mohammadpur has been pending for a long time. In view of people’s demand and sentiments, I propose to change the name of the village from Mohammadpur to Madhavpuram,” the proposal by Tokas said. The proposal, which came months before the civic body polls, where BJP faces a 15-year anti-incumbency, has since got anticipatory approval from SDMC Mayor Mukesh Suryan. “This a valid demand. The proposal has been passed by the corporation’s naming committee and will soon go to the house. By the end of this month, we will send it to the state government for necessary changes in the revenue records,” said Suryan. For the uninitiated, Mohammadpur is a Jat-dominated village near Bhikaji Cama Place, home to about 7,000 people. The village boasts a Teen Burj ,a domed Lodhi era- monument, protected by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). In the 1960s and 70s, the land of the village was acquired to develop RK Puram, Sarojini Nagar and parts of Safdarjung Enclave. Today, a rental economy flourishes in the village, which is a maze of narrow lanes with multi-storey buildings housing tenants—many of them government servants, including CRPF, ITBP and CRPF personnel. The village is also home to many people working in AIIMS, Bhikaji Cama Place and hotels such as Hyatt. The village also has several leather shops. “Our elders believe that the name of the village was changed during the Mughal period, and the current name only symbolises our subjugation by foreign invaders,” says Bhagat Singh Tokas, the local councillor, who lives in the village. According to Census 2011, of the 600,000 cities, towns, and villages in the country, 704 carry the name of the first six Mughal emperors, viz., Babur, Humayun, Akbar, Jahangir, Shahjahan and Aurangzeb, but there is no historical evidence that the name of Mohammadpur was changed during the Mughal period. “This is historically a Jat village and no Muslim has ever owned land in our village. So, we assume that either the Mughals rulers gave us this name or changed the original name” says Rajesh Tomar , a villager who works as a swimming coach. In fact, unlike many Delhi villages where wrestling, kabaddi and Kho-Kho are popular, Mohammadpur and nearby Munirka is home to many swimming champions who played at national level, including Arjuna Award winner Khajan Singh Tokas. Talking about the origin of their village, some old-timers say that Jat farmers in the nearby Munirka village came to live near their farmland around the Teen Burji monument around 250 years back. “That is how this village came into being. But these Jat farmers who settled here centuries back had no reason to name it Mohammadpur,” says Kulvir Singh , a village resident, sitting at the chapual, which is the hub of community activities. Some villagers claim that the demand for the name change was first raised in the 1960s when they had approached then Chief Commissioner, Bhagwan Sahay. Till 1966, Delhi was governed by a chief commissioner. In 1966, a Metropolitan Council was set up with the lieutenant governor as its head. “We proposed to him that our village can be named after him as Bhagwan Nagar, but the demand was not accepted,” says Sukhbir Singh a villager. “The problem is whenever we go outside Delhi and tell people that we are from Mohammadpur, they ask us if that is the Muslim-majority village . We have nothing against any religion or community, it is just that the current name of the village goes against our identity and history,” adds Singh. But there are those who are opposed to the idea of the name change. Jasbir Singh, 71, calls it a futile attempt to reject history. “ What are we going to get out of this name change. This is nothing but politics,” he says. Interestingly, elaborating on the history of the village, he says that Tula Ram was the first farmer to come from the nearby Munirka village and settled in Mohammadpur in 1765. “I am his descendant. But the village is named after Mohammad Khan, a local landlord during the Lodi period. The Mughals have nothing to do with its name,” he says. Singh’s account was supported by Rana Safvi, city chronicler and the author of The Forgotten Cities of Delhi, who mentions Teen Burji and Mohhamadpur in her book. “ The Mughals did not change names of cities, towns or villages. They built new cities and gave them new names,” says Safvi. “In the past, most villages were named after local landlords or nobles. Mohammad Khan, I believe was a noble during the Lodi period,” says Safvi, citing the examples of Munirka, and Wazirpur that were named after Lodi-era nobles Munir Khan and Wazir Khan, respectively. Curiously, while councillor Tokas and Mayor Suryan will have one believe that the name of the village was Madhavpuram before it was changed by the Mughals to Mohammadpur, Brahm Prakash, president of the local residents welfare association, has a different take. “I think Mohammdpur was a name given to us by the Muslim rulers. Locals here came up with an alternative name, Madhavpuram after much discussion. Madhav is the name of Lord Krishna. I hope we get the new name soon”. Mohammadpur may or may not become Madhavpuram, but BJP councillor from Safdarjung Enclave Radhika Abrol has moved a proposal to rename Humayunpur village to Hanumanpur. “We are also receiving similar a proposal from a few other villages including Saidulajab. We are favourably inclined to all these demands and proposals,” said Suryan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mohammadpur-village-in-delhi-debates-its-name-and-past-101633281239438.html
04-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet minister Ashu kicks starts paddy procurement, says bogus billing won’t be tolerated||Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who was at Asia’s largest grain market in Khanna to kick start paddy procurement on Sunday, said bogus billing will not be tolerated. The minister, who is under fire from the Opposition over ₹20-crore wheat and paddy embezzlement in the state, said his department had already started a campaign against bogus billing and several teams had been formed to bring culprits to book.Kicking off the procurement process, industry minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Ashu said directions had been issued to officials to ensure that all paddy was procured and paid for without undue delay. The Cabinet ministers said paddy had been cultivated on around 2.57 lakh hectares in Ludhiana and around 17.53 lakh MT of paddy was expected to arrive at the grain markets. “Apart from the 108 regular grain markets in Ludhiana, 94 temporary yards and 203 mandi yards have also been identified to decongest the grain markets,” Ashu said, adding that a mechanism had been put in place to ensure all paddy was lifted from the grain market within 48 hours of procurement. The ministers also met with arhtiyas at the office of the Khanna market committee. Among those present were zila parishad chairperson Yadwinder Singh Jandiali, Khanna Arhtiya Association president Harbans Singh Rosha, Khanna market committee chairman Gurdeep Singh Rasulra, SDM Manjeet Kaur, DFSC Harveen Kaur, and several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ashu-kicks-starts-wheat-procurement-says-bogus-billing-won-t-be-tolerated-101633268518398.html
04-10-2021||World||Anti-Biden content, Facebook whistleblower's revelation: Tweets on global outage||The global outage of Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram has led to mixed reactions from users. While some have resorted to memes on Twitter to talk about the non-functioning of these platforms, others have expressed displeasure. WhatsApp and Instagram are Facebook's subsidiaries.Also Read| Facebook down in global outage; shares fall 5.5%The global outage happened on Monday, when Downdetector initially showed that there were more than 50,000 incidents of people reporting issues with Facebook and Instagram. With regard to WhatsApp, the communication app was initially down for over 35,000 users.Also Read| WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook down for usersRyan Mac, a technology reporter at the New York Times, tweeted on Monday, "Not only are Facebook's services and apps down for the public, its internal tools and communications platforms, including Workplace, are out as well. No one can do any work. Several people I've talked to said this is the equivalent of a snow day at the company."Watch | Whatsapp, Facebook, Instagram down for hours in global outage; Meme fest erupts on TwitterHere is how Twitteratis reacted to the global outage of these social media platforms:"It's ok instagram, surviving mondays is tough cc -- WhatsApp," Zomato“WhatsApp and Instagram both down. Kitni baar fridge check karu?” Swiggy'What's up' Mumbai! Just a reminder that if you 'face' any danger, you can always dial 100 and 'insta-ntly' connect with us! Making sure there is 100% 'uptime' for our fellow Mumbaikars!" Mumbai Police'What's up' Mumbai!Just a reminder that if you 'face' any danger, you can always dial 100 and 'insta-ntly' connect with us!Making sure there is 100% 'uptime' for our fellow Mumbaikars!#AppliMumbaiPolice“Celebrities start posting anti-Biden and anti-vaccine mandate content, Facebook whistleblower exposes concerning practices…Instagram and Facebook have a “glitch” today. Hmmm. Weird,” Tomi Lahren, American commentatorCelebrities start posting anti-Biden and anti-vaccine mandate content, Facebook whistleblower exposes concerning practices…Instagram and Facebook have a “glitch” today. Hmmm. Weird."Facebook and Instagram are both down worldwide one day after a damning "60 Minutes" segment that featured former Facebook product manager Frances Haugen taking the company's awfulness to task," Charlotte Clymer, American activist.Meanwhile, cross-platform messaging app Signal, tweeted on Monday that its signups are way up. “Signups are way up on Signal (welcome everyone!) We also know what it’s like to work through an outage, and wish the best for the engineers working on bringing back service on other platforms,” Signal wrote on the microblogging site. The app also suffered an outage for a brief period on September 26. Signups are way up on Signal (welcome everyone!) We also know what it’s like to work through an outage, and wish the best for the engineers working on bringing back service on other platforms #mondaysSignal had seen millions of downloads across the world after WhatsApp updated its privacy policy which included a controversial change of linking data of WhatsApp users to Facebook's other services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/antibiden-content-facebook-whistleblower-s-revelation-tweets-on-global-outage-101633368015025.html
04-10-2021||World||Facebook down in global outage; shares fall 5.5%||Facebook Inc's main social media site, popular photo-sharing platform Instagram and messaging app WhatsApp, were down for tens of thousands of users, according to outage tracking website Downdetector.com.Reuters could not immediately confirm the issue affecting the services. However, the error message on Facebook's webpage suggested a Domain Name System (DNS) error.DNS allows web addresses to take users to their destinations. A similar outage at cloud company Akamai Technologies Inc took down multiple websites in July."We're aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products," the social media giant's official Twitter handle said on Monday."We're working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologize for any inconvenience." The official handles of WhatsApp and Instagram also took to Twitter to confirm the outage.Facebook shares fell 5.5% in afternoon trading on Monday, inching towards its worst day in nearly a year.Downdetector, which only tracks outages by collating status reports from a series of sources, including user-submitted errors on its platform, showed there were more than 50,000 incidents of people reporting issues with Facebook and Instagram. The outage might be affecting a larger number of users.Meanwhile, the social-media giant's instant messaging platform WhatsApp was also down for over 35,000 users, while Messenger was down for nearly 9,800 users.Facebook has experienced similar widespread outages with its suite of apps this year in March and July.Several users using their Facebook credentials to log in to third-party apps such as Pokemon Go and Match Masters were also facing issues."If your game isn't running as usual please note that there's been an issue with Facebook login servers and the moment this gets fixed all will be back to normal," puzzle game app Match Masters said on its Twitter account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-faces-global-outage-shares-fall-55-101633368702438.html
04-10-2021||World||Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram face worldwide outage||Facebook and its Instagram and WhatsApp platforms were down in parts of the world on Monday. The company said it was “aware that some people are having trouble accessing Facebook app” and it was working on restoring access. The company did not say what might be causing the outage, which began around 11:45 ET. It is normal for websites and apps to suffer outages, though one on a global scale is rare. Users reported being unable to access Facebook in California, New York and Europe. Facebook is going through a major crisis after the whistleblower who was the source of The Wall Street Journal's series of stories exposing the company's awareness of internal research into the negative effects of its products and decisions went public on “60 Minutes" on Sunday. Frances Haugen was identified in a “60 Minutes” interview Sunday as the woman who anonymously filed complaints with federal law enforcement that the company’s own research shows how it magnifies hate and misinformation, leads to increased polarization and that Instagram, specifically, can harm teenage girls' mental health. The Journal's stories, called “The Facebook Files,” painted a picture of a company focused on growth and its own interests instead of the public good. Facebook has tried to play down the research. Nick Clegg, Clegg, the company’s vice president of policy and public affairs, wrote to Facebook employees in a memo Friday that “social media has had a big impact on society in recent years, and Facebook is often a place where much of this debate plays out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-whatsapp-instagram-face-worldwide-outage-101633369058568.html
04-10-2021||World||WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook down for users||Thousands of users on Monday reported that they were unable to access the services WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook. Social media users took to Twitter to report that they were unable to access the services of the aforementioned sites.Downdetector.com, a website that tracks issues related to traffic on major websites, also saw a spike in number of reports which confirmed that a large number of people are unable to access WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram.  More than 20,000 people have reported that the WhatsApp is not working for them. The web.whatsapp.com is also displaying this error message - 5xx Server Error. Instagram is also showing the same - 5xx Server Error message - message. The Facebook website shows an error message “Sorry, something went wrong. We're working on it and we'll get it fixed as soon as we can.”The WhatsApp messaging app is unable to send or receive messages while Instagram and Facebook's messaging platforms are also facing an outage. News agencies Reuters and AFP have confirmed that the outage is faced by users worldwide. The outage has impacted potentially tens of millions of users. Candid Wüest, Acronis's VP of Cyber Protection Research, said the outage may have happened due to issues with the BGP or DNS protocol.“While there’s no confirmation on what caused the incident from Facebook Inc, it’s possible that the issue lies with the BGP or DNS protocol – which happen to be popular targets among cyber criminals…. Depending on what service is attacked – for example, if it’s a central authentication server shared between multiple brands, like in this case, then such a single outage can lead to multiple brands going offline. To be fair, we must note that most commonly such outages are caused by non-malicious actions – suspect it to be the case here too," Wüest said in an email statement. Netizens react with hilarious memes as as Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp faceThe website downdetector.com also showed that at least 87,000 people, till the time of writing this reported that they could not access Facebook. While social media users reported that they faced WhatsApp outage around 8.45pm (local time), downdetector.com showed that reports of Facebook outage increased around 8.57pm (local time). Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp took to Twitter to release a statement regarding the outage. We’re aware that some people are experiencing issues with WhatsApp at the moment. We’re working to get things back to normal and will send an update here as soon as possible. Thanks for your patience!The messaging app issued a statement later saying it is working to fix the outage. “We’re aware that some people are experiencing issues with WhatsApp at the moment. We’re working to get things back to normal and will send an update here as soon as possible,” WhatsApp said. We’re aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products. We’re working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologize for any inconvenience.Social media giant Facebook also issued a statement saying that all efforts are being taken to restore services affecting millions across the globe. “We’re aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products. We’re working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologize for any inconvenience,” Facebook said. Instagram and friends are having a little bit of a hard time right now, and you may be having issues using them. Bear with us, we’re on it! #instagramdownInstagram also posted a similar message via its official communications handle. “Instagram and friends are having a little bit of a hard time right now, and you may be having issues using them. Bear with us, we’re on it! #instagramdown,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/whatsapp-instagram-down-for-users-101633362616226.html
04-10-2021||World||In a first after 2 years, Iran allows female fans to enter stadium for match||Iran has permitted its women nationals to enter a stadium for the first time in two years to watch the national football team take on South Korea in a World Cup 2022 qualifier. “The presence of women has been authorized for the match between the national football teams of Iran and South Korea,” AFP reported on Monday, citing the state-TV-linked Young Journalists Club. The match will be held at Azadi stadium on October 12.The last time Iranian women were allowed to attend a football match was in 2019 when Iran won a match against Cambodia with a score of 14-0. As many as 3,500 women were able to watch the match in 2019 in the 80,000-seat Azadi stadium.There has been a year-long prohibition on supporters’ attendance at stadiums regardless of gender due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). However, female audiences have always been capped by the country’s government, AFP reported.In 2019 when Iranian women took to the Azadi stadium as supporters, it was a scene of exuberance with visuals showing elated fans cheering for their national team.The ban on women supporters was imposed in 1979 after Iran’s Islamic revolution wherein Muslim clerics stated that women must be protected from masculine environment, inappropriate male behaviour and images of semi-robed men. However, it is not written into law or regulations, according to FP.On the road to the FIFA World Cup 2022 in Qatar – the first time the event is being held in an Arab nation, FIFA has reportedly come down heavily on Iran for its hardline conservative views. This was presumably the reason behind the country allowing female fans to attend the Iran versus Cambodia match in 2019, although the Iran government dismissed the report. The government had instead stated that the decision was triggered due to “internal social demands and government’s support of those demands,” AFP had reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-first-after-2-years-iran-allows-female-fans-to-enter-stadium-for-match-101633361098115.html
04-10-2021||World||Taliban face shift from war to policing streets||One fighter after another, the Taliban are trading in their characteristic long flowing garb for stiff military uniforms.It is a symbol of the moment of transition they find themselves in: Once warriors embedded in Afghanistan's rugged mountains, now they are an urban police force.But change is always an adjustment.In the Afghan capital of Kabul, crime was rampant under the previous government of Ashraf Ghani. Robberies and kidnappings were a near daily occurrence and the judicial process time-consuming and expensive.By winning the country after two decades of war with the Aug. 15 seizure of Kabul, the Taliban also inherited a city marked by lawlessness.Immediately they set to work, making their presence known in daily street patrols. Some have done away with the typical AK-47 rifles, for US-made M16s left behind by Afghan forces.They halt street fights, summon suspected criminals to police stations and chase those who do not heed their call.In Kabul's police district 8, there is a long queue leading to two rooms. In one, there are criminal cases. In another, civilian disputes. Victims of stabbings, robbery and other misdeeds sit in the same room as alleged perpetrators, staring into the distance until it's their turn to plead their case.For lesser crimes, Taliban police offer the accused three days to show up to the station. After that, they go after them.The court system is a work in progress, officials said. Meetings are still underway between Taliban officials — used to tribal justice prevalent in rural Afghanistan — to work out the process in a sprawling city with an active judiciary.Even those who fear them in the embattled city welcome the peace their arrival has wrought.The Taliban have empowered local elders to pass judgement based on Shariah, or Islamic law, for minor criminal cases. In the Sheikh Zayed City residential area of Kabul, a committee of elders ordered the father of a man accused of stabbing a neighbor to pay 35,000 Afghanis, around $400.The father counts the banknotes in a rapid shuffle and hands it to the imam, who offers it to the family of the victim. They embrace. Justice served.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-face-shift-from-war-to-policing-streets-101633354528351.html
04-10-2021||World||Modi, Biden congratulate Japan PM Kishida as he takes oath of office||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated his newly elected Japanese counterpart Fumio Kishida as he took the oath of office. Modi said that he looks forward to working together with Kishida to strengthen the India-Japan special strategic and global partnership.“Congratulations and best wishes to the new Prime Minister of Japan, H.E. Kishida Fumio. I look forward to working with him to further strengthen the India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership and advance peace and prosperity in our region and beyond,” PM Modi said in a tweet written in the Japanese language.Kishida was elected as the Prime Minister of Japan on Monday. Kishida’s Liberal Democratic Party and its coalition partner held a majority in both houses and defeated Yukio Edano, head of the largest opposition Constitutional Democratic Party of Japan.‘Ready to meet Kim-Jong Un’US President Joe Biden also offered his congratulations to Kishida. He said that the US-Japan relationship will help both nations face new challenges. “The US-Japan Alliance is the cornerstone of peace, security, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and the world, and I look forward to working closely with Prime Minister Kishida to strengthen our cooperation in the months and years ahead,” Biden said in a statement.Kishida also said that will continue to put the Japan-US alliance as the foundation for Japan's foreign policy along with speaking with Biden regarding a nuclear weapon-free world.The Japanese Prime Minister also said that he is ready to meet North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un without any preconditions.Soon after taking office Kishida said that he will increase hospital beds and attempt to improve government response to the Covid-19 pandemic, news agency Reuters reported. He also said that he will put measures in place to stop the spread of coronavirus by increasing the number of tests and promoting vaccination. “We will work towards preventing leaking of technology through instating an economic security minister,” Kishida was quoted as saying by Reuters.Though known for being conservative on gender equality and other issues Kishida said that he will aim to create a society that will promote diversity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/modi-biden-congratulate-japan-pm-kishida-as-he-takes-oath-of-office-101633352926883.html
04-10-2021||World||US duo Julius and Patapoutian win 2021 Nobel Prize in medicine||The Nobel Prize in the field of physiology or medicine has been awarded to US. scientists David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian.They were cited for their discovery of receptors for temperature and touch.The winners were announced Monday by Thomas Perlmann, secretary-general of the Nobel Committee.
04-10-2021||World||Hours after Kabul mosque blast, Taliban destroy IS cell in Afghan capital||Hours after a blast killed several people outside a mosque in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul on Sunday, the Taliban destroyed an Islamic State cell in Kabul, according to news agency AFP on Monday.Taliban’s chief spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said that the fighters carried out the operation in the north of Kabul on Sunday evening. “As a result of the operation, which was very decisive and successful, the IS centre was destroyed and all the IS members in it were killed,” Mujahid shared the news on Twitter.Several witnesses and journalists of AFP heard gunshots and blasts in Kabul when the Taliban was carrying out the operation. Abdul Rahaman, a resident in the capital city who is working with the government stated that special forces of the Islamic Emirate attacked at least three residences in his neighbourhood, adding, the fighting went on for hours.At least five casualties were reported and 11 were wounded in Sunday’s bomb blast in Kabul. People inside the Eid Gah mosque were holding a ceremony in the memory of Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid’s mother, who died the previous week. Citing initial inputs, Mujahid said on Monday that those responsible for the blast right outside the mosque might have been Daesh-linked groups.A government cultural commission official, on the condition of anonymity, told AFP that three people were arrested in connection with the blast. The explosive planted at the entrance of the mosque detonated as people were leaving the premises after offering condolences to Mujahid and his family, the official added.Meanwhile, a witness at the mosque told the news agency the attack was carried out by a single suicide bomber. A group of Taliban members, who were inside the mosque grounds came under fire after the explosion and took two casualties, the witness said.He also added that two units of the Taliban by mistake opened fire on each other because of the confusion after the explosion. However, interior ministry spokesman Qari Sayed Khosti denied the reports of any gunfire.(With AFP inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hours-after-kabul-mosque-blast-taliban-destroy-is-cell-in-afghan-capital-101633341646413.html
04-10-2021||World||Trial of Myanmar's ousted leader Suu Kyi taking toll on her health, says lawyer||Ousted Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi's health has suffered from her frequent appearances before a court run by the military junta that deposed her government, her lawyer said Monday.Suu Kyi went on trial in June, four months after she was taken into custody in a coup that plunged the country into turmoil.The 76-year-old faces a raft of charges, from sedition to illegally importing walkie-talkies, which could see her jailed for decades.She applied for hearings to take place every two weeks instead of weekly "on the grounds of her health," her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said after her latest court appearance.After new corruption charges were brought against her last week, the Nobel laureate now must appear most weekdays at a courtroom in the military-built capital Naypyidaw.The trial had left Suu Kyi feeling "strained", Khin Maung Zaw said, without offering more details.He added that the judge would make a decision on her request next week.Eight months since the coup, clashes between junta forces and anti-coup dissidents have escalated, with increasingly bloody attacks and reprisals.Diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis, spearheaded by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), have failed to make headway.Brunei Second Foreign Minister Erywan Yusof, who was selected as the regional bloc's envoy in August after lengthy wrangling, had called for full access to all parties when he visits.But last week a junta spokesman told AFP it was unlikely he would be allowed to meet Suu Kyi.Security forces have killed more than 1,100 civilians since the coup, according to a local monitoring group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trial-of-myanmar-s-ousted-leader-suu-kyi-taking-toll-on-her-health-says-lawyer-101633337306722.html
04-10-2021||World||Russia test-fires hypersonic ‘Tsirkon’ missile for first time||Russia said on Monday it had successfully test launched a Tsirkon (Zircon) hypersonic cruise missile from a submarine for the first time, a weapon President Vladimir Putin has lauded as part of a new generation of unrivalled arms systems.The defence ministry, which tested firing the Tsirkon missile from a warship in July, said that the Severodvinsk submarine had fired the missile while deployed in the Barents Sea and had hit its chosen target.Low-quality video footage released by the ministry showed the missile shooting upwards from a submarine, its glare lighting up the night sky and illuminating the water's surface."The test firing of the Tsirkon missile from a nuclear submarine was deemed successful," the ministry said.Some Western experts have questioned how advanced Russia's new generation of weapons is, while recognising that the combination of speed, manoeuvrability and altitude of hypersonic missiles makes them difficult to track and intercept.In July, parts of footage showing Russia's advanced new S-500 surface-to-air missile system appeared to have been deliberately blurred to make it harder to examine in detail.Putin announced an array of new hypersonic weapons in 2018 in one of his most bellicose speeches in years, saying they could hit almost any point in the world and evade a U.S.-built missile shield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-test-fires-hypersonic-tsirkon-missile-for-first-time-101633333869357.html
04-10-2021||World||World Animal Day 2021: Know its history, aim and significance||World Animal Day is observed every year on October 4, the feast day of Francis of Assisi, who was regarded as the patron saint of animals. The day was celebrated for the first time in 1925 by cynologist Heinrich Zimmermann to address the plight of animals and initiate work towards their protection -- both in the wild and domestic world.History of World Animal DayZimmermann had organised an event for the first time on March 24, 1925, at the Sport Palace in Berlin. Over 5,000 people had attended the event that was originally scheduled for October 4, to align with the fest day of Saint Francis of Assisi.In 1931, World Animal Day became global during a world protection organisation conference in Florence, Italy. In 2002, the Finnish Association of Animal Protection Associations celebrated the day and even involved school children in its events.Significance of World Animal DayThe day focuses on creating awareness about the effects of individuals, businesses and other human behaviours on animals. It is also known as ‘Animal Lovers Day’ as it encourages love, care, affection and protection of animals through the involvement of individuals and organisations who work for the rights of animals.Aim of World Animal DayAccording to the website of World Animal Day, the main aim is to raise the status of animals and help improve welfare standards across the globe. It is also about uniting the animal welfare movement and mobilising it into a global force to make the world a better place for all animals."It's celebrated in different ways in every country, irrespective of nationality, religion, faith, or political ideology. Through increased awareness and education, we can create a world where animals are always recognised as sentient beings and full regard is always paid to their welfare," the website adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-animal-day-2021-know-its-history-aim-and-significance-101633309706387.html
04-10-2021||World||At least 9 dead as Cyclone Shaheen lashes Oman, Iran||At least nine people were killed in Oman and Iran on Sunday as tropical Cyclone Shaheen pummelled parts of their coastlines, authorities said.In Oman, two people died in a landslide and a child in flash flooding, officials said.Rescue teams pulled the bodies of two Asian workers from their home hit by a landslide in the Rusayl industrial area of Muscat province, Oman's National Committee for Emergency Management (NCEM) said.The child died and another person was reported missing in flash floods in the capital's province, it added.Flights were cancelled or delayed, as wind speeds reached 120 kilometres an hour across Oman's north coast.Shaheen was later downgraded to a tropical storm, said the NCEM.In the capital Muscat, vehicles were tyre-deep in water and streets left semi-deserted.Across the sea in Iran, six people were killed in Chabahar port in the southeastern province of Sistan-Baluchestan, parliament's news agency ICANA reported, citing deputy speaker Ali Nikzad."Infrastructure, including electrical facilities and roads, was damaged," provincial governor Hossein Modarres-Khiabani told Iran's official IRNA news agency.The eye of the storm was located 220 kilometres (130 miles) off the coast of the province, he said.The United Arab Emirates (UAE) also went on "high alert", emergency services said.Some flights to and from Muscat International Airport were suspended as a precaution, while authorities urged people to avoid low-lying areas and valleys.Oman declared a two-day national holiday on Sunday and Monday and shuttered schools, the official Oman News Agency said.- 'High alert in UAE' -In July, northern Oman was hit by heavy rains, hail and strong winds.And in May 2018, Cyclone Mekunu hit southern Oman and the Yemeni island of Socotra, killing at least 11 people.Oman, a country of some 4.6 million people, reopened its doors to foreign tourists last month after a Covid-imposed closure.The Gulf country -- known for its rich heritage, scenic coastline and stunning terrain -- has been hit hard by the fall in world crude prices since 2014 and the coronavirus pandemic.The sultanate had been counting on tourism to boost its flagging economy.The UAE also braced for the storm, with emergency authorities urging people to avoid beaches and low-lying areas."We would like to assure everyone that the concerned authorities are on high alert and prepared to deal with any upcoming tropical situation," its National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority said Saturday.All construction work was suspended in Al-Ain, bordering Oman, and children were told to study remotely on Monday and Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-9-dead-as-cyclone-shaheen-lashes-oman-iran-101633312097926.html
04-10-2021||World||North and South Korea restore cross-border hotline: Seoul||North and South Korea have restored their cross-border communication, Seoul said Monday, with officials exchanging their first phone call since August.The restoration comes just days after Pyongyang sparked international concern with a series of missile tests in the span of a few weeks, prompting the UN Security Council to hold an emergency meeting.Seoul's unification ministry confirmed that officials from the two Koreas exchanged their first phone call since August on Monday morning."With the restoration of the South-North communication line, the government evaluates that a foundation for recovering inter-Korean relations has been provided," the ministry said in a statement."The government hopes... to swiftly resume dialogue and begin practical discussions for recovering inter-Korean relations," it added.Earlier Monday North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "expressed the intention of restoring the cut-off north-south communication lines," KCNA said, reporting the move was an attempt to establish "lasting peace" on the Korean peninsula.The two Koreas had signalled a surprise thaw in relations in late July by announcing the restoration of cross-border communications, which were severed more than a year earlier.But the detente was short-lived with North Korea stopped answering calls just two weeks later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-and-south-korea-restore-cross-border-hotline-seoul-101633307755861.html
04-10-2021||World||Blast hits Kabul after Taliban hold rally||Taliban supporters and senior figures held their first mass rally near Kabul on Sunday, but the show of strength was overshadowed by a bomb blast targeting mourners inside the Afghan capital.In a sign that the Taliban victory has not brought an end to violence after Afghanistan’s 20-year conflict, an explosion killed several people outside Kabul’s Eid Gah mosque.A Taliban soldier who said he saw the explosion said two people were killed and eight wounded. He said there appeared to have been two bombers and added that one of these was killed and the other caught trying to escape.Local media quoted the ministry of the interior as saying eight people had been killed and 20 wounded but one Taliban official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the final total would be higher.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid had said on Saturday that a prayer ceremony would be held at the mosque for his mother following her recent death. He made no reference to this on Sunday as he tweeted that the blast had killed several civilians in the area. A cultural commission official, who asked not to be named, told AFP that “three people in connection with the blast”, he said.According to the official, the device was placed at the entrance to the mosque and detonated as mourners were leaving after offering condolences to Mujahid and his family.No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack. However, since the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan in mid-August, attacks by Islamic State group militants against them have increased.IS maintains a strong presence in the eastern province of Nangarhar and considers the Taliban an enemy. It has claimed several attacks against them, including several killings in the provincial capital of Jalalabad.Haqqani addresses rallyThe blast, which could be heard across the centre of the capital, came shortly after the new Taliban “interim government” staged a rally just outside the capital, from which they were driven out in 2001 in a US-led operation launched after the 9/11 attacks.Sunday’s pro-Taliban rally in Kohdaman township in the hilly outskirts of Kabul was attended by 1,500 men and boys.“This is the day we waited for,” said Khalil Haqqani, the new minister for refugees who in 2011 was labelled a terrorist by the United States with a $5 million bounty on his head. He is a prominent leader of the Haqqani militant network founded by his brother Jalaluddin.“We have achieved our goal, but it requires protection,” he told the gathering, with his rifle leaning against the lectern.“My advice to the world is that they leave Afghanistan to Afghanistan.”Classes to be segregatedAn official with Afghanistan’s ministry of higher education said men and women will be segregated when university classes resume on October 9, after the Taliban and Kabul University disputed reports that female students will be temporarily barred.“They’ll resume their education in separate classes as planned,” Mohammad Edris, assistant secretary to the minister of higher education, said by phone from Kabul on Saturday.Separately, Pakistan’s interior minister Sheikh Rashid defended the government’s move to hold talks with banned terror group Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) for “reconciliation”, saying the negotiations are for “good Taliban”.Defending the government’s move, the minister said the offer was not for militants who were responsible for bloodshed in the country, including the December 2014 massacre in the Army Public School in Peshawar which left over 150 people dead, Dawn newspaper reported.“We know very well who’s good and who’s bad. Anyone who thinks we are not aware of that, he’s mistaken, he doesn’t have sense,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blast-hits-kabul-after-taliban-hold-rally-101633303690932.html
04-10-2021||World||Millions hidden offshore by rich, powerful: Probe||More than a dozen heads of state and governments, including the King of Jordan and the Czech prime minister, as well as other high-profile individuals, have amassed millions in secret offshore assets, according to an investigation published on Sunday by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ).The so-called Pandora Papers investigation - involving some 600 journalists from dozens of media including The Washington Post and The Guardian - is based on the leak of some 11.9 million documents from 14 financial services companies around the world.Key members of Pak PM’s inner circle namedOver 700 Pakistanis, including some ministers and key members of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s inner circle, were listed among the individuals whose names were linked with the Pandora Papers.Finance minister Shaukat Tarin, minister for water resources Moonis Elahi, Senator Faisal Vawda, the family of minister for industries and production Khusro Bakhtiar, among others, had links with offshore companies, Geo News reported.Some retired army officials, businessmen - including Axact’s CEO Shoaib Sheikh - and media company owners, have also been named in the leaks.According to the report, leaked documents revealed that “key members” of Prime Minister Khan’s inner circle, including cabinet ministers, their families and major financial backers “have secretly owned an array of companies and trusts holding millions of dollars of hidden wealth”.Hours before the leak, in a government letter released by local media, Panama’s government said it fears that the publication of a new expose about financial secrecy in global tax havens could again taint its reputation, which was seriously damaged by the “Panama Papers” scandal.“The damage could be insurmountable,” the Panamanian government said in the letter, sent through a law firm to ICIJ.The letter warns that “any publication” reinforcing “a false perception” of the country as a possible tax haven “will have devastating consequences for Panama and its people”.The letter also references some of the reforms that the Central American country has made in recent years, although it remains on the EU list of tax havens. The government fears that Panama will again be the epicentre of a new global tax havens scandal like the one that followed the ICIJ’s disclosure of the Panama Papers in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-hidden-offshore-by-rich-powerful-probe-101633303428181.html
04-10-2021||World||UK to scrap quarantine for most nations: Report||The UK is set to end hotel quarantine for almost all countries, the Sunday Telegraph reported, citing sources who said the current “red list” of 54 countries will be slashed to as few as nine.The changes, that are expected to be announced on Thursday, will allow travellers to visit those countries without having to self-isolate on their return. South Africa, Brazil and Mexico are expected to be opened up to quarantine-free travel in time for the October half-term break for schools.Meanwhile, New Zealand placed its fourth-largest city into a snap lockdown after two cases of Covid-19 were reported outside Auckland, where an outbreak of the infectious Delta variant continues to spread.Australia reported more than 1,900 new infections of the Delta variant on Sunday, health data showed, with cases spreading to new states. The island state of Tasmania, which has not had a case for 58 days, reported a new local infection late on Saturday, and there were new cases in South Australia state over the weekend.Separately, Dubai’s Expo 2020 acknowledged for the first time on Sunday that three workers had died from the coronavirus over the course of building the fair during the pandemic.‘US is turning the corner’“We certainly are turning the corner on this particular surge,” US infectious disease specialist Anthony Fauci said on ABC’s This Week on Sunday. “The way to keep it down, to make that turnaround continue to go down, is to do what we mentioned: get vaccinated.”The head of Germany’s BioNTech , which developed the first Covid-19 vaccine along with Pfizer said a new formula will probably be needed by mid-2022 to protect against future virus mutations, according to the Financial Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-scrap-quarantine-for-most-nations-report-101633292896025.html
04-10-2021||World||Fuel shortages persist in London and south east England||Gasoline and diesel shortages persisted in London and south east England on Sunday, where 22 per cent of forecourts had no fuel available and 60% had both types available, the Petrol Retailers Association (PRA) said on Sunday, according to Sky News.Elsewhere in Britain, including Scotland, the northern and central England, the crisis was "virtually at an end", the PRA said, with 6 per cent of forecourts dry.Brian Madderson, PRA chairman, was quoted as saying: "The fuel is still not going to the pumps that need it most in London and the south east."Britain will from Monday deploy military tanker drivers to deliver fuel to gas stations, seeking to stabilise the supply of fuel after a chaotic week that has seen panic-buying, fights at the pumps and drivers hoarding petrol in water bottles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fuel-shortages-persist-in-london-and-south-east-england-101633288343947.html
04-10-2021||World||Singapore reports over 2,000 new Covid cases despite 82% vaccination coverage||Singapore reported 2,057 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, bringing the total tally in the country to 103,843.Of the new cases, 1,676 were in the community, 373 were in migrant worker dormitories and eight were imported cases, the Ministry of Health (MOH) said in a press release.A total of 1,337 cases are currently warded in hospitals, with 250 of serious illness requiring oxygen supplementation, and 35 in critical condition in the intensive care units, said the MOH.Four more cases passed away from complications due to Covid-19 infection on Saturday, and six more cases passed away on Sunday.In total, 113 have passed away from complications due to Covid-19 infection in Singapore. As of Saturday, 82 percent of the population have been fully vaccinated, and 85 percent have received at least one dose of the vaccine, according to the MOH.The ministry said in a separate press release on Saturday that Singapore has decided to reduce the quarantine order period from 14 to 10 days, in view of the shorter average incubation period of the Covid-19 Delta variant.In line with this, Singapore will also make consequential adjustments to the travel policies, including to the travel history assessment period and the Stay-Home Notice (SHN) duration. In addition, as part of the regular review of the border measures to take into account the evolving pandemic situation in other countries, Singapore will also adjust the classification of countries which will apply to travelers arriving from 11.59 p.m. on October 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-reports-over-2-000-new-covid-cases-despite-82-vaccination-coverage-101633285752201.html
04-10-2021||India||‘Will hold NEET-SS exam on Jan 10-11’: Centre tells Supreme Court after rebuke||NEW DELHI: The Centre has decided to defer the National Entrance Eligibility Examination for super speciality courses (NEET-SS) scheduled to be held in November to January 2022 to give postgraduate doctors time to prepare for the new examination pattern.About 41 postgraduate doctors have approached the top court, complaining about they were informed about the change in the examination pattern only on August 31 when the Information Booklet was released by the National Board of Examinations. The examination was notified on July 23.The government’s decision to defer the examination comes a week after the Supreme Court told the Union government not to “treat doctors like footballs” and asked the government to reconsider its decision on last-minute changes in the entrance examination pattern for super specialty medical courses. In its response filed before the Supreme Court on October 1, the Centre said: “With the modification of 100% weightage to the questions pertaining only to the feeder course of the broad speciality (MD, MS) where they have already undergone those courses, in the circumstances, it was decided that the NEET-SS be deferred by a period of two months and be held on January 10-11, 2022, so as to provide ample or sufficient time and opportunity to all of them for their preparation for the entrance examination under the revised scheme/pattern.”The doctors were aggrieved that since 2018, 60% questions were from the super speciality stream that they applied for while the remaining 40% questions came from the broad super speciality courses or feeder course, i.e. MD or MS.The super speciality examinations are conducted for filling more than 4,200 seats in Doctorate of Medicine (DM), Master of Surgery (M.Ch) and Doctorate of National Board (DrNB).This year, the examination had 100% questions from the feeder course, thus placing students who prepared for their respective super speciality stream at a disadvantage.On September 27, the court told the Centre, NBE and National Medical Commission to devise a solution. “Don’t treat these doctors as footballs in this game of power,” the court said, even urging the Centre and NBE to consider conducting the examination this year on the old pattern.The Centre was unwilling to change the examination pattern stating that any change now will affect those students who have prepared as per the revised scheme. Moreover, NBE told the court that the pattern was changed to avoid wastage of precious DM/MCh/DrNB seats that go vacant each year.The Centre said 545 seats remained vacant in 2019, while last year, this number rose to 805. “The NEET-SS in the revised scheme seeks to assess the candidate’s competence in his/her broad speciality and not in a super speciality that he/she, as yet has no training, whatsoever in…Therefore, the modified scheme has not mandated the applicant candidates to study something different from what they have not studied earlier,” the affidavit stated.So far, the NBE has received 11,911 applicants for NEET-SS and this number is expected to rise to about 18,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-neet-ss-exam-on-jan-10-11-centre-tells-supreme-court-after-rebuke-101633371912748.html
04-10-2021||India||Yogi making ‘Ram Rajya’: Suvendu reacts to Mamata's ‘killing rajya’ remark||Bharatiya Janata Party MLA and leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Monday reacted to Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee's remark condemning the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, by saying that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is making a ‘Ram Rajya’.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee slammed BJP earlier in the day over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed. Condemning the incident, Banerjee said the BJP government doesn't believe in democracy and only wants autocracy.“This is a very sad and unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. They (BJP government) don't believe in democracy, they only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram rajya'? No, this is 'killing rajya',” news agency ANI quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying.Responding to Banerjee's comment, Suvendu said, “The one who has made Bengal killings hub should not question Uttar Pradesh's CM Yogi Adityanath, who's making a 'Ram Rajya'."At least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, died on Sunday in violence that broke out after at least one car, allegedly driven by Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation. The minister and his son have denied involvement in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-making-ram-rajya-suvendu-reacts-to-mamata-s-killing-rajya-remark-101633369030372.html
04-10-2021||India||AIUDF chief urges President Kovind to halt evictions in Assam’s Darrang district||All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) president and Lok Sabha MP Badruddin Ajmal on Monday urged President Ram Nath Kovind to stop evictions at Assam’s Darrang district. The area saw violent clashes on September 23 which led to the death of two people and injured over 20. The deceased included a 12-year-old boy and the injured included 11 police personnelIn a memorandum to President Kovind, Badruddin Ajmal expressed concerns that the eviction drive might lead to social instability in the state. Ajmal also sought people who were already evicted and demanded compensation to the families of those who died and were injured in last month’s clashes. He described the evictions as inhumanAjmal also claimed that the evicted people were citizens of India and had all requisite documents to support their citizenship. He accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led government in Assam of targeting the linguistic minority community.The AIUDF president also appealed that an IDP (Internally displaced person) certificate be given to people who were hit by erosion of land by the shifting course of the Brahmaputra river and a high level judicial inquiry into the firing incident, according to news agency PTI.Earlier, Hindustan Times reported that several residents of Darrang received the eviction notice from the administration just hours before the drive began.However, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stated that talks were held for more than four months before the eviction drive began.Meanwhile, a report by a non-governmental organisation on Monday stated that the police resorted to unprovoked attacks and used excessive force against the displaced people in Darrang. According to the Association for Protection of Civil Right, the police and administration blamed a large mob for attacking them with sticks and stones which led to the clashes.“They (Police) first fired tear gas shells and rubber bullets to disperse them. When it didn’t deter them, they fired live bullets in self-defense.” the report added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiudf-chief-urges-president-kovind-to-halt-evictions-in-assam-s-darrang-district-101633365861938.html
04-10-2021||India||HT This Day: October 5, 1947 — Indian Land, Air And Naval Units Move To Porbandar||A small Indian Military Force is being moved to Porbandar and will be landed there today (Sunday morning) from ships of the Royal Indian Navy, says a Press ‘communique issued from the Prime Minister’s Secretariat.This decision was taken in response to a request from certain of the Kathiawar States, the ‘communique’ adds. In making this a movement of troops, it is explained, opportunity has been taken to carry out combined operation training to practise inter-service co-operation.The Naval Forces taking part include three sloops (H.M.I.S. Kistna, H.M.I.S. Cauvery and H.M.I.S. Jumna), two fleet mine-sweepers (H.M.I.S. Konkan and H.M.I.S. Madras), M.L. 420 and Tank Landing Craft of the Royal Indian Navy. The Naval Forces are under the command of Commander R. D. Katari, R.I.N.The Land Forces comprise a Company Group of the 1st Battalion the Mahratta Light Infantry with detachments of the Royal Indian Engineers, Indian electrical and mechanical engineers, Indian Corps 0f Signals and Indian Army Medical Corps, and troop of Light tanks. These forces are under the command of Major V.S. Jog.The Royal Indian Air Force units participating in this exercise include No. 8 Squadron R.I.A.F. composed of Tempest aircraft under the command of Squadron Leader P.S. Gill, R.L.A.F. and will co-operate with both the Naval and the Military Forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-5-1947-indian-land-air-and-naval-units-move-to-porbandar-101633367110258.html
04-10-2021||India||Farm laws 'reason' behind Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday presented a memorandum to repeal the three contentious farm laws that have triggered massive protests in parts of the country. It came in the wake of the latest developments in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, where at least eight people died including four farmers after a jeep allegedly ran over some farmers during the protest.The incident has led to countrywide condemnation, mainly led by the opposition parties. Fellow farmers also held a demonstration in Punjab and Delhi's Singhu border to express their anger over the clashes.Speaking on the same, Punjab chief minister also termed the clashes an "unfortunate incident" and said those who are "guilty should be arrested," news agency ANI reported. "The reason behind this incident is three farm laws... I along with my ministers met Governor Banwarilal Purohit and gave him the memorandum to repeal the three farm laws," Channi said, as per the ANI report.On Sunday, a jeep allegedly ran over some farmers while they were protesting against the Centre's three agricultural legislation. The farmers claimed that the vehicle which ran over their brothers was part of the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish — a charge the minister has denied.A case against Mishra's son has been registered and the UP government-led by Bharatiya Janata Party's Yogi Adtiyanath has promised a probe by a retired high court judge. The state government has also turned the district into a fortress as it deployed heavy security around the area. Opposition leaders including COngress' Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and Akhilesh Yadav were also stopped from reaching the site. Punjab CM Channi was also among those who were stopped from reaching Lakhimpur Kheri.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government has announced a compensation of ₹45 lakh and government job to the next of kin of four deceased farmers, while the injured will receive a compensation of ₹10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-reason-behind-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-punjab-cm-channi-101633366746030.html
04-10-2021||India||Kerala’s daily Covid-19 tally falls below 10,000 in weeks; 149 new deaths added||Kerala on Monday saw a major reduction in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 8,850 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the caseload to 4,729,083, according to the health department’s bulletin. This is the first time in weeks that the daily cases were below the 10,000-mark.As many as 17,007 patients recovered and 149 succumbed to the viral disease in the same period. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 4,574,206 and 25,526 respectively. The active cases in the southern state stand at 128,736, the bulletin also showed.On Sunday, Kerala saw 12,297 cases while on Saturday 13,217 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. However, the fall in cases on Monday can be attributed to the lower number of cases carried out during the previous day. In the past 24 hours, only 74,871 samples were tested for Covid-19.Of Monday’s case count, 50 were health workers, 42 were from outside Kerala and 8,368 were infected with Covid-19 through contact, with the source of it not clear in 390. Over 415,000 patients are under surveillance in the state of which 399,228 are in home or institutional quarantine and 16,261 in hospitals.Thiruvananthapuram contributed the maximum towards Monday’s tally with 1,134 cases, followed by Thrissur with 1,077 cases and Ernakulam at 920 cases.Authorities have so far administered 35,877,274 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries of which 24,750,569 have received the first dose while the 11,126,705 are fully vaccinated — given both doses.Colleges in Kerala reopened on Monday after a gap of more than one year, with adherence to all Covid-19 related norms. Classes for the final year degree and postgraduate students began on Monday while the rest of the classes will start from October 18. College authorities checked the temperature of the students and hand sanitisers were provided at the entrance. They also ensured that students entering colleges were vaccinated with at least one dose.From November, the state government will resume physical classes for all schools across Kerala and guidelines for these will be issued by Tuesday, education minister V Sivankutty had said on Sunday.Students of classes 1 to 7 and 10 and 12 can come back to school from November 1. Education minister Sivankutty said on Sunday that extensive preparations have commenced for resuming offline classes. “Some schools have a lack of infrastructure facilities, so the government is planning to accommodate those students in nearby schools within the stipulated day of schools reopening so that they can follow all the Covid-19 guidelines,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-daily-covid-19-tally-falls-below-10-000-in-weeks-149-new-deaths-added-101633364780360.html
04-10-2021||India||Protests, detentions, FIR against minister's son: 10 points on Lakhimpur Kheri||A day after eight people were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday after violence erupted during a farmers’ protest, opposition parties and farmer groups have strongly censured the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh.The deceased included four farmers and four occupants of the vehicles that allegedly ran over the farmers, who were protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) alleged that one of the deceased farmers was shot dead by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son and others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. An FIR has been registered against Teni’s son Ashish Mishra and others.Throughout Monday, several opposition leaders including the likes of Priyanka Gandhi, Akhilesh Yadav, tried going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the deceased farmers but were stopped and later detained by the police. While Akhilesh Yadav was released, Priyanka Gandhi still continues to remain under detention.Opposition leaders have also condemned Sunday’s violence on their social media handles and have questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra ModiHere are the latest updates on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident:1. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi lashed out at Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav over Sunday’s tragic incident. Gandhi told HT that it is only the Congress party which has raised issues in Uttar Pradesh.2. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that the reason behind Sunday’s violence was the three new farm laws and submitted a memorandum to Governor Banwarilal Purohit to repeal the laws.3. Opposition parties have demanded that Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni should be sacked from the post while his son Ashish should be arrested.4. Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and Congress leader Kuljit Nagra along with other party leaders have been detained by the police in Saharanpur.5. The BJP on Monday claimed that the Congress and the SP are doing politics under the pretense of farmers' protest. BJP’s IT-Cell chief Amit Malviya said that SP workers were involved in Sunday’s violence.6. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu was released from Sarangpur Police Station on Monday hours after he was detained while protesting outside Punjab Raj Bhavan, demanding Ashish Mishra’s arrest.7. Trinamool Congress Supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that ‘Killing Raj’ is going on instead of Ram Rajya in Uttar Pradesh.8. The SKM claimed that farmer-led protests were held across the country on Monday to express ire over the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri.9. The Uttar Pradesh government and farmer unions reached an agreement on Monday, where the former will provide ₹45 lakh as ex-gratia to the families of the four deceased farmers. While, the injured will get ₹10 lakh each.10. The Uttar Pradesh government said that a retired high court judge will probe the incident.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-detentions-fir-against-minister-s-son-10-points-on-lakhimpur-kheri-101633356848994.html
04-10-2021||India||Harsh Shringla meets Lankan leadership, reaffirms support to post-Covid recovery||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla held talks with Sri Lanka’s top leadership, including Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, on Monday to review bilateral ties and development cooperation during a visit aimed at giving impetus to relations against the backdrop of China’s growing presence in the island nation.Ten Sri Lankan ministers, including foreign minister GL Peiris, joined Shringla for the inauguration of several India-funded development projects in the housing and education sectors. Shringla reaffirmed that India will stand with the Sri Lankan government in its efforts for post-Covid-19 recovery.Two days before Harsh Shringla began his visit to Sri Lanka on October 2, state-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) inked a deal with India’s Adani Group to develop and run the strategic Colombo Port’s West Container Terminal. This came some eight months after Sri Lanka reneged on a 2019 deal with India and Japan to operate the East Container Terminal, angering both countries.Adani Group and its local partner John Keells Holdings will jointly have an 85% stake in the West Container Terminal, giving India a much-needed strategic presence at Colombo port, where almost 70% of operations involve shipments bound for India.The foreign secretary’s visit to Colombo is being seen as an opportunity to get bilateral ties back on track after recent problems such as the scrapping of the MoU on the East Container Terminal, and to assess Sri Lanka’s development assistance requirements. Peiris, who was recently appointed foreign minister, and Basil Rajapaksa, the younger brother of the premier, who was appointed the finance minister, are seen as strategists who understand the importance of India at a time when Sri Lanka is facing financial pressures due to declining forex reserves and shortages of food items.India’s relationship with Sri Lanka is seen as one of the most important in the neighbourhood, though there has been some heartburn in New Delhi over Colombo speedily clearing China-funded projects amid the Covid-19 pandemic while going slow on India’s proposals such as the development of the oil storage facility at Trincomalee.The Indian high commission said the four projects in the housing and education sectors that were jointly inaugurated by Shringla Peiris exemplified “India’s strong and multifaceted development cooperation profile”.The Indian side handed over 1,235 houses built under the third phase of the Indian Housing Project (IHP), which is part of the largest grant aid project for constructing 50,000 houses at a cost of ₹1,372 crore. A total of 4,000 houses will be built in the third phase, and more than 3,500 have already been completed. The Indian side also handed over 24 houses built for low-income families in Vavuniya district under the Model Village Housing Project. A total of 600 houses will be built in 25 districts under this project. The two sides also inaugurated the Vada Central Ladies College at Vadamarachi in the Northern Province and Saraswathi Central College at Pusellawa in Kandy district. Shringla reviewed bilateral cooperation during a delegation-level meeting with Sri Lankan foreign secretary Jayanath Colombage, and discussed economic and commercial ties and post-pandemic economic recovery during his meeting with finance minister Rajapaksa.During his meeting with foreign minister Peiris, Shringla focused on the early conclusion of projects and enhancing connectivity to help accelerate Sri Lanka’s economic recovery. The Indian high commission also tweeted that Shringla had a productive discussion with the Sri Lankan premier on “further consolidating the multifaceted India-Sri Lanka partnership”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shringlas-meets-sri-lankan-leadership-reaffirms-india-s-support-to-post-covid-19-recovery-101633361229937.html
04-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: Choose 'court or road,' says SC to farmers protesting against three laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Choose 'court or the road': SC to farmers protesting against three lawsThe Supreme Court on Monday asked farmers agitating against the Centre's new agricultural laws what their protest is against, since the contentious legislations have "already been stayed." Read MorePriyanka Gandhi says Mayawati, Akhilesh failed to raise their voices for UPSenior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday criticised Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samajwadi Party supremo Mayawati for not raising issues concerning citizens of Uttar Pradesh. Read MoreDrugs case: Aryan Khan, 2 others sent to NCB custody till October 7A Mumbai court on Monday denied the petition of Aryan Khan and two others opposing extension of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) custody and sent them in remand till October 7. Read More'Get them out and India will fall under pressure': Gul names 2 players Pakistan need to remove cheaply to win T20 WC tieIndia and Pakistan open their T20 World Cup campaign by facing each other on October 24. This will make the first time since the 2019 World Cup that the two teams will meet in international cricket. Read More5 reasons crash dieting is bad for youThe prospect of quick weight loss by following a crash diet is tempting and many fall for it due to its promise of an instant result. Crash dieting or yo-yo dieting is basically a very low-calorie diet that helps you lose weight in a short period of time. Read MoreSalman Khan's sister Alvira Khan visits Shah Rukh Khan's Mannat after Aryan Khan's arrest, see picsAfter Salman Khan, his sister Alvira Khan Agnihotri visited Shah Rukh Khan's Mumbai home to show her support. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-choose-court-or-road-says-sc-to-farmers-protesting-against-three-laws-and-all-the-latest-news-101633360490066.html
04-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi says Mayawati, Akhilesh failed to raise their voices for UP||Senior Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday criticised Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samajwadi Party supremo Mayawati for not raising issues concerning citizens of Uttar Pradesh. This is 'killing rajya': Mamata attacks BJP over Lakhimpur Kheri violenceThe Congress general secretary said whether it was the Hathras case or the recent death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, it was only her party that raised its voice against the government on every occasion.“Where is Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati? For the last two years, whether it was the Hathras incident or (recent incident in) Lakhimpur Kheri, it's only Congress which raised issues in Uttar Pradesh,” Priyanka Gandhi said.Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union min Ajay Mishra, son and others booked for murderPriyanka Gandhi Vadra was detained on Monday while she was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri where on Sunday an SUV belonging to the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son, Ashish, ran over the protesting farmers.Congress alleged that their leader was detained without any arrest warrant. The Uttar Pradesh police, however, said that the arrest was made since the situation around Lakhimpur was restive at the moment. Congress workers also held a candlelight vigil protesting against the detention of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Lakhimpur Kheri: The cauldron boils overEarlier in the day, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s video, shared by the Congress, showed the leader sweeping the floor of the guest house where she was being detained. Her brother Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president, applauded the leader for following the path of Mahatma Gandhi and his rule of non-violent Satyagraha.Eight people, four of them protesting against the three farm laws and four BJP members, died on Sunday after a car allegedly belonging to the convoy of Union minister of home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish, mowed down four protesting farmers. The other four were allegedly thrashed to death by the farmers.Earlier on Monday, the Uttar Pradesh government reached an agreement with farmers and decided to give ₹45 lakh compensation to the next of the kin of the four farmers killed in the incident. It also registered two FIRs in connection with Sunday's violence. The state government also booked Ashish Mishra and said that a retired high court judge will probe the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-says-mayawati-akhilesh-failed-to-raise-their-voices-for-up-101633357489617.html
04-10-2021||India||Delhi logged 217 cases of dengue in September, highest for the month in 3 years||The national capital has reported 341 cases of dengue this year, more than half of which were reported in September itself, multiple news agencies reported citing official data. According to a civic report, there were 217 cases of Dengue in September, the highest count for the month in the last three years. In 2020, the city had registered 188 dengue cases in the entire month of September.In 2020, the city had reported 266 cases between January and October, while during the entire year, there were a total of 1,072 cases and one related death, the report stated.The report was released by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is the nodal agency for tabulating data on vector-borne diseases in the city.In preceding years, the corresponding figures stood at 374 in 2018, 1,103 in 2017, 1,362 in 2016 and 6,775 in 2015, according to the data shared by the Delhi health department on September 22.Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease that spreads widely during the monsoon season. Its symptoms include high fever, headache, rash, muscle and joint pain.This year, the city reported an uptick in cases, however, doctors say that despite the prevalence of serotype 2 dengue virus associated with a higher risk of severe disease, most people are not showing severe symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-logged-217-cases-of-dengue-in-september-highest-for-the-month-in-3-years-101633355716363.html
04-10-2021||India||ICMR asks states to impose protocol for tourists over fears of Covid-19 3rd wave||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday warned the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) could peak during the festival season and may occur two weeks earlier than previously estimated.The top biomedical research agency has asked states with tourists hotspots, such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and those in the northeast, to enforce protocol necessitated to check the spread of Covid-19  infection strictly and make vaccination certificates and RT-PCR tests mandatory, Hindustan Times' sister publication LiveMint reported.The ICMR observed that that ‘second wave’ of the Covid-19 pandemic that struck India in April was severe, but showed varying impact in different states. It noted that smaller states with rarefied population witnessed not only less intense spread of the deadly virus than was witnessed at the national level, but also contributed in slowing down the attainment of the second peak.Amongst these ‘smaller states’ are popular tourist destinations such as Himachal Pradesh and Assam, that are currently seeing an upsurge of visitors from elsewhere in the country, the ICMR said.The ICMR said even though no national guideline exists on restrictions regarding domestic travel it may be helpful for states with holiday destinations to receive guidance on how they could best mitigate travel-related risks.“These observations indicate increasing opportunities for transmission in areas where population-level immunity has not yet accumulated to the same levels as elsewhere in the country. Against a backdrop of increasing anticipation of a third wave of covid-19 in India, it is important to recognize the potential risks associated with such an escalation in travel," the ICMR said.After taking mathematical models into account that chart the course of pandemic in future, the ICMR warned that a sudden increase in population density due to incoming tourists or mass congregation due to social, political or religious reasons can worsen the third-wave scenario, LiveMint reported.Clearly making it important for tourist destination states to demand evidence of a recent covid-19 negative test or vaccination certificates, the ICMR said that vaccine status could also play an important role in eligibility to travel, with some caveats.The recommendations prepared by Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR and Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR were also published in the International Journal of Travel Medicine published by Oxford University Press. The ICMR has recommended that people instead of doing revenge travel should do responsible travel.“First, ‘vaccine passports’ have limitations, arising from uncertainties about how the nature and strength of vaccine-induced immunity would change over time. Second, despite being the world’s largest producer of covid-19 vaccines, India also faces the challenge of having the world’s second-largest population to vaccinate; it is estimated that roughly 20% of India’s eligible population has been fully vaccinated," said the ICMR. The country has administered over 91 crore doses of covid-19 vaccines so far.At least 20,799 new coronavirus cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The active caseload is presently 2,64,458, which is the lowest in 200 days. Active cases presently constitute 0.78% of the country's total positive cases. The daily positivity rate was reported to be 2.10%. The daily positivity rate has remained below 3% for the last 35 days and below 5% for 118 consecutive days now, according to the union health ministry data.The scientists further said that it will also be important to maintain surveillance in at-risk settings, ensuring that virological testing is maintained even in periods of apparent low infection activity.In addition, information on genomic surveillance in other countries and vigil at international airports will be valuable for early identification of hitherto unrecognized variants that could later gain a foothold across the country, the ICMR said.“There are undoubtedly important benefits as society gradually returns to normal, in India and elsewhere; domestic travel to holiday destinations provides benefits not just for visitors, but also for local economies that have been under considerable stress for over a year," the recommendations said.“Nonetheless, with the possibility of a severe third wave in India still looming, it remains critical to recognize and mitigate the risks involved. A shared sense of responsibility, amongst visitors, residents and local authorities, will go a long way towards protecting the welfare of the country as a whole," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-asks-states-to-impose-protocol-for-tourists-over-fears-of-covid-19-3rd-wave-101633350752215.html
04-10-2021||India||This is 'killing rajya': Mamata attacks BJP over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday came down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed. Condemning the incident, Banerjee said the BJP government doesn't believe in democracy and only wants autocracy.“This is a very sad and unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. They (BJP government) don't believe in democracy, they only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram rajya'? No, this is 'killing rajya',” news agency ANI quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying.Kolkata | This is a very sad & unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. They (BJP govt) don't believe in democracy, they only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram rajya'? No, this is 'killing rajya': West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Lakhimpur Kheri violence pic.twitter.com/ZQ7CgiMsrFWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday came down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed. Condemning the incident, Banerjee said the BJP government doesn't believe in democracy and only wants autocracy.“This is a very sad and unfortunate incident. I have no words to condemn this incident. They (BJP government) don't believe in democracy, they only want autocracy. Is this 'Ram rajya'? No, this is 'killing rajya',” news agency ANI quoted Mamata Banerjee as saying.|#+|This came after many opposition leaders were detained on their way to the violence-hit district to meet the families of the victims. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was detained following a sit-in protest outside his Vikramaditya Marg residence in Lucknow, after he was not allowed to go to Lakhimpur.Likewise, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was not given permission for his plane to land at the Lucknow airport.Priyanka Vadra and other Congress leaders accompanying her, including Deepender Hooda, had reached the Lakhimpur border in the morning but were not allowed to meet the families of the farmers who died in the violence during a protest a day earlier.On Sunday, Mamata had taken to Twitter to lash out at the BJP over the Lakhimpur incident. "I strongly condemn the barbaric incident in Lakhimpur Kheri. The apathy of @BJP4India towards our farmer brethren pains me deeply. A delegation of 5 @AITCofficial MPs will be visiting the families of the victims tomorrow. Our farmers will always have our unconditional support," Banerjee tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-killing-rajya-mamata-attacks-bjp-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633350963131.html
04-10-2021||India||Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan rejects call for all-party meeting on narcotic jihad row||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday rejected the opposition demand to call a meeting of religious heads and community leaders over the controversy around Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt’s statement on ‘narcotic jihad’.Vijayan told the state assembly that there was no need to call any such meeting in the present scenario, the state’s communal fabric was very strong, and that nobody can vitiate the atmosphere and instigate hatred.“I don’t find any need to call such a meeting. Kerala is known for its communal amity and brotherhood, and nobody can dent it,” he told the assembly.The Congress-led opposition United Democratic Front and a section of religious heads have been demanding that the government convene an all-party and all-religion meeting.On 23 September, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suresh Gopi claimed that the Centre will call a meeting of Christian leaders in view of the statement by the Bishop of Pala Diocese of the Syro-Malabar that after “love jihad”, Catholic girls and youth were becoming victims of a “well-orchestrated narcotic jihad” in Kerala.‘Love jihad’ is a term right-wing groups use to describe relationships between Muslim men and non-Muslim women, claiming that this was a conspiracy to force non-Muslim women to convert.Pinarayi Vijayan, who earlier described the religious leader’s statement as “unfortunate and uncalled for”, told the assembly that there was no need to discuss “a non-issue”.Addressing a church ceremony in Kottayam on September 9, the Bishop appeared to target people from the Muslim community.“Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to support them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said. The Bishop was referring to the trip of 21 people, including five people who converted to Islam, from north Kerala to Afghanistan in 2016. The Bishop later sought to justify his statement in the church mouthpiece, ‘Deepika’, and attack his critics. “Those who insist that once should not talk about the evils that befall his own community are silently encouraging such things to flourish. Instead of ignoring the warnings, attempts should be made to discuss and study these issues to prevent such social evils,” he said, adding that pseudo secularists were trying to suppress voices that point out evils in the society. He said while secularism remained the core of the country pseudo-secularism will destroy the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-pinarayi-vijayan-rejects-call-for-all-party-meeting-on-narcotic-jihad-row-101633350847526.html
04-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan in NCB custody till Oct 7: What happened inside Mumbai court||A Mumbai court on Monday sent actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and two of his friends to the custody of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till October 7. The 23-year-old was arrested by the NCB on Sunday. He was detained by the agency after raid at a rave party on a cruise ship on Saturday night.The magistrate's court accepted NCB's plea that more investigation is needed after the seizure of drugs.ALSO WATCH | Aryan Khan drugs case: How NCB officials went undercover to raid ‘rave party’ on cruise ship Aryan Khan was picked up along with seven others during the NCB raid. These include his fiends Arbaz Seth Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. Khan's lawyer, however, said nothing was found in his client's possession and he was arrested only based on WhatsApp chats.The NCB had sought a longer custody of Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha (till October 13) to take forward the investigation, which it said has bigger ramifications. The lawyers of the trio, however, opposed NCB's plea saying the agency has not been able to prove anything and arrested their clients because they are "high profile people".Here is what happened in the Esplanade court during the hearing:• Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, told the court that one person was detained on Monday morning in connection with the case.• Seeking the trio's custody for nine days, he further said, "NCB seized Aryan Khan’s phone and there are several suspected chats which shows the connection with the dealers. It is, therefore, necessary to confront all accused in the custodial remand."• He further argued that WhatsApp chats show the discussions about cash transactions and that there are mention of international transactions also. Singh claimed code names were used by the accused in the chats to communicate with peddlers.• As per NCB, the three have been booked under Section 8C, 20B, 27 (Punishment for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance) and 35 (Presumption of culpable mental state) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act). ASG Anil Singh argued that offences under NDPS Act are non-bailable and cited judgement in Rhea Chakraborty case.• Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde opposed the extended custody plea of NCB and said the agency can't rely on WhatsApp chats. He said that no material on record has been found against his client. Maneshinde also said that bail for non-bailable offence is provided by Supreme Court and read an old judgement.• Khan also said through his lawyer that he only knows Merchant from whom six grams of Charas was found. "I don't know anybody else apart from him who is name as an accused in the case."• Aryan Khan further claimed that he was invited to the cruise as a guest and that he doesn't have any contact with the organisers, dealers or any other people on the cruise ship. His lawyer also said that the agency downloaded Khan's WhatsApp chats and claimed they indicated link with "so-called" international drug trafficking network when he was abroad.• Khan clarified that he never indulged in supply or consumption of drugs during his foreign trips and said that during raid at cruise ship, the contraband seized by the NCB did not belong to him or his friends.• "I am not seeking bail as a matter of right. I was detained by NCB not on the cruise ship. I was special invitee. I landed there with another friend of mine," Khan's lawyer said on his behalf.• Merchant's lawyer Tareq Sayed also opposed furthr custody saying there is no clarity on where the recovery is made, from whom and how much. "There are only chats that are recovered."• Sayed also said that the NCB arrested Khan and his client because they are high profile people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-in-ncb-custody-till-oct-7-what-happened-inside-mumbai-court-101633349688425.html
04-10-2021||India||Drugs case: Aryan Khan, 2 others sent to NCB custody till October 7||A Mumbai court on Monday denied the petition of Aryan Khan and two others opposing extension of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) custody and sent them in remand till October 7. The 23-year-old, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested by the NCB after a raid at a rave party on a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai.The court accepted NCB's plea that Khan and his friends' further custody is needed after the seizure of drugs from the rave party. The NCB had presented WhatsApp chats, where discussions were held about cash transactions involving drugs.Those sent to extended custody today are Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha. They were arrested on Sunday after a lengthy questioning by the NCB.Khan and his friends were produced before a local court in Mumbai on Monday afternoon after having spent one day in NCB custody. They were earlier sent for a medical checkup at Mumbai's JJ Hospital.During the court hearing on Monday, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh (representing the NCB) said that WhatsApp chats found in Aryan's phone, which was seized by the NCB, “clearly shows the nexus”. “It is necessary to confront all accused in the custodial remand,” Singh pointed out, adding that the chats have code words that need to be decoded.He also said that code words were used for peddlers which need to be decoded.Aryan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde opposed the NCB's plea arguing that the NCB “cannot simply rely on WhatsApp chats” for the case and seek extension of the custody.“I was arrested by the NCB before and not on the cruise…I was invited as a guest…I don't have any contacts with the organisers, dealers or any other people on the cruise. Nothing has been found in my bag during search,” Aryan informed the court via Maneshinde.“They've interrogated me for the last 48 hours and have found nothing. I [have]…no criminal antecedents. I have cooperated with them (NCB) so any prayer for further custody should be rejected,” Aryan's statement to the court added.Also Read | Aryan Khan in NCB custody till Oct 7: What happened inside Mumbai courtBefore producing Khan and others in the court, NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said that the agency raided the Goa-bound cruise ship after disguising themselves as passengers, and busted the rave party where several drugs were being used. Officials of the agency learnt about the rave party after being tipped off about the same, and this was the first time they raided such a party on a cruise ship.A company based in Delhi is believed to have organised the party. It was slated to reach Goa on Saturday night, and return to Mumbai by Monday.Maneshinde, told the magistrate court on Sunday that his client was invited to the cruise party. He further stated that Aryan didn’t have a “boarding pass…any seat or cabins.” “Secondly, according to the seizure, nothing has been found in his possession. He is arrested only based on chats,” Maneshinde said.Meanwhile, NCB chief SN Pradhan told news agency PTI on Sunday that the agency is probing the matter from “all angles” and that there is a “Bollywood connection.” “We are looking at the main supplier and the entire cartel behind this drugs case,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.Pradhan said that the investigation of the matter will be carried out professionally despite it being high-profile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-sends-srk-s-son-aryan-khan-2-others-to-ncb-custody-till-october-7-101633342566368.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Why Priyanka Gandhi Vadra swept floor of a guest house||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was on Monday seen sweeping the floor of a guest house in the Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh. It is the same guest house where the Congress leader is being detained following an attempt to visit Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed in violent clashes on Sunday.In a clip posted by the Congress party on its various handles, Priyanka Gandhi can be seen sweeping the floor using a broom. The 42-second-long video was praised by the Congress, which said that their leader has chosen the path shown by the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi when he launched a non-violent Satyagraha against the British occupation of India."On the path shown by Mahatma Gandhi inside Sitapur Police Line, Mrs Priyanka Gandhi started her fast in custody with Shramdan," the party wrote on Twitter. "Until the killers of farmers are not arrested, the protest will continue," it added.So why was Priyanka Gandhi Vadra seen sweeping the floor? According to those persons HT spoke to, Gandhi chose this unique way of protest after she was refused entry to meet the families of the farmers killed yesterday.Why is PGV sweeping the floor? She arrived at #lakhimpurkheri at 2am, spent night fighting with police. While other leaders left after being stopped by police, PGV says that she won't go till she meets victims' families.Visuals are of her cleaning her detention centre/guest house https://t.co/f0s5D5XPtmThe Congress has also alleged that her detention is illegal as no warrant was produced, while police officials maintain that prohibitory orders are in place in the area, due to which the leader was detained.She was stopped near Hargaon on the Sitapur-Lakhimpur Kheri border. During her detention, dramatic visuals emerged of Gandhi coming head-to-head with police officials.Priyanka Gandhi was seen questioning the police for stopping her without any order for detention or arrest and accused the officers of misbehaving with her. She said the police treatment amounted to kidnapping and molestation.According to a Congress spokesperson, Priyanka Gandhi is firm on her demand and she won't go back without meeting the victims’ families and farmers. A large number of Congress workers have also assembled outside the place of detention in her support.Violence erupted in the Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday, when a jeep allegedly ran over farmers, who their leaders said were protesting against the Centre's three laws. The farmers claimed that the vehicle which ran over their brothers was part of the convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish - a charge the minister has denied. While the protesters claimed four farmers were killed in the incident, the police said that four others died after being thrashed by the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-why-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-swept-floor-of-a-guest-house-101633349310049.html
04-10-2021||India||Protest held in west UP over Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Farmers, students, and members of opposition parties took to the streets across western Uttar Pradesh against the violence during a farmer protest in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday. Eight people were killed in the violence that was triggered after a car hit protesting farmers.Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Naresh Tikait convened an emergency meeting in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday night to discuss and decide the future course of action. Addressing the gathering, he appealed to people to continue their protest peacefully. He said the Lakhimpur Kheri violence showed the insensitive face of the government and ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “After failing to crush the movement, they have now started mowing down farmers,” said Tikait. He said the incident would prove the last nail in the BJP’s coffin.Tikait warned BJP ministers and lawmakers against entering and organising programmes in villages as people are angry and anything could happen. “If anything happens with them, the government and their representatives would be responsible for it.”Also Read: Choose ‘court or the road’: SC to farmers protesting against three lawsThe BKU decided to follow Sanyukt Kisan Morcha ( SKM)’s directions and directed farmers to launch protests and sit-ins at district headquarters on Monday. SKM is an umbrella group of farm unions spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws enacted last yearAngry farmers held a protest at Sivyaya toll plaza on Sunday night and raised anti-government slogans. Students took out candle March in Meerut. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) workers blocked a road at Kisanpur Baral in Bagpat and also blocked Muzaffarnagar-Shamli road. Members of the Kisan Union led by Sambit Malik blocked a road in Shamli.RLD workers also took out a procession in Hapur on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-held-in-west-up-over-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-101633349107429.html
04-10-2021||India||Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya launches drone-based Covid-19 vaccine delivery||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday launched Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) drone response and outreach (called i-Drone) for the Northeast region. The project was launched from Nagaland and marks the government's first step towards undertaking delivery of Covid-19 vaccine in the remote corners of the country using drones.The ICMR-led pilot project has been approved for Nagaland, Manipur and Andaman and Nicobar Islands."This is the first commercial flying of a drone in South Asia. A distance of 31km was covered in 13-15 minutes," said Mandaviya after the virtual ceremony."It's not only for vaccine supply, we'll also transport blood samples and essential medicines using drones in the future," he added.The minister further said that 9.1 million vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far.Earlier this year, the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) and directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) granted conditional exemption to ICMR for conducting feasibility study of Covid-19 vaccine delivery using drones. The ICMR has partnered with IIT-Kanpur for the project.The Centre said that the exemption will be valid for a period of one year or until further orders.After the approval, HLL Infra Tech Services Limited, on behalf of ICMR, began testing delivery of medical supplies (vaccines/drugs) by Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) at select locations in India.The company said that ICMR will engage UAV operators to operate beyond visual line of site (BVLOS) in fixed pre-defined or pre-approved flight paths and deliver Covid-19 vaccine.BVLOS drone flights are those that go beyond 500-700 metres from the eye's vision or beyond the visual line of sight.Drones have been very useful in providing last mile deliveries, and reaching places which are difficult to access. In India, they have been used by authorities in some cities to keep a check at crowd when the Covid-19 pandemic spread last year.In Ghana, a delivery service Zipline has been using drones to give Covid-19 vaccines to people living in remote areas. According to a report in Forbes, Zipline has partnered with the government of Ghana to provide these vaccines which have been received as part of COVAX - a global initiative to give equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The initiative is supported by the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-launches-drone-based-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-101633347554316.html
04-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress announces protest over Lakhimpur Kheri violence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The Congress on Monday demanded the immediate release of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who, the party alleged, was detained illegally by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Addressing a press conference, the Congress said “the practice of preventing political leaders from free movement is very hazardous”. The Congress stressed said they would hold protests outside the offices of district magistrates in all districts of the country on Tuesday to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Read moreFormer Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML) director and personal secretary to late prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Shakti Sinha, 63, passed away on Monday. Read moreRohit Sharma, one of the biggest highlights of the five-Test series between India and England, feels that although the final result is awaited, he would like to believe that India are the winners of the Pataudi Trophy. With the series tilted 2-1 in favour of India, the fifth and final Test match, scheduled to be played in Manchester, was called off following a Covid-19 scare. Read moreMany of us are leading stressful lives, especially in pandemic times when things can get unpredictable at times. We may feel lonely, isolated, overburdened, trapped, and that adds to the stress build-up. Many people who struggle with chronic stress are further at a risk of getting several health troubles from cardiovascular diseases, insomnia, depression, anxiety, headaches, high blood pressure to diabetes. Read moreTwo years after premiering at the Tribeca Film Festival, director Bhaskar Hazarika’s irresistibly insane Assamese film Aamis has found its way onto SonyLIV. Which means that if you signed up for the service to watch Scam 1992 a year ago, you probably still have a few days left on your subscription to watch this. Win-win. Read moreHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India Pvt. Ltd. on Monday has announced that it has sold more than 5 crore two-wheelers in India since 2001. The Honda Activa scooter has played a crucial role in achieving this milestone. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-announces-protest-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-and-all-the-latest-news-101633345569134.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Priyanka Gandhi illegally detained, says Cong||The Congress on Monday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led Union government over the detention of Priyanka Gandhi, who was on her way to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.As many as eight people were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday after violence erupted during a farmers’ protest ahead of a visit by Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The deceased included four farmers and four occupants of the vehicles that allegedly ran over the farmers.Priyanka Gandhi, along with other leaders of the Congress, including Deepender Hooda, reached the Lakhimpur border on Monday morning but were not allowed to meet the families of the deceased farmers.Demanding an immediate release of Gandhi, the Congress claimed that she was illegally detained by the Uttar Pradesh police. Addressing reporters on Monday, party leader Rajiv Shukla said, “We demand the immediate release of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who has been illegally detained. We also demand action against the policemen who misbehaved with her. ”Gandhi alleged the treatment meted out to her by the police was equivalent to kidnapping.Following her detention, she went on a hunger strike. In a 42-second video tweeted by Congress, Gandhi was seen sweeping the floor of the room where she was detained. The party described the video by saying that Priyanka’s hunger strike is for the rights of the farmers and the protection of constitutional rights. “The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government cannot crush our democratic and constitutional rights. The fight for rights will continue following the path of Mahatma Gandhi,” Congress further wrote on the microblogging site.Several senior leaders of the Congress including the likes of Mallikarjun Kharge, Salman Khurshid and Pramod Tiwari slammed Priyanka Gandhi’s detention by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Mallikarjun Kharge said the Congress general secretary was detained without any warrant.“For three times, we tried reaching Sitapur to help Priyanka Gandhi in our capacity as advocates. We were stopped, this is a gross injustice,” Salman Khurshid and Pramod Tiwari said in a joint video statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-priyanka-gandhi-illegally-detained-says-cong-101633346378001.html
04-10-2021||India||Alleged post-poll violence: HC pulls up Bengal govt for not compensating victims||The Calcutta high court on Monday pulled up the West Bengal government for its failure in compensating the victims of the alleged post-poll violence in the state this year even as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a status report of its investigation into the violence. “This shows a total casual attitude of the State in a serious matter,” said a division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi BharadwajA five-judge high court bench in August ordered separate probes by the CBI and a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence. The court also directed the government to process the compensation for the victims of the violence.The bench said to date, the CBI has filed 40 first information reports and charge sheets related to seven of the cases. The CBI on Monday filed the first status report of the probe that the high court is monitoring.The bench also objected to the state government’s move to appoint 10 Indian Police Service officers to assist the SIT. The government told the court the officers were appointed after due consultation with the SIT members even though it failed to produce the minutes of the meeting in this regard. “No minutes of the meeting of SIT is on record,” the bench said. It added Manjula Chellur, a former chief justice of the high court who would head the SIT, was not taken into confidence before the officers were appointed.Also Read: Kolkata Police to start inspection of pandalsThe matter will be heard next on November 8.Allegations of post-poll violence started pouring from across the state after the assembly election results were declared in May. In June, the court directed the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to constitute a committee to examine cases of alleged violence. The seven-member panel submitted its final report on July 13 slamming the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government while recommending a CBI probe and trials in the cases of violence outside the state. The NHRC report said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged with the state police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson. The committee received around 1,979 reports involving 15,000 alleged victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alleged-post-poll-violence-hc-pulls-up-bengal-govt-for-not-compensating-victims-101633346107037.html
04-10-2021||India||With the corporatisation of the OFB, uncertainty and fear run high among workers||Last Wednesday was a holiday at Rifle Factory, Ishapur (RFI), 40 km from Kolkata, one of the 41 government-owned ordnance factories that will be corporatised and become units of seven State-owned companies from Thursday.
04-10-2021||India||Choose 'court or the road': SC to farmers protesting against three laws||The Supreme Court on Monday asked farmers agitating against the Centre's new agricultural laws what their protest is against, since the contentious legislations have "already been stayed." The court was hearing a petition by farmers' body, seeking permission to stage a demonstration at Jantar Mantar in Delhi."Where is the question of going on protest once a party has already approached the court challenging the validity of the laws," a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar asked while hearing the plea, according to a report by news agency PTI.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta also argued, "Once the matter is before the highest constitutional court, nobody can be on the streets on the same issue."Advocate Ajay Chaudhary, who was arguing on behalf of the petitioner, Kisan Mahapanchayat, clarified his stand and said that the protests are not limited to the enactment of the laws. They "also seek the implementation of Minimum Support Price as a statutory right, among other issues," Chaudhary reportedly said.Referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least eight people, including four farmers, were killed India’s Attorney General KK Venugopal argued that the protests cannot go on forever. The bench agreed with the Attorney General and said, "exactly! Nobody takes responsibility when such incidents happen."The bench further said that the petitioner could "either challenge the law in court or protest on road," LiveLaw reported. “Either choose the court or the road," the bench reportedly remarked.The court October 21 as the next date of hearing.‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’, a unified body of farmers and agriculturists, and its president are seeking directions to the authorities to provide space to at least 200 protesters at Jantar Mantar for a peaceful and non-violent demonstration.They are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.The three legislations were enacted last year in September and since then the farmers have taken to the streets, demanding repeal of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choose-court-or-the-road-supreme-court-to-farmers-protesting-against-3-laws-101633344118228.html
04-10-2021||India||No mention of Covid-19 as cause of death in certificate not sole ground to deny ex-gratia: SC||The Supreme Court said that state governments cannot deny ex-gratia compensation of ₹50,000 as per the recommendations of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to the kin of those who succumbed to Covid-19 on grounds that the death certificate does not mention it as cause.“No states shall deny ex gratia on ground that in the death certificate cause of death is not mentioned that ‘died due to Covid’,” the bench said.A bench of Justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna also ordered the states and the Centre to publicise the scheme widely in print and electronic media for larger reach. The bench on Monday also said that the compensation will reach the next of the kin of the deceased within 30 days after an application is submitted while highlighting that the compensation will be disbursed from the state disaster relief funds.The bench, while approving the NDMA guidelines, also said that in cases where the death certificate has been issued and a family member is aggrieved, they are allowed to approach appropriate authority.The authorities can also modify death certificates on production of essential documents, such as the RT-PCR test, and said that if families still face grievances they can approach the Grievance Redressal Committee.The apex court ordered that the Grievance Redressal Committee can examine medical records of deceased patients and take a call within 30 days and order the compensation. The NDMA earlier recommended that ₹50,000 be given to the kin of those who died due to Covid-19.The NDMA said that the ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the family members of those who died of the virus due to involvement in Covid-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the coronavirus pandemic.The government said that NDMA issued the guidelines on September 11 in compliance with the directions given by the Supreme Court on June 30 wherein it directed the authority to recommend the guidelines for ex-gratia assistance.In its affidavit, filed on a batch of pleas by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and intervenors represented by advocate Sumeer Sodhi seeking ex-gratia assistance to family members of Covid-19 victims, the Centre said the NDMA has already started discussions and consultations on the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission regarding insurance intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-deny-ex-gratia-if-death-certificate-lacks-mention-of-covid-19-as-cause-sc-101633344522427.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Congress announces protest across country tomorrow||The Congress on Monday demanded the immediate release of party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who, the party alleged, was detained illegally by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Addressing a press conference, the Congress said “the practice of preventing political leaders from free movement is very hazardous”. The Congress stressed said they would hold protests outside the offices of district magistrates in all districts of the country on Tuesday to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence."Tomorrow, there will be a gherao of DM's office in every district across the country. It will become a countrywide movement. I demand the Prime Minister and UP chief minister take strict action against those responsible," Congress leader Rajiv Shukla said in Delhi.The Congress also demanded the immediate dismissal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and the arrest of his son, who has been named in the FIR lodged by Uttar Pradesh Police after the death of eight persons including four farmers in violent clashes in Lakhimpur Kheri."We demand that union minister Ajay Mishra should be dismissed immediately and his son be arrested forthwith. We also demand the immediate release of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who has been illegally detained. We also demand action against the policemen who misbehaved with her," Congress leader Rajiv Shukla told reporters.The party went on to demand a probe on how other people died in the violence, asserting farmers should not be held responsible.The Congress leader also said Priyanka Gandhi should be released immediately and allowed to go to Lakhimpur Kheri and meet the affected farmers."Chief minister of Punjab Charanjit Singh Channi and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel should also be allowed to visit the affected families," Shukla said. This came after the Uttar Pradesh administration denied permission to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh to visit the violence-hit district. The Chhattisgarh chief minister was also denied permission to land his plane at the Lucknow airport earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-congress-announces-protest-across-country-tomorrow-101633339398126.html
04-10-2021||India||Congress, AIUDF turncoats get BJP tickets for Assam by-elections||An All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and two Congress lawmakers, who resigned from the assembly to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have been allotted the ruling party’s tickets for October 30 by-elections in Assam. By-polls are being held for five seats. The BJP has left two seats for its alliance partner United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL).Arun Singh, a BJP national general secretary, said Phanidhar Talukdar will contest from Bhabanipur while Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain from Mariani and Thowra. Kurmi, an influential leader from the tea-tribe community who has won the Mariani seat four consecutive times since 2006, was the first lawmaker to quit Congress in June this year after the assembly polls. He joined the BJP the same month. Borgohain, a two-time lawmaker from Thowra quit the Congress and joined the BJP days later. The two said they were unhappy with Congress’s functioning and wanted to develop their constituencies by joining the ruling party. With their departure, Congress’s strength in the 126-member House came down to 27.In August, Talukdar, the lone Hindu AIUDF lawmaker from Bhabanipur, quit the party and switched sides to the BJP. The move left AIUDF with 15 seats.Also Read: Assam Congress suspends MLA arrested for provocative statementsUPPL has named Jiran Basumatary and Jolen Daimary as its candidates for by-polls from the Gossaigaon and Tamulpur seats. The seats fell vacant due to the deaths of Bodoland Peoples’ Front lawmaker Majendra Narzary (Gossaigaon) and UPPL’s Leho Ram Boro (Tamulpur).The opposition parties are yet to finalise their candidates for the by-polls. The Congress is planning to contest four of the five seats and AIUDF two. The two parties, which were part of an alliance for the assembly polls, are contesting the by-elections separately.October 8 is the last date for filing nominations for the by-elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-aiudf-turncoats-get-bjp-tickets-for-assam-byelections-101633344067022.html
04-10-2021||India||Pandora papers: Oxfam India calls for abolishing tax havens||Oxfam India called for immediately abolishing tax havens after a leak of millions of documents, dubbed the 'Pandora Papers', revealed offshore financial assets of wealthy individuals across 91 countries and territories, including India.The leaked documents and a worldwide journalistic partnership on Sunday claimed to have uncovered financial secrets of current and former world leaders, politicians and public officials.The 'Pandora Papers' have named 300 Indians, including Sachin Tendulkar, Anil Ambani, Nirav Modi and Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw.Calling for abolishing tax havens, Amitabh Behar, CEO of Oxfam India, said this is another shocking exposé of the oceans of money sloshing around the darkness of the world's tax havens that must prompt immediate action, as has long been promised. Whenever a politician or business leader claims there is 'no money' to pay for health, education, climate damage, innovation and for a fair post-Covid recovery, they know where to look, he said."Tax havens cost governments around the world USD 427 billion each year. Developing countries are being hardest hit, proportionately. Corporations and the wealthiest individuals that use tax havens are outcompeting those who don't. Tax havens also help crime and corruption to flourish," he said.Behar said such tax havens continue to stretch global inequality to the breaking point while the world experiences the largest increase in extreme poverty in decades. "Abolishing tax havens can go a long way towards ensuring that government actually have the access to tax revenue they need to fund quality public expenditure, however at the same time governments must continue to spend more on social welfare and public services as a larger proportion of existing budget allocations to at least provide the bare minimum of services of health and education for all," he said. Oxfam demanded ending tax secrecy on individuals, offshores and multinational corporations. "Set up a public register on the real owners of bank accounts, trusts, shell companies and assets. Require multinational corporations to publicly report their accounts where they do business, country-by-country. Increasing the use of automatic exchange, allowing revenue authorities access to information they need to track the money," the Oxfam said in a statement.The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), which involved the BBC and 'The Guardian' newspaper in the UK and 'The Indian Express' in India among 150 media outlets in its investigation, claims it obtained the trove of more than 11.9 million confidential files to find secret financial dealings of many super rich.The 'Pandora Papers' are a follow-up to a similar project released in 2016, called the 'Panama Papers' compiled by the same journalistic group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandora-papers-oxfam-india-calls-for-abolishing-tax-havens-101633342978623.html
04-10-2021||India||Continuous dialogue needed between farmers, party and govt: Varun Gandhi||Three-time Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Varun Gandhihas said communication between farmers protesting against the three farm laws and the government has to be a continuous process. In an interview with HT a day after eight people died in violence that erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmer protest, he sought action against the perpetrators and cautioned against using pejorative terms for any community. Edited excerpts:In a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, you have sought strict action against those responsible for violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. Earlier too you wrote to the chief minister for adopting a more humane approach towards the farmers. Has the BJP erred in its outreach to break the logjam with the protesting farmers?At no point in time should there be a break in communication with our farmers. There has to be non-stop dialogue between the farmers, the party, and the government. These farmers are our own and we cannot view them as the other. Doing so will have far-reaching consequences on both national and food security. We must bend over backwards as a government and as a party to see their concerns are addressed. It is possible that some concerns may appear difficult to achieve in the short term but attempts to redress their concerns has to be a non-stop process.Does the government need to revisit its outreach?There cannot be an antagonistic posture. The farmers need to feel that they are equal stakeholders in the government, in shaping the national agenda and in setting the narrative on issues that concern them. Today, if they feel they are not equal stakeholders, then we must work doubly hard to reinvigorate this relationship.Does the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri point towards administrative failure?The violence was a result of crime by an individual or by a group of individuals. It is not an administrative failure nor is it the administration hitting out at the farmers or being aggressive. People who are behind this should be jailed and I am confident that they will be punished. However, I can also say with confidence that this is not a breakdown of law and order.Leaders of opposition parties who tried to reach the area were stopped by the administration. Whether it is leaders from the Congress or the Samajwadi Party, they are not being allowed to move freely...I support the free movement for anybody and the freedom to voice their concern on anything they have to say. However, since I know the area very well, the situation is a little fragile right now and the opposition leaders must understand that while they have to speak on the issue…they need to be careful about their reactions because they should not further inflame or aggravate the situation.Also Read: ‘Nobody takes responsibility when…’: Supreme Court on Lakhmipur Kheri incidentThere is a section of people in your party who have linked the ongoing farmers’ agitation to extremist movements. A party spokesperson blamed Khalistani elements for the violence on Sunday...This is not just unfair but also dangerous. This is a community that has laid down lives for the country, generation after generation. There is a historical record of their sacrifices. Punjab has had a troubled history but has been peaceful for the past decade and a half. When we talk of a community in derogatory or pejorative terms, it could act as a provocation for the younger generation. What we say for narrow political gains can have far-reaching consequences. This community has a disproportionately high percentage of people in the army and has always stood to protect the nation. Those who called them traitors should be ashamed of themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nonstop-dialogue-needed-between-farmers-party-and-govt-varun-gandhi-101633343408163.html
04-10-2021||India||Governor puts Rajasthan marriage Bill on hold amid objections||Governor Kalraj Mishra has put the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill on hold for further scrutiny amid objections to it that the proposed law seeks to legalise child marriages.Rights groups have called the bill passed last month retrograde. The government has maintained the bill does not legalise child marriages or prevent courts from declaring them void. The bill seeks the registration of all marriages in the state irrespective of age since 2006 as per a Supreme Court order.An official familiar with the matter said Mishra decided to have the bill examined in view of the objections from the civil society as well as opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, which staged a walkout from the assembly against it on September 17.Jodhpur-based NGO Saarthi Trust has filed the plea against the bill in the Rajasthan high court challenging the constitutional validity of the proposed legislation.Kriti Bhati, who works for Saarthi Trust that campaigns against child marriages, said the provisions of the bill are unacceptable. “It seems that the government has wrongly interpreted the Supreme Court order, which nowhere seeks to register child marriages. If the government has doubts, it should approach the court for clarification.”Also Read: Not going anywhere for 20 years, govt will complete tenure and return, says GehlotBhati, who said she has prevented 1,500 child marriages and has had 43 annulled, said the court mandated seeking public opinion and objections before amending the law, which was not done.Bhati claimed child marriages have not reduced in the state but were being underreported. “The number of such marriages would increase now with the amendment...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-puts-rajasthan-marriage-bill-on-hold-amid-objections-101633342687044.html
04-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan bail hearing updates: 'NCB can't rely on WhatsApp chats', says lawyer||Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was produced before a local court in Mumbai on Monday for bail in connection with a drugs case. Khan, along with seven others, were arrested after a Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on Saturday.Track Live Updates of the court proceedingsThe NCB brought Aryan Khan, his friends Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha to the Esplanade court on Monday afternoon after a medical checkup. A doctor at Mumbai's JJ Hospital also took their swab for RT-PCR test during the medical examination.During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, sought extended custody of Khan and his two friends. “We need custody of the three accused to verify facts and their links. In a society, youngsters are worst affected by the drug menace,” he said.Aryan Khan's lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, however, said the NCB can't simply rely on WhatsApp chats and seek extended custody. He said that there is no material on record found from Khan or people related to him. Maneshinde had earlier said that his client was invited for the cruise party. "However, he did not have a boarding pass. He didn't have any seats or cabins there. Secondly, according to the seizure, nothing has been found in his possession. He is arrested only based on chats."An NCB team busted a rave party on the cruise ship which was on its way to Goa at mid-sea on Saturday night. The raid was carried out after a tip-off, an NCB official said.Eight persons were detained for questioning by the NCB in connection with the drug seizure on the cruise ship, according to NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. All of them were arrested on Sunday.The three accused including Aryan Khan, Arbaz Seth Merchant, and Munmun Dhamecha were produced before Mumbai's Esplanade Court which sent them to NCB custody till October 4.As per the NCB, three persons have been booked under Section 8C, 20B, 27 (Punishment for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance) and 35 (Presumption of culpable mental state) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act).Section 8C of NDPS Act refers to prohibition to produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import inter-State, export inter-State, import into India, export from India or tranship any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance while Section 20B deals with punishment for producing, manufacturing, possessing, selling, purchasing, transportation, imports inter-State, exports inter-State or use of cannabis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-aryan-khan-get-bail-hearing-begins-in-mumbai-court-101633342017747.html
04-10-2021||India||Exclusive: Need visa to go to UP, asks Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday wondered if a visa was required to enter Uttar Pradesh after the Yogi Adityanath government refused to allow his flight to land at Lucknow airport on their way to Lakhimpur Kheri where at least eight persons, including four farmers, were killed in violent clashes on Sunday.In an exclusive interview with Hindustan Times, Baghel, who has been appointed as a senior observer of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, said the visit of Congress leaders to violence-hit district to express solidarity with the families of aggrieved farmers should not be seen through the prism of politics.The UP administration asked the Lucknow airport authorities to now allow the flights of Baghel and Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa to land on its premises, following which the leaders have decided to take the road route on their way to the poll-bound state where the Congress is looking to make a comeback, led by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and team.When asked about the BJP government’s claims that the Opposition was indulging in tragedy tourism, Baghel said, “The first thing is nobody can deny the incident happened. The BJP government has been exposed. Now, when political leaders are trying to go there, they are being stopped. This is wrong. Priyanka Gandhi is being harassed without any warrant for going there. ”Also read |  ₹45L and job for victim’s kin, judicial probe: Lakhimpur Kheri farmers agree to cremate bodies“Is there no right of citizens? Do we need a visa to go to UP? When something happens in other states, do the BJP leaders don’t pay a visit? When they do, it’s fine, when others do, it’s politics?” he further said.When asked about the impact of Congress leaders taking a stand on issues like the farm laws and the Hathras gangrape, but the same not having any impact electorally, he said, “Why should everything be linked with elections? Wherever there is injustice, the Congress is fighting there. We stand in solidarity with farmers and that’s why Congress leaders are heading to Lakhimpur Kheri.”He also hit out at Haryana chief minister for asking party workers to pick up sticks against protesting farmers, adding that it was on the same day that eight persons were killed in their neighbouring state. “The three black farms laws passed by have been opposed by several states like Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal. Farmers have been protesting against the same for months now and their CM makes such a statement. The killing of farmers was a horrible incident and we cannot criticise it enough. Rahul Gandhi was the first person to raise his voice against it,” he added. He, however, refused to say much about the recent political developments in Punjab, while asserting the same would not happen in Chhattisgarh.“No question of Punjab situation replicating in Chhattisgarh. All issues are being looked into,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exclusive-need-visa-to-go-to-up-asks-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-101633339310922.html
04-10-2021||India||Mufti claims govt uses Section 144 to stifle dissent over violation of rights||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said the imposition of Code of Criminal Procedure’s Section 144, which prohibits the gathering of over four people, wherever “human rights and dignity is trampled” has emerged as the government’s preferred approach. “This government shows no hesitation in using an iron fist with its own people but welcomes Chinese troops with open arms,” Mufti said in a tweet.She did not provide the context to her tweet. But it came as Section 144 was imposed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri to prevent opposition leaders from going there to meet families of people killed in the violence during a farmer protest on Sunday. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was detained en route to Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday.Also Read: Panel to look into Mehbooba Mufti’s letter over ‘harassment’ of scribesMufti said the situation cannot even be compared with the “oppression unleashed” in Jammu and Kashmir since the nullification of the region’s semi-autonomous status in 2019 but the “common denominators” are obvious. “What started in J&K (Jammu and Kashmir) was sadly met with an air of indifference & has now engulfed the entire country. When will we speak up?” she said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-claims-govt-uses-section-144-to-stifle-dissent-over-violation-of-rights-101633336626517.html
04-10-2021||India||'Nobody takes responsibility when…': Supreme Court on Lakhmipur Kheri incident||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed regret over the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, calling it unfortunate. The top court said that nobody takes responsibility when something like this happens.Track Live Updates"Nobody takes responsibility when such unfortunate incidents take place," the court said in its observation. It was hearing a petition filed by Kisan Mahapanchayat seeking permission to hold protest (which it calls Satyagrah) at Jantar Mantar in Delhi.Attorney General KK Venugopal, who was appearing for the Centre, said that there should be no further protests to prevent incidents like Lakhimpur Kheri.Venugopal also expressed regret at Sunday's violence. "Such unfortunate incidents should not happen. The protests must stop," he said.The top court, meanwhile, said that it will examine whether a person/party who has moved a constitutional court be also allowed to protest against the same issue, and posted the matter for hearing on October 21.The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday suspended internet services and barred politicians from entering Tikonia in Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people were killed in a deadly escalation of a year-long demonstration against contentious agriculture laws.Tikonia is nearly 70 kilometres from the Lakhimpur Kheri district headquarters and very close to the India-Nepal border.Eight people were killed in the violence - four of them farmers. The protesters have claimed that a car from the convoy of the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni ran over the protesters who were returning after staging a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. The other four were beaten up by the protesters, according to the police.The minister has denied that his son was in the car when it ran over the protesters.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government held negotiations with the protesting farmers, led by farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, and agreed to fulfill all their demands, including compensation for the families of the farmers killed and government job for kin. The minister and his son have been booked by the police based on a complaint by the farmers.After the agreement, the farmers have allowed the administration to go ahead with the final rites of the protesters who were killed on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-takes-responsibility-when-supreme-court-on-lakhmipur-kheri-incident-101633335255896.html
04-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra detained on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was on Monday detained in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur even as she managed to evade police deployed at multiple points en route to neighbouring Lakhimpur Kheri, where she planned to meet the families of the people killed in the violence during a farmer protest on Sunday. The violence was triggered after a car hit protesting farmers.There was a brief altercation when police tried to stop Priyanka Gandhi in Lucknow and later near Hargaon along the Sitapur-Lakhimpur border. She was eventually detained along with Congress leaders including Member of Parliament Deepender Singh Hooda. In a video Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi released to the media, she is seen questioning police for stopping her without any order for detention or arrest and allegedly misbehaving with her. She wondered why police were stopping them even as the number of people going with her to Lakhimpur Kheri was only four.Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which prohibits the gathering of over four people, was imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri after the violence.Priyanka Gandhi said the treatment meted out to her amounted to kidnapping. “Are you going to kidnap me? Does this have legal status? ...I do not understand this. Arrest me if you want. I will readily go with you. You are trying to forcibly push me. This is physical assault, attempt to kidnap, attempt to molest, attempt to harm. You dare not touch me. Get an arrest warrant from your officers and ministers,” she said. “You should know how to behave with the women. You may have not the rule of law in your state. But there is the rule of law in this country. You have tried to push me. You have no right to do this.”Also Read: After Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Ghaziabad police shuts UP-GatePriyanka Gandhi, who flew to Lucknow on Sunday, was initially stopped at her residence. As she tried to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri around midnight, police were deployed outside her house. Congress workers shouted slogans such as “awaz do hum ek hain (we are united)” as the police refused to allow her vehicle to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri. After a brief altercation, Priyanka Gandhi managed to cross a police cordon and walked some distance as the workers continued to raise slogans. She later got into her vehicle and left for Lakhimpur Kheri. By about 12.30 am, she crossed Ataria and entered the Sitapur district. “As she changed her vehicle on the way, the police were unable to stop her at Itaunja, where most of Congress leaders following her stopped around 12.50 am. She changed the route and reached Hargaon via Sidhauli and Biswan,” said Awasthi.Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said police misbehaved with and pushed Priyanka Gandhi and Hooda. “...detained us at Hargaon (Sitapur) near the Sitapur-Lakhimpur border in early hours on Monday. We have been brought to a PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) training camp in Sitapur district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-detained-at-sitapur-en-route-to-lakhimpur-kheri-101633335666340.html
04-10-2021||India||Supertech's plea to save one Emerald Court tower rejected by Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed real estate major Supertech's application to save one of the two 40-storey towers in its Emerald Court project in Noida, that were ordered to be razed over grave illegalities.The company had sought modification in the court's order to allow it to only partially demolish 224 flats of one tower along with its community area on the ground floor to conform with the building norms.The apex court said that grant of such a relief is in the nature of a review of the judgement of this court and in various decisions.“The underlying basis of the proposed modifications is that if the same are allowed, it would save crores of resources from going to waste inasmuch as the applicant has already put materials worth crores of rupees in the construction of the Towers T-16 (Apex) and T-17 (Ceyane),” the company has said, while clarifying that it was not seeking review of the top court's order.But the bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said that there is no substance in the application filed by Supertech Ltd and hence it is dismissed.The order to demolish the towers in Noida's Sector 93A was given by a Supreme Court bench led by Justice Chandrachud-led bench on August 31. In its order, the top court had said that it was a result of “nefarious complicity” between Noida Authority and the real estate developer.The court had also directed Supertech to refund money to all the existing home-buyers in Emerald Court’s Apex and Ceyane towers within two months, along with an interest of 12 per cent per annum from the date of their deposits.Supertech later approached the Supreme Court to stop the demolition, saying that it has an alternative plan that could save several crores of rupees from going waste and also prove to be “beneficial for the environment”.Two days after the Supreme Court gave the demolition order, the Uttar Pradesh government constituted a special investigation team (SIT), which found 26 officials of Noida Authority guilty in the case. Of these, 20 have retired, two are dead and four are still serving.Based on SIT report, the state government suspended three officials on Sunday. It also directed that an FIR be lodged with the state vigilance commission against these officials, four directors and two architects of Supertech Limited.The SIT said in its report that Supertech encroached a "green belt" which was part of the layout plan, measuring 7,000 square metres as "land plots", for which a departmental inquiry against Noida Authority officials is already in progress.Residents of the housing project claimed their consent was not taken for the twin towers which were being built in violation of norms, and moved court.The Allahabad high court had in 2014 ordered demolition of the twin towers - an order which the Supreme Court upheld this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supertechs-plea-to-save-one-emerald-court-tower-rejected-by-supreme-court-101633333940565.html
04-10-2021||India||Assam Congress suspends MLA arrested for provocative statements||The Congress suspended Assam legislator Sherman Ali Ahmed from the party for making provocative statements after party MLAs sought he be disciplined following the Baghbar MLA’s arrest on Saturday. Assam Congress general secretary Bobbeeta Sharma said on Monday that state unit president Bhupen Kumar Borah suspended the MLA “with immediate effect for repeatedly violating party discipline”. On Sunday, Assam Congress Legislature Party (CLP) had recommended disciplinary action against Ahmed on the same charge. The Congress had earlier issued a show cause notice to Ahmed for “damaging the party’s image” ahead of by-polls in the state and for “making communally sensitive comments with the intent to destroy social harmony”. Ahmed was arrested on Saturday for making provocative statements over last month’s violent eviction drive in Darrang district that claimed two lives. He was remanded to two days in police custody by a city court on Sunday. Also Read: NDA aims to improve tally in bye-elections to 10 assembly seatsThe legislator has been charged under Section 153 and 153 A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc. Last week, Ahmed had justified the killing of 8 people in Darrang district around four decades back at the height of the statewide agitation against illegal infiltrators. Those killed are regarded as martyrs in Assam. The killings had taken place near the site of the recent eviction drive on September 23 at Dholpur-3 village in Darrang district. Two people died and nearly 20 others including 11 policemen were injured in the eviction drive. Around 1,200 families, most of them Bengali-speaking Muslims residing on government land for decades, were evicted from the area to establish an ambitious agriculture project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-suspends-mla-arrested-for-provocative-statements-101633334166137.html
04-10-2021||India||₹45L and job for victim’s kin, judicial probe: Lakhimpur Kheri farmers agree to cremate bodies||Talks between the administration and protesting farmers, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, ended on a “positive note” on Monday as agitations continued to spread across parts of north India over the deaths of at least eight persons, including four ryots, in a violent clash that erupted at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.According to the agreement reached, the government will give ₹45 lakh and a job to families of the four deceased farmers, while the injured will receive an aid of ₹10 lakh each. The jobs will be given in tandem with the qualifications of the family members. The farmers have now allowed the administration to go ahead with the final rites of the deceased.Also read | Detained on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, Priyanka Gandhi offers ‘shramdaan’Additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar, who was part of the five rounds of negotiations, said, the first information report (FIR) will be registered based on the farmers' complaint. The demand on FIR has already been met. Also, a retired high court judge will investigate the violence, he added.Tikait was one of the very few prominent faces allowed to enter the restive area since Sunday evening even as leaders of Opposition parties continued to make several efforts to meet the aggrieved families. Among them Priyanka Gandhi has decided to continue her agitation in detention, while Samajwadi Party leaders Akhilesh Yadav and Ramgopal Yadav have been taken into police custody as they staged a sit-in over Akhilesh’s house arrest.Also read | Missing local journalist among victims of violence in Lakhimpur KheriPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi also vowed to visit Lakhimpur Kheri “in solidarity with bereaved families of farmers,” while his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel asked whether civil rights have been suspended in Uttar Pradesh on being denied permission to land at Lucknow airport. Also read | 'Political tourism': UP minister says politics over bodies won't help oppositionOfficials said political leaders like Gandhi and Yadav others were not being allowed to come to Lakhimpur Kheri because of the prohibitory orders in place, adding Tikait and other farmer leaders were engaging in negotiations.Among senior officials present for the talks were additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi, inspector general (Lucknow) Laxmi Singh and ADG (Lucknow) SN Sabat.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-45l-and-job-for-victim-s-kin-judicial-probe-lakhimpur-kheri-stalemate-ends-101633333343533.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Haryana farmers to protest at district headquarters||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group of farm unions spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws enacted last year, has asked farmers of Haryana to hold protests at district headquarters against the violence that broke out during a farmer protest in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the violence that was triggered after a car hit protesting farmers on Sunday.In a video message, Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Haryana chief Gurnam Singh Charuni called for three-hour protests. He asked farmers to submit memoranda to the deputy commissioners addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking action against the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders allegedly involved in the violence. He asked the farmers to demand the resignation of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for seeking tit-for-tat action against the farmers opposing the farm laws.Also Read: Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhmipur Kheri, 6 taken into custodyHoshiar Singh Gill, a farmer leader, said they will hold a protest at the Kaithal district headquarters and wait for further order in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-haryana-farmers-to-protest-at-district-headquarters-101633332366063.html
04-10-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Bhupesh Baghel not allowed to land at Lucknow airport and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for denying his plane permission to land at the Lucknow airport as he was scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri a day after eight people were killed there in violence that broke out after a car hit protesting farmers. He questioned whether civil rights have been abolished in Uttar Pradesh. Read moreThe incident of violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri is resonating politically in Punjab, whose farmers have been protesting at national capital Delhi's borders against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Read moreJapan’s Fumio Kishida was appointed prime minister by parliament Monday, and is set to reveal a new cabinet lineup as he seeks to revive support for his ruling party ahead of a general election that could likely come this month. Read moreThe Indian Premier League 2021 contest between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Punjab Kings saw a controversial moment played out when opener Devdutt Padikkal was handed a lifeline by the third umpire. The moment took place in the 8th over when Padikkal appeared to nick a delivery from spinner Ravi Bishnoi to PBKS captain and wicketkeeper KL Rahul behind the stumps. Read moreTata Punch was officially unveiled on Monday and is gearing up for an India launch on October 20. Tata Motors underlined the growing preference for SUVs in the country and added that Punch SUV would be able to cater to the needs of a vehicle with a solid road presence, feature-packed cabin and ability to navigate varied terrains, all in a compact overall proportion. Read moreShardiya Navratri is just round the corner and many of us will be fasting on all nine days dedicated to Goddess Durga's nine avatars. While fasting is a good way to detox, it can also make us sluggish or sleepy as we are not having enough salt or food. But we certainly don't want to feel that way as there is so much to do in Navratri and a lot of get-togethers and events to attend. Read moreAishwarya Rai Bachchan walked the ramp for a cosmetic brand at the Paris Fashion Week on Sunday. With the Eiffel Tower in the background, a host of stars congregated in celebration of ‘women all over the world’ and walked the ramp for the Le Defile L'Oreal Paris 2021 Womenswear Spring/Summer 2022 show in Paris, France. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bhupesh-baghel-not-allowed-to-land-at-lucknow-airport-and-all-the-latest-news-101633331149883.html
04-10-2021||India||After Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Ghaziabad police shuts UP-Gate||In the aftermath of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence which led to death of eight persons including four protesting farmers on Sunday, the Ghaziabad police on Monday shutdown UP-Gate border with Delhi as a precautionary measure. The UP-Gate is a major protest venue for farmers opposed to the Central farm laws and the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway, passing through the site, has remained close since December last year. Farmers’ leaders from UP-Gate rushed to Lakhimpur Kheri after four farmers, who were among a group protesting against the Central farm laws, were allegedly mowed down by a convoy of vehicles linked with a Union minister on Saturday evening. Police say in retaliation, farmers beat four occupants of one of the vehicles in the convoy to death. The incident has led to hightened tensions and generated of a lot of political heat over the matter. Farmers protesting at the UP Gate too were reported anguished at the developments. The Ghaziabad police said movement of traffic on Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway has been stopped as a precautionary measure. “We have shut down the expressway with the help of barricades and it has been done to maintain law and order. The barricading will continue, and we will take stock of the situation before removing them. Commuters can enter Ghaziabad using the Anand Vihar-Kaushambi border and there is no restriction there. Our teams are in touch with the protesting farmers at UP-Gate and the situation is peaceful,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). The Delhi traffic police have also issued an alert about the closure of National Highway 9 and the Delhi Meerut Expressway at the UP-Gate. The farmers in Ghaziabad, on a call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, will also gather at the district headquarters to protest against the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. “Many of our leaders including Rakesh Tikait and others are already there in Kheri and here we are keeping an eye over the developments. There is a sense of anger among protesting farmers here, but we have asked them to remain peaceful. Our Dharna at district headquarters will start soon,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Also Read: Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhmipur Kheri, 6 taken into custodyThe farmers have been protesting at the UP-Gate since November last year, demanding rollback of the three farm laws and passage of a new law to strengthen the minimum support price (MSP) regime. As national highway number 24 and 9 have been closed because of farmers’ protests over Lakhimpur Kheri deaths, the Delhi Traffic police have made some traffic diversions for motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad through the UP Gate and issued an advisory. As per the advisory, motorists coming from Sarai Kale Khan have been asked to use Vikas Marg via road numbers 57 A and 56 to reach Anand Vihar, from where they can take the Ghazipur paper market stretch to enter Ghaziabad. A traffic police officer said motorists going towards Ghaziabad are being allowed to use the Delhi-Meerut Expressway till Ghazipur roundabout and are then diverted towards Anand Vihar railway station road. The carriageways of the expressway coming towards Delhi are closed since November last year due to the farmers’ protest at the UP Gate. (with inputs from Karn Pratap Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-ghaziabad-police-shuts-upgate-101633331885984.html
04-10-2021||India||Detained on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, Priyanka Gandhi offers ‘shramdaan’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was taken into custody on Monday morning along with party lawmaker Deependra Singh Hooda and others as she was on her way to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district to visit the families of those who were killed during Sunday’s violence, according to officials. After an altercation with the police, Priyanka Gandhi was detained and taken into custody near Hargaon on the Sitapur-Lakhimpur border. President on the Congress’ Uttar Pradesh unit, Ajay Kumar Lallu, said Priyanka Gandhi, Hooda, MLC Deepak Singh were brought to a PAC training camp in Sitapur.“A picture of struggle. Mrs Priyanka Gandhi has been kept in custody at this guesthouse in Sitapur,” the Congress party’s media arm tweeted along with a video of the leader. Priyanka Gandhi was seen sweeping the floor of the room in the guesthouse in the 42-second clip. According to a Congress spokesperson, Priyanka has said she won't go back without meeting the victims’ families and farmers. A large number of Congress workers were seen assembling outside the place of detention in her support.संघर्ष की तस्वीर....सीतापुर के इसी गेस्टहाउस में श्रीमती प्रियंका गांधी को हिरासत में रखा गया है।#Lakhimpur#किसान #lakhimpurkhiri pic.twitter.com/pWLNgItMsxAjay Kumar Lallu said earlier that the police misbehaved with and pushed Priyanka Gandhi “unnecessarily”. Priyanka Gandhi was also seen questioning the police for stopping her without any order for detention or arrest and accused the police officers of misbehaving with her. She said the police treatment amounted to kidnapping and molestation. Also read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union min Ajay Mishra, son booked for murder“Are you going to kidnap me. Is it your legal status? Don’t think, I don’t understand this? Arrest me if you want. I will readily go with you,” she was heard saying in one of the videos tweeted by the party. “You are trying to forcibly push me. This is physical assault, attempt to kidnap, attempt to molest, attempt to harm. You dare not touch me. Get an arrest warrant from your officers and ministers,” she said.Also read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence resonates in Punjab, protests held across statePriyanka, who landed at Lucknow airport on Sunday night, was initially stopped at her residence and as she tried to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri. Later, a large posse of police was deployed outside and a brief altercation ensued. She came out of the house and soon left for Lakhimpur Kheri.Several opposition leaders, including Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, are scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. The Uttar Pradesh government has urged Lucknow airport authorities not to allow Bhupesh Baghel to land. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and senior leader Ram Gopal Yadav were detained in Lucknow.As many as eight people, including four farmers and four others, died in the Lakhimpur Kheri during violence after a farmers protest on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detained-on-her-way-to-lakhimpur-kheri-priyanka-gandhi-offers-shramdaan-101633330701159.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Varun Gandhi writes to Adityanath, demands probe||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi has urged Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to take strict action against the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and suggested a Supreme Court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a time-bound manner. In a letter addressed to Adityanath, the lawmaker from UP's Pilibhit also paid tributes to farmers killed in the incident and said that ₹1 crore compensation should be given to families of victims. Varun Gandhi requested Adityanath to "identify all suspects in the incident and take strict action against them by registering a murder case under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code." "In this regard, it will be suitable to bring all culprits to justice by a Supreme Court-monitored CBI probe in a time-bound manner," he said in the letter in Hindi on Sunday.The BJP leader also paid his tribute to those killed in the incident and expressed condolences to their families. "The incident of brutal mowing down of farmers protesting in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 is heart-wrenching. It has caused rage and pain among citizens in the country... The incident is unforgivable. Protesters are our citizens. If they have problems with some issues and are protesting within their democratic rights then we should keep restraint and be patient while dealing with them," Gandhi said.लखीमपुर खीरी की हृदय-विदारक घटना में शहीद हुए किसानों को श्रद्धांजलि अर्पित करता हूँ। इस प्रकरण में उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्यमंत्री जी से सख्त कार्यवाही करने का निवेदन करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/e2tE1x4z3TMeanwhile, the district magistrate of Lakhimpur Kheri has imposed section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) prohibiting the assembly of five or more people at a time in the district.The UP police took to Twitter early on Monday to describe the incident as “unfortunate” and said eight casualties have been reported till now as per the district administration. Many opposition leaders who had planned to visit Lakhimpur Kheri district today were stopped by the Uttar Pradesh administration. Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav was detained following a sit-in protest outside his Vikramaditya Marg residence in Lucknow, after he was not allowed to go to Lakhimpur. Likewise, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was today not given permission for his plane to land at the Lucknow airport. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to visit the kin of the victims, was arrested from Hargaon. Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) leader Shivpal Singh Yadav was detained by the Lucknow Police.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-varun-gandhi-writes-to-adityanath-demands-probe-101633326617029.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence resonates in Punjab, protests held across state||The incident of violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri is resonating politically in Punjab, whose farmers have been protesting at national capital Delhi's borders against the three farm laws passed by the Centre.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has sought permission from Uttar Pradesh government to visit Lakhmipur Kheri, where eight people were killed in violence on Sunday. "Expressing solidarity with bereaved families of farmers, I'm leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri to be with my brothers & sisters in this hour of grief. I've also sought permission from UP Govt to allow landing/taking off of chopper at the site," Channi said.Lakhimpur Kheri is under Section 144 of the CrPC, which prohibits gathering of two or more people. The local administration and Uttar Pradesh Police have stopped a number of leaders from visiting the area where farmers were holding a protest. They claim that a convoy of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish ran over four farmers which caused their deaths.The police say the farmers thrashed the rest of the people in the convoy which led to four more deaths.In Chandigarh, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced postponement of party's programme in Jalandhar for Tuesday. He has convened a meeting of core committee - SAD's top decision making body - tomorrow to decide on the further action course.Badal condemned the killing of four farmers in Lakhimpur Kehri and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being stubborn. He demanded that in light of the sad incident which has sparked nationwide outrage, the government should scrap the thee controversial farm laws with immediate effect.Speakign during a roadshow in Ludhiana, Badal further said that a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) must be registered with immediate effects against the culprits and a high-level probe should be carried out for free and fair investigation.The SAD had left the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) last year after the passage of the three farm laws. Since then, it has been supporting the farmers in their protest.A number or protests have been organised across Punjab on the call of farmer organisations to condemn the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri.The Uttar Pradesh government has, meanwhile, asked Punjab chief secretary to not let anyone from the state go to Lakhimpur Kheri, news agency ANI reported.The Uttar Pradesh Police have registered booked the Union minister and his son based on a complaint against them. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of farmer, has sent a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking the dismissal of Teni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-resonates-in-punjab-protests-held-across-state-101633329405699.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: SKM writes to President, seeks dismissal of MoS Teni||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Monday wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the dismissal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni from the Union Council of Ministers and constitute a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the supervision of the Supreme Court in the brutal killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri.In a letter to Kovind, SKM, an umbrella body of several farmer unions, also said that the Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is "inciting violence while holding a constitutional post, should be sacked from his post"."Union Home Minister Ajay Mishra Teni should be immediately dismissed from his post and a case should be filed against him for inciting violence and spreading communal hatred and the Union Minister's son Ashish Mishra "Monu" and his fellow goons should be immediately booked for 302 (murder) and arrested immediately," the letter reads.The farmers union further said that the whole country is outraged by the incident of the alleged brutal killing of farmers in broad daylight by mowing them down with vehicles in Lakhimpur Kheri yesterday."Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra "Teni's son and his goon accomplices carried out this murderous attack in a brazen manner which shows a deep conspiracy of Uttar Pradesh and Central Governments," it said.It further said that Ajay Mishra had already built a context to this attack by giving inflammatory and derogatory speeches against the farmers.The SKM alleged, "It is no coincidence that on the same day, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar is publicly inciting his party workers to take up lathis and indulge in violence against farmers.""It is clear from these incidents that these persons sitting on constitutional posts are using their positions for planned violence against "Annadatas" doing peaceful agitation. This is a crime as per the laws of the country, against the Constitution and the country," it said.As many as eight people died in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday, said Uttar Pradesh police.MoS Teni also said that his son was not present at the spot, adding that some miscreants mingled with protesting farmers and pelted the stones at the car which lead to the 'unfortunate incident'.Earlier on Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar asked the state unit of BJP's Kisan Morcha to 'pick up sticks' and to use 'tit for tat' methodology against the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-skm-writes-to-president-seeks-dismissal-of-mos-teni-101633328682561.html
04-10-2021||India||Baghel slams UP govt for denying him permission to land at Lucknow airport||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for denying his plane permission to land at the Lucknow airport as he was scheduled to visit Lakhimpur Kheri a day after eight people were killed there in violence that broke out after a car hit protesting farmers. He questioned whether civil rights have been abolished in Uttar Pradesh.Baghel, who was named as Congress’s senior observer for the Uttar Pradesh polls over the weekend, questioned if Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which prohibits the gathering of over four people, is in force in Lahkimpur Kheri. “Are there no civil rights in Uttar Pradesh?… Whether a separate visa is required for going to Uttar Pradesh,” Baghel said. He added he was headed to Delhi and the strategy for visiting Uttar Pradesh will be decided after discussions with senior leaders there.A person aware of the matter said Baghel will try to reach Lucknow by Monday evening by road. “The exact plan is yet to be finalised.”Also Read: Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhmipur Kheri, 6 taken into custodyEarlier in a tweet in Hindi, Baghel called unforgivable the “brutal treatment meted out to farmers in Uttar Pradesh”. “…I am a farmer… I understand the pain of the farmers. I will go to Lakhimpur tomorrow (Monday) morning to stand by them in these difficult circumstances.”Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the violence. “Inhumanity is at its peak... They tried to scare the protesting farmers.... mowing down farmers... is murder in cold blood. This deserves the highest punishment for both the guilty and the instigators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghel-slams-up-govt-for-denying-him-permission-to-land-en-route-to-lakhimpur-101633328587049.html
04-10-2021||India||Punjab CM seeks permission to go to Lakhimpur Kheri, 6 taken into custody: 10 points||The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in Lakhimpur Kheri to prevent huge gathering in the area where eight people were killed in violence on Sunday. The violence took place when the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri were protesting against Centre's three farm laws; they claimed that a convoy of vehicles belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish "ran over" some of the protesters killing four of them.ALSO WATCH | 'Babbar Khalsa terrorists...': On Lakhimpur Kheri deaths charge, Union minister & son's defenceTrack Live UpdatesThe local police said that the other four were beaten to death by the farmers.Since the incident came to light, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led UP government has been facing the heat from opposition parties. A number of leaders who were headed to Lakhimpur Kheri have been stopped and a case registered against Teni and his son.Here are the latest developments on this big story:• A senior police officer said that the Special Task Force (STF) has been roped in to probe the Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident. He said the STF have taken as many as six people in custody in connection with the incident.• Punjab government civil aviation director has sought permission from Uttar Pradesh's additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi for the landing the chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's helicopter in Lakhimpur Kheri, news agency ANI reported. Channi has expressed his willingness to visit the site of the violence and meet the farmers, the Punjab official said in his letter.• The Uttar Pradesh government has, meanwhile, written to Punjab chief secretary, urging not to let anyone from the state go to Lakhimpur Kheri, ANI reported.Also Read| Chhattisgarh CM lashes out after UP govt stops him from going to Lakhimpur Kheri• Shivpal Yadav and Ramgopal Yadav, brothers of Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, were stopped by the police near Lucknow while they was heading to Lakhimpur Kheri along with their supporters. They were put on a city bus, and sent to police lines.• Earlier, his nephew and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav was also stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri. Yadav was taken into custody outside his residence where he staged a sit-in protest.• "We're taking this matter seriously and it is under investigation. The chief minister has said that culprits will be punished. Opposition is using the incident for political tourism and political competition as polls are around the corner," Uttar Pradesh minister Sidharth Nath Singh said.• The Uttar Pradesh government has started negotiations with the farmers, requesting them to end their protest. Additional chief secretary Devesh Chaturvedi is leading the negotiations from government's side.• The farmer groups have put forward four main demands during the negotiations. These are: Resignation of Ajay Mishra Teni, arrest of his son, ₹10 million compensation for the families of each of the four farmers killed in the incident, and government job for one member from each family of the deceased farmers. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of farmers, has even written to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking the dismissal of the Union minister.• The Union minister has, however, claimed that his son was not present at the spot and only the jeep owned by him ferrying BJP workers was present there.• A police vehicle was earlier set on fire by a mob near Samajwadi Party office on Vikramaditya Marg in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhmipur-kheri-punjab-cm-seeks-permission-to-visit-site-6-taken-into-custody-101633327597897.html
04-10-2021||India||Sheep farm allotment to Jammu and Kashmir tribal youth begins||To encourage sheep rearing among tribal youths, the Jammu and Kashmir government has allotted them 800 mini sheep farms.Officials said this was Union Territory’s Tribal Affairs Department’s “ambitious” project to create employment for 10,000 youths in different districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Every year more than 20 lakh sheep are slaughtered for meat in Kashmir and more than 60% of these are procured from different states of the country. “In phase-I of the sheep farming scheme, 1,500 youth have been selected for setting up of 1,500 mini sheep farms this year and it will be raised by 30% every subsequent year. The scheme aims to establish more than 10,000 such sheep farming units in the next 4 years,” said secretary, Tribal Affairs Department, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary.He said that sheep husbandry department was implementing the scheme with active participation of tribal farmers. “An awareness programme has also been initiated by the sheep husbandry department to elicit greater response in tribal areas. More than 6,000 applications were received in various districts under the flagship scheme which was launched in 13 districts for establishment of 835 mini sheep farms,” Choudhary said.He added that the scheme was 100% funded by Jammu and Kashmir Tribal Affairs Department. “5,225 applicants were found eligible under the scheme and a draw of lots was conducted in all the 13 districts to select 835 tribal youth for establishment of sheep farms. Further, every district has also maintained a small waiting list of eligible tribal youth.”Also Read: Covid warriors in Jammu and Kashmir to get weightage during recruitment of healthcare staffChoudhary said his department was working to establish 500 dairy farms and 700 additional mini sheep farms apart from 17 milk villages with support for procurement of milk chilling plants, packaging units and transportation. ”The Agriculture Skill Council of India has been roped in to impart training to 1,500 youth in phase-I of the scheme in coordination with Mission Youth and J&K Skill Development Mission. “Financial institutions have also been roped in for providing financial support to tribal youth desirous of establishing bigger sheep farms with 200-500 livestock,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheep-farm-allotment-to-jammu-and-kashmir-tribal-youth-begins-101633327805830.html
04-10-2021||India||'Political tourism': UP minister says politics over bodies won't help opposition||Uttar Pradesh minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Monday hit out at Opposition leaders trying to make their way to Lakhimpur Kheri where at least eight persons, four among them being farmers, were killed in clashes on Sunday.While stating chief minister Yogi Adityanath had promised punishment for all the culprits, Singh said the Opposition was exploiting the tragedy to earn political points as it seemed there was a competition to visit the violence-hit district. Uttar Pradesh is set to see Assembly election next year.“We are taking this matter seriously and it is under investigation. The CM has said that culprits will be punished. The Opposition is using the incident for political tourism and political competition as polls are around the corner,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.There is no issue in presenting your opinion. But if they want to complete their journey till 2022 election over dead bodies, then it won't happen: UP Minister Sidharth Nath Singh pic.twitter.com/2grFTbR8tLSpeaking about Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who had a heated exchange with police personnel before her arrest in Lakhimpur Kheri early on Monday, Singh said the former was indulging in political tourism.“We've seen Priyanka Gandhi Vadra doing political tourism earlier. It is an attempt to hamper the probe and manipulate public opinion. This should not happen. They should at least wait for 24 hours or visit after there is a result of the probe,” Singh added.Also read | Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested from UP's Hargaon, says youth Congress leader Srinivas BVHe said that while there was no problem in expressing opinions, but trying to complete the election journey through the tragedies would not help the Opposition.“There is no issue in presenting your opinion. But if they want to complete their journey till 2022 election over bodies, then it won't happen,” Singh added.Earlier, the minister took to Twitter to term the political leaders’ visit to Lakhimpur Kheri was meant for “photo op”. "Political Tourism" and "Political Competition" of opposition parties will start with "Photo Ops" in an unfortunate incident at Lakhimpur. Law will prevail in UP," he said.Barring farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, the administration has barred all politicians from going ahead with their visit to Lakhimpur Kheri. While Samajwadi Party leaders Akhilesh Yadav and Ramgopal Yadav have been taken into custody in Lucknow, the UP administration has written to the airport authorities in the state capital to not allow Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Bhaghel and Punjab's deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to make a landing on their premises. The duo are making efforts to go ahead with their visit by road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-tourism-up-minister-says-politics-over-bodies-won-t-help-opposition-101633326056545.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Here's what the farm groups are demanding||After the death of eight people in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday during a farmers' protest, the farm groups are demanding the resignation of Union minister for state home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni. The incident happened when the farmers were protesting against the three central farm laws.According to the police, as many as eight people were killed as violence erupted after a car hit protesting farmers. They said that four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy and four others who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death. The incident was reported minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was to visit the area. The farmers who were agitating against the new farm laws blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit. They got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.The Uttar Pradesh police on Monday booked Teni, his son Ashish Mishra and others for murder and other charges based on the complaint lodged by farmers who claim that the convoy belonged to Union minister's son Ashish Teni. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of police (SP) Vijay Dhull said the first information report (FIR) was filed under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 for murder, 120-B for criminal conspiracy and 147 for rioting at Tikunia police station.Here's what the farm groups are demanding:1. Resignation of Ajay Mishra.2. Arrest of Union minister's son Ashish Mishra and his accomplices.3. ₹10 million compensation for the families of each of the four farmers killed in the incident.4. Government job for a family member of the deceased farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-here-s-what-the-farm-groups-are-demanding-101633324722505.html
04-10-2021||India||Do I need visa?: Chhattisgarh CM lashes out after UP govt stops him from going to Lakhimpur Kheri||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government after it urged authorities at the airport in Lucknow not to allow him and Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa to land ahead of their scheduled visit to Lakhimpur Kheri. Baghel questioned the order and asked whether civil rights have been suspended in Uttar Pradesh. "The government of Uttar Pradesh is issuing an order not to allow me to come to the state. Have civil rights been suspended in Uttar Pradesh? If Section 144 is in place in Lakhimpur, then why is the dictatorial government stopping someone from landing in Lucknow?" Baghel tweeted in Hindi.“Why are people being stopped from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri? Section 144 has been imposed in Lakhimpur Kheri then why isn't one allowed to land in Lucknow? Do people no longer have rights in UP? Does one need a visa to visit UP?” the Chhattisgarh chief minister also told news agency ANI.
04-10-2021||India||Delhi Traffic Police divert vehicles due to closure of National Highways 9, 24||The Delhi Traffic Police announced on Monday it is continuing traffic diversion due to closure of National Highways 9 and 24, both of which, it said, were closed by the Ghaziabad Traffic Police due to protests. “Diversion being continued is informed as under: Commuters/motorists coming from Sarai Kale Khan should take alternate roue for Ghaziabad, i.e., Vikas Marg via road 57 A, road number 56, Anand Vihar and Paper Market for Ghaziabad and Noida via DND,” it announced on its official Twitter handle.
04-10-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav taken into custody over sit-in to protest Lakhimpur Kheri deaths||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was taken into custody on Monday after he staged a sit-in outside his residence for being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri where at least eight lives, including that of four farmers, were lost due to violence on Sunday.  The SP’s national general secretary, Ramgopal Yadav, was also detained along with Akhilesh.The duo were taken to the nearby Gautampalli police station. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister asked what was it the BJP government in the state had to hide as it did not want any political leader to go to the violence-hit district. “Even the Britishers would not have committed the kind of atrocities this government is committing against farmers. Union Minister of State (Home) Ajay Mishra and deputy chief minister (Keshav Prasad Maurya) should resign. ₹2 crore and government jobs should be given to the next of kin of the farmers who died,” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | On expected lines: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested from UP's Hargaon, says youth Congress leader Srinivas BVFollowing heavy police deployment outside his house, Yadav sat on a protest with the SP’s national general secretary. A police vehicle was set on fire amid a massive gathering of SP workers.Meanwhile, his estranged uncle and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav managed to give police a slip while they were focused on Akhilesh. Shivpal's motorcade is now headed towards Lakhimpur Kheri. The duo’s house are located on the same same stretch in Lucknow -- Vikramaditya Marg.Later, Shivpal and his supporters were put on a city bus and taken to police lines.On Sunday, Akhilesh had said running over farmers who were peacefully protesting the three new central farm laws by the son of a Union minister of state was inhuman and cruel. “UP will not tolerate atrocities by arrogant BJP members...and if this state of affairs continue then in UP BJP members will not be able to travel in vehicles or get out of them,” he added in a tweet.Also read | Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union min Ajay Mishra, son booked for murderViolence erupted after a car hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, according to police. They said four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy, while some others who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death. The incident was reported minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was scheduled to visit the area. The farmers were protesting against the three central farm laws. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of dozens of farmers unions, has alleged one of the four farmers was shot dead by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son and others were allegedly run over by the vehicles of his convoy. The minister, however, said that his son was not present at the spot and only the jeep owned by him ferrying BJP workers were there.Teni, his son and some others have been named in an FIR and charged with murder and other allegations based on the complaint lodged by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-taken-into-custody-over-sit-in-to-protest-lakhimpur-kheri-deaths-101633323949978.html
04-10-2021||India||Missing local journalist among victims of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri||A local journalist, who was missing since Sunday’s violence at Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh, is said to have been identified as one of the victims of the clashes. While locals said the journalist’s family members had ascertained his identity when his body was taken for post mortem, official confirmation on the same was yet to be made. The deceased was identified as Raman Kashyap.At least eight persons, four among them being farmers, died in the violence that broke out in the district on Sunday following a protest to block deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village. Soon after violence and arson broke out in the area.Also read | Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's son, others named in FIRViolence erupted after a car hit protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, according to police. They said that four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy and four others who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death.The violence broke out after the two SUVs allegedly ran over a group of anti-farm law protesters who were demonstrating against Maurya's visit at the Tikonia-Banbirpur road on Sunday.Also read | Cops in talks with Rakesh Tikait to help take bodies of farmers for post-mortemThe two vehicles were set ablaze by the angry farmers, reports said. They also allegedly thrashed some passengers of the vehicles.The farmers have alleged that Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra was driving one of the vehicles that allegedly ran over the protesters.Mishra and his aides have been named in an FIR that has been filed based on complaints from the farmers.The Union minister has however, refuted all allegations against his son. The administration has barred most politicians from visiting the district even as farmer leader Rakesh Tikait made his way to the village late on Sunday night.While Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was arrested after she reached the district, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was put under house arrest in Lucknow. (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-missing-journalist-among-deceased-101633319898661.html
04-10-2021||India||Mundra port seizure had a dry run on June 9, govt alarmed over drug menace||The massive Mundra port drug seizure on September 15 was a result of a painstaking investigation of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) after the same drug runners did a dry run on the Kutch port on June 9. On the night of September 14-15, the DRI seized nearly 3000 kilogrammes of Afghan heroin mixed up with talcum powder from the Mundra port, feeding a drug network extending all over India including New Delhi and Noida.According to top North Block officials, the DRI, working on the leads provided by the June 9 dry run, was able to identify the drug runners, mode of payments and principals behind the Mundra port seizure with the help of central agencies like IB, RA&W and NIA. With the seizure highlighting the extent of the drug network of Afghan nationals in India, the central government is expected to hand over the entire case to the NIA.With the links of Mundra seizure reaching the Capital, the Delhi Police have also started a new drugs-terror-underworld unit in the Special Cell with the appointment of three new DCPs in the unit. Working with the central agencies, the Delhi Police is trying to explore the deadly triad link in the Capital city where Nigerian and Afghan drug runners are active.According to security agencies, the capture of Afghanistan by the Taliban will lead to a serious drug situation in the Indian sub-continent as opium cultivation and heroin processing will be the main source of revenue for these Pakistan backed Sunni Islamists. “Presently there is more than three lakh hectares of opium cultivation in Afghanistan. We expect a super bumper crop under the Taliban this year as a result of which the global markets will be flooded with drugs, making the youth and children extremely vulnerable,” said an NCB official.India has a prevalence of use of opioids, which according to a government study is as high as 2.1 per cent as compared to .70 per cent global average and 0.46 per cent Asian average. If we extrapolate these percentages into numbers, the daily requirement of heroin in India is around one metric ton per day or 360 metric tons in a year, which is valued at ₹1,44000 crore in the international market. It is quite evident that this money is used in other organized crime activities and for terror.Over a period of time, India has become a favourite destination of cocaine, the supply of which is controlled by the powerful drug cartels of South American countries. The NCB has found that while Mumbai is the cocaine capital of India, the country is used as a route for the transition of cocaine to other parts of the world too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mundra-port-seizure-had-a-dry-run-on-june-9-govt-alarmed-over-drug-menace-101633319368139.html
04-10-2021||India||‘Saddening and condemnable...’: Mayawati on BSP MP Satish Chandra Mishra's 'house arrest'||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati claimed on Monday that party general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra's “house arrest” by the Uttar Pradesh Police was still underway as he was scheduled to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people, including four farmers, lost their lives in violence that broke out in the district on Sunday.Also Read | Eight killed in violence during protest against ministers in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri: Police“BSP's national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Satish Chandra Mishra was, last night, put under house arrest, which is still underway so that a party delegation, under his leadership, cannot leave for Lakhimpur to gather correct details on killings of farmers there. This is saddening and condemnable,” a rough translation of the former chief minister's tweet, who posted it in Hindi, read.She also called for a judicial probe into the incident. “Due to involvement of two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers, unbiased government probe, justice to victims and punishment for culprits look impossible,” Mayawati tweeted. 2. यूपी के दुःखद खीरी काण्ड में भाजपा के दो मंत्रियों की संलिप्तता के कारण इस घटना की सही सरकारी जाँच व पीड़ितों के साथ न्याय तथा दोषियों को सख्त सजा संभव नहीं लगती है। इसलिए इस घटना की, जिसमें अब तक 8 लोगों के मरने की पुष्टि हुई है, न्यायिक जाँच जरूरी, बीएसपी की माँग।Earlier, Congress' youth wing president BV Srinivas said that party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was arrested from Hargaon while on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, too, was put under house arrest at his residence in Lucknow as he, too, was scheduled to leave for Kheri.Also Read | Cops in talks with Rakesh Tikait to help take bodies of farmers for post-mortemA host of politicians, including Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randahwa, Rashtriya Lok Dal's (RLD) Jayant Chaudhary and a delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) have announced they will arrive in the district today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddening-and-condemnable-mayawati-on-bsp-mp-sc-mishra-s-house-arrest-101633315717546.html
04-10-2021||India||Extortionists arrested in joint ops by Bihar, Chandigarh Police||A joint team of Chandigarh and Raxual police on Saturday arrested three people for allegedly trying to extort ₹10 lakh from a Chandigarh-based businessman recently.Shashi Bhushan Thakur, Raxaul inspector said the police team from Chandigarh came here on September 3 in search of the extortionists. “While two of them were arrested from Raxaul in Bihar’s East Champaran district, one was arrested from Ramgarhwa,” said Thakur. Another police officer confirmed that all the three were wanted by Chandigarh police in connection with a case of attempted extortion of ₹10 lakh from businessman Manish Tiwari. Also Read: RJD’s decision to field candidate in bypoll latest flashpoint in ties with CongThose arrested were identified as Shambhu Prasad, a resident of Srirampur, Ramgarhwa’s Ram Surat Patel, and Ayan Khan, a resident of Islampur in Raxaul subdivision. Manish Tiwari, who hails from Raxaul, runs his business in Chandigarh, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extortionists-arrested-in-joint-ops-by-bihar-chandigarh-police-101633318805132.html
04-10-2021||India||Cops in talks with Rakesh Tikait to help take bodies of farmers for post-mortem||Senior officials in Lakhimpur Kheri were holding talks with farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who is among the very few known faces to have been allowed to visit the violence-hit district, to urge protesting farmers to end the impasse and let the bodies of their compatriots be taken for post-mortem.The leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union had reached the district late on Sunday night to meet the farmers and families of victims of violence. At least eight people, including four farmers, died in violence that broke out in the Uttar Pradesh district on Sunday following a protest to block deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village for an event. Soon after, violence and arson broke out in the area. Also read | ‘On expected lines’: Priyanka arrested, claims youth Congress leader Srinivas BVA first information report (FIR) has been registered based on a complaint from farmers and Union minister of state (home) Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra and his aides have been named in it. Lakhimpur Kheri superintendent of Police (SP) Vijay Dhull said the FIR was resigisterd under Indian Penal Code sections 302 (murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 147 (rioting).The Union minister has refuted the allegations that his son was driving the vehicle that allegedly ran over the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri. "Had my son been there, he would not have come out alive," he said.Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate AK Chaurasia said they have received a memorandum from farmers demanding Mishra's dismissal, payment of ex gratia and government jobs for families of the deceased. He said they also demanded a judicial probe into the Sunday incident.Meanwhile, the authorities are trying to push back political leaders, including Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, from making their way to the district.However, the administration has allowed Tikait, who heads the Bharatiya Kisan Union, to reach the area and meet the protesters and families of aggrieved farmers.A local police officer said the violence broke out minutes ahead of Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village under Tikonia police station limits. He said the incident took place on Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the farmers, who were agitating against the new farm laws and had blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit, got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to BJP workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.He said the farmers in retaliation overturned and set on fire two SUVs, besides thrashing people in the convoy.In a tweet, Tikait had said on Sunday the farmers were attacked when they were returning after staging a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. He also alleged that people in the convoy had opened fire.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-in-talks-with-rakesh-tikait-to-help-take-bodies-of-farmers-for-postmortem-101633317767786.html
04-10-2021||NA||Lakhimpur Kheri Live: Punjab deputy CM detained in Saharanpur||At least eight people were killed as violence erupted in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday during a farmers' protest over the three farm laws. A local police officer said that the violence broke out minutes ahead of state deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya's visit to Banbirpur village. He said that the farmers who were agitating against the new farm laws blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit. They got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.Follow all the updates here:Members of Youth Congress protest in Delhi against violencePunjab CM gives memorandum to repeal the three farm laws to GovernorWe condemn the unfortunate incident happened in Lakhimpur Kheri and guilty should be arrested. The reason behind this incident is three farm laws... I along with my ministers met Governor Banwarilal Purohit and gave him the memorandum to repeal the three farm laws, says Punjab chief minister CS Channi.Karnataka Congress hold protest against Lakhimpur KheriLeader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah, State Congress president DK Shivakumar along with other party leaders staged a protest in Bengaluru against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's detentionBJP, Centre have 'no business to not allow' political leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri: CPI(M)The CPI(M) on Monday hit out at the BJP and the central government, saying they have "no business to not allow" political leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri where violent clashes left four farmers dead.West Bengal youth Congress workers protest over Lakhimpur Kheri incidentKolkata | West Bengal youth Congress workers staged a protest outside the Governor house today over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident & detention of Priyanka Gandhi by UP police pic.twitter.com/lHXzsRkhESWest Bengal youth Congress workers seen staging a protest outside the Governor house today over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Congress stages protest in LucknowCongress today staged a protest infront of a Gandhi statue in Lucknow. State Congress President Nana Patole, Congress leader Sachin Pilot and Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap were among those present at the protest site.Punjab deputy CM, other Congress leaders detained in SaharanpurPunjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and other Congress leaders were today detained by UP police in Saharanpur while they were on their way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of farmers who lost their lives in violence.BJP govt doesn't believe in democracy: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the BJP, saying the party doesn't believe in democracy and only wants autocracy.“Is this ‘Ram rajya’? No, this is ‘killing rajya’,"  she remarked.KC Venugopal calls Lakhimpur Kheri incident ‘shocking’Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal calls the Lakhimpur Kheri incident “shocking” and says there is a need for a sitting judge to investigate the matter.“Where is our democracy? Now you're (UP Govt) announcing a judicial inquiry with a retired HC judge, we can't accept it. Because there is a need for a sitting judge to investigate the matter,” he said.Sachin Pilot demands judicial inquiry into Lakhimpur Kheri violenceHaryana CM ML Khattar's statement is unfortunate. Priyanka Gandhi wants to go to Lakhimpur Kheri & sympathise with farmers but the state (UP) govt is afraid and didn't allow her. We demand a judicial inquiry into the incident: Rajasthan Congress leader Sachin PilotChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel lashes out at BJP over detention of Oppn leadersChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel lashes out at the BJP, saying the party “cannot tolerate any voices against them”. “Most opposition leaders have either been detained or put under house arrest. We demand the Union Minister be removed. This was not an ordinary incident but murder,” he added.Punjab CM Channi denied permission to visit Lakhimpur Kheri“Due to imposition of Section 144 in Lakhimpur Kheri, it's not possible to grant permission for the visit of Punjab CM & Deputy CM,” the UP government wrote back to the Punjab Civil Aviation department. UP govt conducting fair probe into matter: Union minister Kaushal Kishore Union Minister Kaushal Kishore said the UP government is conducting a fair investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, adding that the opposition should also lend support. “No one should give provoking statements till truth comes out. It shouldn't be exaggerated or politicised,” he added.Sedition case must be filed against Khattar: SidhuNavjot Singh Sidhu said that people who ran vehicles on peacefully protesting farmers in Lakhimpur “should be arrested.” “A case of sedition should be registered against Haryana CM ML Khattar for his statement,” he added during Congress protest in Chandigarh.SP chief Akhilesh Yadav released from police detentionPolice has released Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav from detention at Eco Gardens (5 km from his home) according to latest updates. Modi govt should withdraw the 3 farm laws: Asaduddin OwaisiI'll be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri, UP to show solidarity with the people who've been murdered by Union Minister's son. It's a heinous crime. It's high time, Modi govt should withdraw the 3 farm laws and he should remove this Minister: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi Navjot Singh Sidhu, other Congress MLAs detained by policeChandigarh Police has detained Navjot Singh Sidhu and other Congress MLAs who were protesting in support of farmers outside Raj Bhavan.Delhi traffic police takes to Twitter to inform commuters about the diversionTraffic coming from Delhi to Ghaziabad has been diverted from Akshardham Setu towards Noida and Vikas Marg for Ghaziabad. Traffic on road no 57A has been diverted to Hasanpur Karkari Mod for Shahdara, Anand Vihar and Ghaziabad, it said in a tweet.Traffic has been diverted from Ghazipur roundabout to Anand Vihar, Bhopura Border Ghaziabad via road no 56, from Murga Mandi roundabout to Dr Hadgewar Marg then Nala Road up to UP Gate Ghaziabad for Vaishali, Vasundhara, Ghaziabad via Paper Market, Ghazipur, it added.Police misbehaved with Priyanka Gandhi and stopped her without any warrant: Bhupesh BaghelWhy are not we allowed to go there (Lakhimpur Kheri) and meet victim families? Yesterday, police misbehaved with Priyanka Gandhi and stopped her in Sitapur without any warrant. Is sympathizing with anyone now a crime?: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel in Raipur.Talks between farmers' leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and UP government end on "positive note"People familiar with the development said that negotiations between farmers' leaders led by Rakesh Tikait and the UP government have ended on a "positive note".  What has been agreed to:1) ₹45 lakh each to kins of deceased farmers2) ₹10 lakh each to those injured3) Government jobs to a family member of each of the four deceased farmers subject to their qualifications4) An FIR into the matter  5) Judicial probe by a retired HC judgeAAP leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri todayAam Aadmi Party (AAP) delegation led by Punjab Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema along with Raghav Chadha, Kultar Sandhwa and Baljinder Kaur to visit Lakhimpur Kheri today.UPCC President dismisses reports of Priyanka Gandhi observing fast under detentionUPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu has dismissed reports about Priyanka Gandhi observing fast under detention in Sitapur. Earlier, it was reported that the Congress leader had begun a fast to protest against the detention.Punjab CM Channi says he is leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri Expressing solidarity with the families of farmers who were killed in Sunday's violence, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he would be visiting Lakhimpur Kheri to be with his “brothers & sisters in this hour of grief”. He mentioned he has sought permission from the UP government for the same.  Bhim Army Chief Chandrashekhar Azad reaches Tikunia"It is a sad moment for the farmers of this country. The death of farmers shows that the government has crossed all limits," Azad said from a makeshift stage at the protest site."I assure you that farmer's struggle will triumph. I extend my full support to this fight to get justice for the families who have lost their family members here," he added.Punjab's Civil Aviation director writes to UP Additional Chief Secretary seeking permission for CM Channi's visit to Lakhimpur KheriPunjab Govt's Civil Aviation director writes to UP Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi, informing him that CM Charanjit Singh Channi wants to visit Lakhimpur Kheri; seeks permission for landing of the CM's chopper pic.twitter.com/r6V9kRkmPKPunjab government's Civil Aviation director has sought permission from Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi if the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi can visit the violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri district.6 people taken into custody in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violence, say policeA senior UP police official at DGP headquarters, Lucknow, said that the STF have taken as many as six people in custody in connection with the incident.Farmers stage protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violence outside BJP leader's residenceFarmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) are staging a protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violence outside the residence of BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh in Amritsar.Matter under investigation: UP minister on Lakhimpur Kheri violenceUttar Pradesh Minister Sidharth Nath Singh today said that the government is taking the matter seriously and the culprits will be punished.  He lashed out at the Opposition for using the incident for “political competition” ahead of upcoming assembly polls in UP. "We're taking this matter seriously & it is under investigation. CM has said that culprits will be punished. Opposition is using the incident for political tourism & political competition as polls are around the corner: UP Minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Lakhimpur Kheri violenceDon't let anyone from state go to Lakhimpur Kheri: UP govt to Punjab chief secretaryUttar Pradesh Govt writes to Punjab chief secretary, urging not to let anyone from the state go to Lakhimpur Kheri where Section 144 of CrPC was imposed following death of 8 people in violence on Sunday.Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav taken into custody#WATCH | Lucknow: Police take Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav into custody outside his residence where he staged a sit-in protest after being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri where 8 people died in violence yesterday pic.twitter.com/VYk12Qt87HPolice take Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav into custody outside his residence where he staged a sit-in protest.BJP's Varun Gandhi pays condolences to farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violenceलखीमपुर खीरी की हृदय-विदारक घटना में शहीद हुए किसानों को श्रद्धांजलि अर्पित करता हूँ। इस प्रकरण में उत्तर प्रदेश के मुख्यमंत्री जी से सख्त कार्यवाही करने का निवेदन करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/e2tE1x4z3TBJP leader Varun Gandhi offers condolences to farmers martyred in Lakhimpur Kheri violence.  He further requested Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to take a strict action in the matter. "I pay homage to the farmers who were martyred in the heart-wrenching incident of Lakhimpur Kheri. I request the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh to take strict action in this matter," he tweeted.Police force deployed in Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikonia areaHeavy police force deployed in Lakhimpur Kheri's Tikonia area after eight people including farmers and a local journalist were killed in a violence over the three farm laws.  Local journalist among 8 dead in Lakhimpur Kheri violenceAt least eight people were killed in a violence that erupted in  Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri over the farm laws on Sunday. A local journalist Raman Kashyap was one among the eight dead.Samajwadi Party begins agitation at Vikramaditya MargThe Samajwadi Party has begun agitation at Vikramaditya Marg. Heavy police force and barricades seen at the site.Yogi Adityanath cancels his scheduled visit to Shravasti & Bahraich Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has cancelled his scheduled visit to Shravasti and Bahraich districts today in the backdrop of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested from UP's HargaonCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on her way to Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district to visit the families of the victims of Sunday’s violence, has been arrested in Hargaon on Monday, according to the party's youth wing national president Srinivas BV.Punjab deputy CM, Chhattisgarh denied entry at Lucknow airportUP govt denies entry to Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel at Lucknow airport on arrival. Randhawa plans to go by road.Farmers lodge complaint against Ajay Mishra and his sonFarmers lodge complaint against Union Minister of State for Home, Ajay Mishra Teni and his son Ashish Mishra Teni in Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri over yesterday's incident, reports news agency ANI.Akhilesh Yadav put under ‘house arrest’ in LucknowFormer Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was put under house arrest on Monday ahead of his scheduled visit to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of victims who were killed in a violence that broke out in the district a day ago.Police files FIR against Union minister Ajay Mishra's sonLakhimpur Kheri Superintendent of Police (SP) Vijay Dhull said an FIR under Indian Penal Code sections 302 for murder, 120-B for criminal conspiracy and 147 for rioting has been registered on the complaint of farmers at Tikunia police station.Another local police officer stated that Union Home minister for state Ajai Kumar Mishra's son Ashish Mishra and his aides have been named in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-live-updates-101633317141781.html
04-10-2021||India||SC imposes ₹7 lakh cost on UP for lax probe in ‘encounter’ death case||The Supreme Court has imposed a cost of ₹seven lakh on the Uttar Pradesh government over a lax probe in a case involving four policemen, who evaded arrest for 19 years in an “encounter” death case cocking a snook at the trial court’s repeated arrest warrants and a direction passed by the top Court in 2016 to complete the trial within a year.Appalled at the manner in which the state police made the father of the victim run from pillar to post for almost two decades, a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose said, “The laxity with which State has proceeded in the present case speaks volumes of how state machinery is defending or protecting its own police officers.”Directing an interim compensation to the victim’s father, Yash Pal Singh, who filed a writ petition seeking arrest of the accused policemen, the bench said, “Keeping in view the totality of the circumstances and the sufferings which the petitioner has undergone, we direct the state of Uttar Pradesh to deposit a sum of ₹7 lakhs with the Registry of this Court towards interim costs within one week.”The order was passed on Thursday but was uploaded on the court’s website on Friday. The bench added that on deposit of the money, the petitioner shall be entitled to withdraw the same.The case involves the killing of a teenager by the police in an alleged “encounter” while he was on his way to Delhi on August 4, 2002, with regard to his father’s dairy business. The medical report showed policemen battered him, made him kneel down, and shot him dead. Eight policemen were involved in the incident of which four were arrested while the others remained at large.On September 1, the top court issued notice on the petition following which two of the accused were arrested while the third surrendered. The fourth accused was reported to be still absconding.“….unfortunately, the manner in which the State has proceeded, the petitioner has been compelled to file this writ petition...,” the bench observed.Additional advocate general (Uttar Pradesh) Garima Prasad told the court the state ordered an inquiry to ascertain why steps were not taken at the appropriate stage. The accused cops are Sanjeev Kumar, Manoj Kumar, Randheer Singh, and Jitendra Singh.Advocate Divyesh Pratap Singh, appearing for the petitioner, blamed the state for allowing the matter to come to this pass. He added repeated orders by the trial judge to secure the presence of the accused was frustrated by the state police. Also Read: SC declines plea to keep pvt liquor vendors in Delhi open till November 16Within two years of the incident, the state submitted a closure report in May 2004 before the trial court and allegedly forged the signature of the petitioner’s wife to show that they were served notice of the same. The father moved a protest petition to ensure the probe into his son’s death continues. The closure report was set aside.In October 2005, the Allahabad high court ordered a stay of the trial on a petition filed by one of the accused. This order was vacated in 2017. The trial court passed several orders to secure the arrest of the four but not a single warrant was executed. The petitioner approached the Supreme Court seven times to ensure a fair trial. In November 2016, the top court directed the trial be completed within a year.In May 2018, the trial judge directed the police chief to stop the salaries of the accused. The order was not honoured. One of the accused, who retired in 2019, was even paid retirement benefits.The bench said in the ordinary course, the top court is hesitant to admit writ petitions filed directly before it. But in the present case, the bench said, “In the extraordinary circumstances of this case, we have entertained this petition to ensure that justice is given to the petitioner, which has been denied for about two decades.”The bench posted the matter for further hearing on October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-imposes-rs-7-lakh-cost-on-up-for-lax-probe-in-encounter-death-case-101633317664888.html
04-10-2021||India||News updates from HT: India-Sri Lanka joint military exercise from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, Sri Lanka to begin joint military exercise from today; counter-terror ops on agendaIndia and Sri Lanka will carry out a 12-day military exercise from Monday with a focus on improving counter-insurgency and counter-terror cooperation. Read moreClasses 8 to 12 to reopen in urban Maharashtra as Covid cases declineFrom Monday, schools in urban areas are set to reopen for students of classes 8 to 12. In rural areas, physical classes will resume for students of classes 5 to 7. Read moreFrom today, British nationals arriving in India to undergo mandatory 10-day quarantineStarting today, visitors arriving in India from the United Kingdom will have to undergo go a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Read more'What nobody asked is, why did Pant run? He could have stepped in and defused the situation': Gavaskar on Ashwin rowAfter the off-spinner got involved in a heated exchange with Tim Southee and Eoin Morgan during an IPL 2021 match between Delhi Capitals and Kolkata Knight Riders, several former cricketers have weighed in on the issue. Read moreSalman Khan visits Shah Rukh Khan's residence post Aryan Khan's arrest. See picsHours after Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau and sent to one day custody, the actor's close friend from the industry, Salman Khan visited him at his residence. Read moreBarack Obama says he can't imagine life without Michelle Obama on 29th wedding anniversaryFormer President and the First Lady of the United States of America, Barack Obama and Michelle Obama, are celebrating their 29th wedding anniversary by sending immense love to each other with adorable posts on social media. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-sri-lanka-joint-military-exercise-from-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101633314991310.html
04-10-2021||India||Widespread rain likely in east and south peninsular India till Oct 6||Monsoon is likely to start withdrawing from northwest India from October 6 but there is likely to be widespread rain over parts of east India and peninsular India till October 6, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low pressure area is lying over east Bihar and neighbourhood with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to mid tropospheric levels. It is very likely to move east-northeastwards and become less marked during the next 48 hours, the weather department said. A north-south trough is running from this low pressure area to north interior Odisha. Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy falls with extremely heavy falls are very likely over the Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and west Assam, Meghalaya region during the next 24 hours, and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected during the subsequent 24 hours. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Bihar on October 3 and 4 and over Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal today, it added. Also Read: Partly cloudy sky but no rain forecast for Monday in DelhiA cyclonic circulation is lying over southwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Tamil Nadu. A trough in easterlies is running from this cyclonic circulation to eastcentral Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast across the cyclonic circulation over Southeast Arabian Sea off Kerala coast in lower tropospheric level. It is likely to persist during the next 2-3 days. Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Coastal and South Interior Karnataka till October 6; isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over south Konkan, Goa and south Madhya Maharashtra till October 6. A cyclonic circulation is also lying over Southeast Arabian Sea off Kerala coast. Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over Eastcentral & adjoining Northeast Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours, the forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-in-east-and-south-peninsular-india-till-oct-6-101633315084458.html
04-10-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav put under ‘house arrest’ in Lucknow ahead of his visit to Lakhimpur Kheri||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav was put under house arrest on Monday ahead of his scheduled visit to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of victims who were killed in a violence that broke out in the district a day ago.A large number of policemen were deployed outside the former chief minister’s residence in Lucknow. Atul Pradhan a Samajwadi Party leader said Yadav was "house arrested" late last night.Also read | ‘On expected lines’: Priyanka arrested, claims youth Congress leader Srinivas BVOn Sunday, Yadav had demanded chief minister Adityanath Yogi’s resignation over the brutal clashes that led to death of eight, including four farmers, following a protest over blocking deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village.In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav wrote running over farmers who were peacefully protesting the farm law (three new central farm laws) by the son of a Union minister of state was inhuman and cruel. “UP will not tolerate atrocities by arrogant BJP members...and if this state of affairs continue then in UP BJP members will not be able to travel in vehicles or get out of them,” he added in the tweet.Also read | ‘Unforgivable, barbaric, cruel’: How politicians reacted to Lakhimpur incidentMeanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, who reached Lakhimpur Kheri early on Monday, to meet the aggrieved families, was arrested in Hargaon, her party leader BY Srinivas wrote on Twitter. She had earlier alleged police were trying to stop her from going to the village.'मैं उन लोगों से Important नही हूँ, जिनको तुम लोगों ने गाड़ी के नीचे कुचलकर मारा है'~ @priyankagandhi#लखीमपुर_किसान_नरसंहार pic.twitter.com/Q3BEC8ZpyRGandhi had reached Lucknow late on Sunday night with party leader Deepinder Singh Hooda. The UP government has barred most political leaders from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri. So far, among the known faces only Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has been able to make his way to the restive district. Internet services have also been partially banned in the district after the incident.In a tweet, Tikait had said on Sunday the farmers were attacked when they were returning after staging a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. He also alleged that people in the convoy had opened fire.A local police officer said the violence broke out minutes ahead of Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village under Tikonia police station limits. He said the incident took place on Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the farmers, who were agitating against the new farm laws and had blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit, got infuriated after two SUVs reportedly belonging to BJP workers hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured.He said the farmers in retaliation overturned and set on fire two SUVs, besides thrashing people in the convoy.Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni has refuted allegations that his son Ashish Mishra was driving the vehicle that allegedly ran over the protesters in Lakhimpur Kheri.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-put-under-house-arrest-ahead-of-lakhimpur-kheri-visit-101633314064533.html
04-10-2021||India||On expected lines: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested from UP's Hargaon, says youth Congress leader Srinivas BV||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on her way to Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district to visit the families of the victims of Sunday’s violence, has been arrested in Hargaon on Monday, according to the party's youth wing national president Srinivas BV. "Finally what was expected from the BJP has happened. In the democratic country of 'Mahatma Gandhi', the worshipers of 'Godse' have arrested our leader @priyankagandhi Ji who fought heavy rains and the police force to meet the 'Annadata', from Hargaon. This is just the beginning of the fight!! Kisan Ekta Zindabad,” Srinivas tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Srinivas also shared a video along with the tweet and has called on people to reach the Sitapur police line where Priyanka Gandhi has been taken. The Congress general secretary has said she will meet the families of those killed on Sunday after violence during a protest in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The farmers were protesting three farm laws enacted by the central government last year.आखिरकार वही हुआ, जिसकी BJP से उम्मीद थी'महात्मा गांधी' के लोकतांत्रिक देश में 'गोडसे' के उपासकों ने भारी बारिश और पुलिसबल से संघर्ष करते हुए अन्नदाताओं से मिलने जा रही हमारी नेता @priyankagandhi जी को हरगांव से गिरफ्तार किया..ये लड़ाई का सिर्फ आरंभ है!! किसान एकता जिंदाबाद pic.twitter.com/vehKIxh87BPriyanka Gandhi reached the Lucknow airport on Sunday evening following the incident and was stopped by the police several times on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri. The party released several videos and in one of them, she is heard saying that she was stopped several times while she was on her way to Lakhimpur. “I’m not committing any crime by deciding to meet victim's kin...Why are you stopping us? You should have a warrant...?" she is heard saying in one of the videos.Also read | Farmers to protest outside DM offices across country today against Lakhimpur incident: SKMMeanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait also reached Lakhimpur early on Monday. “We will first meet the farmers and villagers and discuss the situation with them. The future course of action will be done on the basis of the discussion with the villagers and farmers. Their decision will prevail,” Tikait told reporters at Banbirpur village, according to news agency PTI.Tikait’s associates said the farm leader delayed and blamed it delay on multiple police checks. “En route to Lakhimpur, we were stopped at multiple places by the UP Police. Somehow we have managed to reach here at Banbirpur village and Tikait ji will now be meeting the farmers here,” BKU's media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI over the phone.Also read | 'Won’t let this sacrifice go in vain’: Rahul on farmers’ death in LakhimpurThe UP police tweeted early on Monday, saying the incident in Lakhimpur Kheri was “unfortunate” and that eight deaths have been reported till now as per the district administration. “ADG LO, ACS Agriculture, IG Range & Commissioner are on the spot & situation is under control. Adequate deployment has been done to prevent any untoward incident,” it added.Mobile internet services have been snapped in parts of the violence-hit district, where prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC has also been imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-expected-lines-priyanka-arrested-claims-youth-congress-leader-srinivas-bv-101633313454034.html
04-10-2021||India||Classes 8 to 12 to reopen in urban Maharashtra as Covid cases decline||Maharashtra recorded 2,692 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the overall count to 6,559,349 on Sunday. The tally of active cases further reduced to 35,888 as 2,716 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. There has been a gradual, but constant drop in active cases, reaching its lowest tally in the past seven months.It also reported 41 fresh Covid-19 casualties taking the toll to 139,207. Ahmednagar reported 19 deaths on Sunday, the most in the state.From Monday, schools in urban areas are set to reopen for students of classes 8 to 12. In rural areas, physical classes will resume for students of classes 5 to 7 and a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) has been released for the same.In-person offline classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra from March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic first hit the state. Schools in rural areas were allowed to resume offline classes for students of classes 8 to 12 from July 12. Nearly 17,701 schools resumed offline classes in rural areas where Covid-19 cases are on decline, as per government data.Also Read: Maharashtra schools to open from today: Check SOPs hereThe Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is under control as the average daily cases are on a decline for the past few months. In September, the daily average of new infections came down to 3,368 cases against 4,944 in August, 7,737 in July and 10,542 in June. However, officials are still worried about the impact the festive season, spanning October and November, is likely to have on the situation.“The situation is under control at present as our daily cases are declining, but we are not allowed to be complacent. It may reverse if people do not follow Covid protocols strictly. We are closely monitoring the situation as the state has also decided to lift most of the curbs from this month,” said a senior official from the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/classes-8-to-12-to-reopen-in-urban-maharashtra-as-covid-cases-decline-101633312804443.html
04-10-2021||India||Colleges in Kerala to reopen today: Check all guidelines here||Colleges in Kerala will reopen on Monday after a gap of more than a year, adhering to Covid-19 health protocols. While classes will begin for final year degree and post-graduate students who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccination from Monday, regular classes for all batches will begin from October 18. State higher education department joint secretary Sajukumar, in an order in September, said classes for the final semesters of degree and post-graduate courses will be started, strictly adhering to Covid-19 health protocols.Post-graduate courses will be held with full attendance while it would be 50 per cent for final-year degree courses. The schedule of the classes can be decided by college councils.Kerala on Sunday recorded 12,297 fresh Covid-19 cases and 74 deaths, taking the caseload to 47,20,233 and the toll to 25,377 respectively. The number of people who recovered from the infection since Saturday was 16,333, which brought the total recoveries to 45,57,199 and the number of active cases to 137,043, an official press release said.Check the latest guidelines here:1. All students must have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Those who got the first dose of the vaccine at least two weeks before can also come to the college. Students who are unable to take the vaccine due to any medical reasons like allergies must bring a medical certificate.2. Importance should be given to practical classes for science subjects, an order from the state health department said, adding that the classes for other semesters will continue online.3. The classrooms, libraries and laboratories should be sanitised well before the commencement of classes and the institutions can seek assistance from the local self-government bodies concerned, health workers or NGOs.4. The state government asked the respective institutional heads to ensure that the students follow strict Covid-19 health protocol. "The institutions should ensure availability of adequate number of masks, sanitisers and hand wash facilities. Gatherings should be avoided," the order added.5. The order also directed the institutions to approach the health department to arrange vaccination drives for students and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/colleges-in-kerala-to-reopen-today-check-all-guidelines-here-101633306534274.html
04-10-2021||NA||Breaking| Working to get things back to normal: WhatsApp after global outage||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:‘Working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible’: Facebook“We’re aware that some people are having trouble accessing our apps and products. We’re working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible, and we apologize for any inconvenience,” Facebook said on Monday. Working to get things back to normal: WhatsApp after global outage"We’re aware that some people are experiencing issues with WhatsApp at the moment. We’re working to get things back to normal and will send an update here as soon as possible," WhatsApp said on Monday.WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook down for usersWhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook is currently down for users. ED arrests Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra, his daughter-in-law Preeti in money laundering probeThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra, his daughter-in-law Preeti in money laundering probe.‘Papers were leaked during BJP rule too’: Rajasthan CM Gehlot on REET scandalAs the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Rajasthan alleged that test paper of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) was leaked before the exam took place, and flagged other irregularities during the exam, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday dismissed the allegation by saying the Congress-led state government managed the entire process of REET very well. Read morePriyanka Gandhi slams Mayawati, Akhilesh Yadav over Lakhimpur incidentCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Monday slammed Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav over the Lakhimpuri Kheri incident. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Gandhi said that it is only the Congress party which has raised issues in Uttar Pradesh. US oil prices hit highest level since 2014 as OPEC+ meets#BREAKING US oil prices hit highest level since 2014 as OPEC+ meets pic.twitter.com/XE5ovTb8RhCases related to Pandora papers will be investigated, says CBDTThe Government has directed today that, investigations in cases of Pandora Papers leaks will be monitored headed by the Chairman, CBDT, having representatives from CBDT, Enforcement Directorate, Reserve Bank of India & Financial Intelligence Unit: Official spokesperson, CBDTThe Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Monday that cases related to the Pandora papers will be investigated.Kerala records 8,850 fresh Covid-19 cases, 149 more deathsKerala on Monday recorded 8,850 new cases and 149 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 4,729,083 and 25,526 respectively. The number of people who recovered from the infection since Sunday was 17,007, which brought the total recoveries to 4,574,206 and the number of active cases to 128,736.Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, 2 accused sent to NCB custody till October 7Actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha have been sent to the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till October 7 in connection with their involvement in the cruise ship rave party case. Jan Adhikar Party chief Pappu Yadav acquitted in 32-year-old kidnapping caseFormer MP and Jan Adhikar Party president Rajiv Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav has been acquitted in a 32-year-old kidnapping case. Reopening schools with determination we won’t have to shut them again: Maharashtra CM ThackerayChief minister Uddhav Thackeray said schools were reopened in Maharashtra from Monday after a lot of deliberations with a determination that they will not be shut again. Read moreWorld Trade Organization revises up trade forecasts for 2021, 2022#BREAKING WTO revises up trade forecasts for 2021, 2022, says global economic resurgence has lifted merchandise trade above pre-pandemic peak pic.twitter.com/OKV4HhuwvNNCB interrogated me for the last 48 hrs but found nothing: Aryan KhanAryan Khan also said that the NCB interrogate him for the last 48 hours in connection with the cruise ship rave party case but found nothing. “I am a twenty-four-year-old-boy with no criminal antecedents. I have co-operated with them so any prayer for further custody should be rejected,” Khan said. Mumbai cruise ship rave party case: Was invited as a guest, nothing found in my bag, says Aryan KhanShah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, who has been produced before a magistrate court in Mumbai for bail in connection with cruise ship rave party case, said on Monday that he was invited as a guest in the party nothing was found in his bag during the search by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Covid-19 restrictions in Uttarakhand extended till Oct 19#COVID19 restrictions in Uttarakhand to continue from 6 am of 5th October to 6 am of 19th October. pic.twitter.com/jxLx5ZEbyqCoronavirus disease restrictions in Uttarakhand, which were in place till October 5 (Tuesday), have now been further extended till October 19. NCB seeking custody of SRK's son Aryan, 2 others till Oct 13As Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were produced before a magistrate court in Mumbai in connection with their involvement in the cruise ship rave party case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has sought custody of the trio till October 13. Hours after Kabul mosque blast, Taliban destroy IS cell in Afghan capitalHours after a blast killed several people outside a mosque in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul on Sunday, the Taliban destroyed an Islamic State cell in Kabul, according to news agency AFP on Monday. Read moreNCB brings SRK's son Aryan Khan, 2 others to Esplanade CourtThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday afternoon brought Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha to the Esplanade Court in Mumbai. All three were remanded to NCB custody in connection with the Mumbai cruise ship rave party case.David Julius, Ardem Patapoutian awarded Nobel Prize in Medicine 2021BREAKING NEWS:The 2021 #NobelPrize in Physiology or Medicine has been awarded jointly to David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian “for their discoveries of receptors for temperature and touch.” pic.twitter.com/gB2eL37IV7The 2021 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine has been awarded jointly to David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian “for their discoveries of receptors for temperature and touch.”SAD president Sukhbir Badal urges PM Modi to repeal farm lawsI want to request PM Modi to leave his arrogance and accept farmer's demands & repeal the three laws. So that the lives of farmers could be saved: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal pic.twitter.com/bZinAkn5oIShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept the demands of the farmers and repeal the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre. Lakhimpur Kheri incident: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav released by police after being detainedHours after Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav was taken into custody after he staged a sit-in outside his house for being stopped from going to Lakhimpur Kheri, the police on Monday afternoon released him. No cancellation of NEET exam, rules SCSupreme Court dismisses a plea seeking cancellation of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test undergraduate exam (NEET-UG), held on September 12, 2021, due to alleged paper leak and malpractices.SC rejects Supertech's plea against tower demolition in NoidaSupreme Court dismisses Supertech's application to save one of the two 40-storey towers in its Emerald Court project in Noida, that were ordered to be razed over grave illegalities.Foreign secretary meets Sri Lanka president RajapaksaForeign minister Harsh Vardhan Shringla meets Sri Lankan president Gotabaya Rajapaksa in Colombo.Kejriwal releases action plan for Delhi ahead of pollution seasonDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal releases a 10-point winter action plan for the city ahead of the pollution season.SC okays ₹50,000 ex-gratia payment for Covid-19 deathsSupreme Court approves ₹50,000 ex-gratia payment for Covid-19 deaths and directs that even those people who suffered from the illness and die by suicide within a month of testing positive will be entitled to get compensation to be paid from State Disaster Response Fund.Air New Zealand to make vaccination mandatory from February 2022Air New Zealand announces international travelers should be vaccinated against Covid-19 when flying with the carrier starting from February 1 next year.PM Modi pays tribute to revolutionary Shyamji Krishna Vermaमहान क्रांतिकारी और स्वतंत्रता सेनानी श्यामजी कृष्ण वर्मा को उनकी जयंती पर श्रद्धांजलि। देश को गुलामी से मुक्त कराने के लिए उन्होंने अपना जीवन समर्पित कर दिया। कृतज्ञ राष्ट्र आजादी की लड़ाई में उनके योगदान को कभी भुला नहीं पाएगा।Tributes to Shyamji Krishna Varma on his Jayanti.Prime Minister Narendra Modi pays tribute to freedom fighter Shyamji Krishna Verma on the latter's 164th birth anniversary.Japan lawmakers elect Fumio Kishida as new PMJapanese lawmakers vote for Fumio Kishida as the island's new prime minister after incumbent Yoshihide Suga resigned last month.1 new Covid-19 case in Andaman and NicobarAndaman and Nicobar Islands reported one new Covid-19 case in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally in the union territory to 7,623, a health department official said.Delhi Traffic Police announce closure of NH9 and NH24pic.twitter.com/jKc2XA1Mcz“Due to closure of national highways NH9 and NH24 by Ghaziabad Traffic Police, traffic diversion is being continued,” tweets Delhi Traffic Police.India records 20,799 new Covid-19 cases and 180 deathsIndia's daily Covid-19 tally falls to 20,799 as cumulative cases mount to 33,834,702. New recoveries at 26,718 while toll rises by 180 deaths.991,676 Covid-19 tests on October 3: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/1NI7hkjkyU574,252,400 samples tested for Covid-19 till October 3, 2021, including 991,676 on Sunday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Lakhimpur incident: FIR filed on farmers' complaintLakhimpur Police file FIR in connection with Sunday's violence in which eight people, including four farmers were killed. Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish and his aides named.UP ACS directs Lucknow airport not to let Chhattisgarh CM and Punjab deputy CM to land UP Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi asks Lucknow airport not to allow Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel & Punjab Deputy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa to land at the airportBaghel & Randhawa have announced to visit Lakhimpur Kheri today, where 8 people died in clashes pic.twitter.com/KEdDZOHyLDUttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi instructs Lucknow airport not to allow Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to land at the airport.Germany records over 3000 fresh Covid-19 infectionsGermany logs 3088 fresh Covid-19 infections and seven deaths. Tally mounts to 4,255,388 including 93,793 deaths.Lakhimpur incident: Akhilesh Yadav put under house arrestUP Police put SP chief Akhilesh Yadav under house arrest in Lucknow as he was scheduled to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri to meet families of farmers allegedly run over by car of Union minister Ajay Mishra's son.Australia logs 2029 new Covid-19 casesAustralia reported 2029 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, including 1377 from its second-most populous province of Victoria.Priyanka Gandhi arrested while on way to Lakhimpur: Congressआखिरकार वही हुआ, जिसकी BJP से उम्मीद थी'महात्मा गांधी' के लोकतांत्रिक देश में 'गोडसे' के उपासकों ने भारी बारिश और पुलिसबल से संघर्ष करते हुए अन्नदाताओं से मिलने जा रही हमारी नेता @priyankagandhi जी को हरगांव से गिरफ्तार किया..ये लड़ाई का सिर्फ आरंभ है!! किसान एकता जिंदाबाद pic.twitter.com/vehKIxh87BPriyanka Gandhi Vadra arrested by UP Police from Hargaon while on way to meet families of farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, claims Youth Congress president BV Srinivas.North and South Korea restore border hotlineNorth Korea and South Korea restore cross-border hotline, reports AFP quoting officials in Seoul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-04-2021-101633307143475.html
04-10-2021||India||Govt mowing down farmers: Priyanka reaches Lakhimpur Kheri, says not allowed to meet victims’ families||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reached Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh early on Monday where eight people were killed as violence broke out after a car hit protesting farmers on Sunday. Priyanka Gandhi, who reached Lucknow on Sunday night with party leader Deepinder Singh Hooda, earlier alleged that police tried to stop her from going there. “Smt. Priyanka Gandhi has entered #Lakhimpur, and along with other congress leaders will meet Martyrs family soon,” the Congress party tweeted.The Congress party's media platform later tweeted that Priyanka Gandhi was been arrested and taken from Hargaon to Sitapur Police Line.
04-10-2021||India||India, Sri Lanka to begin joint military exercise from today; counter-terror ops on agenda||India and Sri Lanka will carry out a 12-day military exercise from Monday with a focus on improving counter-insurgency and counter-terror cooperation. The defence ministry has said that an all arms contingent of 120 personnel of the Indian Army will participate in the exercise along with a battalion-strength contingent of the Sri Lankan Army. "The aim of the exercise is to promote close relations between armies of both countries and enhance inter-operability and sharing best practices in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations," the statement said.The eighth edition of the Mitra Shakti exercise will be conducted at Combat Training School in Sri Lanka's Ampara from October 4-15, the defence ministry said in a statement on Saturday. The Indian Army contingent reached Sri Lanka on Sunday to participate in the Mitra Shakti exercise. “Exercise #MitraShakti21. #IndianArmy contingent participating in Exercise Mitra Shakti 21 reached Sri Lanka and received a traditional welcome by the Sri Lankan Army,” the Indian Army tweeted on Sunday.The joint exercise is designed for incorporating the current dynamics of United Nations' peacekeeping operations through tactical exercises and practical discussions, the defence ministry has said. The ministry informed that the exercise will involve tactical level operations at the sub-unit level in an international counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism environment and will go a long way in further strengthening the relationship between both nations. It will act as a catalyst in bringing synergy and cooperation at the grass-root level between both armies, the ministry also said.The seventh edition was conducted in Pune in December 2019 at Foreign Training Node located at the Aundh Military Station. In that edition, a contingent from the Kumaon Regiment of the Indian Army and the Gemunu Watch infantry regiment of Sri Lanka participated. The contingents received lessons in perception management and information warfare, human rights and humanitarian law, along with the counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism (CI-CT) operations in urban and rural environments, reports news agency PTI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sri-lanka-to-begin-joint-military-exercise-from-today-counter-terror-ops-on-agenda-101633304001053.html
04-10-2021||India||From today, British nationals arriving in India to undergo mandatory 10-day quarantine||Starting today, visitors arriving in India from the United Kingdom will have to undergo go a mandatory 10-day quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as announced by the Union government on October 1.Also Read | India hits back at UK with quarantine rulesUnder the norms, which do not apply on Indian nationals flying in from Britain, British nationals arriving in India will have to quarantine at home or at their destination address. Additionally, UK citizens also need to undergo an RT-PCR test 72 hours before their flight, a second RT-PCR test on arrival in India, and a third on eighth day of arrival. At present, they have to take a test before departure and on arrival, and have to quarantine for seven days.The Centre has directed states and Union territories to strictly enforce the new arrival rules.The central government's decision stems from new rules announced by the Boris Johnson government under which Indian nationals travelling to the UK will have to undergo mandatory quarantine for 10 days even if they are fully vaccinated against the viral illness. This was because of the Johnson administration's failure to recognise Covishield, the British version of Astrazeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, despite recognising four other jabs, including another one from AstraZeneca.Though the shot was later included by the UK on its list of approved vaccines, the process for accepting India's vaccine certification is likely to take more time.Responding to New Delhi's move, the British high commission said that its government is “continuing to engage” with their Indian counterparts to resolve the impasse.Also Read | Engaging with India on vaccine certification: UK reacts to reciprocal moveThe new British travel rules, too, will come into effect from October 4. Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla, whose company manufactures the Astrazeneca shot in India as Covishield, has described these as "total chaos."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-today-mandatory-10-day-quarantine-for-british-nationals-flying-to-india-101633304197160.html
04-10-2021||India||Zydus proposes ₹1,900 for its vaccine; talks on to cut price||With talks underway between the central government and Zydus Cadila over the pricing of the Covid-19 vaccine ZyCov-D, the pharma company is learnt to have proposed a price of ₹1,900 for its three-dose jab that can be given to those above 12 years of age.However, the government is negotiating for a reduction in price and a final decision on it is likely to be taken this week, people aware of the developments told PTI.The government had on Thursday said that the indigenously-developed, world’s first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine by Zydus Cadila will be introduced in the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination drive shortly.“The company has proposed a price of ₹1,900 inclusive of taxes for its three-dose jab... Negotiations are on. The company has been asked to reconsider all the aspects regarding the cost of the vaccine. A final decision on the price of the vaccine is likely to be taken this week,” the people said.Another person aware of the matter said the ZyCoV-D has to be differently priced than Covaxin and Covishield as, apart from being a three-dose vaccine, there is a needle-free jet injector used for administering the vaccine that costs ₹30,000.That jet injector can be used for administering around 20,000 doses. The vaccine is to be given on days zero, 28 and 56.According to the people quoted above, around three rounds of meetings have taken place so far between the Centre and the company, the last one on Thursday.Meanwhile, the ministry is also waiting for the recommendations from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI ) for introducing ZyCoV-D in the inoculation drive and prioritising beneficiaries focusing on those aged 12-18 years with comorbidities.On the price of the vaccine, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday that the government is in conversation with the manufacturers.“Since this is a three-dose vaccine and comes with a needleless delivery system, it would have a differential pricing than the existing vaccines which are being used in the Covid vaccination programme,” he said.ZyCoV-D received Emergency Use Authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20 making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age-group of 12 to 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-proposes-1-900-for-its-vaccine-talks-on-to-cut-price-101633301546736.html
04-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Opposition looks to corner govt, Yogi vows justice||The violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri triggered a political slugfest on Sunday, with the Opposition parties looking to corner the state government and chief minister Yogi Adityanath promising to punish the guilty.Eight people were killed as clashes broke out in the region after a car hit protesting farmers, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation.Several opposition leaders, including those from the Congress and Trinamool Congress (TMC), said they will go to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of the deceased.“The brutal treatment meted out to farmers in Uttar Pradesh is unforgivable. I am a farmer. I understand the pain of the farmers. I will go to Lakhimpur tomorrow morning to stand by them in these difficult circumstances,” Chhattisgarh chief minister and Congress UP incharge Bhupesh Baghel said. UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will also visit the region on Monday. “Priyankaji has left for Lakhimpur Kheri,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee condemned the incident, calling it barbaric. “I strongly condemn the barbaric incident in Lakhimpur Kheri. The apathy of @BJP4India towards our farmer brethren pains me deeply. A delegation of 5 @AITCofficial MPs will be visiting the families of the victims tomorrow.,” Banerjee tweeted.Adityanath maintained that the state government will carry out an in-depth probe into the incident and take strict action against the guilty, according to a government statement. “Chief minister had expressed grief in the Lakhimpur incident. He called the incident very unfortunate. Uttar Pradesh government will investigate the matter in detail and will take strict actions against the culprits,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violenceeightopposition-looks-to-corner-govt-yogi-vows-justice-101633297560302.html
04-10-2021||India||‘Going after small fish,’ Congress accuses NCB of ignoring heroin haul from Mundra||The Congress on Sunday accused the ruling BJP and its agencies including the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) of trying to protect the people involved in the drug trade while diverting attention from the ‘main haul’ at the Mundra port. Goa Congress spokesperson Dr Shama Mohammed said that the NCB was “very busy arresting small fish” while simultaneously ignoring the 3,000 kg heroin that was smuggled into the country through the Adani Mundra Port. “Why is NCB protecting the kingpins of the organised drug cartel and on whose orders? These lethal drugs are now in our country. Never in the history of India has such a large quantity of drugs been smuggled inside our borders without any intervening check from the government,” Dr Mohammed, said. The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence on 15 September 2021 seized nearly 3,000 kg of heroin branded as ‘Semicut Talcum Powder’ from Gujarat’s Mundra port — the largest consignment caught by the DRI so far. This haul is estimated to be worth over ₹21,000 crore in the international market. The heroin was found in two containers that landed at Mundra port from Afghanistan via Iran, exported from the Afghanistani firm M/s Hassan Hussain Limited, and imported in the name of Aashi Trading Company of Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh.“It is impossible for such a massive shipment of drugs to be brought in without political patronage. Where are the NCB, IB, CBI and Customs Departments when such an organised drug syndicate is operating freely from the Mundra port?” she asked.The party demanded that the drug nexus operating from Adani’s Mundra port be investigated by a Commission composed of two sitting Supreme Court judges. Until the drug cartel is behind bars, the threat to India’s youth and national security will remain.“The Narcotics Control Bureau has been tasked with the matter of drug law enforcement in the country. It is the primary responsibility of the NCB to monitor, investigate, and prevent the movement of drugs into India. This is the same agency which went into overdrive over 59 gm of marijuana in the Sushant Singh death case, but is now missing in action when thousands of kilograms of hard drugs are being smuggled into the country,” she said. “The NCB has been without a full time head for the past 18 months, which is very concerning. An agency of such vital importance cannot function efficiently without a full-time chief. Had the DRI, whose primary job isn’t that of intercepting drugs, not caught the recent shipment, it would have gone through like previous ones,” Dr. Shama Mohammed said.Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar pointed out that the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence had also chanced upon a haul of 200 kgs of banned drug ketamine that was seized from the premises of a BJP office bearer. In 2018 Goa BJP office bearer Vassudev Parab was questioned by the DRI after a haul of 308 kgs of ketamine was seized from his godown. He was never arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/going-after-small-fish-congress-accuses-ncb-of-ignoring-heroin-haul-from-mundra-101633292281470.html
04-10-2021||India||Congress shows willingness to enter into ‘like-minded’ alliances in Goa ahead of polls||The Congress on Sunday announced its intention to align with like-minded parties ahead of the upcoming polls with AICC observer Dinesh Gundu Rao saying that the High Command has given the state leadership the green light to begin negotiating with “like-minded” parties ahead of the polls. “We are willing to come together with like-minded people and parties who hold secular principles, who have been in Goa for a long time. We are willing to talk and have been talking. In the interest of Goa we are ready for this,” Rao told the media on Sunday. “The High Command has given us the mandate. At the last meeting we held in Delhi the message was given by the high command -- including Chidambaram, myself, all leaders were there -- and that was the mandate given. We are in talks and it should be in the interest of Goa and to give a stable government,” Rao added. Rao said that the party was now fighting a two-front war against two forces. “There are two forces working -- one force is the fascist force of the BJP which wants to completely control this country and keep everything under its command and using the power of money and using the power they are trying to create an authoritarian state. The second thing that is happening in Goa is parties which are operating here to ensure that the BJP wins,” he said. “They are not working here to see that they win or that the secular front wins. They are here to ensure that the BJP gains an upper hand. Today the anti-BJP vote because there is huge anti-incumbency against this government and people want to see that the BJP loses the polls in Goa. But there are forces in collusion with various other forces which are again trying to destabilise this and divide this vote. That is what Goa people should be very careful and aware about,” he said. When asked whether he was referring to the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, Rao said: “100%”. “Trinamool, AAP have the same agenda. These parties are offering money. Where is this money coming from? And what kind of government can these people give when they are trying to purchase ... they don’t have their own workers; they don’t have their own leaders. They are trying to hire, purchase, and auction. More and more the price is going up. They will completely destroy Goa,” he said. “We cannot have this situation again where instability leads to corruption. To form a government if you are basing it on corruption, then the government itself will become corrupt later. That is the way this government has been formed,” Rao further said. Asked if the Congress was worried about a possible splintering of the non-BJP vote, Rao said there was nothing to be afraid of. “There is nothing to be scared of, you fight elections, you win elections, and you lose elections. This is nobody’s personal property. But come in a healthy manner. You can’t come and say I will make you CM face, I will make you MLA, I will give you so much money. This is inducement. What kind of government you will give when you are doing this kind of politics even before becoming anything,” he said. “This is being backed by people who want to weaken the secular front. This is being done by people ultimately wanting to see that the secular forces are divided. There is a big conspiracy here. Not only here in Goa but across the country to see that if Congress is weakened, it can become one authoritarian state in this country. That is the politics being played across the country,” he added. Besides the Congress which is seeking to regain its lost glory, Goa’s electoral fray has seen the re-entry of the Trinamool Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party which established its presence in Goa since 2014 as well as local parties the Goa Forward Party, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and other regional activist collectives which have already announced they will contest the polls. The Goa Forward Party has been very publicly angling for an alliance with the Congress arguing that only a ‘team’ effort which provides a clear alternative to the BJP will ensure the defeat of the BJP. The Congress on the other had has until now given no indication that it was eager for an alliance with state Congress president Girish Chodankar taunting the Goa Forward’s Vijai Sardesai that he should have shown such enthusiasm to align with the Congress back in 2017 when the party emerged as the single largest party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-shows-willingness-to-enter-into-like-minded-alliances-in-goa-ahead-of-polls-101633290840988.html
04-10-2021||India||Differing strategies for Andhra Pradesh bypoll widen BJP-Jana Sena fissures||The alliance between the Bharatiya Janata Party and Jana Sena Party led by actor Pawan Kalyan in Andhra Pradesh appears to be on rocks with both the parties adopting independent lines in their political strategies in the state.The BJP’s decision on Sunday to contest the upcoming by-election to Badvel assembly constituency in Kadapa district scheduled to be held on October 30, ignoring the plea of the Jana Sena Party not to field any candidate, is a clear indication that all is not well between the two alliance partners.The bypoll to Badvel seat is necessitated with the demise of sitting YSR Congress MLA G Venkata Subbaiah on March 28. Initially, the Jana Sena Party wanted to contest the bypoll and asked the BJP to leave the seat to it, but there was no response from the latter.Later, the Jana Sena announced that it won’t contest the bypoll as YSRC has given the ticket to Dasari Sudha, widow of Venkata Subbaiah, and as per the tradition that if any family member of the deceased MLA contests the elections, other political parties should keep away from the contest.The main opposition Telugu Desam Party, too, initially announced the candidature of its senior leader Obulapuram Rajasekhar for Badvel, but the party’s politburo at its meeting held under the leadership of party president N Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday, decided that it would pull out of the contest, respecting the tradition.But the BJP decided to field its candidate for the Badvel bypoll. “Yes, we are contesting the bypoll to test our strength. It is not the question of winning or losing the election. Contesting the election is a democratic process,” a senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.The BJP’s independent stand has irked the Jana Sena, which has been facing a virtual non-cooperation from its alliance partner for quite some time. In the latest episode of the confrontation between Pawan Kalyan and the YSRCP over the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s decision to take over online cinema ticket sales, too, the BJP has not come to the support of Pawan Kalyan.“Neither BJP state president Somu Veerraju nor any other BJP leader from the state issued a single statement or posted a tweet supporting Pawan Kalyan, when the ministers in the Jagan cabinet and other YSRCP leaders were using abusive language against the Jana Sena chief. It is thoroughly disappointing,” a Jana Sena Party leader said.The BJP leaders also stayed away from Pawan Kalyan’s much-publicised programme of “Shramadan” of repairing bad roads on Saturday, coinciding with Gandhi Jayanti day, in Rajahmundry in East Godavari district and Anantapur.The Jana Sena chief announced last month that his party cadre would take up road repairs across the state on October 2, if the Jagan government failed to repair badly damaged roads during monsoon. “Before announcing the programme, Pawan Kalyan did not consult us. So, there is no point in joining the programme,” the BJP leader quoted above said.Pawan Kalyan is also not happy with the decision of the Narendra Modi government to go ahead with privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant despite strong protests by the people of the state and steel plant workers.“I would have taken up agitation in a big away against the steel plant privatisation had the people of Visakhapatnam not defeated me in the last assembly elections from Gajuwaka constituency,” Pawan said, at a party meeting in Mangalagiri on Wednesday.Jana Sena politburo leader Nadendla Manohar, however, said their party would extend solidarity with the striking steel plant workers and Pawan Kalyan, too, would join the agitation shortly.Though the BJP has been in alliance with the Jana Sena since 2019, there has not been any coordination between both the parties since then. There has been not a single instance of the BJP and Jana Sena cadre putting up a joint fight against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the state.The last time the BJP and Jana Sena displayed their bonhomie was in April when Pawan Kalyan campaigned for the saffron party in the by-election to Tirupati parliamentary constituency. In fact, the Jana Sena wanted to contest the Tirupati bypoll, but was forced to withdraw following pressure from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differing-strategies-for-bypoll-widen-bjp-jana-sena-fissures-101633289820939.html
04-10-2021||India||Mass outreach key in building Stalin as a ‘people’s leader’||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin has been building his image quite differently from his predecessors and as chief minister his latest outings seek to project him as a people’s leader.On Saturday, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, Stalin chaired a gram sabha meeting at Pappapatti, a remote village in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai district. It’s a communally a sensitive region which has seen several caste related clashes and in the past had not allowed Dalit representatives to contest elections. It has been chronicled that even if a Dalit was elected, the winner would resign in a few days. Stalin’s choice of Pappapatti is not a random one but one chosen by design like much of his visits to police station, public parks and schools in the last few days. It was during Stalin’s tenure as the rural administration minister in 2006 that rural elections were held in the village along with two other communal villages (Keeripatti and Nattamangalam) after several years and they had become reserved constituencies.Stalin credited Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for this achievement and also the then Madurai collector T Udhayachandran. “This was achieved by the officers Ashok Vardhan Shetty and T Udhayachandran. Udhayachandran was your collector then, and now he is my personal secretary,” Stalin told the villagers. He left, vowing to make Tamil Nadu the number one state in the country and took an oath to prevent violence against women and children. Across the state, millions of people participating in the gram sabha meetings took up a pledge to treat everyone equally regardless of their gender, caste, and religion.On his way to the gram sabha, Stalin did a pit stop in a paddy field to meet women farmers. He tweeted a photo with them saying, “I listened to their demands.” On September 29, the chief minister entered the Adhiyamankottai police station in Dharmapuri district, sat on a police officer’s chair and spent about 10-minutes going through the register, the daily records and interacted with the police officials about their workload. He was in the district travelling to inaugurate government schemes. A day later, he took an unannounced inspection to the government-run Adidravidar Welfare Student Hostel in Dharmapuri. Stalin asked the students about the hostel facilities and the food provided. In June, he made a similar surprise inspection at six public distribution shops or ration shops in Chennai. The chief minister has also been setting fitness goals. A few weeks after the won the assembly elections for which results were declared in May, Stalin was seen cycling on the road to Mamallapuram on a Saturday morning, stopping at a local tea shop and obliging locals with selfies. Fitness, however, has always been part of his routine through his entire political life that began when he was a teenager. Early morning walks, yoga, gym and cycling once in a fortnight or so are part of the 68-year-old’s lifestyle. He recently had a relaxed chat with morning walkers inside the Theosophical society campus. He was accompanied by the present health secretary M Subramanian. Stalin and Subramnaian have been morning walking partners since the early 1990s.The fitness strategy is in complete contrast to his late predecessors, AIADMK’s supremo J Jayalalithaa who died after a month-long stay in a hospital in 2016. His father M Karunanidhi had been using a wheelchair since 2004 until he passed away in 2017. “These aren’t planned activities. It’s been part of his routine and now as chief minister when people see him work and exercise it will motivate them too,” said a DMK leader close to Stalin, not wishing to be named. Stalin has also managed to successfully subvert BJP’s criticism that DMK is anti-Hindu by positioning his close aide Sekar Babu as the minister of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments and has partaken in several announcements for the welfare of temples. It has silenced the ‘free temples campaign’ led by right wing ideologies in Tamil Nadu for now.Political experts say that Stalin is inventing himself and through him reinventing the DMK’s image. DMK is known for its thuggish masculine image and criticisms of land grabbing which have not happened so far as Stalin is said to keep a close watch on leaders and cadres from indulging in such activities. As DMK president, Stalin attended several gram sabha meetings in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha and 2021 assembly elections to connect with the rural masses. Tamil Nadu heads to local body polls in nine newly carved districts next week.“The party solidly stands by him. He consolidated his leadership position even before the election. But people didn’t know what kind of a leader Stalin is. They’re watching. So now as chief minister, Stalin wants to earn a good name. He wants to be in everyone’s good books,” said political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “He doesn’t want to offend anyone or any sector. He doesn’t want any controversies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mass-outreach-key-in-building-stalin-as-a-people-s-leader-101633289641726.html
04-10-2021||India||Tamil Nadu vaccinates 1.7 million in 4th mega drive||Tamil Nadu inoculated over 1.7 million people against Covid-19 in the fourth edition of the mega vaccination drive held on Sunday, with 968,000 people receiving the first shot and the remaining 751,0000 getting the second, the health department has said.The earlier campaigns were held on September 12, 19 and 26.According to a press release from the department, 2.89 million people were covered in the first vaccination drive, 1.64 million people in the second and 2.48 million in the third.State chief secretary V Irai Anbu, minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian, health department principal secretary J Radhakrishnan inspected the vaccination programme in various parts of the state.Of the districts, Chennai topped the list by administering the vaccine to 1.50 lakh people, Cuddalore 93,594, Coimbatore 81,454, Tiruppur 80,066 and Tiruchirappalli 65,310. Aranthangi recorded the least with 11,761 doses, the release said.The campaign was held in over 20,000 health camps in primary health centres, government hospitals, anganwadis and schools between 7 am and 7 pm, the release said.In view of the mass vaccination on Sunday, there would not be any special camp on October 4 (Monday), the health department had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-vaccinates-1-7-million-in-4th-mega-drive-101633289581037.html
04-10-2021||India||Kerala: 6-year-old boy hammered to death over family dispute in Idukki, uncle missing||A six-year-old boy died on Sunday in Kerala’s Idukki district after he was hit on the head with a hammer allegedly by his uncle following a family dispute, police said.The uncle barged into the boy’s house in the wee hours and began attacking everyone with the hammer. While the boy died on the spot, his mother and grandmother were seriously injured and presently under treatment, the police said. Inquest proceedings were underway and the post-mortem report was awaited, the police said.The incident occurred when everyone was asleep, they said. The boy’s 15-year-old sister managed to escape and raise an alarm. Soon, the neighbours rushed. On seeing them, the accused fled, the police said. A hunt is on for the man, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala6yearold-boy-hammered-to-death-over-family-dispute-in-idukki-uncle-missing-101633289463437.html
04-10-2021||India||Kerala govt doctors to go on protest from today over pay cut||Government doctors in Kerala will boycott trainings, online meetings and e-Sanjeevani, an online teleconsultation system, from October 4 in protest against a cut in their pay and allowances, an association representing them said on Sunday.The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA), in a release, said it would start its “non-cooperation agitation” from Monday by boycotting e-Sanjeevani, all trainings and online meetings and that the protest would be intensified from October 15 if their grievances are not addressed.From October 15, the doctors would also boycott review meetings, VIP duty and meetings of the Local Self Government Department, the KGMOA said.If their grievances are still not addressed, then from November 1 they will hold a ‘relay standing protest’ in front of the Secretariat and thereafter, on November 16 the doctors would go on a mass casual leave, the association has said.The association on Saturday said since the Covid outbreak, the doctors and health workers have been working hard and sincerely to take care of those infected, despite lack of basic facilities.It had further claimed that despite working relentlessly by facing the challenges posed by the pandemic, not only were the doctors and health workers not provided any risk allowance, when the pay revision came, their salaries were not increased and instead their various allowances were withdrawn by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-doctors-to-go-on-protest-from-today-over-pay-cut-101633289340832.html
04-10-2021||India||Karnataka minister discusses vaccination for kids with Centre||The Centre is hopeful of a positive outcome from the final round of discussions currently underway with Zydus Cadila for its Covid-19 vaccine for children, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said on Sunday after a meeting with Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya here in the national capital.Sudhakar, who discussed children’s vaccination and other state initiatives over a breakfast meeting with the Union minister, said the second clinical trial of a nasal vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech has been completed and the third one is expected to be done by November-December.Bharat Biotech Chairman and Managing Director Krishna Ella was also present at the breakfast meet.At the meeting, Sudhakar urged Mandaviya for the Centre’s support to upgrade 250 primary health centres (PHCs) in Karnataka under the National Health Mission (NHM).Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Sudhakar said, “I had a lengthy discussion with the Union minister about children vaccination. He (Mandaviya) informed that the government is having a final round of discussion with Zydus with regard to its Covid-19 vaccine for children. He said he was hoping for a positive outcome soon.” He said he also discussed with the Bharat Biotech chief about the status of the nasal vaccine.“It was informed that the second clinical trial of this vaccine has been completed and the third clinical trial will be over by the end of November-December,” Sudhakar said, adding that Ella said the company has a capacity to manufacture 200 million doses of the vaccine a month.At the meeting, the Karnataka minister also sought the Centre’s support to upgrade the existing PHCs in the southern state under the NHM.He said there are about 2,500 PHCs in the state. The state government has set aside a budget to upgrade 250 PHCs in the current fiscal and it wants the Centre to bear the cost for 250 more this year, he added.It will cost about ₹5-7 crore for each PHC, which will be upgraded with better infrastructure and staff facility. It will also house a wellness and health centre and an ayush kendra as well as accommodation facilities for the staff. The number of doctors will be enhanced from one to three, while that of beds will be increased from six to 12, Sudhakar said.This concept of a health centre is new and can be replicated across the country, he said, adding that a detailed presentation on this will be made to the Union minister on October 8 in the presence of the chief minister.Sudharkar said Mandaviya is scheduled to visit Karnataka on October 9-10 and is likely to participate in a few state programmes.On the vaccination status against Covid in the southern state, he said the first dose has been administered to over 80 per cent of the eligible population of 4.98 crore, while the second dose has been given to 37 per cent of the beneficiaries so far.In September, the state administered 1.48 crore vaccine doses, the highest in a month. “At the same speed, we will cover the entire eligible population by December 31,” Sudhakar said.He, however, said the vaccine doses are yet to be administered to “10-15 per cent” of the eligible population and the government is planning an outreach programme to create awareness and address the misconceptions about the vaccines.North Karnataka districts, especially Kalburgi, Bidar, Raichur, Koppal as well as Bellary, are lagging behind in the vaccination rollout, whereas Bengaluru Urban has achieved 100-per cent vaccination of the first dose and is ahead in terms of administering the second dose, Sudhakar said.On the restrictions imposed on people visiting the state from Kerala and Maharashtra, he said, “Since the (Covid) positivity rate is higher in the two neighbouring states, we have kept stringent rules for those travelling to Karnataka. They should not only be vaccinated but must also carry an RT-PCR certificate. Otherwise, we are not allowing them (to enter the state).” These norms continue to be in place despite pressure from the two states for relaxations, he added.On the preparations to handle a probable third wave of Covid, the minister said, “We need to watch during November-December. Since the number of people vaccinated against the disease will increase by that time, there will not be a serious impact if a third wave hits unless there is a new mutant variant which is quite different from the existing four variants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-discusses-vaccination-for-kids-with-centre-101633288923999.html
04-10-2021||India||Karnataka records 664 fresh Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths in single day||Karnataka added 664 fresh Covid-19 cases and eight deaths on Sunday, pushing the caseload to 2,977,889 and the toll to 37,819.The day also saw 711 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,927,740, leaving 12,301 active cases, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 196 cases and three deaths, it said. After several weeks, Dakshina Kannada district, which was the second major Covid hotspot, saw a decline in numbers. However, Mysuru on Sunday reported 101 fresh infections and one death.Other districts too reported fresh cases, including 77 in Dakshina Kannada, 52 in Kodagu, 45 in Hassan, 43 in Uttara Kannada and 33 in Udupi.Bagalkote, Bidar, Gadag, Kalaburagi and Raichur reported zero infections and no Covid-19 related deaths.Twenty four districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. A total of 126,386 samples were tested in the state on Sunday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far in Karnataka to over 40 million. The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 56 million, with 21,971 people being inoculated on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-records-664-fresh-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-in-single-day-101633288922683.html
04-10-2021||India||Karnataka BJP shortlists names for 2 bypolls||The core committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday shortlisted candidates for the upcoming bypolls in Hangal and Sindhgi scheduled to be held on October 30. The meeting in Bengaluru was chaired by Arun Singh, in-charge of party affairs in the state. BJP general secretary CT Ravi said that the core committee had shortlisted names for the two constituencies, however, he didn’t divulge details of the candidates saying the final decision will be taken by the party’s central leadership. “Following the meeting, state president Nalin Kumar Kateel has been authorized to recommend the names to the party high command who will finalize the candidates and announce shortly. Both internal and external surveys have indicated that BJP will win both the seats,” he told reporters. Hanagal in Haveri district and Sindagi in Vijayapura bypolls were necessitated following the death of sitting MLAs. While MC Managuli of JD(S) who represented Sindagi died in January, BJP legislator CM Udasi died in June. According to leaders in the know of the developments, former MLA Ramesh Bhusanur and Revathi Udasi, daughter-in-law of CM Udasi, have emerged as forerunners in Sindhgi and Hangal constituencies. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday also exuded confidence of the ruling BJP’s victory in the assembly bypolls in Sindagi and Hanagal constituencies on October 30. “Hanagal has been our constituency whereas Sindagi is a JD(S) fort but take it from me that we are 100 per cent sure of winning both the seats,” Bommai told reporters. The chief minister said that the BJP’s scope of winning the bypolls is bright because it is a disciplined party, which has its cadre from booth-level to the national level. He said the candidates fielded by the party would get the support of everyone right from the booth-level workers to the district, state, and national-level leaders. Even though names have been suggested, according to party insiders, options have been provided by the party as well. From Sindagi constituency, Ashok Allapur and Shambuling Kakkalameli are also recommended as ‘backups’. Meanwhile, in Hanagal, three other leaders also remain in the race, even though a recommendation has been made by the party core committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-shortlists-names-for-2-bypolls-101633288920972.html
04-10-2021||India||Call on resuming classes for 1 to 5 after festivals: Karnataka minister||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said a decision regarding reopening of schools for classes 1-5 in the state will be taken after the festival season.He also said the state government has reopened educational institutions not in a “hurry” but in a phased manner after discussion with parents and experts.First higher education institutions was reopened, then pre-university and later classes 9-12 and classes 6-8, Sudhakar told reporters here after meeting Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya.“We will take a decision shortly after the festival season. Let the Dussehra vacation get over,” he said.Sudhakar said that a final call will be taken after consultation and the Cabinet’s decision.Asked about a school in Bengaluru being shut after children tested Covid-19 positive, he said the government is aware of it. But that one incident cannot determine whether to reopen schools for classes 1-5, Sudhakar said.“That school is shut now and many children are isolated. Two children had symptoms and they are not in a serious condition. We are keeping a watch on every school in the state,” he said.It has been more than a month that schools were reopened for classes 6-8 in the state and “we have not received any reports of concerns from schools so far”, he added. Sudharkar said, “We were to reopen schools for classes 1-5 because medically speaking immunity in children up to 12 years is highest.” Since children are small and keeping parents’ concern in mind, the government focused on reopening educational institutions in a phased manner, he said.On reopening of educational institutions, Sudhakar said, “We did not take decisions in hurry. Even now if we see children are facing problems, then we will immediately take back our decision.” The Karnataka minister mentioned that the first dose has been administered to over 80 per cent of the entire eligible population of 4.98 crore in the state, while the second dose to 37 per cent so far.In September, the state administered the highest single-month vaccine doses of 1.48 crore, he said.“At the same speed, we will complete the entire eligible population by the end of December 31,” he said.Sudhakar, however, said there are “10-15 per cent of the population who still have not taken a single dose in the state”, and the government is planning an outreach programme to create awareness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-on-resuming-classes-for-1-to-5-after-festivals-karnataka-minister-101633288862750.html
04-10-2021||India||Drug trafficking racket busted, 7 held in Karnataka||The Narcotics Control Bureau has busted a drug trafficking racket, wherein the accused posed as food delivery agents for supplying drugs in Bengaluru and Shivamogga. According to a statement from NCB on Saturday, this gang of seven people used the recent lockdown to deliver drugs across the two cities. According to NCB, all seven are under arrest. According to Amit Gawate, zonal director of NCB’s Bengaluru unit, based on specific information on Thursday, they arrested two residents of Bengaluru while they were in the process of taking delivery of eight boxes of the contraband from a courier vehicle and were loading the same into a car. “A thorough examination revealed 137 kg of high-grade marijuana packed in paper packets wrapped with adhesive tapes, which was seized. Searches at the residence of one of the accused resulted in the recovery of ₹4.81 lakh cash. Packing materials used for retail packing of the contraband was also found,” read a statement from NCB. The NCB said that a online food delivery executive who was about to deliver a parcel was also apprehended. NCB also claimed that during the lockdown, peddlers pretending to be agents of a popular online food delivery company delivered drugs in Bengaluru. “The traffickers, instead of going and buying the drugs, booked the drugs consignments through couriers, by giving addresses of non-functional shops or other business establishments,” the NCB said in a statement. “The kingpin, along with associates, were indulged in drug trafficking in large scale in Bengaluru and its outskirts and were delivering the drugs to their consumers under the disguise of online food delivery boys since lockdown guidelines under Covid-19 restrictions allow such deliveries under service of essential commodities,” the NCB added. “This drug cartel hired several delivery boys of that online food delivery company in their drug syndicate and mastered the drug delivery mechanism in Bengaluru. The syndicate thrived especially during the lockdown period and used to assure customers of doorstep delivery,” the NCB said in the statement. The NCB said it carried out searches at residential premises of another accused, and that it has recovered about three kilograms of ganja, packed in small packets with specific markings on it, and cash of ₹39,000. A follow-up action led to the arrest of four people in Shivamogga on October 1, including the man who has been handling the finances of the network, the agency claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-trafficking-racket-busted-7-held-in-karnataka-101633288860721.html
04-10-2021||India||Karnataka to meet Andhra, Telangana on building dam over Tungabhadra||The Karnataka government will soon hold discussions with neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on constructing a parallel balancing reservoir over Tungabhadra river to desilt it, an issue which involved both these states, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday. A Detailed Project Report on it would be got ready soon, he said. “Tenders were floated for desilting the Tungabhadra river, but there was poor response to it. Then it was decided in our time (during the BJP government) to set up a parallel balancing reservoir and a survey was also undertaken,” he told reporters here. According to him, the then Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had released ₹23 crore for the DPR.“Shortly the DPR will come. Once it is ready, the state government will hold discussions with the neighbouring states, since it is an inter-state related matter and all issues will be sorted out.The balancing reservoir will be constructed in such a manner that the river water is utilised properly. We will initiate all steps to stop excess water from flowing into the sea, the chief minister said.To a query on the drinking water problem in Ballari, Bommai said he would visit the city in November and review all the public works, including drinking water projects.He assured people that all the obstructions will be removed to ensure that Ballari gets drinking water at all hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-meet-andhra-telangana-on-building-dam-over-tungabhadra-101633288803276.html
04-10-2021||India||Mekedatu project will continue despite opposition from TN: K’taka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the plan on Mekedatu balancing reservoir across Cauvery would be constructed despite the statements issued by politicians in Tamil Nadu that has mislead the people of that state. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating a new building of SK Modi International School in Ballari on Sunday, the chief minister said that the implementation of the project was in the hands of the Karnataka government. “Everybody knows the Tamil Nadu’s stand on Mekedatu project. They [Tamil Nadu politicians] politicizing the issue for electoral gains. Implementing the project is not at their hands, but in our hands and we would do it. We are firm on our stand and Tamil Nadu doesn’t have any powers to decide on the project. They are doing it to mislead their people politically. The project would be taken up through the legal battle,” Bommai said. Mekedatu is a multi-purpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project, raising apprehensions that the state would be affected if the project takes shape. The project, once completed, is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power. The estimated cost of the project is ₹9,000 crore. (With inputs from PTI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mekedatu-project-will-continue-despite-opposition-from-tn-k-taka-cm-bommai-101633288801297.html
04-10-2021||India||No arrests in Karnataka suspected hate crime||Police are yet to make any arrest in connection with the murder of a 24-year-old Muslim man, whose decapitated body was found on a railway track in Belagavi district last week, officials familiar with the developments said on Sunday.At least three persons have been booked for murder so far. Officials at Belagavi rural police station said the case, which was originally registered with railway police, was transferred to the district police on Sunday. “We are currently questioning some suspects in the case and arrests will be made soon,” a senior officer said on condition of anonymity. The decapitated body of Arbaz Mullah was found on the railway tracks in Khanapur in the border district, about 505 kms from Bengaluru, on September 28. While police had initially registered a case of unnatural death, they later filed a murder case after post-mortem report revealed injuries to the head. In her complaint to the police, the deceased’s mother, Nazeema Mohammad Sheikh, alleged that her son, who was a car dealer, was killed by the family and relatives of a Hindu woman he was in a relationship with. Sheikh claimed the two families were aware of the relationship and also alleged the role of two members of a Hindu right-wing group in the murder. “We knew about the relationship and I had spoken to the woman’s mother to ensure she doesn’t meet him. I also told my son not to meet her. I shifted from Khanapur to Azam Nagar in Belagavi with my son. But the two continued to meet, and we started getting threats from her family and relatives,” Sheikh said. A relative of the deceased alleged that the woman’s family roped in members of Sri Ram Sene who, on September 26, reportedly threatened the man. “They called him to Khanapur where he took his phone and deleted the woman’s photos. They also demanded money from him for a settlement. He then sold his (Volkswagen) Polo car for ₹90,000 to pay them,” the relative said, seeking anonymity. The relative added that the members of the group also threatened to pour acid on their faces if Mullah failed to pay them the money. Sheikh said that she was out of town on September 26 when Mullah informed her about the threats and subsequently went missing. She learnt about his murder after a railway guard called her from her son’s number. Based on her complaint, police booked three persons, including the girl’s father, for murder (section 302 of Indian Penal Code). Asked why the named suspects have not been taken into custody, Belagavi rural police said the procedure of transferring the case and other “technical” matters are currently underway.“As we said, we are questioning some suspects and we will soon arrest the culprits,” a senior station house officer, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-arrests-in-karnataka-suspected-hate-crime-101633288740928.html
04-10-2021||India||NIA raids 9 locations in J&K in cross-LoC trade case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday conducted searches at nine locations in Poonch district in connection with a five-year-old case related to misuse of money generated from cross-LoC trade for fomenting terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.The raids were carried out with the assistance of the Jammu and Kashmir Police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in the case registered by the NIA on December 9, 2016, under section 17 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, a spokesperson of the NIA said.On April 18, 2019, India indefinitely suspended cross-LoC trade at two points along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, following reports that it was being “misused” by elements from across the border to smuggle weapons, narcotics and fake currency. The LoC trade across Chakan-Da-Bagh in Poonch district of Jammu region and Salamabad in Baramulla district of north Kashmir was intended as a confidence-building measure (CBM) for the population living in Jammu and Kashmir and across the LoC in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (Pok). “LoC trade was started in the year 2008 as part of confidence-building measure between J-K and PoK. The trade was based on barter system and third party origin goods were not allowed. The instant case is related to the large scale transfer of funds from Pakistan to India through the import of California almonds and other items via the cross LoC Trade Facilitation Centres (TFCs) located at Salamabad and Chakkan-Da-Bag,” the NIA said.The spokesperson said these funds were purportedly being used for fomenting terrorism and separatism in Jammu and Kashmir.“Investigation into the case revealed that some of the traders having excess imports were channelising the surplus profits generated to terror organisations, while others are suspected to have links/connections with proscribed terrorist organisations,” the NIA said.During the searches conducted at multiple locations, the spokesperson said documents, digital devices and other incriminating material have been recovered from the premises of the suspects.“Further investigation in the case is underway,” the NIA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-9-locations-in-j-k-in-cross-loc-trade-case-101633288500636.html
04-10-2021||India||200 booked after mob attacks prayer house in Roorkee||The Uttarakhand Police have booked 200 people in connection with the vandalisation of a Christian prayer house in Roorkee during the Sunday Mass, allegedly by members of a right wing group. Police said the right-wing group accused the Christian missionaries of running an alleged conversion racket.According to the complaint, the incident took place around 10 am in Roorkee’s Solanipuram Colony, when a mob barged into the prayer hall, raising slogans against church missionaries. The mob vandalised the prayer house and also manhandled some of the devotees, it added.“Following the preliminary investigation, a case has been filed against 200 people. An inspector rank has been directed to the matter,” said Circle officer Roorkee Vivek Kumar. The accused have been booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including for rioting, theft, trespassing and voluntarily causing hurt.N Wilson, who is associated with the Christian prayer house, denied allegations of religious conversion. Station house officer Civil Lines Amarchand Sharma said police personnel have been deployed in the area to avoid any untoward incident.Reacting to the incident, BJP state president Madan Kaushik said religious conversion won’t be allowed in any way in the state and accused the prayer house of conducting “suspicious gatherings“.Congress state vice president Dhirendra Pratap, however, condemned the “hooliganism and targeting of Christians”. He further accused the BJP of “fuelling communal tension” ahead of Assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-booked-after-mob-attacks-prayer-house-in-roorkee-101633288440779.html
04-10-2021||India||Sidhu calls for ouster of DGP, AG; CM says will consult him||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday again raked up the demand for replacement of the state’s police chief and advocate general, saying that their appointments are like “rubbing salt on the wounds of the victims of the sacrilege issue”. Hours after the statement, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi assured that the appointments will be finalised after consultation with Sidhu and other ministers.“Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for the arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG/DG appointments rub salt on the wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face!! (sic),” Sidhu said in a Twitter post.The cricketer-turned-politician, who has made the Bargari sacrilege issue the main poll plank ahead of next year’s assembly polls, has been demanding the removal of DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and AS Deol for their roles in the 2015 desecration of a religious text in Punjab’s Faridkot district. Two people were killed in police firing on those protesting the sacrilege.While Sahota led the investigation into the case under the then Parkash Singh Badal-led government, Deol was a counsel for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and had represented him in cases related to police firing on Sikhs protesting against the sacrilege cases.The incident is one of the issues driving the feud between former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu, which escalated last month after Singh stepped down from the post of CM, claiming that he was “humiliated three times” by the Congress’s leadership. The party high command then chose Channi for the top post in Punjab.However, a day after the new Cabinet was sworn in, Sidhu put in his papers on September 28, citing Deol’s appointment as one of the reasons for his sudden decision to quit as Punjab Congress president. Hours later, however, he changed his decision after Channi reached out to him and they agreed to set up a coordination panel for key decisions in the Punjab government. In an attempt to placate Sidhu, on October 1, the Channi government-appointed RS Bains as Special Public Prosecutor to handle all the sacrilege-related cases.Touching upon the issue on the sidelines of a government event on Sunday, Channi said: “There is not going to be any laxity against those who indulged in the desecration of the Guru (Granth Sahib). Legs may be severed but will not falter, I can assure you.”He added that his government had already forwarded the names of IPS officers with 30 years of experience to the central government and was waiting for the panel of three names from them. “Thereafter, the name of the new DGP will be finalized in consultation with the PPCC chief (Sidhu), all ministers and MLAs. I have told Sidhu Saab and he already knows the names of the police officers.”The state government has sent the names of 10 police officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for the appointment of a regular DGP.To a question, Channi said his government will take everyone along and perform with honesty. “The party work is being looked after by Sidhu sahab. We should both work in coordination and we are doing so. If anything is not being liked, then we have set up a coordination committee at the party forum where we can discuss it,” he added.Sidhu had earlier attacked Sahota on Thursday, alleging that he wrongly indicted two Sikh men in a desecration case and gave a clean chit to the members of the Badal family.On Saturday, Sidhu had said he would stand with Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra whether he holds any post or not.“Will uphold principles of Gandhi Ji & Shastri Ji...Post or No Post will stand by @RahulGandhi & @priyankagandhi! Let all negative forces try to defeat me, but with every ounce of positive energy will make Punjab win, Punjabiyat (Universal Brotherhood) win & every Punjabi win!!,” he had tweeted on the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-calls-for-ouster-of-dgp-ag-cm-says-will-consult-him-101633288204452.html
04-10-2021||India||Lalu being held hostage in Delhi, says Tej Pratap; Tejashwi rejects remark||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Pratap Yadav’s remarks that party chief Lalu Prasad was being held “hostage” in Delhi intensified his rivalry with his younger sibling Tejashwi Yadav, who said on Sunday that such claims don’t match his father’s stature, who was once the chief minister of Bihar.On Saturday, Tej Pratap alleged that his father was held “hostage” in New Delhi despite getting bail in several corruption cases earlier this year. Taking a swipe at Tejashwi, Tej Pratap said those dreaming of becoming the party’s national president will never succeed. “Laluji is not being allowed to come to Patna and those dreaming of becoming the party’s president are keeping him ‘hostage’ in New Delhi. The RJD chief is not being allowed to come to Patna despite having spent several months in the national capital after being released from jail in April. I do not want to take names as everybody knows them,” he said. The RJD chief is recuperating from a long spell of illness at the residence of his elder daughter, Misa Bharti, in the national capital. In a recent virtual interaction with RJD leaders, he had said he would soon visit Patna and tour every district in the state. “The way the party is functioning will not help to strengthen its organisation but only weaken it,” Tej Pratap said. Responding to the allegations on Sunday, Tejashwi said: “Laluji has been the chief minister of Bihar for a long time and also a central minister. He was instrumental in the election of two former prime ministers. He had also arrested Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) patriarch Lal Krishna Advani. The personality of Laluji does not match with the allegations made.”For the past few months, Tej Pratap has been at loggerheads with his younger brother and RJD state chief Jagdanand Singh, apparently over his diminishing clout in the party. Earlier, he had accused Singh of acting in an arbitrary manner. Following his remarks, reports suggested that Singh had offered to step down from his post but was persuaded not to by the RJD chief. On August 8, Tej Pratap referred to Singh as “Hitler” at a meeting of the party’s student wing. Reports suggest that Tej Pratap is also angry with Tejashwi and Singh over the party’s decision to remove Akash Yadav, who is believed to be close to Lalu’s elder son, as RJD’s youth state chief. Reacting to Tej Pratap’s allegation, state Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Nikhil Anand said: “Though it is an internal matter of Lalu’s family, our concerns about the RJD chief’s health and well being is natural. We feel Tejashwi should issue a clarification (over his remarks) so that we can be assured of Yadav’s well-being. We pray that the RJD chief keeps good health and stays safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-being-held-hostage-in-delhi-says-tej-pratap-tejashwi-rejects-remark-101633287840833.html
04-10-2021||India||Shrine in MP’s Neemuch attacked with explosives, priest and 2 others thrashed||More than 20 masked men allegedly damaged a shrine by using explosives and thrashed a priest and two locals in Neemuch on suspicions of religious conversion on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, police said. The miscreants also left a letter and blamed the priest and a few others of converting locals into Islam, said Suraj Kumar Verma, superintendent of police, Neemuch.In the letter, the accused threatened that if anyone reconstructed the shrine, they would face dire consequences.Priest Noor Baba, 59, and a resident of Udaipur, Abdul Rajjak, 52, and his wife Aisha informed the police about the incident. They were later taken to hospital by the police. Noor Baba and Aisha sustained minor injuries but Rajjak’s condition is believed to be serious. A case has been registered against 24 unidentified men under Section 146 (rioting) and 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with an intent to insult the religion of any class) of IPC. “Forensic experts and a bomb disposal squad inspected the area to gather information about the explosives,” SP Verma said.Rajjak’s wife Aisha said, “More than 20 people carrying swords and canes entered the shrine and started beating the priest. Rajjak tried to save him so they attacked him too. I also suffered injuries while attempting to save my husband.”“In the letter, the accused wrote that the shrine was being used to convert Hindus into Islam for the past so many years. They also threatened us with dire consequences, if we reconstruct the shrine,” Noor Baba said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shrine-in-mp-s-neemuch-attacked-with-explosives-priest-and-2-others-thrashed-101633287720700.html
04-10-2021||India||Mahant Narendra Giri’s car accident in July under CBI scanner||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), probing the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri, is also looking into the July road mishap in Pratapgarh in which the priest escaped unhurt, an official familiar with the development said. A team of sleuths is expected to question the Mahant’s driver and the technical team of police that had examined his vehicle then, to ascertain if the incident was a mishap or a conspiracy to kill him, the official cited above said on condition of anonymity. Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room in Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on September 20. A purported suicde by the chief priest of Bade Hanuman Temple named his disciple and the Math’s de-facto number 2 till recently, Anand Giri, Bade Hanuman Temple priest Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep of harassing him. All three were arrested in connection with the case. “During the course of interrogation into the Mahant’s death, the CBI team learnt that he was on his way to Lucknow to meet Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on July 8 when a two-wheeler appeared in front of his vehicle, which was subsequently rammed by a third vehicle behind it. No one was injured but his vehicle was damaged in the incident,” the official said. Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani secretary Swami Ravindra Puri said the seers and workers of the Math were fully cooperating with the investigation.Meanwhile, the CBI team on Sunday continued to probe the three accused at the Police Lines. The team also recovered Anand Giri’s mobile and laptop from Haridwar. The probe agency, the official said, also chalked out a list of people with whom the Mahant was in regular contact and spoke to within 48 hours of his death. Several businessmen, builders, contractors, politicians and seers have been questioned so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahant-narendra-giri-s-car-accident-in-july-under-cbiscanner-101633287661089.html
04-10-2021||India||Centre taking measures to tackle stubble burning: Union minister Bhupender Yadav||Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Sunday said steps are being taken to tackle the stubble burning issue at the onset of the season in Punjab and Haryana. He said that the Centre has also received support from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi governments to deal with the issue. Yadav, also the Union minister of labour and employment, interacted with media persons at Shram Bureau Bhawan in Chandigarh on the 101st foundation day celebration of the labour bureau.While outlining the measures taken by the central government to reduce stubble burning, Yadav said, “Stubble is not waste anymore, it has economic viability as well. NTPC and other thermal power plants are purchasing the crop residue. Government has given around ₹700 crores to these states for the higher use of crop residue removal machines.”Harvesting of paddy, the Kharif season, begins from October onwards. Farmers set their fields on fire to clear crop residue left behind after harvesting paddy, and before cultivating wheat and potatoes. Yadav also said that some good experiments have also been conducted by private companies on the use of biological decomposition technology. These experiments have been conducted in Punjab as well. The Union minister also mentioned creating a straw-based animal feed for the Kutch region in Gujarat. “We have held meetings with states, and control rooms have also been set up,” he said. During the event, he flagged off the fieldwork of the Area Frame Establishment Survey (AFES). “The ministry of labour and employment has entrusted the labour bureau with three major all India surveys –survey on migrant workers, all India quarterly establishment based employment survey (AQEES) and survey on domestic workers.” The AQEES has been taken up by the labour bureau to provide frequent updates about the employment and related variables of establishment in both organised and unorganised segments of nine selected sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-taking-measures-to-tackle-stubble-burning-union-minister-bhupender-yadav-101633287480610.html
04-10-2021||India||As TMC inducts more leaders, Mamata Banerjee may lead anti-BJP alliance||The All India Trinamool Congress is on an expansion mode with an eye on the 2024 elections, a move to be to prop up party leader and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as the leader of a possible coalition against the Bharatiya Janata Party.So far, the party has welcomed into its fold former Congress leaders Sushmita Dev and Luizinho Faleiro, who was formerly the CM of Goa, and is also in talks with Congress leader and former Meghalaya CM Mukul Sangma for something similar. Another senior Congress leader has also reportedly contacted Banerjee after failing to get nominated for the Rajya Sabha.But TMC’s ambition will have larger implications for any alliance involving the Congress as senior Trinamool leaders have adopted a critical stand against the grand old party and publicly pitched Banerjee as the “only choice” to lead any non-BJP coalition.Trinamool’s Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay told HT, “If you see the track record of the opposition parties, only Mamata Banerjee can lead a non-BJP coalition in 2024. The Congress party has to be realistic. They have not been able to challenge the BJP in the recent elections. Moreover, Mamata Banerjee is the only leader who is acceptable to many opposition parties wary of the Congress.”On September 28, the party’s national general secretary and the CM’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, had hit out at the Congress and said, “Our fight is against the BJP. We have defeated BJP for the last seven years. Congress has been defeated by BJP for the last seven years. If the Congress doesn’t work, doesn’t hit the streets and only be in the comfort of their homes then we can’t be expected to be sitting ducks. We want to defeat BJP.”TMC leader and former Union minister Saugata Ray defended the party’s decision to induct Congress leaders and said, “It’s our legitimate right to expand. But it is not targeted at the Congress.”Senior TMC leaders privately conceded that the party is uncomfortable about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi leading any anti-BJP formulation. In the last Parliament session, the TMC and Congress worked together on all issues but West Bengal’s ruling party maintained a distance from Rahul Gandhi. Top-ranking Trinamool leaders skipped the breakfast meeting thrown by Gandhi; they have also been absent in the opposition’s strategy meetings whenever Gandhi would be present.All this has coincided with the Gandhis facing questions on their leadership from people within the Congress organisation with a group of 23 senior leaders or G23 seeking open dialogue and more transparency in the decision-making process of the party.But a a senior Congress leader said no opposition coalition can be achieved without the Congress. “It’s just not possible numerically. Moreover, the leadership issue can only be decided at an appropriate time based on the strength of different components,” said the Congress leader on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-tmc-inducts-more-leaders-mamata-banerjee-may-lead-anti-bjp-alliance-101633287302372.html
04-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, among 3 arrested in drugs case||A Mumbai magistrate on Sunday ordered three people, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, to be taken into custody by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till October 4.Drug enforcers had arrested the three earlier on Sunday for alleged possession of banned drugs and substance abuse.The agency on Saturday night raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and busted a party where drugs were being used. “Khan and others were on the cruise ship where the agency busted a rave party,” NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said.Aryan, the eldest son of Shah Rukh and Gauri Khan, was arrested on Sunday afternoon for alleged possession and consumption of illegal drugs. The bureau has registered a case under section 8C, 20B, 27 read with 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, after officers seized 13 gms of cocaine, 21 gm of charas (hasish), 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), 5gm mephedrone, and cash worth ₹1.33 lakh at International Cruise Terminal, Green Gate Mumbai.The two others arrested are Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant.While Arbaaz is a resident of Bandra and a friend of Aryan, Munmun Dhamecha is fashion designer from Madhya Pradesh. The three arrested were taken for a medical examination in JJ Hospital in Mumbai at around 4pm. Besides the drug enforcers, they were accompanied by personnel from Mumbai police. Khan was brought back to NCB’s office in Ballard Estate in South Mumbai, where he was interrogated.NCB officials said they were tipped off about the rave party and boarded the ship as passengers. There were hundreds of passengers on the Goa-bound ship, an official said, asking not to be named.This is the first time NCB has raided a rave party on a cruise ship, said people familiar with the matter who declined to be named.Two women who were on cruise ship were brought to the NCB office on Sunday morning for questioning. The drug enforcers are also investigating crew members, event organisers and some foreign nationals.A Delhi-based event company is believed to have organised the parties on passenger cruise ships on October 2, 3 and 4. The cruise ship was scheduled to go to Goa on Saturday night and return to Mumbai by Monday.The NCB also recorded the statement of Jurgen Bailom, the president and CEO of Cordelia Cruise in its office.  “The agency called us to understand the procedure of crew operation and we are cooperating with the NCB. There were around 1,000 passengers when the ship left from Mumbai coast. Our ship has not been detained, it has gone for its destination and will return on Monday. We were not aware about the guests who were on the ship as organisers are different” Bailom said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-rukh-khan-s-son-aryan-khan-among-3-arrested-in-drugs-case-remanded-to-ncb-custody-101633287245150.html
04-10-2021||India||Ex-Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, Pargat Singh spar on paddy procurement||The turmoil in the Punjab Congress continued to intensify on Sunday after state sports minister Pargat Singh accused former chief minister Amarinder Singh of conspiring with the Bharatiya Janata Party to delay the procurement of paddy, triggering a sharp reaction from Captain who asked the minister to show the evidence.On September 30, a day before its scheduled beginning, the Union food and public distribution ministry postponed paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana to October 11.Questioning the timing of the announcement, which came a day after Singh met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, Pargat said on Saturday: “The BJP government has been harassing farmers... (relations between Amarinder and BJP) have been an open secret now... no leader should opt for such a behaviour.”Hitting back, Singh asked Pargat to give proof of the ‘lies’ being spread by the latter.“What nonsense? Do you really think the people of Punjab will believe I’d ever collude with @BJP4India to delay procurement? And have you forgotten it affected BJP-led Haryana too? Or are you too naïve to understand these things?” Raveen Thukral, Media Advisor to Captain Amarinder Singh, said in a Twitter post.“And do you have any proof for these lies? Or are you so irresponsible you believe you can get away with such trash? People of Punjab know me & know I always have & will stand with the farmers. I expect honesty from a former Indian hockey Capt,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expunjab-cm-amarinder-singh-pargat-singh-spar-on-paddy-procurement-101633286820749.html
04-10-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Maha gears up for reopening of schools, religious places; RBI to take rate call||Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra face a key Covid-19 test this week. Schools reopen on Monday with the state government allowing students from Grades 8 to 12 to attend school, 18 months after their closure in March 2020. On Thursday, places of religious worship will be open to the general public, with certain Covid protocols.The state Covid task force and other experts, including those in the chief minister’s office, will be observing the daily trends, especially if there are spikes in certain areas. This is Maharashtra’s first tryst with some degree of pre-Covid normalcy. The country’s worst-affected state is taking a calculated risk, and every other state would be looking at Mumbai to figure out whether they can replicate the experiment.It’s not going to be easy, but several experts this correspondent spoke to said they could think of no other way to take baby steps towards the old normal.In Delhi, too, the hot button issue will be education. Admissions to Delhi University (DU) colleges for undergraduate courses begin on Monday. Eligible students can apply till Wednesday night through DU’s admissions portal. Will it be a crazy rush? Last Friday, breaking all previous records, eight DU colleges announced 100% cutoff for admission into 11 UG courses programmes. With the number of top scorers almost double of last year, it remains to be seen whether colleges will be able to fill course-wise seats under first cutoff. Last year, after announcing 100% cutoff in three subjects, Lady Shriram College had reduced the cutoff in the second list based on the demand of the courses.Delhi is also likely to make significant strides in climate change mitigation when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal releases the city’s climate action plan today. This time around, the Delhi government has formulated what it calls a “detailed winter pollution action plan”, which will act as a guiding document for the city this winter to control the annual increase in the air pollution level.This week - the first in the second half of the fiscal - will be a busy one at the Reserve Bank of India. On October 8, the monetary policy committee of the RBI will come up with its resolution. While policy rate is expected to stay unchanged, the RBI will release the results of its forward-looking surveys such as the Consumer Confidence Survey and the Inflation expectation survey of Households. These numbers will give a much needed insight into the nature of economic recovery.On October 5, we will also have the results of the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) services for September. The PMI had crossed the psychological barrier of 50 — it signifies expansion over last month - in August itself.Local politics may remain volatile through this week, especially in Uttar Pradesh following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday. Congress leader and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi will visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday, where eight people, including four farmers, died. She will be accompanied by Chhattisgarh Chief Minster Bhupesh Baghel.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will take oath as MLA from Bhawanipore this week, after winning the bye-poll. The TMC is also sending 5 MPs to Lakhimpur Kheri.In Assam, political parties will release names of candidates for bye-elections to five assembly seats to be held on October 30. Hectic parleys are on in the ruling and opposition camps at present. The last date of filing of nominations is on October 8. In Uttarakhand, preparations are afoot for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on October 7. The PM will inaugurate an oxygen plant at AIIMS Rishikesh. In Madhya Pradesh, a hearing is scheduled in the bangle-seller case at the Indore bench of MP high court on Monday. The bangle seller, who was beaten up for allegedly sexually harassing a girl, filed a petition in the MP high Court for bail after a lower court rejected it.After a well-fought draw in the only pink ball test between Australia and India at Carrara, the two teams will face off in a three-match T20 series from October 7. In men’s cricket, with CSK and DC having booked their last-four berths, the battle for remaining slots heats up as the IPL heads into the play-offs from Sunday, October 10.Club football takes a break for the FIFA World Cup qualifiers scheduled this week. Brazil play bottom-placed Venezuela and Argentina play Paraguay on Friday morning. In Europe, Germany play Romania (October 9) and England play Andorra (October 10) among other matches.Having reclaimed his lead in the Formula One drivers’ standings, Lewis Hamilton will look to consolidate his position at the Turkish GP on Sunday, October 10.US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman’s visit to India this week will be an opportunity for the two countries to discuss the way forward on Afghanistan, how to deal with the Taliban regime and handle terrorism emanating from Afghan soil. Sherman is also set to visit Pakistan at a time when US ties with that country are strained.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla is currently visiting Sri Lanka to take stock of bilateral relations and to assess the island nation’s needs in terms of development aid and infrastructure projects. The need to resolve the long-standing Tamil issue is also expected to figure in his talks with the Sri Lankan leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-maha-gears-up-for-reopening-of-schools-religious-places-rbi-to-take-rate-call-101633286648318.html
04-10-2021||India||Sonia is Congress chief, says Kharge after Sibal’s ‘no president’ comment||Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Sunday slammed Kapil Sibal over his remarks that Congress did not have a president and said that “if there is no president, then how elections took place earlier this year”.Earlier on Wednesday, reacting to political jostling in ruling Congress in Punjab, veteran leader Kapil Sibal had asserted that the Congress party did not have a president.“In our party, there is no president so we don’t know who is making these decisions. We know and yet we don’t know,” he said.Terming Sibal’s statement a lie, Kharge said, “If there is no president, then how elections took place earlier this year. Every party has conflicts to tussles, it’s not new that the party is facing a political crisis at present. We will soon resolve this crisis and become strong again.”Kharge further said that Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi both are working very hard at present. “I suggest that the other leaders of the party should support our president and Rahul Gandhi to strengthen the party,” he added.Earlier, Congress leader Ashwani Kumar also condemned Sibal’s statement saying that at a time when the party expected support, he was pointing fingers at it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-is-congress-chief-says-kharge-after-sibal-s-no-president-comment-101633286580532.html
04-10-2021||India||Mamata wins bypoll on Bhabanipur seat by massive margin||Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee on Sunday swept the Bhabanipur by-election, polling 58,835 votes more than the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Priyanka Tibrewal, a landslide victory that came months after the 66-year-old leader lost the Nandigram seat in the assembly election.Tibrewal, who the BJP pitched at Banerjee’s main opponent, ended the race with only 26,428 votes against Banerjee’s 85,263, which meant that the West Bengal chief minister secured 71.9% of the total 118,580 votes (including 705 postal ballots) cast on September 30.With a turnout of around 57%, it was the lowest showing at poll in Bhawanipore in 10 years, according to ECI.“I want to thank the people of Bhabanipur and West Bengal, who were waiting for these results. The people of Bhabanipur have given a befitting reply to the conspiracy that was hatched to defeat me in Nandigram. I don’t want to say much on a sub-judice matter. The counting is over, and we have won the seat,” Banerjee said while addressing mediapersons and party workers outside her house in the constituency’s Kalighat area.The TMC won in all eight civic wards in the constituency, where a large section of the voters – 46% -- is non-Bengali. Of this, the biggest section is formed by Hindus and Sikhs. Bengali and Hindi-speaking Muslims make up for around 20% of the constituency’s voters. Banerjee, who often refers to the regions as a “mini-India”, said: “There are people from Punjab, Odisha, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. For the first time, we have won in all the wards because of their support. I remember falling behind in two wards in the 2016 polls. I am thankful to all these people. The nation was watching this election alongside Bengal.”While campaigning for the bypoll, Banerjee even coined the slogan “B for Bhawanipore, B for Bharat”.“The support from non-Bengali voters played a key role,” transport minister Firhad Hakim said after the results were announced. Banerjee took oath as the chief minister on May 5 and it was necessary for the TMC leader to get elected within six months to retain the post.In the March-April polls, TMC’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay had won against BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh by a margin of 28,719 votes. Chattopadhyay was, however, asked to step down from the seat so Banerjee could contest from her old constituency.The BJP’s state headquarters in central Kolkata wore a deserted look on Sunday. “The outcome of the three assembly polls in West Bengal are not in line with our expectation but we accept it gracefully. After being demolished in Nandigram, Mamata Banerjee may have survived in Bhawanipore for now, but it has never happened that a losing candidate chose to thrust herself as the chief minister, in violation of all democratic norms and proprietary,” the BJP said in a statement. Tibrewal, who lost the March-April polls from central Kolkata constituency of Entally, polled even fewer votes than Ghosh, who got 44,786 votes. While accepting her defeat, Tibrewal levelled allegations of rigging against the TMC. “I gracefully accept the defeat and congratulate Didi (Banerjee) but the TMC should not have ferried in fake voters. I caught some of them. Our organisation was not so strong in Bhawanipore,” said Tibrewal. “The BJP always accepts the verdict of the people. The results, however, leave some questions because only 57% people had cast their votes. We are thankful to those who supported us,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar. Sunday’s outcome triggered rumblings in the BJP’s state unit, with several leaders questioning the decision to field Tibrewal, who contested polls for the first time this year, against Banerjee. “Our leaders need to understand that elections are fought on the ground and not from our offices which were found empty today. We could have done much better had we fielded an educated Bengali gentleman. Tibrewal could not even match the performance of Rudranil Ghosh,” said Joy Banerjee, a former actor and leader from Birbhum district. Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate Srijeeb Biswas polled only 4,226 votes. This is first time CPI(M) has failed to win even a single seat in the state since Independence. The TMC also retained the Samserganj and Jangipur seats, where voting was simultaneously held on September 30. The two seats fall in the Murshidabad district which has the state’s highest Muslim population of 66.28%. In Samserganj, which recorded a turnout of 79.92%, TMC’s Amirul Islam defeated his Congress rival by 26,111 votes. In Jangipur, which registered a 77.63% voter turnout, Jakir Hossain defeated BJP’s Sujit Das by 92,613 votes. After the results of the bypoll, TMC’s tally in the 294-member legislative assembly has risen to 215. The BJP has 71 legislators. Four of the leaders who won on BJP tickets have since joined TMC, and two did not take oath as MLAs to retain their Lok Sabha seats. TMC leaders said the CM’s victory in Bhawanipore has overshadowed her Nandigram defeat in the March-April polls, where she lost to her protégé-turned-adversary, Suvendu Adhikari, in East Midnapore’s Nandigram constituency. Adhikari is now the leader of opposition in the state assembly. In 2011, when Banerjee led the TMC to end the Left Front’s 34-year-long regime, she won the Bhawanipore bypoll with 54,213 votes. A voter turnout of less than 45% was recorded in that election.In 2016, when the voter turnout was 66.83%, Banerjee defeated Congress candidate Deepa Dasmunsi by 25,301 votes. “There was a conspiracy against me. An injury was inflicted on my leg. We have challenged the Nandigram results in court. I don’t want to elaborate since the matter is sub judice,” Banerjee said Sunday. Banerjee has challenged the Nandigram election result in Calcutta high court.Meanwhile, the Election Commission of India on Sunday sent a letter urging the state government to ensure no victory processions are held in the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, and to avoid post-poll violence. Banerjee, too, asked party workers to exercise restraint. “Help people affected by floods in the districts. That will be the real celebration,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-wins-bypoll-on-bhabanipur-seat-by-massive-margin-101633286527180.html
04-10-2021||India||India clears defence buys worth ₹54,000 cr in less than month||In a major push to self-reliance in defence, India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹54,000 crore in less than a month to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems, including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons. “The development reflects the government’s commitment to achieving atmanirbharta (self-reliance) in defence manufacturing,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. “The domestic defence ecosystem is set to become more robust in the coming years as we cut down our dependence on imported military hardware.” On September 24, the defence ministry signed a ₹22,000-crore contract with Airbus Defence and Space for 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to modernise the Indian Air Force’s transport fleet. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Ltd will jointly execute the contract. Airbus will deliver the first 16 aircraft in ready condition from Spain and Tata will assemble the rest in India.The C-295 deal was signed a day after the ministry placed an order worth ₹7,523 crore with Heavy Vehicles Factory in Avadi, Tamil Nadu, for 118 Arjun Mk-1A tanks. The Cabinet Committee on Security last month also cleared a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) proposal to develop a new airborne early warning and control aircraft for the air force using Airbus jets bought from Air India. The deal is expected to be worth around ₹11,000 crore. “Indigenous defence projects will involve hundreds of Indian vendors and generate thousands of jobs,” said a second official, also declining to be named. The defence acquisition council – India’s apex procurement body – last week accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for defence purchases worth ₹13,165 crore, including 25 advanced light helicopters Mark III.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this financial year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital expenditure budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of its capex budget, on domestic purchases.India has decided to ban the import of 209 weapons and systems to boost self reliance. The ban, to be implemented progressively till 2025, covers artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft and specified types of helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/selfreliance-push-india-clears-defence-buys-worth-54-000-cr-in-less-than-month-101633286524970.html
04-10-2021||India||8 killed as violent protests erupt after convoy hits farmers on stir||Eight people were killed on Sunday as violence broke out after a car hit protesting farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, prompting an angry crowd to burn two vehicles and widen their agitation, with several Opposition leaders condemning the incident and alleging that the voice of the farmers was being muzzled.The incident was reported minutes before Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya was to visit the area, an official said. While four farmers were killed after allegedly being hit by a convoy, four people who were travelling in one of the vehicles were beaten to death, the official said, asking not to be named.Farmers earlier assembled in the district’s Tikonia to oppose Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur, the hometown of Union minister of state for home and MP Ajay Kumar Mishra. Farmers alleged that the Union minister’s son was in one of the vehicles, a charge denied by both Mishra and his son.The farmers were protesting three contentious farm laws enacted by the central government last year.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of farm unions spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws, has called for protests outside the offices of district magistrates and divisional commissioners across the country on Monday over the incident. It also demanded a probe into the incident by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court, and not by the Uttar Pradesh administration.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that the farmers were attacked when they were returning home after staging a protest against the farm laws. He also alleged that people in the convoy opened fire on the farmers. Tikait was on his way to the spot late on Sunday.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state government will conduct an in-depth probe into the reasons behind the incident, and will expose those behind it. He called the incident unfortunate, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office.The Uttar Pradesh Police’s additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said forces were deployed in large numbers in Tikonia, about 70km from district headquarters of Lakhimpur Kheri.Officials said internet services were partially suspended in the district.The incident took place on the Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the protesting farmers, who blocked the road to oppose Maurya’s visit, were infuriated after two cars allegedly belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers hit them, leaving many of them seriously injured, a police officer said on condition of anonymity. The farmers then overturned and set the two cars on fire, besides thrashing people in the convoy, he added.After the incident, Maurya cancelled his visit to Banbirpur village, where he was to inaugurate an annual wrestling competition, which is organised by Kheri parliamentarian and Union minister Mishra in memory of his father, Ambika Prasad Mishra.Reacting to the incident, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said: “We will not let this sacrifice go in vain - Kisan Satyagraha Zindabad.”Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in a tweet: “How much hatred BJP harbours against farmers in the country? Don’t they have a right to live? If they raise their voices, then you will open fire on them? Run them over by vehicles?”“Enough is enough...This is the country of farmers, and not a fiefdom of BJP ideology...Farmers’ satyagrah will get stronger, farmers’ voice will get louder,” the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh said. She was on her way to the place where the incident took place.The opposition Samajwadi Party in the state said it will send a delegation of party leaders to Lakhimpur Kheri to investigate the incident.Running over the farmers who were peacefully protesting the farm laws was inhuman and cruel, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. “...UP will not tolerate the atrocities by arrogant BJPites...and if this state of affairs continues then in UP BJPites will not able to travel in vehicles or get out of them,” he added.In another tweet, Yadav said that he spoke with farmer leader Tejender Singh Virk, who has been seriously hurt. “The government should give him best of medical treatment...and there’s only one demand... that the chief minister should resign,” Yadav tweeted.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee termed the incident “barbaric”. She said that a delegation of five Trinamool Congress MPs will visit the families of the victims on October 4.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said he will visit Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday.Ashish Mishra, son of the junior home minister, said he was not present at the spot, but some party workers in his car were passing through the area when the incident took place.The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Communist Party of India (CPI) also condemned the incident.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-killed-as-violent-protests-erupt-after-convoy-hits-farmers-on-stir-101633286401301.html
04-10-2021||India||India, US reaffirm commitment to free, open Indo-Pacific||US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin on Sunday described the recent visit of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat to the Pentagon as “historic” and said they have reaffirmed their enduring commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific.Gen Rawat’s visit to the US took place a week after the maiden in-person meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden at the White House during which both leaders reaffirmed the need for greater military-to-military cooperation between India and the US.“It was an honour to meet Indian Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Rawat during his historic visit to the Pentagon last week,” Austin said.“We reaffirmed our enduring commitment to a Free and Open Indo-Pacific and discussed ways to drive greater interoperability between the US and Indian armed forces,” Austin said in a tweet.Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said that Gen Rawat and Austin exchanged views on priorities for advancing the US-India defence partnership, including through enhanced cooperation in new defense domains such as space, cyber, and emerging technologies.“Austin underscored the US commitment to supporting the Indian Armed Forces’ transition toward greater institutional integration and operational jointness.They also discussed opportunities for expanding multilateral cooperation with regional partners,” he said.“This historic meeting highlights the enduring strength of the US-India Major Defence Partnership as the two countries work in concert with like-minded partners to sustain a free and open Indo-Pacific,” Kirby said.On September 24, President Biden hosted the first-ever in-person summit of Quad leaders that vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, anchored by democratic values and unconstrained by coercion, sending an apparent message to China.At the invitation of President Biden, Prime Minister Modi and his counterparts Scott Morrison from Australia and Yoshihide Suga from Japan attended the Quad summit.India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China’s rising military manoeuvring in the resource-rich region.China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it.Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea. China also has territorial disputes with Japan in the East China Sea.During his visit to the Pentagon, Gen Rawat also met his US counterpart Gen Mark Milley and they discussed a range of issues, including ways to ensure regional security and their respective roles as principal military advisors to the civilian leadership.“A book titled The Difficulty of Being Good by Gurcharan Das was gifted to General Mark A Milley, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff #US by General Bipin Rawat #CDS during a call on at his office in #Pentagon. #CDS discussed issues of bilateral defence cooperation,” the Indian Army said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-rawat-s-us-visit-historic-says-us-def-sec-austin-101633286400739.html
04-10-2021||India||30 districts continue to record high Covid positivity rate: Data||At least 30 districts in six states continue to report weekly Covid-19 positivity rates of 10% or more, even as the national positivity rate shows a decline for almost five months now. As many as 13 of the 30 districts are in Kerala.The weekly positivity rate has been less than 3% for 13 straight days nationally, health ministry data show. Positivity rates show the prevalence of the disease compared with the number of tests conducted. Experts are therefore questioning the containment strategies in the high disease burden areas. “There clearly is something amiss as there is a high chance that these high disease burden districts are missing cases,” a public health expert said, requesting anonymity. “In Kerala, for example, we saw that testing, even though aggressive, was targeted only those contacts who were at high risk. Obviously, positivity will be high in that category. But, if we are not testing enough, then chances are we would miss many, especially asymptomatic positives, who would go around spreading the disease. That’s what seems to be happening.”Another 18 districts in 11 states are still reporting weekly positivity rates of between 5% and 10%, which again indicate high rates of transmission of Covid-19 infections.The World Health Organisation recommends a positivity rate of less than 5% for two weeks running to determine whether the pandemic is under control in a particular area.Besides Kerala, Mizoram shows high rates in eight districts, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh in three each, Sikkim two, and Meghalaya, one. Kerala also shows the highest number of active cases. There are 1,44,075 active cases in the southern state, which is as high as 52.01% of all active cases in the entire country.Five states have between 50,000 and 100,000 active Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra has 40,252 active cases, followed by Tamil Nadu with 17,192, Mizoram with 16,841, Karnataka with 12,594, and Andhra Pradesh with 11,655 cases. The government has been issuing regular advisories to contain the spread of the disease ahead of the festival season. “It is important to follow instructions strictly for the numbers to not rise further. The districts that are reporting high case load obviously are on our radar but other districts are at no less risk because of the interstate travel,” a government official said on condition of anonymity. “It is an infectious disease and it keeps coming back whenever it sees an opportunity. We have to ensure it isn’t given that opportunity, and which is why government has been time and again advising states and issuing guidelines, to quell any chances of transmission going up.”The central government has asked states to not allow mass gatherings in containment zones or areas that report 5% case positivity. In other places, gatherings can be allowed with restrictions. These permissions should be reviewed based on weekly case positivity, the federal government recommends. “Relaxations obviously do not help in curbing disease transmission and is one of the reasons for seeing increase in transmission rate, especially in areas that are already reporting higher number of new cases,” said Dr Tarun Bhatnagar, senior epidemiologist, National Institute of Epidemiology. “Zero Covid may not happen but we have to ensure that we bring down transmission to negligible levels.”Although new cases are still being reported, the good news is that hospitalisations have fallen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-districts-continue-to-record-high-covid-positivity-rate-data-101633286341259.html
04-10-2021||India||Income of farmers growing at slower pace in Punjab||Farm incomes in food-bowl Punjab are growing at a much slower pace than some traditionally poorer states, as new data suggest agriculture in the state has hit an immutable law of economics: diminishing returns. Punjab propelled India’s Green Revolution five decades ago, rescuing millions from hunger. But the gains are fast eroding. Experts say the income slowdown is linked to an overdependence on big cereals, such as wheat and rice. A slower pace of farm income growth in Punjab is borne out by the Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households 2018-19 (SAS), a national survey of farm incomes released recently. Although Punjab’s farmers lead the country in terms of absolute levels of monthly income, farm income not adjusted for inflation in the state annually grew 6.73% in a span of six years between 2013-14 and 2018-19, the survey shows. In contrast, farm incomes in states such as Bihar and Uttarakhand grew much faster at 13.3% and 19.3% in the corresponding period, albeit over a low base. Cheap fertilisers, assured minimum support price (MSP) for cereals, free electricity for drawing water and high-yielding seeds have, over the decades, spurred a trend of ‘mono-cropping’, or the practice of growing mainly rice in summer and wheat in winter. This has robbed Punjab’s farmers of potential income that could have come from growing a more diverse set of crops, research shows. MSP or minimum support price is a floor price set by the government. The government ‘procures’ or buys paddy and wheat at MSP to build stockpiles for redistribution to the poor. This has increased farmers’ dependence on cereals. A widespread farmers agitation since last year against the Modi government’s three new farm laws and demand by the protesting cultivators for a legal guarantee for MSP has only prompted authorities to step up procurement of cereals even more. The government bought a record 60.06 million tonne of rice grown in the summer-sown kharif season in 2020, the highest quantity ever. This procurement policy, which incentivises big cereals, has caused Punjab’s rich landscape of corn, barley, gram, lentils and nutritious coarser cereals to disappear within a decade of big cereals entering the state in the late 1960s. The number of crops grown by Punjab’s farmers has declined from 21 in the 1960s to just about nine, according to data cited by Prof Surinder S Jodhka of Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, in a recent paper.“The Green Revolution was actually a brown revolution. It was limited to rice and wheat,” said Uma Kapila, an economist who formerly taught at Delhi’s Miranda House. Punjab’s average farm gross domestic product has plateaued around 2%, while it could have been grown over 5% annually if only farmers had not given up cultivating a more diverse set of crops, according to a research by economists Ashok Gulati and Siraj Hussain of the think-tank ICRIER. The state’s agricultural GDP, a broad measure of farm income, grew only 1.61% annually, less than half the all-India average of 3.5% between 2005-06 and 2014-15, Gulati’s research shows. The paddy boom is partly responsible for a severe winter smog across much of northern India, as farmers set fire to paddy crop residue, known as stubble, to clear fields. Punjab takes about 5,500 litres of water to grow one kg of rice, five times as much China uses, pointing to the state’s low water productivity. Northern and central districts are severely water depleted, while south-western districts face water logging and soil salinity or alkalinity. Districts such as Muktsar, Fazilka, Bathinda and Faridkot are notoriously degraded. The Central Ground Water Board put out a dire warning in May last year: at the current rate of water extraction, Punjab would be a desert within the next quarter century. The state has never been able to implement an agenda of crop diversification first chalked out by the so-called S.S. Johl committee in 1986,” said KS Mani, a former faculty at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Paddy has meant a groundwater extraction rate of 165%, a jump of 16 percentage points since 2013. “I have moved from shallow tubewells to six deep tubewells on my 12 acres. My expenses are going up because I have to dig deeper and deeper every year,” says Ravinder Uppal, a paddy grower in Sangrur. Big cereals have stoked an insidious rise in costs, annually growing by 5-6% and pushing farmers into debt, says Balwinder Singh Sandhu, the state’s agriculture commissioner. The increase in paddy MSP has barely kept pace with rising costs, if a measure of cultivation known as “C2 cost” is factored in, which includes the imputed rental value of land, depreciation and interests on capital. Increasing the share of capital, such as mechanised harvesters and investment, is necessary for growth. But pumping more and more capital without technological advancements can lead to what Nobel winning economist Robert Solow demonstrated to be a “steady economic state”, where all new investment goes into replacing exhausted capital without productivity gains. The economy stalls as a result. Punjab’s agriculture is right in the middle of such a stagnation, as the Green Revolution has run its course. “Why else are 1.5 lakh people migrating abroad every year?” asks Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-of-farmers-growing-at-slower-pace-in-punjab-101633286223876.html
04-10-2021||India||Punjab procures 23.7k tonne paddy on 1st day||Around 23,700 tonne paddy was procured in Punjab on Sunday after the Centre issued the order amid stern protests from the farmers, while the state witnessed the arrival of 53,500 tonnes of freshly harvested grain, taking the total quantity in the current Kharif season to 76,000 tonnes so far. Paddy arrival started on September 20, while formal procurement was opened from Sunday. Districts Patiala, Ludhiana, Mohali Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran witnessed the arrivals. The Centre has allowed 17% moisture in the freshly harvested crop and officials in the state food and civil supplies department said that moisture in the crop reaching the grain markets was well within permissible purchase norms. “We have made all arrangements (for procurement), and the staff of the food department and four (procurement) agencies has reached the mandis to facilitate procurement,” said a senior officer of the Punjab food and civil supplies department. He said that there was adequate availability of gunny bags. The Punjab government has set up 3,000 mandis for buying the crop and according to estimates of the state agriculture department, 19 million tonnes of paddy is expected to reach the grain markets in the state for procurement. The Centre is offering a minimum support price of ₹1,960 a quintal for A-grade paddy and a cash credit limit of ₹35,700 crores was released by the Reserve Bank of India. The state’s four agencies, namely Pungrain, Markfed, warehousing corporation and Punsup, besides the Centre’s Food Corporation of India, will buy the paddy. Hitch before buying due to rain The procurement process was postponed for ten days by the Centre on September 30, a day before it was scheduled to start. The postponement was ordered owing to a report by the Food Corporation of India that due to delayed spells of rain this time, there was high moisture content in the crop, and it might take a week to 10 days to be ready. However, following pressure from farmers, the state government and the opposition parties, including the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Union agriculture ministry renewed its decision. “In the interest of farmers, it has been decided to start procurement of paddy from October 3,” read the communication from the Centre’s ministry of food and public distribution on Saturday evening. Chief minister Channi also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, seeking a timely start of procurement as paddy has started arriving in mandis, and any delay could lead to harassment of farmers. Flying squads to check illegal paddy, rice To check mixing or recycling of paddy and rice brought from outside states at a cheaper rate into the freshly procured paddy, the food and civil supplies minister of Punjab, Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Sunday asked the deputy commissioners to constitute flying squads at the market committee level to keep a surveillance on the illegal practice. An official spokesperson said that the flying squad would comprise a representative of DC, mandi board, excise and taxation (GST Wing) and the police department. The spokesperson said that the daily report would be submitted to the concerned DCs by the committees regarding checking of unauthorised paddy and rice, impounding of trucks, sealing of godowns and seizures of the paddy and rice brought from the outside states. The Deputy Commissioners will initiate requisite action against the erring persons indulging in this malpractice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-procures-23-7k-tonne-paddy-on-1st-day-101633286220631.html
04-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee logs record win in Bhawanipore bypoll; BJP loses on 2 more seats||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee on Sunday broke her past records at the Bhawanipore assembly seat in south Kolkata by defeating her nearest rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal, by 58,835 votes in the keenly watched bypoll. Also, in Murshidabad, the district with Bengal’s highest Muslim population of 66.28%, the TMC comfortably retained Samserganj and Jangipur where polls could not be held in April due to the death of two candidates. With these two seats, the TMC’ tally in the 294-member legislative assembly rose to 215. Tibrewal ended the race with only 26,428 votes against 85,263 that Banerjee secured, marking a 71.9% share of the 1,18,580 votes (including 705 postal ballots) cast on September 30. At around 57%, this was the lowest voter turnout at Bhawanipore in 10 years. The CPI (M), which has no legislator in Bengal for the first time since Independence, tasted defeat again with its candidate, Srijeeb Biswas, coming third with only 4,226 votes. Tibrewal, who lost the March-April polls from Entally in central Kolkata by 58,257 votes, fell behind actor Rudranil Ghosh, who contested from Bhawanipore for the BJP on April 26 and bagged 44,786 votes. TMC’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the seat, stepped down so that Banerjee could contest again from her old constituency and continue as chief minister. When Chattopadhyay contested, 61.79% votes were cast and he defeated Ghosh by 28,719 votes. Though TMC bagged 213 seats and stopped the BJP’s tally at 77, Banerjee was defeated at East Midnapore district’s Nandigram by her protégé-turned-adversary, BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. The BJP is now left with 71 legislators. Four of the winners have joined the TMC while two did not take oath to retain their Lok Sabha seats. The most significant aspect of Banerjee’s victory on Sunday was that TMC for the first time left the other parties behind in all the eight civic body wards in Bhawanipore where around 46% non-Bengali residents give the area a cosmopolitan character. The biggest chunk in this segment comprises Hindus and Sikhs. Bengali and Hindi-speaking Muslims make up for around 20% of the voters. Banerjee mentioned this emphatically while addressing the media and party workers outside her home in the constituency’s Kalighat area. “There are people from Punjab, Odisha, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. For the first time, we have won in all the wards because of their support. I remember falling behind in two wards in the 2016 polls. I am thankful to all these people. The nation was watching this election alongside Bengal,” said Banerjee, who often refers to Bhawanipore as ‘mini India.’ Since the TMC is attempting to set up a platform of opposition forces against the BJP prior to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the chief minister drew a parallel between India and Bhawanipore during her campaign. “B for Bhawanipore, B for Bharat,” she had said several times. The BJP state headquarters in central Kolkata wore a deserted look since morning when the counting of votes started. “The outcome of the three assembly polls in West Bengal is not in line with our expectation but we accept it gracefully. After being demolished in Nandigram, Mamata Banerjee may have survived in Bhawanipore for now, but it has never happened that a losing candidate chose to thrust herself as the chief minister, in violation of all democratic norms and proprietary,” the BJP said in a statement. Sunday’s victory somehow shadowed the chief minister’s defeat at Nandigram, said TMC leaders but Banerjee recounted the episode. “There was a conspiracy against me. An injury was inflicted on my leg. We have challenged the Nandigram results in court. I don’t want to elaborate since the matter is subjudice,” she said. In 2011, when Banerjee ended the Left Front’s 34-year-long regime and contested a bypoll to become chief minister as she was a Lok Sabha member, the TMC won by 54,213 votes although less than 45% Bhawanipore voters had turned up. In 2016, when the voter turnout was 66.83%, Banerjee defeated Deepa Dasmunsi of the Congress by 25,301 votes. The Election Commission on Sunday sent a letter to the state government saying victory processions should not be held anywhere in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and to avoid post-poll violence. Banerjee, too, asked party workers to exercise restraint. “Help people affected by floods in the districts. That will be the real celebration,” she said. At Samserganj, where 79.92% of the 2,37,750 voters had turned up, TMC’s Amirul Islam defeated his nearest Congress rival by 26,111 votes. At Jangipur, where 77.63% of the 2,55,998 voters had cast their ballot, Jakir Hossain, the former deputy labour minister, defeated the BJP by 92,613 votes. Tibrewal’s defeat triggered rumblings in the BJP with several leaders questioning the decision to field her. “Our leaders need to understand that elections are fought on the ground and not from our offices which were found empty today. We could have done much better had we fielded an educated Bengali gentleman. Tibrewal could not even match the performance of Rudranil Ghosh,” said Joy Banerjee, a former actor and leader from Birbhum district. “I gracefully accept defeat and congratulate Didi (Banerjee) but the TMC should not have ferried in fake voters. I caught some of them,” said Tibrewal who is one of the lawyers representing petitioners in the post-poll violence cases. “Our organisation was not so strong in Bhawanipore,” she added. “The BJP always accepts the verdict of the people. The results, however, leave some questions because only 57% people had cast their votes. We are thankful to those who supported us,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar. While TMC workers celebrated near her residence, the chief minister announced the candidates for the October 30 polls and by-polls at four seats. TMC candidates who won the Khardah seat in North 24 Parganas district and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas died after the polls. The other two seats, Shantipur in Nadia and Dinhata in Cooch Behar, were vacated by the BJP because the respective winners, Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik wanted to retain their Lok Sabha seats. Pramanik is now the Union minister of state for home affairs. Banerjee announced that Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay will contest from Khardah. Though heavy rainfall affected life in the state on September 30, at Bhawanipore, where the weather was fair till around 3 pm, the low turnout troubled the poll managers. However, some TMC leaders predicted that Banerjee would win by no less than 50,000 votes. “The support from non-Bengali voters played a key role,” transport minister Firhad Hakim said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-logs-record-win-in-bhawanipore-bypoll-bjp-loses-on-2-more-seats-101633284780681.html
04-10-2021||India||8th highest rainfall in Sept, and yet a normal monsoon in 2021||This year’s monsoon season ended officially on September 30. India receives 75% of its annual rainfall during the June-September monsoon. An HT analysis of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) database puts this year’s total monsoon rainfall at 876.8mm. IMD measures the adequacy (or the lack of it) of rainfall by comparing it with the Long Period Average (LPA) between 1961 and 2010. The 2021 figure is 2.7% more than the LPA. That makes it a normal southwest monsoon season.To be sure, the Met department classifies rainfall within a 19% range of LPA as normal. A granular analysis of the IMD data, however, shows this year’s southwest monsoon was far from normal. Here are four charts explaining this in detail.Wide monthly variation in rainfallIf we use a cricket analogy, the monsoon’s ability to reach close to the LPA is the result of some heavy hitting in the slog overs (the heavy September rainfall). September rainfall this year is the eighth highest since 1901, the earliest period for which data are available. The 225.1mm rainfall in September was 37.1% more than the LPA of 164.2mm. Of the seven years when September rainfall was more than in 2021, 2019 is the closest, when rainfall was 259.1mm. The other six years were 1983 and earlier. While September was among the wettest months in the southwest monsoon’s recorded history, the year also saw some of the driest patches. In August, rainfall was 19% less than the LPA, the 7th lowest since 1901. July rainfall, 5.5% less than the LPA, was the 30th lowest since 1901.National normal does not mean local normal for rainfallAlthough nationwide rainfall was normal, it was not true for all parts of the country; there was wide regional variation. The northeast did not receive enough rainfall. In Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, the rain deficit was 20% or more than the LPA. Even for Tripura and Sikkim, rainfall was below the LPA average, but the deficit was less than 20%, which is technically within the normal range. Five states – Telangana, Delhi, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu – received rainfall in excess of 20% of the LPA. As much as 20% of India’s districts received deficient rainfall and another 27% saw excess rains.Did this year’s monsoon witness more extreme rainfall events?When it comes to rain, tracking quarterly, monthly or even weekly numbers is not enough. Very heavy rains in a short period of time can create huge problems such as flooding. The IMD has thresholds for such events. Rainfall between 35.5mm and 244.5mm in 24 hours is considered heavy rainfall. Rainfall above 244.5mm in 24 hours is considered extreme.Heavy rainfall was 344.5mm this monsoon, 3.4% less than the LPA. However, extreme rainfall (7.3mm) was 6.9% more than the LPA, the 29th highest since 1901. Delhi, which received 100.6mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on August 21, saw one of its heaviest rainfall events in history. All 100.6mm, rainfall on the day was of heavy intensity. Of the 14,762 monsoon days since 1901, Delhi has seen heavy intensity rainfall on 619 days out of the 6,871 days that the city recorded any rain. August 21 was the 21st highest heavy and total rainfall day among these. To be sure, the single monsoon day record for Delhi is more than double the rainfall that took place on August 21. It was set on September 16, 1963, when 212.2mm rainfall took place, all of it heavy intensity.Reservoir filled up in most places after September rainfallWater storage in the 130 main reservoirs in India had a 6% deficit on September 2, compared with last 10 years’ average, according to data from the Central Water Commission. On September 30, there was a 4% surplus nationwide. Of the 19 states for which CWC collects data, eight still have some deficit. The deficit is biggest in Punjab (40%), Himachal Pradesh (28%) and Odisha (11%). Reservoir levels matter a lot for agricultural production in the rabi (winter) season. While kharif (summer) season sowing has been more than the normal sown area this year, late rains might have damaged crops in many parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8th-highest-rainfall-in-sept-and-yet-a-normal-monsoon-in-2021-101633282919620.html
04-10-2021||India||Arms consignment dropped by Pakistani drone recovered in J&K||Security personnel have recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition dropped by a Pakistani drone near the International Border in Jammu district, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday. People aware of the developments said the drone dropped the consignment past midnight at Alora Mandal in Sohanjana. “A villager heard the sound of the flying object and saw it dropping something. He informed the police,” an official said. Police immediately cordoned off the village and launched a search operation during which a yellow packet tied to strings and a wooden base to carry the payload was found, leading to the recovery of the arms and ammunition, the officials said.Sharing details on what was recovered from the consignment, Jammu district police chief Chandan Kohli said, “The incident happened around midnight. We have recovered one AK-47 assault rifle, three AK magazines, 30 AK rounds and a telescopic sight”. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior police officer said, “It was a clear case of a Pakistani drone dropping arms and ammunition for the overground workers or OGWs ”. “Sohanjana is a vast area by the side of fourth Tawi Bridge where large scale encroachment took place in recent years under political patronage. The possibility of OGWs among the encroachers cannot be ruled out,” the officer added.The incident comes on the heels of suspected Pakistani drones dropping ammunition in the region. On August 23, a drone was spotted near the IB in Arnia sector, prompting the BSF to open fire at it. On July 24, police said they shot down a Pakistani drone carrying a five kg-IED in Kanachak area of Akhnoor sector in Jammu district....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-drone-drops-arms-ammo-at-sohanjana-in-jammu-101633237376939.html
04-10-2021||NA||Breaking news: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, BSP leader SC Mishra not allowed for Lakhimpur||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:2 private telecom operators block internet services in Lakhimpur KheriTwo private telecom operators blocked their internet services in Lakhimpur Kheri.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, BSP leader SC Mishra not allowed to leave for Lakhimpur KheriCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and BSP general secretary SC Mishra who attempted to leave for Lakhimpur Kheri were not allowed to leave Lucknow for Lakhimpur Kheri.Heavy police force outside their respective residences in Lucknow.Priyanka Gandhi to leave for Lakhimpuri Kheri on October 4Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday arrived in Lucknow and will leave for Lakhimpur Kheri on October 4 at 8am. UP CM Adityanath says Lakhimpur incident unfortunateUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that the Lakhimpur incident is unfortunate and added that action will be taken against those responsible. Delhi Police arrest 4 sharpshooters of slain gangster Jitender Gogi’s gangThe Delhi Police have arrested four sharpshooters of slain gangster Jitender Gogi’s gang, who allegedly arrived in Delhi to kill the leader of their rival gang Tillu Tajpuriya, officials privy of the matter told news agency PTI on Sunday. Read moreFarmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri after car lost balance, says minister TeniMoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni also said on Sunday that farmers were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri after car lost balance from stone pelting. My son wasn't present at spot, says minister on Lakhimpur Kheri incidentMoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni told news agency ANI on Sunday that his son was not present at the spot of the Lakhimpur incident, adding “If my son would've been there, he wouldn't have come out alive.”8 dead in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri incident so far: PoliceThe Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday said that eight people have died in the Lakhimpur incident so far. Of these, four were protesting farmers. Read more Stubble burning: Bhupendra Yadav says states cooperating constructivelyUnion environment minister Bhupendra Yadav said on Sunday that the Centre received constructive cooperation from four northern states- Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on the issue of stubble burning. Read moreAryan Khan, 2 others remanded to NCB custody till Oct 4 in Mumbai cruise party raid  Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, Arbaz Seth Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha have been remanded to NCB custody till Monday in connection with the Mumbai cruise party raid case. The next hearing will be held on Monday afternoon. Read moreNCB brings Aryan Khan, Arbaz Seth Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha to Esplanade Court for remandThe Narcotics Control Bureau on Sunday evening brought Aryan Khan, Arbaz Seth Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha to Esplanade Court for remand. The three were arrested in connection with the raid at a party at a cruise off the Mumbai coast on Saturday night. 90% Covid victims in Tamil Nadu in past 2 mths those who didn’t get single doseThe Tamil Nadu government said on Sunday that 90% of people who died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state in the last two months, did not even get a single vaccine dose against the viral disease, according to news agency PTI. Read morePlane crashes into vacant building near Milan, 6 killedOn Sunday, a small plane crashed into a vacant, two-story office building in a Milan suburb, news agency AP reported citing local reports. All six people aboard were killed.Raid on cruise ship attempt to divert attention from Mundra port seizure: CongThe Congress said on Sunday that the previous night’s raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a cruise ship in Mumbai and the ensuing action taken is an attempt to divert attention from the ‘real issue’ seizure of drugs at the Mundra port in Gujarat. Read moreBlast kills several civilians near Kabul mosque, say TalibanThe Taliban said on Sunday that an explosion was reported outside a mosque in the Kabul which killed a number of civilians, according to news agency AFP. Shah Rukh Khan's son, Aryan Khan, arrested by NCB after Mumbai cruise party raidBollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday after it carried out a raid at a Goa-bound cruise ship in Mumbai. RJD to contest in both assembly seats going into bypolls in Bihar on Oct 30The Rashtriya Janata Dal announced on Sunday that it will contest in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats, which will go into bypolls in Bihar on October 30. NCB raid on Mumbai cruise ship: Aryan Khan being taken to JJ hospital for medical checkupAryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, is being taken to JJ Hospital in Mumbai for a medical check up. Aryan Khan along with seven others, has been detained under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday night busted a rave party at a cruise ship in Mumbai. Earthquake of 4.1 magnitude jolts J'khand's Singhbhum districtThe National Centre for Seismology said on Sunday that an earthquake of 4.1 magnitude hit Singhbhum district in Jharkhand at around 2.22 pm. Tropical cyclone Shaheen approaches OmanTropical cyclone Shaheen approached the coast of Oman on Sunday, lashing the sultanate with high winds and rain. Authorities have delayed flights to and from the capital city of Muscat, and residents have been urged to evacuate coastal areas. Bhabanipur bypolls: ‘I gracefully accept the defeat,’ says BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal as Mamata Banerjee ahead by 58,832 votes BJP leader Priyanka Tibrewal on Sunday accepted her defeat in the Bhabanipur bypolls and said that she congratulated TMC supremo and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, is ahead by 58,832 votes. Bhabanipur bypolls: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee nears victory , ahead by over 56,000 votesTrinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, is leading by more than 56,000 votes as only two rounds of counting are left in the Bhabanipur bypolls. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Priyanka Tibrewal has secured 26,320 votes so far. Taliban hold victory rally outside Kabul as they consolidate ruleMore than 1,500 Taliban supporters attended a rally on Sunday in a vast field to the north of Kabul, in a show of strength as they consolidate their rule of Afghanistan.North Korea condemns UN Security Council’s meeting on missile testsNorth Korea denounced a closed-door UN Security Council meeting that found recent missile tests by the secretive nation were a violation of the UN resolution, saying it’s an encroachment on the country’s sovereignty.8 persons to be produced before magistrate court in NCR drug raidOn the basis of specific information, the officials of NCB Mumbai conducted a raid on Cordelia cruise which was bound from Mumbai to Goa on October 2. During the operation, all suspects as per the information were searched various drugs like MDMA/ Ecstasy, Cocaine, MD (Mephedrone) and charas has been recovered. A total of 08 persons including 02 females have been apprehended and their role being investigated in relation to the said recovery. NCB Mumbai has registered Crime no. Cr 94/21 in this matter. Further investigation is underway.NCB officials have said that they are questioning Aryan Khan for now. The eight persons will be produced before the magistrate court at 2 pm.RBI may again opt for status quo on key policy rate next week, say expertsAmid rising global commodity prices and the need to contain inflation at home, the Reserve Bank is likely to maintain status quo on interest rates for the eighth time in row in its upcoming bi-monthly monetary policy review later in the week, according to experts.5 injured in clash over bridge construction in Uttar PradeshFive people were injured in a clash between two groups of the same community in Nanheda village, police said on Sunday.Prices of petrol and diesel in BhopalThe prices of petrol and diesel is at ₹110.88 per litre and ₹99.73 per litre respectively in Bhopal today.UAE and Oman on alert as cyclone nears landfallOman declared a public holiday on Sunday and Monday and the UAE went on high alert as a major storm neared the countries’ coastlines.Beijing to resume marathon after one-year Covid-19 suspensionBeijing will hold its city-wide marathon on October 31, resuming the annual race after suspending it last year due to Covid-19, state media Xinhua said on Sunday.Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan being questioned in NCB drug raidBollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan being questioned in NCB drug raid.New Zealand tightens travel rules as Covid-19 spreadsNew Zealand announced Sunday tighter border restrictions, as new cases of Covid-19 emerged in areas previously free of the coronavirus.India logs 22,842 fresh Covid-19 cases, 244 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 22,842 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,813,903, while the death toll climbed to 448,817 with 244 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. Australia's Delta outbreak spreads to new statesAustralia reported more than 1,900 new infections of the Delta coronavirus on Sunday, health data showed, with authorities struggling to quell the outbreak in the two most populous states and cases spreading to new states.Voting begins in 11 wards of Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation Voting begins for the election of 44 councillors in 11 wards of Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC).Civilian injured in militant attack in J-K succumbs to injuriesA civilian, who was shot at by militants in Batamaloo area of the city here, succumbed to injuries, officials said on Sunday.Joe Biden reiterates need for more vaccinations as Covid-19 death toll in US tops 7,00,000US President Joe Biden said that the fact that the US death toll from the coronavirus infection has surpassed 7,00,000 means that more people need to get vaccinated in the country.New Zealand's Delta outbreak spreads outside AucklandNew Zealand's Delta variant outbreak spread beyond the largest city of Auckland, prompting Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Sunday to put additional regions into a snap lockdown.Light to moderate rainfall in 3 districts of Bengal todayThe Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Kolkata, has projected light to moderate rainfall for Alipurduar, Malda and Birbhum districts for Sunday.World Habitat Day 2021World Habitat Day is observed on the first Monday of October every year. This year, it is being observed on October 4 across the world.Counting of votes for Bengal bypolls to begin todayThe counting of votes for the West Bengal bypolls will begin in Kolkata at 8am on Sunday amid heavy security deployment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-october-03-2021-101633217465941.html
